This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books ee z 


https://books.google.com 


Issued by the Colonial Office 





REPORT 


by. His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


“xs ‘ALESTINE AND 
- TRANS-JORDAN 
for the year 1936. 


(For Reports for 1934 and 1935 see Non-Parliamentary 
Publications Colonial No. 104, 1935, and Colonial No. 112, 
1936 (Price 5s. od. and Os. od. respectively ).) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses : 
Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
26 York Street, Manchester 1; 1 St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff ; 
So Chichester Strect, Belfast; 
or through any bookseller 


1937 
Price 65. 6d. net 


Colonial No. 129 


le ' 
Digitized by XK OOQ le 
4 cc 





THE LIBRARY 


BOOK GI9&r 





Digitized by Google 





act 


54,6011 


{ 


Issued by thg Colonial Office 
REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND 
TRANS-JORDAN 


for the year 1936 


(For Reports for 1934 and 1935 see Non-Parliamentary 
Publications Colonial No. 104, 1935, and Colonial No. 112, 
1936 (Price 5s. od. and 6s. od. respectively ).) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be porchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses : 
tral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
26 York Street, Manchester 1; 1 St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff ; 
80 Chichester Street, Beltast ; 
or through any bookseller 


1937 
Price 6s. 6d. net 


Colonial No. 129 


CONTENTS 


Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its eee 
Ninth Session aie ae ice 


Note regarding arrangement of the Report 


PALESTINE. 


Introductory ... 


Jewish National Home 
Autonomous Administration 
Jewish Agency 

Immigration and Himidcation 
Land Regime ... 

Nationality 

Judicial System 

Economic Equality .. 

Holy Places 

Freedom of Conscience 
Military Clauses 
International Aaceainenta:. Conventions: ana Treaties 
Antiquities oe 
Official Languages ... 

Holy Days 

Trans-Jordan 

Labour ... 


Trade in ana ‘Manufacture of Drugs, Arnis and 
Liquors 


Education 

Public Health 

Public Finance 

Demographic Statistics 

Customs, Excise and Trade 
Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forests 
Public Works and Geology... 
Railways 

Co-operative Societies 

Civil Aviation 


Page 


xiv 


TRANS-JORDAN 


1377193 


Page 
Introductory 311 
I. Autonomous Administration 323 
Il. Immigration and Emigration 324 
Il. Lands 325 
IV. Nationality 330 
V. Judicial System 331 
VI. Economic Equality 344 
VIl. Freedom of Conscience 344 
VII. Military Clauses 346 
IX. International Agreements, Conventions and Treaties... 350 
Antiquities 355 
XII. Trade in and Manufacture of ‘Arms, pause and 
Liquors ; 358 
XIII. Education 359 
XIV. Public Health ... 365 
XV. Public Finance bd 371 
XVI. Customs, Excise and Trade 380 
XVII. Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 395 
XVIII. Agriculture, Forests, and Veterinery 398 
XIX. Public Works ... 400 
XX. Civil Aviation ... 401 
APPENDICES. 
Palestine. Page 
I. Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 402 
(ii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Cor- 
poration Limited eis . 406 
(iii) Palestine Potash Limited de ... 408 
(iv) Palestine Land mt a Company 
(Huleh Concessionaires) 7 410 
(v) Lighthouse Concession : dues. “collected | in 
1936 is en i : 411 
Il. Holy Days ” 411 
fll. List of Concessions ... 413 
Map of Palestine. 
41526 A2 


1V 


Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country — 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the establishment of the national home of the © 
Jewish people ? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the development of self-governing institutions? 

What are the effects of these measures ? 

. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the 
inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 


What are the effects of these measures? 


IT.—Autonomous Administration. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures ? 


III.—Jewish Agency. 


1. Q.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency 
been officially recognized? 


2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administra- 
tion in the past year? 
If so, in what form and in what connection? 


3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social and other matters ? 


. Q.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


5. Q.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of 
all Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the 
Jewish National Home? 


Vv 


IV.—Immigration and Emigration. 
_ 1. Q.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
Immigration ? 
2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the 
nghts and position of other sections of the population? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with 
the Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews 
on the land (give figures) ? 

4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures? 


Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, 
profession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 


Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Regime. 
I. 0.—How have State lands been defined and delimited ? 
2. 0.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited ? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration 
of real property ? 


VI.—Natonahty. 
1. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality Law? 


2. Q.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as 
to facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judicial System. 


1. Q.—When did the new judicial organisation begin to 
operate ? 


2. Q.—What special features does it contain with a view to 
aan to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee 
ot their rights as laid down in Article Q? 


, 3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure 
‘spect for the personal status of the various peoples and com- 
munities and for their religious interests ? 


: 4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs 
fen assured ? 


na aa What extradition agreements have been made between 
fo pret and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
rce of the Mandate ? 


41526 A3 


vl 


VIII.—Economic Equality. 


1. Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the 
development of the country in respect of public ownership or 
control of any of the natural resources of the country or of the 
public works, services, and utilities ? | 

2. Y.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country 
—and if so, under what circumstances ? 

3. Q.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names 
and nationalities of the concession holders. 

. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings 
and the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such 


reports and balance sheets are not available, give all information 
relating to the subject, particularly the rate of interst and the 


uses made of profits. 
5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality 
as regards :— 
(a) Concessions ? 
(6) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to 
prospecting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 

6. Q.—What regulations has the Mandatory Power made 
for the application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of 
transit under equitable conditions’ ? 

7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 

Article 18 ? 
If so, give the text of such agreements. 





IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken for the assumption 
by the Mandatory of responsibility in connection with 
the Holy Places and religious buildings or sites, including the 
responsibility of preserving existing rights and of securing free 
access to the Holy Places, religious buildings and sites, and the 
free exercise of worship? 

2. Q.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the 
immunities of which are guaranteed ? 


Vii 


XX .—Freedom of Conscience. 
. I. Q.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom 
of conscience and religion ? 


‘“ 2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free 
€xercise of any form of worship in the interest of the mainten- 
.,ance of public order and morals? 


What are the effects of such restrictions ? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights 
of communities to maintain their own schools for the education 


~ Of their own members ? 


What educational requirements of a general nature are 1m- 

. Posed by the Administration ? 

What Measures have been taken to assure the exercise of 
ra Supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all . 
aiths or nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the 
maintenance of public order and good government ? 


XI.—Mihtary Clauses. 


ing Q.—What is the form of military organization and train- 


ma Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory ? 


What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
dmount spent on each ? 


Racial and religious composition of these two forces? 


Pst 0.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
oe to contribute to the cost of maintenance of the military 
orces of the Mandatory Power ? 


If so, to what extent ? 


Ba 0.—Has the Mandatory exercised its mghts to use the 
pate railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of 
forces and the carriage of fuel and supplies ° 


Ifso, to what budget has the expenditure been charged ? 


XII .—International Conventions. 
adhe) 0° what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
*¢ on behalf of the Palestine Administration ? 


2. 0.—What steps have been taken b 
) y the Mandatory to co- 
Operate with the eee of Nations in the struggle against 


viii 
XITT.— Antiquities. | 
_ Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities accord- 
ing to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? .- 
Give the text. 
i 
XIV .—Official Languages. 


1. Q.—Have the three official languages been used simul- 
taneously and on an equal footing in legislative and administra-* 
tive documents and in the Courts ? | 


If not, what languages are used? 


2. QY.—Io what observations does the application of this 
system give rise ? = 


XV.—Holy Days. 


Q.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities ? 


X VI.—Trans-Jordan. 


I. Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimited and organized ? 


2. Q.—In what way does the political and administrative 
regime established in this territory differ from the regulations 
laid down for Palestine ? 


X VII .—Labour. 


I. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accord- 
ance with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the considera- 
tion of conventions or recommendations of International Labour 
Conferences ? 


2. Q.—Are these conventions or recommendations being 
carried into effect ? 


3. O.—What other regulations are in force in regard to 
labour ? 


4. Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling 
labour contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both 
on the part of employer and employed, and what powers does 
it possess to prevent any abuses in this respect? 


5. Q.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 
of such legislation? © 


1X 


XVIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or 
the control of the importation, of the production, and the con- 
sumption of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


: ALIX .—Education. 


1. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 


Re education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it 
. free: 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken for higher education; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 


3. Q.—In what language is instruction given in the various 
_ categories of schools? 


XX.—Public Health. 


I. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health 
- and sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases? 


2. Q.—What is the regime for medical assistance? 
3. @.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution 
and what measures have been taken in this matter ? 
XXI.—Pubhic Finance. 

Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of 
. the territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature 
_ and the assessment of taxes. 

XXIT.—Demographic Statisttcs. 


Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, 
emigration, and immigration. | 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Ninth 
Session, 27th May to 12th June, 1936. 


Minutes 
Page 69. 


Page 139. 


Page 140. 


Page 142. 


Page 142. 


Page 143. 


Page 143. 


Page 143. 


Page 148. 


Page 148. 


Page I5I. 


Page 151. 


Page 151. 


Information regarding the suggestion to introduce 
regulations compelling parents to send their children 
to school, such regulations to be introduced in 
respect of children who had already been admitted 
to Government Schools. 

(Chapter XIX, paragraph IoA). 


Information regarding Jewish children leaving school 
at Io-II1 years of age. 
(Chapter XIX, paragraph 1oB). 


Information regarding the immigration of dependants 
(Chapter IV, paragraph 15.) 


Statistics showing the proportion of immigrants arriving 
by sea and land. 
(Chapter IV, paragraph 2.) 


Statistics showing the various occupations of immi- 
grants. 
(Chapter IV, paragraph 12.) 


Information regarding the proportion of cultivated 
land in the hands of Jews. 
(Chapter V, paragraph 40A.) 


Information regarding the total area of cultivable land. 
(Chapter V, paragraph 40). 


Information regarding the suggestion whether time had 
not come to institute a constructive agrarian policy. 
(Introductory, paragraph 123.) 


Information regarding the composition, working and 
results of the Supreme Moslem Council, and its 
representative character. 

(Introductory, paragraph 82.) 


Information regarding the work of the Welfare 
Inspector. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 30.) 


Information on the working of the Palestine (Amend- 
ment) Order in Council, 1935, and the extent to 
which use had been made of the right to ask for 
a British judge. 

(Chapter VII, paragraph 26.) 


Comparative statistics showing cases heard by District 
Courts. 
_ (Chapter VII, paragraph 17.) 


Information regarding the appointment of Registrars 
to relieve the pressure on Presidents of District 
Courts. 

(Chapter VII, paragraph 28.) 


Paget 


154 


154 


76 


70 


85 


85 


5! 


39 


143 


104 


Io} 


104 


xi 
M Inules 
Page 152. Information regarding the applicability of the Old 


of Ramadan. 
(Chapter X, paragraph 6). 


Page 153. Information regarding the agreement between the 
Palestine Potash Company and the Franco-German 
Cartel, its significance, and its effect on Palestine 
interests. 
(Chapter VIII, paragraph 5.) 


Page 155. Information regarding the attitude of Government 
with regard to the provisions of the Anglo- Japanese 
Commercial Treaty of 1911. 

(Introductory, paragraph 115.) 


Page 156. Information regarding the response of religious com- 
munities to the proposals in regard to the repair 
of the Holy Sepulchre. 

(Chapter IX, paragraph 5.) 


Page 158. Information regarding the number of persons con- 
victed under the Firearms Ordinance. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 4.) 


Page 158. Information regarding the method of classifying the 
various exhibits from Trans-Jordan housed in the 
Palestine Museum. 
(Chapter XIII, paragraph 4.) 


Page 159. Information regarding the partial application of the 
Minimum-Wage Fixing Machinery Convention, 1928. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 28.) 


Page 159. Information regarding the Workmen’s Compensation 
Ordinance. 


(Chapter XVII, paragraph 25.) 


Page 160. Information regarding the results of the Employment 
of Women and Children Ordinance. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 24.) 


Page 161, Information regarding the method of calculation of 


the lump sum annuity under the new Workmen’s 
Compensation Ordinance. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 25.) 


Page 161. Information regarding the alleged falsification of 
liquors for export. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 9.) 


P ; 7 

ag¢ 161. Information regarding traffic in opium and hashish. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 112.) 

Page 161, 


Information regarding the application to Palestine 
of the International Convention of 1931 for limiting 
the manufacture and regulating the distribution of 

arcotic Drugs. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 12.) 


Pa ; 
8 164. Information regarding the number of immigrants 
from Germany. 
(Chapter XXII, paragraph 12.) 


Ottoman Law with regard to the breaking of the Fast © 


Page 


116 


IIo 


48 


114 


145 


134 
143 
140 


140 


140 


146 


148 


147 


Minutes 


Page 190. 


Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 78. 


Page 84. 


Page 85. 


Page 86. 


Page 89. 


Page 9o. 


xi 


Information regarding the transmission of telegrams 
in Arabic and Hebrew characters. 
(Chapter XXIV, paragraph 18.) 


Information regarding the prevention of illegal immi- 
' gration. 
(Chapter IV, paragraph 18.) 


Information regarding the working of the Palestine 
(Amendment) Order in Council, 1935. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 26.) 


Information regarding the measures taken to speed up 
judicial machinery. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 27.) 


Information regarding the method of appointments, 
composition, functions and activities of the Supreme 
Moslem Council. 

(Introductory, paragraph 82.) 


Information regarding the policy which Government 
will adopt in order to safeguard the interests of the 
Mandated Territory and those of the States 
Members of the League of Nations in respect of the 
treatment of imports from States which have ceased 
to be members of the League. 

(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 36A.) 


Information regarding the practical effects of the 
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 1936. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 12). 


Information regarding the practical effects of the 
Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 1935. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 8.) 


Points relating to Tvans-Jordan. 


Information regarding the development of village 
councils. 
(Introductory in Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 17.) 


Particulars showing the area of State Domain lands. 
(Chapter III in Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 14.) 


Information regarding the membership of the Economy 
Committee. 
(Introductory to Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 29.) 


Information regarding the nationality of Armenians. 
(Chapter II in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 3.) 


Statistics showing details of imports. 
(Chapter XVI, in Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 1.) 


Information regarding the application of the Inter- 
national Labour Conventions. 
(Chapter XI in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 1.) 


77 


104 


39 


265 
147 


146 


319 


329 


357 


* Minutes 
Page gt. 


- Page ox. 
Page g2. 
Page g2. 

Page 208. 


Page 208. 


Page 209, 


xi 


Information regarding the penalties imposed for 
contraband in hashish and for other offences 
relating to dangerous drugs. 

(Chapter XII in Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 5.) 


Particulars of missions working in Trans- Jordan. 
(Chapter VII, in Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 7.) 


Information regarding pupils refused admission to 
schools. 


(Chapter XIII, inTrans- Jordan Section, paragraph 7.) 


Statistics showing the number of foreigners resident in 
Trans- Jordan. 


(Chapter II, in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 2). 


Information regarding spirits, drugs and traffic in arms. 
(See Chapter XII in Trans-Jordan Section.) 


Information regarding the number and duties of the 
foreign and Arab staff. 
(Introductory to Trans-Jordan Section, para- 
graph 16.) 


Information regarding economic regime. 
(See Chapter VI, in Trans-Jordan Section). 


Page 


359 


345 


361 


324 


358. 


316: 


344 


X1V 
NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the 
Sections of this Report might be arranged in the order of sub- 
jects adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, 
that is, in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the 
Palestine Mandate, namely : — 


I. 
IT. 
IIT. 
IV. 
. Land Regime. 
. Nationality. 
. Judicial System. 
VITl. 
IX. 
X. 
XI. 
AIT. 
AITI. 
XIV. 
XV. 


Jewish National Home. 
Autonomous Administration. 
Jewish Agency. 

Immigration and Emigration. 


Economic Equality. 

Holy Places. 

Freedom of Conscience. 
Military Clauses. 
International Conventions. 
Antiquities. 

Official Languages. 

Holy Days. 


XVI. Trans- Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 
2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and 
placed at the end of the Report. 

An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, 
Railways, Co-operative Societies, and Civil Aviation are also 
included in the Palestine portion of the Report. The Section 
relating to Development has been included under Chapter V, 
Land Regime. 

There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United 

- Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to 

the Council of the League of Nations on the 

Administration of Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
for the Year 1936 


PALESTINE 
INTRODUCTORY. 


POSITION, ETC. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia 
oe 30° N. and 33° N., Longitude 34° 30’ E. and 
35 30° E. 

On the south-west it is bounded by Egyptian territory, on the 
south-east by the Gulf of Aqaba, on the east by Trans-Jordan, 
on the north by the French Mandated territories of Syria and the 
Lebanon, and on the west by the Mediterranean. - The boun- 
dares are as follows: — 


South-west.—From a point on the Mediterranean coast 
north-west of Rafa, passing in a south-easterly direction to 
the south-west of Rafa, to a point west-north-west of Ain 
Maghara; thence to the junction of the Gaza-Aqaba and 
Nekl-Aqaba roads, from whence it continues to the end of 
the boundary line at the point of Ras Taba on the western 
shore of the Gulf of Aqaba. 

South-east—From Ras Taba, the Gulf of Aqaba to a 
sone two miles west of Aqaba, thence up the centre of the 

adi Araba, the Dead Sea, and the Jordan, to the centre 
of the River Yarmuk to the Syrian frontier. 


North—The northern boundary was laid down by the 
Anglo-F rench Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, and 
its delimitation was ratified in 1923. Stated briefly, the boun- 

ary runs from Ras el Naqura on the Mediterranean east- 
wards to Metulla and across the upper Jordan valley to 

anias, thence to Jisr Banat Yaqub, thence along the 
Jordan to the Lake of Tiberias and on to E] Hamme station 
on the Samakh-Deraa railway line. 


West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


AREA AND CLIMATE. 


she, ies average length of Palestine from south to north is 
ut 160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less 
70 miles, the total area being approximately 10,100 square 


2 


miles inclusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead 
Sea, Lake Tiberias and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore 
comparable with Wales or Belgium. 


3. Ihe climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring 
deserts of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate 
zones, is characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not exces- 
sively hot summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical rain- 
falls accompanied by high, cold winds; frost is rare. But the 
typical climate is varied by the diverse topography of the 
country. In the south and south-west there are wide expanses 
of sand dunes and desert. The remainder of the country falls 
naturally into three longitudinal strips—the maritime plain, the 
mountainous regions (or central highlands), and the Jordan 
valley. Each of these strips, which are more closely described 
below, is climatically distinct. 

The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the 
heat of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by. the 
westerly winds from the Mediterranean. In the central high- 
lands there is a greater range of temperature both daily and 
seasonal, and the maximum temperature is a few degrees lower 
than in the coastal plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in 
baaeen and Hebron, and the winter storms are accompanied 

y penetrating winds which necessitate the use of clothing 
suitable for a cold English climate. 

The Jordan valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 

The maritime plain and the central highlands are both 
healthy, though the one, on account of greater humidity, is 
relaxing in its effects, while the other, through sudden changes 
of temperature, predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 


4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones :— 
Mantime Central Jordan 
Plain, Highlands, Valley, 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberias. 
Mean temperature ... Summer 77°F, 70°F. 83°F 
Winter 60°F. 52°F. 62°F. 
Mean daily maximum tem- Summer — 83°F. 95°F 
perature Winter — 60°F. 72°F. 
Mean daily minimum Summer — 60°F. 71°F, 
Winter — 44°F. 54°F 
Absolute maximum tempera- Summer 104°F. 102°F. 114°F 
ture. 
Absolute minimum tempera- Winter 35°F. 21°F, 34°F 
ture. 
Relative humidity ... Summer 69 55 51 
per cent. per cent. per cent. 
Winter 70 68 64 
per cent. per cent. per cent. 


3 


- §- Rainfall is of vital importance in Palestine and any 
- Teduction in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of 
agriculture and water conservation generally. The mean volume 


of annual rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the 
ast of England. 


__ There are two well-marked periods of precipitation. The 

ormer rain ’’ in October and November is not usually large; 
during December, January and February, the rainfall steadily 
creases; in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended 
in April. The characteristic winds are the moist west and south- 
_ West of winter and the dry north and north-west of summer. 
Desert heat is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of 
the south or east generally in April and May and occasionally in 
September and October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a 
stretch of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the 
south this plain has an average width of about 20 miles, but 
it gradually narrows to the north until at Mount Carmel, near 
Haifa, the hills approach to within a few hundred yards of the 
sea. Beyond Carmel the plain widens again, but in this area 
It is marshy and malarial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the plain of Esdraelon. To the north of that 
plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the Syrian 
frontier and rising to Jebel Jermak to a height of 3,934 feet 
above sea-level; to the south are the mountains of Samaria 
and Judea, which in places reach heights little less than those of 
Galilee. Most of this second strip of country is desolate and stony, 
but at irregular intervals there occur stretches of fertile land 
capable of deep tillage. 

The plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture 
than that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile 
and is especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan valley, 
a natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the 
extreme north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 1,300 
ni below that level at the Dead Sea, about 100 miles to the 

7. The ca 


midst of the pital of Palestine is Jerusalem, situated in the 


hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, 
with its modern harbour, in the north at the entrance to the 
plain of Esdraelon; Jaffa, a second port which lies some 40 
miles west-north-west of Jerusalem; Tel-Aviv, which is con- 
hguous to Jaffa; and Nablus, the ancient Sichem, in the hills 


of Samaria. Jerusalem has a majority of Jewish inhabitants; 


4 
in Haifa the Arab and Jewish elements are now approximately 
equal in numbers; Tel-Aviv is an entirely Jewish township of 
150,000 inhabitants. In Jaffa a large majority of the people are 
Arabs, and in Nablus, apart from a small community of 
Samaritans, all the people are Arabs. 

Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem ; 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee; and Safad, 
2 ee town in mountainous country in the extreme north of 

alestine. 


CHANGES IN PERSONNEL 1036. 


From Palestine. 
8. During the year, the following left Palestine: — 

His Honour Mr. Justice O. C. K. Corrie, M.C., Senior 
Puisne Judge, Supreme Court, was appointed Chief Justice, 
Fiji. 

Mr L. I. N. Lloyd-Blood, M.C., Solicitor-General, was 
appointed Attorney-General, Cyprus. 

Mr. F. H. Baker, President, District Court, was appointed 
Puisne Judge, Nigeria. 

Mr. W. Foster, Deputy Postmaster-General, and 
Mr. J. F. Rowlands, O.B.E., Deputy Director of Public 
Works, retired on pension. 


To Palestine. 


The following appointments were made :— 

Mr. O. M. Tweedy was appointed Press Officer, in succes- 
sion to Mr. R. A. Furness, C.B.E., whose contract of 
service with the Government had expired. 

Mr. J. Gutch, Assistant Colonial Secretary, Gold Coast, 
was appointed Establishment Officer, Secretariat. 

Mr. R. H. R. Church, Assistant District Commissioner, 
Somaliland, was appointed Assistant Secretary. 

Mr. A. L. Craig-Bennett was appointed Chief Fisheries 
Officer. 

Mr. G. N. Sale, formerly in Mauritius, was appointed 
Conservator of Forests. 

Mr. W. B. Kennedy-Shaw was appointed Departmental 
Assistant, Department of Antiquities. 

Mr. R. Macdonald, formerly Assistant Auditor, Federated 
Malay States, was appointed Senior Assistant Auditor. 

Mr. A. H. E Rogers was eo’ Principal of the 
Government Trade School at Haifa. 





5 


Miss J. McDowall was appointed Woman Medical Officer. 

Mr. R. J. Manning, formerly Puisne Judge, Trinidad, 
was appointed Senior Puisne Judge. 

Mr. L. E. C. Evans, formerly Senior Crown Counsel, 
Sierra Leone, was appointed Relieving President of a 
District Court. 

Mr. B. V. Shaw, formerly Resident Magistrate, Kenya, 
was appointed Relieving President of a District Court. 

Mr. P. J. Bourke, formerly Legal Adviser and Crown 
Prosecutor, Seychelles, was appointed a Chief Magistrate. 

Mr. J. P. Hogan was appointed a Chief Magistrate. 

Mr. R. F. Jardine, C.M.G., was appointed Chief 
Inspector, Land Registration. 

Mr. A. E. P. Rose, formerly Crown Counsel, Northern 
Rhodesia, was appointed Solicitor-General. 

Mr. S. Fry was appointed Director of Programmes, 
Palestine Broadcasting Service. 

Mr. H. C. H. Jones, formerly Executive Engineer 
Kenya, was appointed Assistant Director of Public Works. 

Mr. R. Le Mare, formerly Assistant Treasurer, Nigeria, 
was appointed a Senior Assistant Treasurer. | 

Mr. F. G. Horwill was appointed Examiner of Banks. 

Lieutenant the Honourable H. C. Hovell-Thurlow-Cum- 
ming-Bruce, was appointed Aide-de-Camp to His Excel- 
lency the High Commissioner. 


PUBLIC SECURITY. 


9. The year 1936 in Palestine was dominated by the disturb- 
ances which lasted throughout the country from the roth April 
to the 12th October. 


Io. The autumn of 1935 had been marked by considerable 
political disquiet and by demonstrations of Arab discontent 
bes Jewish immigration and the sales of Arab lands to Jewish 
uyers. 


11. Arab spokesmen conducted a vigorous campaign against 
those accused of facilitating the transfer of Arab lands to Jewish 
ownership: a number of small land owners were persuaded to 
tegister their lands as family waqfs (a form of trust under 

loslem religious law) to save them from falling into Jewish 
hands: and one large sale to Jews was cancelled through the 
instrumentality of the Supreme Moslem Council. 


12. The ventilation of this grievance proceeded side by side 
with a sustained Press denunciation of Government’s policy 
for the admission into Palestine of Jewish immigrants, the 
humber of which in 1935 had totalled nearly 62,000. 


6 


13. Simultaneously in the Press a strong campaign was 
maintained criticizing the preference given by Jewish employers 
to Jewish casual and other labour to the exclusion of Arabs. 


14. In paragraphs 12 and 13 of the Introductory Chapter of 
the Annual Report for 1935, reference was made to two internal 
incidents which had occurred in the autumn of 1935 and which 
had served to foment the already existing Arab malaise : — 


(a) the discovery of a large quantity of smuggled arms 
and ammunition from Belgium. All Arabs—in view of 
the name of the consignee who was never traced—assumed 
that these armaments were destined for Palestinian Jewry. 

(b) The short terrorist campaign of Sheikh Izzedin al 
Qassan which ended in his death in an encounter with the 
Palestine Police and in his subsequent apotheosis as a 
national hero-martyr. 


15. Concurrently, certain external events in neighbouring 
countries were exerting their influence on Arab thought and 
policy in Palestine which was already interesting itself deeply 
in the Italian-Abyssinian conflict. 


16. In Egypt the students’ movement which actually inst- 
gated disorders there in November, 1935, was closely watched 
by Arab youth in Palestine which gradually achieved a certain 
degree of influence with the Arab leaders themselves and used 
this influence to press for the adoption of a more extreme Arab 
policy. These activities were voiced in the Press through the 
medium of ‘‘ Al Difa‘a ’’ newspaper, which was suspended for 
a month under the Press Ordinance for advocating the adop- 
par in Palestine of the methods employed by the Egyptian 
students. 


17. In Syna, Nationalist agitation for the conclusion of a 
Franco-Syrian treaty on the lines of the Anglo-‘Iraqi Treaty, 
culminated early in 1936 in the outbreak of a prolonged strike, 
in sympathy with which the Palestine Arabs declared a short 
general strike on the 4th February. There was considerable 
elation in Arab circles in Palestine when at the end of February 
the French Government invited a Syrian National Delegation 
to Paris to discuss the terms of a Franco-Syrian Treaty. 


18. The political events of November and December, 1935, 
and of the first three months of 1936 are described in the 
following section (Policy) of the introductory Chapter of this 
Report, with particular reference to the High Commissioner’s 
dealings with the Arab leaders on the subject of : 

(a) Arab political demands; 

(b) proposals for a Legislative Council (see paragraphs 
22 and 23 of the Introductory Chapter of the Palestine and 
Trans- Jordan Annual Report for 1935); and 


7 


(c) the proposed despatch of an Arab deputation to 
England following on the two Parliamentary Debates in 
London in February and March, 1936, on the subject of 
the proposed Legislative Council. 


19. The fluctuations of these political developments found 
their echo in the state of public security throughout the country. 
Tension between the Arab and the Jewish communities which 
was fostered in both Presses remained at a high pitch, and on 
the 15th April an incident occurred which precipitated matters. 


20. That night a number of cars on the road between 
Tulkarm and Nablus were held up by Arab highwaymen. 
After the armed robbers had removed valuables from the 
occupants of the cars, three Jews were forced to sit together 
in a truck where they were shot by the bandits in cold blood. 
One was killed outright and another died later from his injuries. 
There is little doubt that the unfortunate victims were 
deliberately chosen because they were Jews. 


On the following night two Arabs living in a hut near the 
road from Kfar Saba to Petah Tiqva were deliberately shot 
by two armed men. Before he died, one of the victims stated 
that the assailants were Jews, and he described them. It was 
the general impression among Arabs throughout the country 
that the crime was a reprisal for the murder of Jews on the 
previous night. 


One of the Jews shot on the 15th Apml was buried at Tel- 
Aviv on the 17th and the funeral was made the occasion of a 
demonstration. The Police were stoned, speeches were made, 
and there were cries of ‘‘ We don’t want this Government, we 
want a Jewish Army.’’ A party of Jews started to move 
towards Jaffa but were stopped by the Police. 


_ The funeral was succeeded by an anti-Arab labour campaign 
in Tel-Aviv and some unemployed Jewish labourers demon- 
strated outside shops which employed Arabs. In the afternoon 
an Arab carter was assaulted by a party of Jews who forced 
him to return to Jaffa, and later a shop was broken open and. 
looted because the manager was an Arab and Arabs were 
employed there. That evening a number of Arab carters pass- 
ing through Tel-Aviv were assaulted or threatened and there: 
were several other cases of assault. 


21. On Saturday, the 18th, an Arab delivering ice in Tel- 
Aviv was assaulted and his ice destroyed; and an Arab omnibus 
in Tel-Aviv was stoned by Yemenite boys, as was an Arab- 
driven truck. In the Manshieh Quarter of Jaffa, which is the 
northern part of old Jaffa and adjoins Tel-Aviv, Arabs. 
employed on structural alterations in a shop were molested. 
During the 17th and 18th of April no case of reprisal on the- 
Part of Arabs was reported to the Police. 


8 


On Sunday, the 19th April, about 9.30 a.m., rumours became 
current in Jaffa that two Arabs had been killed in Tel-Aviv by 
Jews, and crowds of Arabs began to congregate in the centre of 
the town. Further rumours were subsequently circulated that 
the bodies of the two alleged victims had been brought to the 
Jaffa Central Police Station. Despite denials of the rumours 
by the District Commissioner, and a subsequent abortive search 
by Arab notables, at his invitation, of the Central Police Statron 
and buildings, the crowd maintained their belief in the rumour 
and departed amid much disorder towards the Government 
hospital to pursue their investigations. On their way they 
made a series of indiscriminate assaults on Jews. 


Simultaneously, two other rumours, also unfounded, had 
gained wide credence in two other separate parts of Jaffa :— 
(a) In the Manshieh Quarter; that four Arabs, including 
one woman, had been murdered by Jews; 
(6) At the Town Square; that three Arabs had been 
killed by Jews in an Arab orange-grove on the Salameh 
Road. 


22. The effect of these rumours was to produce immediate 
acts of violence by Arabs. 


A lady in her car just escaped from an Arab attack and got 
back to Tel-Aviv. Her damaged car was closely followed into 
Tel-Aviv by other vehicles, similarly damaged by violence and 
stone-throwing. A Jewish lorry driver and his assistant were 
also injured by stones. Thereafter cars passing from Tel-Aviv 
towards Jaffa were systematically stoned by a patrol of Jews 
operating along the road from a lorry. During this stone- 
throwing one Arab lorry travelling towards Jaffa had its wind- 
screen smashed, and an Arab, who was riding on the top of the 
load, was severely injured. When the driver of this lorry, who 
had been cut about the face, reached Morum’s Corner, one of 
the main traffic centres of Jaffa, he (or a companion travelling 
with him) shouted: ‘" The two on the top have been killed by 
Jews ”’. 

Later, when two more wounded Arabs arrived in another car, 
the Jaffa crowd started to stone and attack the police, 
threatened an advance on Tel-Aviv, and murdered a Jew in an 
adjacent street. The police repeatedly warned them to disperse 
and when, despite the appeals from one or two of their own 
people, they refused, baton charges were launched. These 
charges, which were met by fusillades of stones, had little effect 
and finally the officer in charge fired one round from his re- 
volver, wounding one rioter. The mob at once dispersed. 

Meantime, elsewhere in the town, isolated cases of the murder 
of Jews—one of whom was stabbed to death near Town Square 
and another beaten to death in the Manshieh Quarter—had 


9 


followed in quick succession; and near Morum’s Corner two 
private cars had been violently attacked by the mob. The first 
car extricated itself by its own power; but the occupant of the 
second (whom the crowd imagined to be a Jew but whose 
identity has never been discovered) was saved from certain 
death by the action of a senior Police officer who, seeing two 
Arabs in succession about to murder the man, ordered a British 
constable to shoot. Both Arabs were killed. The immediate 
effect of these shots was to disperse the crowd. They un- 


doubtedly also affected the crowd in the Manshieh Quarter, 
which also dispersed. 


By 2 p.m. the situation was in hand, and the police and the 


military reinforcements, which had arrived during the morning, 
were in control. 


Curfew was imposed on jatta and Tel-Aviv on the night of 
the 19th April, and the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council 
and the Emergency Regulations thereunder were immediately 
brought into force for all Palestine by Proclamation. 


23. On the 2oth April there was further serious rioting on the 
borders between Jaffa and Tel-Aviv, in particular in the Catton, 
Manshieh and Saknat Abu Kebir quarters. It was again a ques- 
tion of mob-belief in unfounded rumours and resulted in the 
assembly of large excited mobs of Arabs and Jews; and in 
Saknat Abu Kebir a serious collision was only prevented by 
police action. In the course of these incidents two Arabs and 
two Jews were killed (all at Saknat Abu Kebir) and twenty-six 
Jews and thirty-two Arabs injured. 


24. The total casualties in Jaffa and Tel-Aviv between the 
gth and the 22nd April were as follows : — 


Killed ov 
dted of Severely Slightly Total. 
injuries. anjured. injured. 
Arabs ... ies 5 31 41 77 
Jews”... sa 16 26 49 oI 


25.—(a) The Emergency Regulations published on the roth 
April vested Government with exceptional powers under the 
following headings : — 

(x) Occupation of buildings, etc., and the requisition and 
control of food, forage, and stores, etc.; 


(2) The regulation of road traffic and transport fares, and 
acquisition of local transport vehicles and control of their 


use; 
(3) Control of the sale of petrol, firearms and explosives; 
(4) Punishment of acts of sabotage; 
(5) Imposition of curfew; 


IO 


(6) Censorship of parcels, letters, telegrams, press 
matter; control of publications; 

(7) Control of telephones, and movements of vessels; 

(8) Deportation; 

(9) The right of the Police Force to arrest without 
warrant; the nght of entry and search of houses and con- 
fiscation of goods; and the right of search of suspected 
persons or vehicles. 


(b) Additional Regulations were published on the 22nd May 
and gave District Commissioners the power to place persons 
under police supervision and to restrict their movement from 
one part of Palestine to another. 


(c) On the 1st June further additional Regulations were 
published which gave 

(1) District Commissioners power to order the opening 
of shops and business premises which had been closed on 
account of strike; 

(2) District Commissioners power to order the detention 
of persons in internment camps for a period not exceeding 
one year; 

(3) Powers of arrest without warrant to members of the 
fighting forces. 

(d) The additional Regulations of the 6th June made pro- 
vision for the infliction of death sentences or imprisonment for 
life in certain circumstances for 

(1) shooting at the troops or police; 

(2) bomb throwing or dynamiting; 

(3) acts of sabotage; 

(4) acts endangering the safety of ships, aircraft, trains, 
transport vehicles. 7 


Under these Regulations the Government also took power to— 

(1) impound labour for the clearing of roads obstructed 
by barricades, nails, etc.; 

(2) control the publication of newspapers by the issue 
of permits; 

(3) levy collective fines in money or kind upon inhabi- 
tants of towns or villages who had committed an offence 
or connived at its commission; 

(4) demolish houses from which firearms had been dis- 
charged or other crimes of violence committed. 


(e) Under further additional Regulations of the 2oth June, 
the crimes of violence which had been made punishable with 
death or imprisonment for life in certain circumstances were 


Il 


made punishable with a minimum penalty of five years imprison- 
ment in all circumstances, and this minimum penalty was 
extended to the possesson of bombs and to the possession of 
firearms without authority or reasonable excuse. 


(f) The additional Regulations of the 25th August— 


(1) made it an offence to communicate information, by 
signalling or otherwise, as to the movement or disposition 
of troops; 

(2) provided for the imprisonment of persons committing 
disciplinary offences in internment camps. 


The following is a chronological statement of the main events 
which occurred during the period from the 22nd April to the 
12th October. 


Detailed descriptions of these events will be found both in this 
section and in the following (Policy) section of this Report. 


22nd to 30th April. 
The formation of local National Committees. 
The declaration of a general strike throughout Palestine. 
The beginning of disorders and sabotage. 


May and June. 

The hardening of the strike. 

Proposals for civil disobedence and for a strike of Arab 
Government officials. 

The intensification of violence and sabotage. 

The appearance of organised Arab bands in arms. 

The debate in the House of Commons and the announcement 
of the appointment of the Royal Commission. 

The establishment of a Concentration Camp by Government. 

The arrival of British re-inforcements from Egypt. 

The publication of the Emergency (Amendment) Regulations 
(No. 4) 1936. 

July and August. 

The announcement of the membership and the terms of refer- 
ence of the Royal Commission. 

The attempted mediation of the Amir Abdullah. 

The visit of Nuri Pasha to Jerusalem, 20th-30th August. 

The manifesto by the Arab Higher Committee dated the 30th 
August. 

September. 
The letter from the Secretary of State to Dr. Weizmann. 


The publication of the British Statement of Policy regarding 
Palestine. 


The arrival in Palestine of Lieutenant-General Dill. 


IZ 


October. 


The appeal by the Arab Rulers. 


The issue of a call by the Arab Higher Committee for the 
cessation of the strike and disorders. 


The end of the strike. 


26. The Arab political reaction to the events in Jaffa on the 
goth April is described in the following sub-section (Policy). 
By the end of Apml the Arab strike was general all over 
Palestine with the exception of Haifa Port, and this develop- 
ment had an inevitable effect on public security. 


27. During the remainder of April demonstrations and in- 
cidents of disorder (one of which resulted in two casualties) per- 
sisted in Jaffa town, and Jewish buses were frequently stoned 
and fired upon. Several cases of incendiarism involving mainly 
Jewish property were reported about this time throughout the 
Southern District, and there was considerable interference with 
telephone lines. 


Demonstrations accompanied by stone-throwing occurred in 
Nablus, Jenin and Beisan, and in a number of cases the police 
were compelled to disperse mobs by baton charges. On two 
occasions (in Nazareth town) they were obliged to open fire. 


The Jewish settlements in the Northern District suffered from 
constant cases of arson, and malicious damage of trees and 
crops. 


In Jerusalem a few assaults were made by Arabs on isolated 
Jews, while a large number of Jewish shops in the Old City 
were closed and Jewish residents in the Old City or in Arab 
quarters began to move. In Hebron the Jewish community 
was concentrated in the local Jewish hospital and later trans- 
ferred to Jerusalem. 


28. During May and June a perceptibly increasing amount of 
lawlessness and disorder developed throughout the Jerusalem, 
Northern and Southern Districts in the form of attacks on 
public and private Jewish property, sabotage on railways, tele- 
graph and telephone communications, and, after the institution 
of frequent patrolling of the main routes by the police and 
troops, in the placing of barricades and other obstacles on the 
roads to impede the traffic. In addition, a considerable amount 
of organized sniping was directed against detachments of British 
troops and police on patrol, as well as against the escorted road 
convoys which were inaugurated during this period. The snip- 
ing of Jewish settlements, which had been carried out 
sporadically since the outbreak of the disorders, became more 
persistent. 


13 

29. During the second fortnight of May three Jews were 
murdered and two others wounded in a crowd leaving a 
Jerusalem cinema on the night of the 16th May. Two more 
Jews were also murdered in the Old City, and one was shot 
at. As a result there followed a further exodus of Jewish 
householders to safer quarters in the suburbs, while curfew 
orders were successively imposed, first on the Old City, then 
on the mixed quarters, and finally over the whole of the 
Jerusalem Municipal Area. 


Other victims were a British policeman, an Austrian Christian, 
and two Moslem Arabs; and an attempt was made to assassinate 
a British Assistant Superintendent of Police near the Old City 
Wall on the 12th June, the Police officer concerned being 
seriously wounded. One of his assailants was killed by the 


British policeman who was accompanying the officer at the 
ime. 


30. In the Northern District disorders in the towns decreased 
and activity tended to concentrate in the countryside. The 
disturbances took three principal forms :— 


(i) Malicious destruction.—During the months of May 
and June, 30,000 trees were destroyed by forest fires. In 
the Haifa rural district, damage amounting to £P.4,000 
was done to fruit orchards. 


(ii) Sabotage of Communications.—Telephone wires were 
cut throughout the district, roads were barricaded, and 
bridges and culverts were mined. Serious damage was 
done, and in one case a bridge on the Nablus-Tulkarm 
branch of the Palestine Railways was destroyed. The 
train service on this route was discontinued as a con- 
sequence. 


(iii) Violent armed attacks from ambush on the Miltary 
and Police Force.—There were four major engagements 
and several minor though violent skirmishes between armed 
Arab bands and military detachments. 


During this period (May and June) the attacks made by 
raat bands were characterized by the following four 
eatures : — 


(i) The larger numbers attacking; 


(ii) the increased amount of ammunition used by the 
attackers ; 


(iii) the improved organization of the attacks, and the 
fact that in place of the former indiscriminate sniping the 
fire of the gangs was now organized and controlled; and 

(iv) the appearance among the rebels of ‘‘ volunteers ”’ 
from Syria and ‘Traq. 


14 

In Haifa Town the Arab strike, except as regards transport 
undertakings, remained widespread, but work in the Port was 
continued with but little interruption. There were two street 
demonstrations, one in May and the other in June, in the 
course of which the police were forced to open fire to disperse 
the crowds. 

Police stations and military billets were constantly sniped 
at in Acre and Nablus. A collective fine of £P.300 was 
imposed on Nablus in May, and on Acre and Safad in June. 


3z. In the Southern District acts of violence and sabotage 
began to occur with frequency from the end of May. These 
acts tended to concentrate on the damaging of the railway and 
of telegraph and telephone communications. After the arrival — 
of the first military reinforcements, during the latter weeks of © 
May, there was an intensification of sniping on military patrols © 
and on detachments of military and police. 


In the Jaffa—Tel-Aviv area, inter-racial animosity notably 
increased with the inauguration in May of landing facilities for 
cargo on the Tel-Aviv foreshore and later at the new jetty. 
Bitter protests were made by the Arab boatmen of Jaffa port, 
who regarded this new development as a direct challenge. 


During June there were twelve acts of sabotage on the rail- 
way, and on two occasions trains were wrecked, one of the 
derailments near Lydda on the 26th June causing four deaths 
and considerable damage to the line and rolling stock. In 
consequence of this act of sabotage, which followed closely upon 
an organized attack on the Civil Airport at Lydda, a curfew 
was imposed on the town of Lydda, which was also fined 
#,P.5,000. Throughout this period Jewish settlements in the 
Southern Districts became increasingly the object of sporadic 
attacks and, as in the Northern District, great damage was 
done to trees and crops by arson and malicious destruction. 


Beginning on the roth June, certain areas in the Old md 
of Jaffa on the hill overlooking the Port were demolished. 
These house demolitions were carried out by the Army after 
notice to evacuate had been given to the inhabitants involved, 
to whom the Government promised compensation. Those who 
became homeless and destitute were given relief. 


The operations were carried out without loss of life, and in 
all 237 houses were demolished. As a result, not only has 
public security been greatly improved in a quarter of the town 
where, on account of narrow difficult streets and lanes, police 
work had always—and in particular during the disturbances 
following on the outbreak of the 19th April—been notoriously 
difficult, but also two wide streets which by the end of the year 
were open to traffic, have been created which will improve 
public health conditions and contribute both to the commercial 


15 
and residential amenities of the town. During the autumn, a 
housing scheme for the accommodation of those rendered home- 
less by the demolitions was initiated by Government. Further 


reference to this scheme will be found in paragraph 34 of 
Chapter XX (Public Health). 


32. During July and August there was no change in the 
general situation. The strike continued to be maintained and 
disorders continued unabated, except indeed for a temporary 
lull during the attempted mediation of His Highness the Amir 
Abdullah and later during the negotiations between the Arab 
Higher Committee and Nuri Pasha es Said. Reference to these 
negotiations is made in the following section (Policy). 


33. In Jerusalem itself a thorough organization of anti-intimi- 
dation pickets by the military and the police encouraged such 
hawkers of village produce as were able to reach the town, and 
continued to protect the Jewish shops in the commercial centre. 
On the roads leading to Jerusalem, however, strikers and their 
sympathizers frequently assaulted villagers bringing produce 
into the town, destroying their produce and in many cases 
also killing their animals. 

One aircraftman was assassinated and an attempt was made 
to assassinate a second near Gethsemane on the roth August. 

The Acting Mayor of Hebron was murdered by unknown 
persons on the 13th August. 

Night sniping at Jewish settlements continued in the rural 
areas of the Jerusalem District, and military and police patrols 
were fired upon with greater frequency. There were constant 
cases of sabotage of telegraph and telephone wires as well as 
of rail and road communications and of crops; and the water- 
supply pipe-line from Ras el Ain to Jerusalem was wilfully 
damaged on several occasions. 


34. Acts of violence continued during the months of July and 
August both in Jaffa and in the Southern District generally; and 
a succession of murderous activities and disorders in the middle 
of August resulted in the temporary imposition of a 21-hour 
curfew in Jaffa town. 


35. In the Northern District during the month of July, there 
were several major engagements with armed bands in the Jenin 
and Safad areas, and a band in the Nazareth area was known 
to be terrorizing the neighbouring Arab villages with demands 
for food and money, although it did not come into conflict with 
the Government’s forces. 

During July seven attacks were made on the ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Vay § pipe-line in the Plain of Jezreel and the Beisan 

ey. 
During August determined efforts were made both by peace- 
persuasion and by intimidation to extend the Arab stnke in 


16 


Haifa to workers at the port and on the railways, as well as 1n 
the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s works and in other large com- 
mercial undertakings where Arab labour was employed. These 
efforts were frustrated by the added protection given by the 
Naval and Military Forces. 


There was also a recrudescence of violence in Haifa and its 
vicinity resulting in the murder of an Arab police officer in 
Haifa town and of four Jews and an Arab woman on Mount 
Carmel. 


The bands in the hills had in the meantime increased their 
numbers and their arms, and towards the end of the month were 
joined, by trained guerilla leaders from outside Palestine. One 
of these was Fauzi ed Din el Kauwakji, a Syrian who had 
achieved notoriety in Syria in the Druze revolt of 1925-20. 
This person subsequently proclaimed himself generalissimo of 
the rebel forces, and ‘‘ communiqués ’’ and ‘‘ proclamations ’”’ 
purporting to have emanated from him were circulated in the 


country. 

These bands came into conflict with the British troops on at 
least six occasions during August. In the course of these 
engagements the bands suffered severe casualties. 


El Hamme Police Post was attacked by an Arab armed band 
on the night of the 6th-7th August and a number of arms were 
stolen. 

A small party of British troops who were bathing near 
Beisan on the 12th August were subjected to a surprise attack 
by a large Arab armed band. Unfortunately their Lewis gun 
‘“ jammed ’’ and those who were on guard were killed by the 
band, who succeeded in capturing the Lewis gun and some 
rifles. 


36. During September in the rural district of Jerusalem, 
intimidation increased, and there were indications of more 
efficient organization of the sabotage of telegraph and telephone 
communications which suffered heavily. Action to counter this 
increase of sabotage was taken by the recruitment of additional 
Arab watchmen and by posting them in the villages adjacent 
to acts of destruction, charging their salaries against the 
villagers. Armed Arab bands continued to beset the lines of 
communications, the leaders in several cases being ‘‘ wanted ”’ 
criminals, while the personnel was mainly recruited from the 
villages, sometimes by free enlistment, but probably more often 
by intimidation. 

On the morning of the 7th September, an unsuccessful 
attempt was made to assassinate a senior (Jewish) British 
official while walking with a Jewish colleague to the Govern- 
ment Offices, Jerusalem. 


. 17 
_ 37. During September, the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s pipe- 
line was again damaged on thirteen occasions, and there was a 
recrudescence of violence in Tiberias, as a result of which two 
Jews were killed and two wounded. Sporadic shooting at the 
troops by armed Arab parties continued in the Tulkarm, Nablus, 
Acre, and Safad Districts, and during the month there were six 
major police and military encounters with rebel bands, in which 
tne Arabs suffered severe casualties. 

Incidents were also reported of these bands raiding Arab 
villages for goods and money. 

An armed Arab band attacked a postal car near Rosh Pina 
on the night of the 9th September, and four British constables 
Who proceeded to the rescue were ambushed and killed, their 
Lewis gun and rifles being taken by the rebels. 

_ On the 27th September, Haj Khalil Taha, a prominent Arab 
politician and a member of the local strike committee of Haifa, 
_ Was shot dead by an Arab. 


38. The closing stages of the strike which ended in the appeal 
of the Arab rulers and the manifesto by the Arab Higher Com- 
mittee are described in the following section (Policy); but while 
these protracted negotiations were in progress, violence and dis- 
order persisted throughout the country. There were frequent 
police and military engagements with armed bands, in one of 
which, in the Bethlehem sub-district, the Syrian revolutionary 
and rebel leader, Said Bey al A’as, was killed. On the same 
date, the 7th October, an unsuccessful attempt was made in 
Haifa on the life of an Arab Superintendent of Police. 


39. The response to the Arab Higher Committee’s manifesto 
_ of the roth October was immediate, and on the 12th October 
all Arab shops and businesses re-opened; and towards the end 
of the month Fawzi el Kauwakji and some of his confederates 
escaped from Palestine to ‘Iraq, and with his departure dis- 
_ orders temporarily ceased. 


40. Isolated outrage, however, persisted up to the end of the 
year. It took several forms : — 


(a) Shooting on the military and police forces, which was 
still frequent in October but became negligible in November 
and December and was no longer directed against the 
military. 

(b) Attacks on Jews by Arabs. In October these attacks 
were still frequent, and after a lull in November they were 
resumed in December when the number of cases reported, 
including long-range-firing on Jewish settlements and trans- 
port, was sixteen. 

(c) Robbery with intimidation by Arabs from Arab 


houses and villages. During the period thirty-one cases 
were reported. 


18 


(d) Highway Robbery. These activities had apparently 
no political inspiration, all save three of the incidents con 
cerning Arab transport alone. They were general; 
believed to be prompted by economic distress amon; 
isolated groups of those who had recently been activel 
engaged in the armed bands. One such group was attacked 
and dispersed by the police in December. Special deterrent 
measures were acdace by the police early in the New 
Year which were markedly successful, and incidents o! 
highway robbery which numbered twenty in December, 
1936, were reduced to thirteen in January, 1937. 


41. During November and December, pamphlets were dis- 
tributed in Jerusalem and elsewhere by unknown persons which 
were designed to foment Moslem-Christian animosities. These 
activities did not assume any magnitude and were promptly 
and openly condemned by the leaders of both religions. 


42. A mutual boycott of considerable stringency between 
the Arab and Jewish communities broke out after the end of the 
strike. It provoked isolated instances of violence and intimi- 
dation and continued to be observed until the end of the year. 


43. Throughout the year and more particularly during the 
period of the disorders the local Press left much to be desired 
and caused the Government to take repeated summary action 
against individual newspapers under the Press Ordinance. 

Between the 1st January and the 18th April, 1936, one 
Arabic paper was suspended for a fortnight, while official 
warnings were given to one Arabic and one Hebrew news- 
paper. 

During the six months of the disturbances Arabic newspapers 
were suspended on 34 occasions and Hebrew papers on I3 occa- 
sions. Arabic papers during the same period were officially 
warned 11 times and Hebrew papers Io times. 

From the termination of the strike up to the end of the year, 
one Hebrew paper and nine Arabic papers were suspended. 
In November, on the occasion of the Bairam festival at the 
end of the month of Ramadan, all four Arabic daily news- 
papers were simultaneously suspended for publication of 
inciting articles. 

According to the terms of the Press Ordinance all suspensions 
were on the grounds of publishing matter likely to endanger 
the public peace or of publishing false report or false rumour 
calculated to create alarm and despondency. During the year, 
seven foreign newspapers and one book were prohibited from 
entering Palestine. 

44. Particulars dealing with crime, police traffic control, and 
the work of the police dog section will be found in Chapter XI 
(Military Clauses). 


19 


The following statement gives particulars of casualties (ex- 
cluding accidental casualties) during the period r9th Apmil to 
-1§th October inclusive. 


A. DEFENCE Forces (Navy, ARMY AND AIR FORCE). 


Officers an 
Other Ranks ... 


Killed or died of wounds. Wounded. 
2 17 
19 87 


B. PALESTINE POLICE FORCE AND TRANS-JORDAN FRONTIER 


FORCE. 


(1) British Casualties. 


Killed or died of wounds. Wounded. 
Officers —= 7 
Other Ranks ... 7 33 
(2) Non-Bnitish Casualites. 
Killed or died of wounds. Wounded, 
Officers— 
(i) Moslems I 4 
(ii) Christians — 4 
(iii) Jews ... — — 
Other Ranks— 
(i) Moslems 7 


(11) Christian 


(includes 2 members of 
the Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force.) 








noe 9 
(111) Jews 1 8 
C. CIVILIAN CASUALTIES. 
Killed or died of wounds. Wounded, 
(i) Arabs— 
(a) Moslems 187 768 
(b) Christians 8 36 
(ii) Jews “3 So 308 
(ii) Christians : 
Non-Arab 2 19 
SUMMARY. 
Killed or died of wounds. Wounded, 
Defence Force Casualties 37 206 
Civilians ... om 277 1,131 
314 1,337 








Note—The numbers given above are those officially recorded 
as having been treated at civil, military and Jewish hospitals, 


or wh 
41526 


ere death has been recorded and verified. 


B 


20 


Undoubtedly, however, a large number oi Arab casualties 
were concealed, and unconfirmed information received from 
a reliable source places the number of Arabs killed dunng the 
disturbances at approximately 1,000. 


POLICY. 


45. In last year’s report a full account was given of the pro- 
posals made by His Majesty’s Government for the establishment 
of a Legislative Council in Palestine. These proposals were 
announced successively to the Arab and Jewish leaders on 21st 
and 22nd December, 1935. The Jewish leaders rejected them 
uncompromisingly; the Arab attitude though critical was dis- 
posed to give them full consideration. 

Shortly before, on 25th November, 1935, His Excellency 
had at their request received a deputation of the following 
political party leaders: 

Ragheb Bey Nashashibi, President of the National De- 
fence Party. 
Jamal Eff. al Husseini, President of the Palestine Arab 
Party. 
Abdul Latif Bey Salah, President of the National Bloc. 
Mohamed Ishaq Eff. Budeiri, Reform Party. 
Yacoub Eff. Ghussein, President of the Executive Com- 
mittee of the Arab Young Men’s Congress. 
who had handed to him a memorandum embodying their main 
demands, namely : — 
(a) that a democratic government should be established 
in Palestine; 
(b) that Jewish immigration should be _ stopped 
completely ; 
(c) that all sales of lands to Jews should be prohibited. 
This memorandum was submitted by the High Commissioner 
to the Secretary of State for the Colonies. 


46. On 2oth January, 1936, the considered views of His 
Majesty’s Government were conveyed to the Arab Executive 
who met His Excellency for the purpose. 

The reply to the Arab memorandum was as follows: — 

(a) The demand for the establishment of democratic 
government in Palestine has been answered by the com- 
munication on the part of the High Commissioner to the 
Arab leaders on 21st December, 1935, of proposals for the 
establishment of a Legislative Council with a large un- 
official majority, in the composition of which the elective 
principle is recognized. 





21 


(6) There can be no question of the total stoppage of 
Jewish immigration into Palestine. The guiding principle 
as regards the admission of immigrants is the policy of 
economic absorptive capacity and His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment contemplates no departure from that principle. 

In order to ensure that the closest possible relation is 
maintained between the number of new immigrants to be 
admitted and the absorptive capacity of the country, both 
now and in the future, a Statistical Bureau has been set up 
in charge of a highly-trained and experienced statistician 
from Canada. It is intended that this Bureau should carry 
out periodical surveys of trade, industry and agriculture 
and should keep the High Commissioner in close touch 
with the changing economic situation in the country. 


(c) The Secretary of State approves in principle of the 
enactment of legislation whereby, except in the sub-district 
of Beersheba and in urban areas, and also except as re- 
gards land planted with citrus, no landowner shall be per- 
mitted to sell any of his land unless he retains a minimum 
area which is sufficient to afford a means of subsistence to 
himself and his family. As a safeguard against collusive 
sales, this minimum area shall be inalienable and shall 
revert to Government if it ceases to be cultivated by the 
owner-occupler. 

The High Commissioner shall retain the power to 
approve the sale of a subsistence area if he is satisfied that 
to do so will be in the interest of the public good; for ex- 
ample, where a subsistence area is needed for suburban 
development or is blocking development of rural land or 
an important irrigation or drainage scheme. 


Subsistence areas will have to be defined and prescribed 
having regard to the condition of cultivation present in 
each region, and the extent of those subsistence areas will 
be varied from time to time as the land in question is 
improved or as irrigation becomes possible. Consideration 
will moreover have to be given to the possibility, in suit- 
able circumstances, of concentrating subsistence areas and 
also to the question whether leases of subsistence areas 
might under certain conditions be permitted. 


The legislation proposed will be of general application 
so that outside the excluded areas the sale of land to any 
person would be subject to the restrictions indicated. 


47. In February the proposals for the Palestine Legislative 
Council were debated in the British House of Lords and in March 
m the House of Commons. No vote was taken, but the two 
debates revealed a general opinion among all parties in both 
Houses that the proposals were premature and that further 

41526 B2 


22 


experience of the working of the various Municipal Councils 
was necessary before a Legislative Council came into being. 
The Secretary of State had already received a Jewish deputation 
regarding these proposals, and with his approval the High 
Commissioner, on 2nd April, 1936, invited the following Arab 
leaders to meet him:—Ragheb Bey Nashashibi, Jamal Eff. el 
Husseini, Abdul Latif Bey Salah, Mahmud Eff. Abu Khadra, 
and Yacoub Eff. Ghussein, and on behalf of the British Govern- 
ment informed them that the Secretary of State, having already 
seen a Jewish deputation which had made strong representations 
against the setting up of a Legislative Council, would welcome 
a corresponding opportunity of hearing the expression of Arab 
opinion. The High Commissioner was therefore authorised to 
invite an Arab deputation to London for this purpose. 

In response to a question whether it would be open to the 
deputation also to submit to the Secretary of State the Arab case 
- regarding land sales and immigration, the High Commissioner 
said that although the principal matter to be discussed with the 
Secretary of State was that of the Legislative Council, the 
deputation would also be at liberty to put forward their views 
on land sales and immigration. 

The Arab leaders, after a short discussion, accepted the invita- 
tion unanimously. 


48. At the moment when the disturbances broke out seventeen 
days later, on the 19th April, 1936, the position as regards the 
Government and the Arab leaders was that the latter were 
actually in the normal course of considering what persons should 
form the Arab deputation which had been invited to visit the 
Secretary of State in London 

An account of the Jaffa disturbances on the roth Apnil, 1936, 
and of the incidents which led up to the outbreak is con- 
tained in the preceding section of this report (Public Security). 


49. On the 2oth Apnil, 1936, a National Committee was 
formed in Nablus and urged that a general Arab strike should 
be declared throughout Palestine and be observed for an 
indefinite period until Arab demands were satisfied, and that sim1- 
lar Committees with similar objects should be formed through- 
out the country. Between the zoth and 22nd April the strike 
movement spread rapidly in the towns and villages, and by the 
latter date, with the exception of Haifa, it was general in 
Palestine. On the 25th Apmil, the leaders of all Arab parties met 
and decided to establish a Supreme Arab Committee (later styled 
the Arab Higher Committee) to control Arab national activities 
during the emergency. The Committee was composed as 
follows : — 

Haj Amin Effendi al Husseini, President. 
Mufti of Jerusalem. 
President, Supreme Moslem Council. 





23 
Auni Bey Abdul Hadi, Secretary. 
General Secretary of the Istiqlalist Party. 
Ahmad Hilmi Pasha, Treasurer. 
Manager of the Arab Bank. 
Afhliated to the Istiqlalist Pary. 
Ragheb Bey Nashashibi, Member. 
President, Defence Party. 
Jamal Effendi al Husseini, Member. 
President, Arab Palestine Party. 
Abdul Latif Bey Salah, Member. 
President, National Bloc, Nablus. 
Dr. Hussein Fakhri Effendi al Khalidi, Member. 
Mayor of Jerusalem. 
One of three Secretaries of the Reform Party. 
Yacoub Effendi Ghussein, Member. 
President of the Executive of the Young Men’s 
Congress. 
Yacoub Effendi Farraj, Member. 
Vice-President of the Defence Party. 
Alfred Effendi Rock, Member. 
Vice-President of the Palestine Arab Party. 


Two of the members, Yacoub Effendi Farraj and Alfred 
Effendi Rock represented the Arab Christians, Orthodox and 
Catholic respectively. 

The Committee adopted a resolution to continue the general 
stike until the British Government changed its policy in a 
fundamental manner, of which the immediate manifestation 
should be the stoppage of Jewish immigration. They formu- 
lated their demands in a letter to the High Commissioner as 
ollows: 

(1) The prohibition of Jewish immigration. 

(2) The prohibition of the transfer of Arab lands to Jews. 
_(3) The establishment of a National Government respon- 
sible to a representative Council. 


_50. Meantime, on the 21st April, 1936, the High Commis- 
sioner had received the following Arab leaders : — 

Ragheb Bey Nashashibi (Defence Party). 

Jamal Eff. al Husseini (Arab Palestine Party). 

Abdul Latif Bey Salah (Young Men Congress). 

Shibli Eff. Jamal (Reform Party). 

In addressing them, he stated that he felt that every one 

deplored the disorders and the consequent loss of life which 


could achieve no good and were the direct cause of evil and 
41526 B 3 


24 
bitterness. He counted on them to use their influence to check | 
disorder and asked them to explain to all over whom they had > 
influence that the police would not hesitate to quell any dis-— 
turbances. He further urged them to exert their influence > 
among school-children to induce them to resume their studies. 


51. On the 27th April, 1936, the newly-formed Arab Higher 
Committee addressed a letter to the High Commissioner enclos- 
ing their resolutions of 25th April. (Paragraph 49.) 


52. On the 5th May the High Commissioner again invited the 
members of the Arab Higher Committee to meet him. He 
warned them against being associated with illegal acts subversive 
of Government and urged them to use their influence to restrain 
people from violence and sabotage, and advised them to send 
their deputation to London (see paragraph 47). The Com- 
mittee in a written reply sired: their regret for the loss of © 
life and the illegal acts, but stated that they could not call off 
the strike or send a deputation to London unless Jewish immi- 
gration was suspended during the course of their conversations 
with the Secretary of State. 


53. On 6th May the Secretary of State made a statement in 
the House of Commons in the course of which he stated that he 
believed that the underlying cause of the disturbances in 
Palestine was Arab discontent and that he understood that the 
Arabs had threatened to continue the strike until Jewish immi- 
gration was stopped. He took the occasion to reaffirm what he 
had said immediately after the Jaffa outbreak, that there was 
no question of the Government sOrPne immigration in con- 
sequence of the strike. He further confirmed that the invita- 
tion to the Arabs to send a deputation to London where they 
would receive a full and impartial hearing, was still open. 


54. On 2nd May, 1936, a violent manifesto was issued by the 
car-owners’ and drivers’ committee, inciting Arabs to the non- 
payment of taxes. The President and the Vice-President of the 
Committee were convicted on a charge of distributing inciting 
circulars and were fined £P.25 each. On 8th May, 1936, a Con- 
gress of the National Committees (see paragraph 49), including 
the President and members of the Arab Higher Committee, met 
in Jerusalem and decided on the non-payment of taxes and a 
continuation of the strike. 


Shortly after, in reply to a memorandum addressed to them 
by the High Commissioner, the Arab Higher Committee 
intimated that they were not responsible for the movement in 
favour of civil disobedience, but that this movement was in fact 
a spontaneous demand made by Arabs generally and that the 
Committee could not use their influence to check illegal acts 
unless Jewish immigration was suspended. 





25 

55- On the 18th May the Secretary of State made a statement 
in the House of Commons that the Government had decided to 
send a Royal Commission to Palestine but that it would not 
leave until order had been restored in the country. This 
announcement was received without enthusiasm by the Arabs, 
and the Arab Higher Committee decided they could not call off 
the strike unless Jewish immigration was suspended until such 
time as the Commission had reported. 


56. On the same day—the 18th May, 1936—a notice was pub- 
lished in the Palestine Official Gazette approving a Jewish 
Labour Schedule of 4,500 immigrants in respect of the period of 
six months ending the 30th September, 19306. 


57. On the 23rd May sixty-five Arabs were arrested in the 
public interest and subjected to varying periods of police super- 
vision under Emergency Regulations. In most cases they were 
ordered away from their own localities and put into enforced 
residence elsewhere. During June, however, Government found 
it necessary to detain certain of them—among them Hassan 
Sidki Dajani and Saleh Abdu, President and Vice-President of 
the car-owners’ and drivers’ committee (see paragraph 54), and 
Auni Bey Abdul Hadi, the Secretary of the Arab Higher Com- 
mittee (see paragraph 49). 


To succeed Auni Bey, the Arab Higher Committee appointed 
as Secretary another adherent of the Istiqlalist party, Izzat Eff. 
Darwaza, who was also later interned at Sarafand. Details of 
the Sarafand Internment Camp are included in a subsequent 
chapter of this Report (Military Clauses). 


58. On the 12th June, 1936, Government issued an addition 
to the Emergency Regulations (originally declared on the 19th 
he 1936) providing for more severe penalties for the offence 
of discharging firearms at members of His Majesty’s Forces or 
the Palestine Police Force, bomb-throwing, or illicit possession 
of arms. Details of these Regulations are included in the pre- 
ceding Section of this chapter (Public Security). 


59. At the beginning of June, three prominent Arabs, Jamal 
Eff. al Husseini, a member of the Arab Higher Committee, Dr. 
Tannous and Shibli Eff. Jamal left for England as an unofficial 
delegation with the object of enlisting sympathy for the Arabs. 
They were accompanied by Emil el Ghori, an Arab politician 
and journalist, who remained in London after the delegation 
had completed its mission and opened an Arab information 
bureau there. 


60. On roth June, a debate took place in the House of 
Commons about Palestine. It was opened by the Rt. Hon. 
W. G. Ormsby-Gore who had assumed the office of Secretary 

41526 B4 


20 


of State for the Colonies on the 2gth May. The following is the 


text of the main points of his speech: — 

‘* At the outset I should like to express my own personal concern 
that Palestine, with which I have had myself close association in 
the past and the welfare of which I have so much at heart, should 
now be distracted by civil strife. 

‘* Disturbances, accompanied by cies se non-Jewish shops, motor 
transport, the port workers at Jaffa, and, in short, of almost all Arab 
industrial enterprises, have now, I regret to say, continued for some 
eight weeks. Several municipalities have joined in the strike, but 
essential services are still being maintained, and intimidation, I am 
informed, is responsible only in a very small measure for the continua- 
tion of the strike which clearly has the full sympathy of all too large 
a part of the Arab population. Nevertheless, the supreme Arab Com- 
mittee have publicly dissociated themselves from the outbreak, though 
I fear that in this sphere—and I am confirmed by the opinion of the 
High Commissioner—they can now exercise little influence on the situa- 
tion owing to the wide-spread character of the disturbances. I should 
also like to mention that the supreme Moslem Council has decided to 
take no part in the strike and the Sharia Courts are still open and 
the Waqf Administration is working. I am also glad to say there has 
been no disorder or complaint regarding anything in connection with 
the services at the mosques which have been carried on without inter- 
ruption, and ae their religious duties in a quite normal 
manner. 

‘*T have ‘nists it abundantly clear, in answer to questions, that the 
first essential is that order must be restored. . . . . In the last 
three weeks the security forces have been strongly reinforced. . . . 


‘* With these forces it has been possible to authorize the High Conk 
missioner to supplement the normal powers of the Government to 
restore law and order and to deal with riots. . . . . The important 
new orders are principally in the form of regulations made under the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council dated the 23rd July, 1931. 

‘* It will be appreciated that it is very difficult for effective military 
action to be taken against individual snipers and small parties who 
burn crops and attack communications particularly at night. The 
recent advent of strong military reinforcement has prevented large-scale 
acts of violence in the principal towns, and every effort is now being 
made by the authorities to give greater protection to life and property 
throughout the country as the troops recently arrived become distri- 
buted. I am glad to say that railway and other communications, in 
spite of these attacks which I have detailed, are maintained despite 
interruptions. Escorts are now being provided for car convoys and 
all trains. Work, however, has been most seriously dislocated and 
remains almost at a standstill at the port of Jaffa, though up to now 
Haifa has been unaffected. . . 

‘‘ At this point I should like to take the opportunity of expressing 
His Majesty’s Government’s complete confidence in Sir Arthur 
Wauchope and their appreciation of his services throughout his time 
as High Commissioner, and I must at once pay a special tribute to 
the Palestine Police, British, Jew and Arab, for their devotion to duty 
and their loyalty in the face of most trying circumstances. May I 
further pay a tribute to the Jews in Palestine, who, despite extreme 
provocation and attack, have exercised most commendable self-re- 
straint. . . .J am glad to say that the situation in the neighbour- 
ing mandated territory of Transjordan has, under the steadying in- 
fluence of His Highness the Amir Abdullah remained almost entirely 


undisturbed. 





27 


‘* After that survey I will turn to the future. Let me say at once 
that His Majesty’s Government have not been, and will not be, moved 
by violence and outrage. As soon as order is restored, but not before, 
His Majesty will be advised to appoint a Royal Commission to visit 
Palestine to carry out a most full and searching investigation into the 
causes of unrest and of any grievances which may be brought to their 
notice by either Arabs or Jews. This will be a really impartial and 
authoritative body, and I wish to give an assurance that any griev- 
ances put forward to that Commission will be investigated. The sole 
aim of His Majesty’s Government is to obtain an objective and non- 
partisan report, to enable them to do justice to all sections of the 
Palestine population. I am convinced that on the basis of the recom- 
mendations of such a Commission a means can be found and will be 
found, within the framework of the Mandate, with its dual obligations 
to Jews and non-Jews to secure that end. Let me make it quite clear 
that I shall submit no name for service on such a Royal Commission 
of anyone who has been or is in any way connected with Palestine or 
has any known pre-conceived views, or has ever taken part in Jewish 
or Arab affairs. . . . . I am confident that the persons serving 
on such a Commission will approach all their problems, difficult though 
they will be, with a really objective and impartial mind. 


‘‘ No one regrets more than I do that the relations between His 
Majesty’s Government and the Arabs of Palestine have been tempor- 
arily strained, and I really hope that this is only a passing phase. 
The Arab people are rightly proud of their historic achievements and 
of their contribution to civilisation. There has been a traditional 
friendship between Great Britain and the Arab people which His 
Majesty’s Government value, and it is their earnest desire to see it 
preserved. They believe that that is equally the desire of the vast 
majority of Arab peoples throughout the world. The notable assistance 
given by Britain to the Arabs in the War, in Arabia, in ‘Iraq and 
elsewhere, should be evidence of our good will and interest in the future 
of the Arab people. 


‘“‘ At the same time, there is the age-long aspiration of Jews all over 
the world for a centre in Palestine. This aspiration and claim were 
formally and most specifically recognised by His Majesty’s Government 
in the Balfour Declaration in 1917. This Declaration was subsequently 
endorsed in almost identical terms by all the other Principal Allied 
and Associated Powers in the War, and was finally enshrined in the 
Mandate which is our authority for the government of Palestine; and it 
was entrusted to His Majesty’s Government by the Principal Allied 
and Associated Powers at the San Remo Conference in January, 1920. 
The Balfour Declaration itself made it clear that with the establish- 
ment of the Jewish national home and the recognition of the Jewish 
claims nothing should be done which might prejudice the civil and 
religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine. Hence 
it is clear that under that Declaration we have a dual obligation, both 
to the Jew and to the Arab. 


There is at present a state of apprehension on both sides, and half 
the trouble that has led to these disorders is psychological. The Arabs 
are afraid that the Jews will completely dominate the country, and 
they fear for the future of their homes and the homes of their fathers 
and of their children. The Jews, equally, are afraid that the great 
and really remarkable constructive work which they had already done 
in Palestine will be cut short or terminated, that the national home 
on which they have set their hearts will be brought to naught and 
that the Arabs seek to drive them out of Palestine or reduce them to 
an inferior status of barely tolerated aliens in Palestine, under Arab 
domination. I honestly believe that both these fears are baseless, but 


28 


they must be shown to be baseless. It is the desire of the British 
Government to find a solution, consistent with their fundamental dual 
obligation, and they regard those obligations equally as obligations of 
honour. It is my confident belief that we can dissipate those fears, 
and do justice to both parties, and it is my intention, when the solu- 
tion is found, to apply that solution with firmness and consistency. 
We are most anxious, therefore, that order shall be speedily restored 
so that the work of the Royal Commission may start without delay. 


““ Clearly the Royal Commission will have to investigate in detail 
the existing law and administrative practice of the Palestine Govern- 
ment regarding such matters as land transfers and the regulations 
regarding immigration not only of Jews but of Arabs and others. 
These important questions will have to be examined by His Majesty’s 
Government in the light of the evidence collected and in the light of 
the recommendations of the Commission. I am sure that the whole 
of this Committee will agree with me that, pending such an impartial 
inquiry, it would be very wrong of me to prejudice, either by speech 
or action, the findings of the Commission. We can contemplate no 
change of policy whatsoever until we have received and considered 
their report. 


‘* I said a moment ago that certain important questions would have 
to be submitted to His Majesty’s Government in the light of the 
evidence and the recommendations made by the Royal Commission. 
Perhaps I ought to add, lest misunderstandings arise, that I am sure 
it will be appreciated that no Government, least of all a mandatory 
Power, with its special responsibilities to the League and its duty of 
reporting to the League, can divest itself of the ultimate responsibility, 
or undertake in advance to carry out proposals or recommendations 
which it has not seen; but I would like to say that His Majesty’s 
Government will certainly consider with the utmost care, and with all 
possible weight, any recommendations made by so authoritative a 
body as I have envisaged. If, as the result of their examination, they 
find that the action advised by the Commission commends itself to 
them, they will carry it into effect without fear and without favour. 


‘‘T hope that the Committee will share my view, that in spite of 
temptation and in spite of crime and outrage, it is essential to take a 
long view. I should deeply regret any speech that would add fuel to the 
flames and add an increased racial strife and bitterness. We want Arabs 
and Jews to realise that both have an assured future in Palestine, and 
that the whole object of the British Government in that country is that 
both shall be able to live together in peace and amity in a land holy 
not only to them but to the three great faiths throughout the civilised 
world. We hold the Mandate for Palestine specially in trust for the 
world which regards Palestine with sentiments above, perhaps, any 
other country and we are determined to preserve our authority as 
mandatory Power, and to administer Palestine with justice and equity 
to Jew and Arab alike.’’ 


61. On the 22nd July, in reply to a question in the House of 
Commons asking for an assurance that no change in the declared 
licy of the Government with regard to the immigration of Jews 
into Palestine would take place until after the Royal Commission 
had reported, the Secretary of State for the Colonies made 
the following statement :— 


‘* As I informed the House on the i1gth of June (see paragraph 60) 
His Majesty’s Government can contemplate no change of policy what- 
soever with regard to Palestine until they have received and considered 


. 20 


the Report of the Royal Commission. As regards, however, the sug- 
gestion that there should be a temporary suspension of immigration 
whilst the Commission is carrying out its enquiry, I am not at present 
in a positior to make any statement as to the intention of His Majesty’s 
Government beyond saying that their decision will be taken in due 
course on the merits of the case and that there is no question of its 
being inflvenced by violence or attempts at intimidation.’’ 


62. Towards the end of June a memorandum for submis- 
sion to Government was prepared by senior Arab Government 
officials of the Public Service, in which it was represented that 
the cause underlying the disorders was the insufficent regard 
paid to legitimate Arab grievances both in the past and since 
the outbreak of the disorders. The memorandum went on to 
recommend that the stoppage of Jewish immigration was the 
only fair and humane solution of the existing deadlock. This 
memorandum was transmitted by the High Commissioner to 
the Secretary of State. 


A memorandum in similar terms was later addressed to 


Government by Arab Government officials of the junior division 
of the service. 


63. On the 2oth July, the composition and the terms of refer- 
ence of the Royal Commission were announced by the Secretary 
of State in the following terms:— 


‘His Majesty has been pleased to approve the appointment of the 
following to serve on the Palestine Royal Commission :— 


The Right Honourable The Earl Peel, G.C.S.1., G.B.E. 


The Right Honourable Sir Horace Rumbold, Baronet, G.C.B., 
G.C.M.G., M.V.O. 


Sir Laurie Hammond, K.C.S.I., C.B.E. 
Sir Morris Carter, C.B.E. 

Sir Harold Morris, M.B.E., K.C. 
Professor Reginald Coupland, C.I.E. 


Lord Peel will be Chairman of the Commission and Sir Horace 
Rumbold Vice-Chairman. Mr. J. M. Martin of the Colonial Office will 
be Secretary. 


“ The terms of reference of the Royal Commission will be :— 


‘To ascertain the underlying causes of the disturbances which 
broke out in Palestine in the middle of April; to enquire into the 
manner in which the Mandate for Palestine is being implemented 
in relation to the obligations of the Mandatory towards the Arabs 
and the Jews respectively; and to ascertain whether, upon a proper 
construction of the terms of the Mandate, either the Arabs or the 
Jews have any legitimate grievances on account of the way in 
which the Mandate has been, or is being, implemented; and if the 
Commission is satisfied that any such grievances are well-founded, 
to make recommendations for their removal and for the prevention 
of their recurrence.’ 


“It is not yet possible to state on what date the Commission will 
leave for Palestine, but it is not proposed that the Commission should 
begin its work in Palestine until order is restored there. When a Royal 

Mmission has been appointed, it has complete control over its own 


30 


proceedings, so it would be impossible for me to give even an approxi- 
mate indication of the time which will elapse before the report of the 
Commission will become available. 


““ As regards the suggestion that there should be a temporary sus- 
pension of immigration while the Commission is carrying out its enquiry. 
I am unable to add anything to the full reply which I gave on 22nd 
July to the question by the Honourable Member for the Consett 
Division of Durham.’’ (See paragraph 61.) 


64. At the beginning of August, the Amir Abdullah of Trans- 
Jordan invited the Arab Higher Committee, individual members 
of which he had previously received at their request, to discuss 
the position with him in Kena This attempt at mediation, 
however, broke down, as the members of the Committee 
expressed themselves unable to co-operate unless concessions— 
including an announcement that Jewish immigration would be 
suspended during the visit of the Royal Commisson to Palestine, 
which the British Government refused to entertain—were 
granted. 


A further series of negotiations on similar lines was under- 
taken during the second half of sa dona Nuri Pasha es Said, 
at that time ‘Iraqi Minister for Foreign Affairs. 


65. These negotiations, in their turn, were nullified as a result 
of the publication at the end of August of a manifesto by the 
Arab Higher Committee, the text of which was as follows: — 


‘‘ Negotiations between the Supreme Arab Committee and His 
Excellency, Nuri Pasha es Said, Foreign Minister of ‘Iraq, were con- 
tinued for some days in the course of which all the points which relate 
to the Palestine Arab case were discussed in an atmosphere of confidence 
and frankness. These discussions resulted in a complete understand- 
ing and in consenting with all satisfaction and trust to the mediation 
of the Government of ‘Iraq and of Their Majesties and Highnesses the 
Arab Kings and Princes. 

‘‘ In consequence His Excellency the Minister of ‘Iraq will conduct 
the necessary official correspondence in this respect, while the Supreme 
Arab Committee will submit the matter to the Nation, through a 
General Congress of the National Committees, for consultation and 
confirmation. The Nation will continue its general strike with the 
same steadfastness and conviction which it has shown, and with an 
unblemished dignity, full of confidence, patience and sobriety, and 
until such time as these negotiations attain the desired result which 
will safeguard for this brave Nation its existence, secure for it its. 
rights and the realization of its aspirations.’’ 


66. While the negotiations were in progress conjecture was 
rife as to the terms under which they were being conducted and 
on 2nd September a local Jewish newspaper, the Palestine Post 

ublished a completely unfounded account of the conditions. 
which Nuri Pasha had been authorized by the British Govern- 
ment to offer to the Arab leaders. One of these alleged con- 
ditions was the suspension of immigration. Dr. Weizmann, 
the Chairman of the Zionist Organization, who was then in 
London, thereupon wrote to the Secretary of State asking for 


31 
assurances on this point. The Secretary of State replied in a 
letter denying that any promise had been made to Nuri Pasha by 
the High Commissioner or by His Majesty’s Government regard- 
ing either the suspension of immigration (i.e. in return for the 


cessation of the disturbances) or the position of the Foreign 
Minister of ‘Iraq as the mediator in the affairs of Palestine. 


67. On the 7th September His Majesty’s Government issued 


aa statement of policy regarding Palestine in the following 
erms :— 


‘* Disorders broke out in Palestine in April of this year which, after 
noting at Jaffa and elsewhere that was quickly suppressed, took the 
form of a declaration by a Committee of Arab notables of a general 
strike of a definitely political character for aims inconsistent with the 
Mandate and pursued by methods which directly challenged the con- 
stituted authority. There have been widespread acts of murder and 
other outrages by gangs of armed terrorists. Apart from attacks in 
which British soldiers, airmen and police as well as many Arabs and 
Jews have lost their lives, the activities of these armed gangs have 
included repeated attempts to disorganize the means of communication, 
cutting of telegraph and telephone wires, derailing of trains, and 
attempts to prevent roads from being used by traffic. Considerable 
material damage has been done seriously affecting the economic life 
of the country and several attempts have been made to damage and 
set fire to the oil pipe-line between Haifa and ‘Iraq. An important 
result of the strike has been the practical closing of the port of Jaffa 
although happily the port of Haifa has hitherto been little affected. 


“* Active steps were at once taken by the Palestine Administration 
for the protection of life and property and for the suppression of 
disorders and during the months following on the outbreak of the 
disturbances the Palestine garrison has been considerably reinforced. 
In spite, however, of the greatest forebearance exercised by the British 
authorities, with the full approval of His Majesty’s Government, whose 
chief concern has been to restore peace between the different com- 
munities in Palestine by measures which would entail the smallest 
possible amount of suffering and loss of life, the political strike has 
continued accompanied by outrages and guerilla warfare. Widespread 
intimidation has been used by those responsible for the continuance 
of those disorders with the object of compelling at any rate the 
passive co-operation of the Arab population at large. In short the 
situation which has been created is a direct challenge to the authority 
of the British Government in Palestine. 


“On the 18th of May the then Secretary of State for the Colonies 
announced in the House of Commons that His Majesty’s Government 
had decided that it was desirable that a full enquiry on the spot 
should be undertaken but that the first step must be the re-establish- 
ment of law and order; and that after order had been restored it was 
their intention to advise His Majesty to appoint a Royal Commission 
which would, without bringing into question the fundamental terms 
of the Mandate, investigate the causes of unrest and any alleged 
grievances either of the Arabs or the Jews. 


“ On the 29th of July the personnel of the Royal Commission was 
announced in the House of Commons together with its terms of 
teference which are as follows :— 


‘to ascertain the underlying causes of the disturbances which 
broke out in Palestine in the middle of April; to enquire into the 
manner in which the Mandate for Palestine is being implemented 


32 

in relation to the obligations of the Mandatory towards the Arabs 
and the Jews respectively; and to ascertain whether, upon a proper 
construction of the terms of the Mandate, either the Arabs or the 
Jews have any legitimate grievances on account of the way ia 
which the Mandate has been, or is being, implemented; and _ if 
the Commission is satisfied that any such grievances are well- 
founded, to make representations for their removal and for the 
prevention of their recurrence.’ 


‘“ The Royal Commission will undertake its duties at the earliest 
possible moment, but, as has already been stated, order must be 
restored in Palestine before the Commission begins its enquiry there. 


‘“ This is the condition essential to enable it to perform its duties 
effectively. Unhappily, however, the Arab leaders have taken up the 
position that they will not end the strike until fundamental changes 
have been introduced by the British Government in its policy with 
regard to Palestine, and, notwithstanding the announcement of the 
personnel and the terms of reference of the Royal Commission, the 
strike has continued accompanied by outrages of ranging degrees of 
intensity in many parts of the country. All efforts to introduce a 
reasonable spirit of accommodation have hitherto failed. 


‘* Well-disposed Arab rulers and notabilities in neighbouring countries 
have from time to time expressed willingness to use their influence in 
attempts at conciliation. The King of Saudi Arabia offered the use 
of his good offices acting in concert, if their co-operation could be 
secured, with other Arab rulers. Unfortunately conditions have con- 
tinued to be such that it has not been found possible to make any 
successful progress by this means. A public-spirited attempt has also 
been made by His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan, but this likewise 
has proved fruitless. A further recent initiative in the same direction 
has been taken by General Nuri Pasha es Said, Foreign Minister of 
‘Iraq. Protracted discussions by him with the Palestine Arab leaders 
have led to no satisfactory result, for the Palestine Arab leaders issued 
on the 31st of August a manifesto declaring that they would continue 
the strike until their aims had been attained. 


‘* Despite General Nuri Pasha’s intervention, daily outrages and 
other instances of grave disorders have continued unabated, and after 
a careful review of the whole situation, His Majesty’s Government are 
satisfied that the campaign of violence and threats of violence, by 
which the Arab leaders are attempting to influence the policy of His 
Majesty’s Government, cannot be allowed to continue and more rapid 
and effective action must now be taken in order to bring the present 
state of disorder to an end with the least possible delay. With this 
end in view, it has been considered essential to send further substantial 
reinforcements to Palestine. An additional division of troops is accord- 
ingly being sent there. In view of the size of the reinforcements and 
of the additional responsibilities entailed, it has been decided that 
the supreme military control in the country shall be entrusted to a 
Lieutenant-General. The officer selected to command is Lieutenant- 
General J. G. Dill, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., late Director of Military 
Operations and Intelligence at the War Office. 


‘‘ His Majesty’s Government deeply regret that such decisions should 
have been forced upon them. Great Britain accepted the Mandate 
for Palestine upon terms which involve responsibility for the welfare 
cf all sections of the population of Palestine. They regard this 
responsibility as a trust which they have no choice but to carry out. 
In this connection it is appropriate to recall that in their report to the 
Council of the League of Nations in 1930, the Permanent Mandates 
Commission stated that in their view the following two assertions 


33 


accurately express what they conceived to be the essence of the 
Mandate of Palestine : — ; 


_ (1) that the obligations laid down in the Mandate of Palestine 
In regard to the two sections of the population are of equal 
weight; and ; 

(z) that the dual obligations imposed upon the Mandatory are 
in no sense irreconcilable. 


“His Majesty’s Government are fully in accord with the sense of 
this pronouncement at Geneva and it is their earnest desire to carry 
on a policy of impartial justice to both Arabs and Jews and to work 
for the peace and progress of a country so specially dear to both races. 

“It has been the constant aim of British policy to secure and 
maintain relations of friendship and confidence with the Moslem 
peoples. For this reason, apart from all others, they would have 
wished to avoid by all possible means the course of action which has 
now been forced upon them. But no Government, least of all a 
Government exercising mandatory responsibilities, can allow them- 
selves to be deflected from their course by violence and outrages. It 
is still their hope, however, that when those who are disturbing the 
peace of Palestine have been brought to realize that their present 
actions are inimical to the true interests of all sections of the popula- 
tion and to the country as a whole, and that the Mandatory Govern- 
ment is determined to exercise its authority with impartiality and 
justice, it will be possible to ascertain whether any legitimate grievances 
or fears for the future exist on the part of either Arabs or Jews and 
to make recommendations for their removal with a view to establish- 
ing more cordial and peaceful relations between all concerned. His 
Majesty’s Government are convinced that these objects are attainable 
within the framework of the Mandate which they have no intention 
of abandoning. 


‘It is the confident hope of His Majesty’s Government that the 
Royal Commission will make recommendations which will enable His 
Majesty’s Government to bring finality to a situation of doubts and 
fears on both sides and that out of the tragic misunderstandings and 
disorders of the last five months a lasting settlement can be reached.’’ 


This statement was simultaneously published as an Official 
Communiqué of the Palestine Government and five days later, 
on 12th September, the High Commissioner summoned the 
members of the Arab Higher Committee before him. In the 
course of the interview, he emphasized the forbearance which had 
been shown by the Government in the past and stated that more 
drastic military action would be taken to restore order. He urged 
the Committee to issue a call for the cessation of the strike and 
disorders while there was yet time. 


At the same time, District Commissioners held meetings with 
local notables whom they advised in the same sense. 


68. Lieutenant-General Dill arrived in Jerusalem on the 13th 
September and assumed duty as General Officer Commanding 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan on the 15th September. The 
military reinforcements from England began to reach Palestine 
shortly afterwards, and by the end of the first week in October 
all had arrived. 


34 


69. Meanwhile the Arab Higher Committee were in constan: 
communication with Their Majesties King Ibn Saud of Saud: 
Arabia, King Ghazi of ‘Iraq, the King of the Yemen, and His 
Highness the Amir Abdullah of Trans-Jordan. On the 8th Octc- 
ber the Committee received a communication from King Ibn 
Saud and on the gth October from King Ghazi and the Amir 
Abdullah. All three communications were couched in identical 
language. 

‘“ The prevailing situation in Palestine has greatly pained us. We 
in agreement with our brothers the Arab Kings and the Amir Abdullah 
ask you to resort to quietness in order to avoid bloodshed, relying 
upon the good intentions of our friend the British Government and 
its declared desire to ensure justice. You may rest assured that we 
will continue our endeavours to help you.”’ 


On the roth October, the Arab Higher Committee issued a 
manifesto which, after citing the text of the communications 
which they had received from the three Arab Rulers, continued 


in the following terms :— 

‘“ The Supreme Arab Committee, after consultation with representa- 
tives of the National Committees and with their unanimous agreement, 
have unanimously decided to respond to the appeal of Their Majesties 
and Highnesses, the Arab Kings and Amirs, and to call upon the noble 
Arab Nation in Palestine to resort to quietness and to put an end to 
the strike and the disorders as from Monday morning, the 12th October, 
1936, and to ask all members of the nation to proceed, early morning, 
to their places of worship for the purpose of holding services on behalf 
of the martyrs and to thank God for the power of patience and 
fortitude with which he endowed them. They will then leave their 
places of worship and open their places of business and will resume 
their normal occupations, and God is our aid.”’ 


The response to this manifesto was immediate; work was 
resumed generally through the country; and with the exception 
of a few minor incidents, disorders ceased, and after a month 
it was possible to make arrangements for the return to England 
of the reinforcements which had been sent out to Palestine two 
months before. By the end of the year almost all the units of 
the additional division had left the country. 


70. On the 29th October, the High Commissioner, in a broad- 
cast message, announced the imminent departure from London 
of the Royal Commission which arrived in Palestine on 11th 


November, 1936. 


71. On the 5th November the Secretary of State made the 


following statement in the House of Commons:— 

‘‘On the 19th June and the 22nd of July I informed the House 
that His Majesty’s Government could contemplate no change of policy 
whatsoever with regard to Palestine until they had received and con- 
sidered the Report of the Royal Commission. On the 22nd of July I 
also said that, as regards the suggestion that there should be temporary 
suspension of immigration whilst the Commission was carrying out its 
enquiry, I was not at the time in a position to make any statement 
as to the intentions of His Majesty’s Government beyond saying that 
their decision would be taken in due course on the merits of the case. 


35 


‘“ As the House is aware, the Royal Commission is leaving for 
Palestine to-day and His Majesty’s Government have carefully con- 
sidered whether or not there should be a temporary suspension of 
immigration while the Commission is carrying out its enquiry. They 
have decided that a temporary suspension of immigration would not 
be justifiable on economic or on other grounds. It is the view of His 
Majesty’s Government that, if any drastic departure from the immi- 
gration policy hitherto pursued were now to be introduced in advance 
of the findings of the Royal Commission, this would involve an altera- 
tion in the existing situation and might be held to prejudice the 
enquiry of the Royal Commission, which will be directed, among 
other matters, to the very important question of immigration generally. 


‘‘ At the same time, His Majesty’s Government have thought it 
right, in the present circumstances obtaining in Palestine, to ask the 
High Commissioner to take a conservative view of the economic 
absorptive capacity of the country. He has accordingly recommended 
that the six-monthly labour immigration schedule which was due to be 
issued last month, should be fixed at 1,800 certificates: this recom- 
mendation has been approved by His Majesty’s Government. This 
figure compares with a schedule of 8,ooo in April, 1935; 3,250 in 
October, 1935, and 4,500 in April, 1936. 


‘* The new schedule of 1,800 certificates includes a special allotment 
of 300 certificates to provide for registration as immigrants of German- 
Jews in possession of a capital of {P1,o00 already in Palestine who 
will have been unable as yet to transfer from Germany the qualifying 
capital within a prescribed period of twelve months. The total increase, 
therefore, in the Jewish population resulting from this schedule will not 
exceed 1,500. It will be appreciated, however, that immigration is 
not confined to those persons who receive certificates under the Labour 
Schedule. The categories under which other immigrants enter are as 
capitalists (that is to say persons in possession of £P1,000) and 
dependants of such capitalists, and dependants of persons authorized 
to enter under the Labour Schedule, and of persons already resident 
in Palestine. Taking into account all forms of Jewish immigration, it 
is expected that the total for the six months from October 1936 will 
be substantially below that for the preceding six months.’’ 


The announcement raised great resentment in Arab circles, 
and two days later a meeting of the Arab Higher Committee 
decided unanimously to boycott the Commission and that no 
Arab witnesses would appear before it. 


72. After making a rapid general tour of the country, the - 
Commission opened its enquiry in Jerusalem on the 16th 
November, 1936. 


A letter of welcome had been sent on 13th November to the 
Chairman by the members of the Arab Higher Committee, in 
which they stated their regrets that the Arab people were unable 
to fulfil their traditional duties of hospitality towards the Com- 
mission owing to the action taken by the British Government 
Tegarding the issue of the half-yearly Jewish Labour Schedule 
on the 5th November, 1936 (see paragraph 71). The Com- 
mittee assured the members of the Commission that the Arab 
population of Palestine was fully confident of their integrity and 


sincerity. 


36 


The Commission was in session, both public and private, up to 
sae end of the year, by which time its enquiry was drawing to 
a Close. 


Throughout this period, the Arab boycott was maintained, | 
but, as will be described in the Annual Report for 1937, the Arab 


eel Committee on the 6th January, 1937, unanimously 
withdrew their decision not to co-operate with the Commission 
and the Arab evidence was heard before the Commission con- 


cluded its enquiry on the roth January, 1937. 


73. The opening session of the Royal Commission took place 
on the 12th November at Government House, Jerusalem. After 
the High Commissioner had officially welcomed the members to 
Palestine and the Chief Secretary had read the Royal Warrant 
of their appointment, Earl Peel, the Chairman, delivered the 
following speech :— 

‘* Your Excellency, Ladies and Gentlemen, 

“On behalf of my colleagues and myself, may I thank Your 
Excellency very warmly for the most kind words with which you 
have received us? May we also thank all those who have come here 
to-day to welcome us at the outset of our enquiry? May I lay stress 
upon those words ‘ The outset of our enquiry’? We were most 
anxious to begin our task here in Palestine with minds as free as 
possible from any prepossession and from all preconceived ideas. We 
bring, I believe, each of us some contribution of experience derived 
from one sphere or another of public life; but we were determined 
that, as regards views and judgments on the affairs of Palestine, we 
should apply minds fresh and impartial to the problems before us. 
We therefore heard no evidence before we left London and our only 
meeting was devoted to discussions of procedure and other points of 
detail. When our departure from London was delayed, we again 
considered this question, but in spite of the loss of time we came 
again to the same conclusion. 

‘* But we have been by no means inactive. We were appointed by 
His Majesty the King as long ago as August last. We have had, 
therefore, time to acquire some knowledge of the elementary facts 
of the situation in Palestine and of the machinery of government 
and policies on which we may expect to hear evidence. The 
Government of Palestine and its officers have been of the greatest 
possible assistance in these requirements. They have answered very 
fully our rather onerous requests for facts and figures, and we should 
like to express, through Your Excellency, our keen sense of gratitude 
to your officers for the fulness and lucidity of the papers with which 
we have been supplied and for the figures, statistics and descriptions 
of administrative detail which we have studied. They have saved us 
an immense amount of labour and have lightened the burden of our 
enquiry. They have given us a framework which makes it far more 
easy for us to appreciate the evidence which will be laid before us. 


‘* Let me refer to one point of procedure. The question of whether 
we should hold our sittings in public or in private has been before us. 
We have decided that in an enquiry of this importance it would be 
wiser to hold our sittings as far as possible in public, but we recognize 
that there may be witnesses whom it would be proper to hear in 
private and that, in many cases, the witnesses themselves may prefer 
to give their evidence or part of their evidence in a similar manner. 





37 


‘* You have heard the terms of reference approved by His Majesty. 
We are ‘to ascertain the underlying causes of the disturbances which 
broke out in Palestine in the middle of April’. You will note the 
words ‘ underlying causes’. It does not appear to be necessary, 
therefore, to enquire into the detailed course of events in the last six 
or seven months. If there are claims and counter-claims arising out 
of these events, they are matters for the Courts or for the Adminis- 
tration, but we have to deal, I believe, with wider issues. 

‘“ Then we are ‘ to enquire into the manner in which the Mandate 
is being implemented in relation to the obligations of the Mandatory 
towards the Arabs and the Jews respectively, and to ascertain whether, 
upon a proper construction of the terms of the Mandate, either the 
Arabs or the Jews have any legitimate grievance on account of the 
way in which the Mandate has been or is being implemented; and if we 
are satisfied that any such grievances are well founded to make recom- 
mendations for their removal and for the prevention of their 


tecurrence . 


‘‘ Time will perhaps be saved if those who propose to give evidence 
will first study our terms of reference. We have, of course, no 
authority to exceed them, but the terms themselves are very wide and 
we intend to interpret them in a broad and comprehensive manner. 
In this connection I would like to quote from a speech made in the 
House of Commons by the Prime Minister a few days ago. Mr. 
Baldwin said :— 

‘I would like to emphasize . . . that a Royal Commission 
in this country is an entirely independent body, uncontrolled by 
His Majesty’s Government, and perfectly free to report in any 
sense that it thinks fit within the terms of its reference.’ 

‘‘ ‘We are under no illusion as to the difficulty of our task, and we 
make a general appeal to the people of Palestine without any dis- 
tinction to do nothing which may add to our difficulties and give us 
their friendly co-operation. To those who may give evidence before 
us, I would quote some words used by the Prime Minister in the 
speech to which I have referred :— 

‘I think it is very important that, while the Commission is 
engaged on this work, which is very difficult and very delicate, 
we should avoid as far as we can such controversial treatment of 
that subject as might inflame feelings that have not subsided and 
that are only too ready to be inflamed on either side.’ 

‘Unhappily, while we were on our journey here, an incident has 
arisen that can hardly be said to be of assistance. One large section 
of this population, through its leaders, has declared that it will take 
no part in the work of the Royal Commission. It would be most 
unfortunate if without their advice and assistance we were compelled 
to arrive at conclusions and to make decisions. 

‘‘A Royal Commission is an entirely independent body with no 
responsibility for the policy of His Majesty’s Government in the 
present or in the past. Is it too much to ask that all those who love 
Palestine and hold her future dear will join with us and share our 

labours? It would be deplorable indeed if strife and fear and dis- 
sension were to be the portion of this Holy Land which sent forth in 
the past a message of peace and goodwill to all the world.’’ 


JEWISH IMMIGRATION INTO PALESTINE. 


74. Immigration continued to be regulated as heretofore in 
accordance with the estimated economic absorptive capacity of 


€ country. 


38 


There were 29,727 Jewish immigrants registered during the 
year. Of these, 2,970 were capitalist immigrants, whose 
dependants numbered 2,810, and 6,981 were persons coming to 
employment, whose dependants numbered 4,496. The number 
of immigrants, apart from dependants, authorized under labour 
schedules was 4,500 for the period April-September, 1936, and 
1,800 for the period October, 1936—March, 1937. 


75. In connection with the issue of the latter schedule, the 
Secretary of State for the Colonies made the statement which 
is quoted in full in paragraph 71. 


76. The Palestine Government has continued to take all 
possible measures to check illegal immigration through the 
agency of His Majesty’s Consular Officers abroad, by the usual 
control arrangements at ports and frontiers and by the employ- 
ment of a special preventive force on land and sea. Additional 
preventive measures are now under consideration by the 
Government. 


77, Eight hundred and twenty-eight persons (including 198 
Jews) who made their way into the country surreptitiously and | 
were detected, were sentenced to imprisonment for their offence 
and recommended for deportation; 674 such deportations were 
carried out during the year, including 89 Jews. Ten Jewish 
and twelve non-Jewish travellers were also deported for over- 
staying their period of permitted stay in the country, and 
47 Jews and 67 non-Jews were deported for other immigration 
offences. In addition, 1,220 persons, including five Jews, were 
summarily deported to Syria and Egypt on apprehension at 
the frontiers. 


78. The proportion of Jewish immigrants from Germany has 
considerably increased, amounting to 27 per cent., as com- 
pared with 14 per cent. in 1935 and 16 per cent. in 1934. 
Poland, which provided 41 per cent. of the Jewish immigrants, 
continues to be the principal centre of Jewish immigration to 
Palestine. The proportion of immigration certificates allotted 
by the Jewish Agency to Germany and to German refugees 
under the labour schedule increased from 18 per cent. for the 
period April—September, 1935, to 38 per cent. for the period 
April—September, 1936. 


ARAB AFFAIRS. 


79. From the beginning of the year until April the repre- 
sentatives of the united Arab Parties whose coalition is de- 
scribed in paragraph 31 of the Introductory Chapter of the 
Annual Report for 1935 continued to make collective representa- 
tions to Government upon matters affecting Arab interests. In 
April, however, a body styled the Supreme Arab Committee 





39 


was formed. The circumstances in which this Committee came 
nto being and its principal activities are described in the section 
of this Report dealing with Policy. The Supreme Arab Com- 
mittee absorbed the representatives of the different parties in- 


cluding the Istiqlal Party, and the President of the Supreme 
Moslem Council. 


After the formation of the Supreme Arab Committee the 
different parties temporarily sank their differences and Arab 
political affairs continued to be handled by this Committee who 
also presented the Arab case to the Royal Commission during 
Its visit to Palestine. 


80. As a result of the long strike and the campaign of boy- 
cott of Jewish goods and Jewish shops, the Arabs made an 
effort towards a financial and commercial re-organization aimed 
at achieving independence of Jewish economy. A separate 
Arab Chamber of Commerce was established in Jerusalem. 
Contact between the Arab Chambers of Commerce in different 
towns became more noticeable and a number of new Arab shops 
were opened. Steps were also taken to encourage the importa- 


tion and sale of Arab products from Syria in place of Jewish 
products. 


81. In March an ‘Iraqi delegation of fifteen senators, deputies 
and notables who were proceeding to the Agricultural Ex- 
hibition in Cairo passed through Palestine on their way to and 
from Egypt. While in Palestine, they were the guests of the 
Arab community and visited Nazareth, Jenin, Nablus, 
Jerusalem, and Jaffa and, on their homeward journey, Haifa. 


SUPREME MOSLEM COUNCIL. 


82. At its twenty-ninth session, the Permanent Mandates 
mmission asked for fuller information concerning the com- 
position, working and results of the Supreme Moslem Council. 
(Minutes, Pages 148 and 208.) This information is given below. 


The Commission also asked for information as to its repre- 
sentative character. The circumstances in which the members 
actually constituting the Council were appointed are described 
hereafter. Briefly, they are: the President was elected in 1922; 
the Members were appointed by the High Commissioner under 
the Supreme Moslem Shari’a Council Ordinance, 1926, the 


dates of their appointment being two in 1926, one in 1928 and 
one in 1929. 


83. Whilst discussing the representative character of the 
Supreme Moslem Council, it will be borne in mind that it is not 
a political body, but an administrative body dealing with 
Moslem religious affairs. In so far as it is representative, it is 
Teptesentative of the Moslems of Palestine in their religious 


40 
aspect. Whether, if there were an election, the present members 
would be re-elected, it is impossible to prophesy. But although 
the present members were not elected, they are as representa- 
tive as any who could be appointed by the High Commissioner. 


84. The Supreme Moslem Council was established by an 
Order issued by the first High Commissioner in Palestine, Sir 
Herbert Samuel, in December, 1921. This Order regulates the 
activities of the Supreme Moslem Council. 

Under the Order of December, 1921, a Moslem body was 
created, to be known as the Supreme Shari‘a Moslem Council. 
The main object of the creation of this body was to put in 
its hands the control and the management of Moslem Awgqaf 
and Shari‘a affairs in Palestine. The Government was to have 
no voice in the constitution of the Council; the powers of 
administration and control with regard to Moslem Awqaf were 
vested in the Council to the exclusion of Government. Although 
the Council was not vested specifically by the Order with the 
power to administer and control Shari‘a Courts, by section 1 
it was entrusted with the control and management of Shari‘a 
affairs, and by section 8 it was empowered to appoint the 
judges and inspectors of Shari‘a Courts after the nomination 
of the Council had been approved by the Government. The 
Council was given power to dismiss all Awqaf and Shari‘a 
officials, including the judges and inspectors, without the prior 
approval of Government, and was obliged only to report the 
fact of dismissal and the reasons therefor to Government. 

The Supreme Moslem Council was to be elected by general 
election, but the special law required by section 4 of the Order, 
prescribing the method of election and laying down the func- 
tions, status and precedence of the President, has never been 
submitted to Government for enactment. 

As regards the members of the Council, under the Order 
they were to be elected by the secondary electors elected by 
the inhabitants of the District which the member was to repre- 
sent in accordance with the Ottoman Law of Elections to the 
Chamber of Deputies. 

85. The duties of the Supreme Moslem Council were defined 
as follows :— 

(a) To administer and control Moslem Awgaf and to 
approve the annual Awqaf Budget and, after approval, to 
transmit the Budget to Government for information. 

(b) To nominate for the approval of Government and 
after such approval to appoint Qadis of the Shari‘a Courts, 
the President and members of the Shari‘a Court of Appeal, 
and the inspector of Shari‘a Courts. If the Government 
withholds its approval, it shall signify to the Council within 
15 days the reasons therefor. 


4I 
(c) To appoint Muftis from among the three candidates 
to be elected by a special electoral college in accordance 
with the special regulation to be passed by the Council, 
provided that the election of Muftis in Beersheba District 
shall be made by the Sheikhs of the Tribes. (The regula- 
tion for the election of Muftis has never been enacted.) 


(d) To appoint the directors and mamurs of Awqaf and 
all Shari‘a officials. 


(e) To control the General Waqf Committee and all other 
committees and waqf administration. 


(f) To dismiss all Waqf and Shari‘a officials. When an 
official is dismissed, notice thereof is sent to Government 
with reasons for dismissal. 


(g) To enquire into all Moslem Awgaf and to produce 
proof and evidence establishing the claim to these Awgaf 
with a view to having such returned to the Council. 


the Moslem Community have the right to supervise the 
actions of the Council through the Electoral College. 


_ 86. The election of a President and members of the Council 
_ mM accordance with the Order was held in 1922. It was at that 


— that the present holder of the office of President was 
ed. 


87. In 1926 the term of office of the members elected in 1922 
€xpired and an election for new members was held. The elec- 
ton was challenged by one of the parties and declared void 
by the High Court. Thereupon the Supreme Moslem Shari‘a 
Council Ordinance, 1926, was promulgated, by which it was 
provided that pending the holding of fresh elections certain 
hamed persons should, together with the President, constitute 
the Council, and that the Council, as constituted, should exercise 

© funchons prescribed by the Order of December, I921, other 
than those defined in section 8 (4) of the Ordinance. 


In the Ordinance of 1926, it is also provided that the High 
commissioner shall have power— 


(2) to constitute a committee of Moslems for the purpose 
Ol preparing a revision of the Order of 1921; and 


(b) to make regulations concerning the election of the 
members of the Council. 


In fact, with the exception of the President, the present 
oeiMbers of the Council were appointed by the High Commis- 
sioner A committee was also appointed on the ath May, 1926, 
: order to revise the Order of 1921. The Committee so 
i rome by the High Commissioner under the chairmanship 

€ President, Supreme Moslem Council, submitted to 
vernment a draft Election Ordinance and a draft Organic 


42 
Law for the Constitution of the Supreme Moslem Council to 
ee the Order of December, 1921, and the Ottoman Law 
O ection. | 


In 1929 the drafts submitted by the Council were made public, 
but in view of the nots which took place in August, I929, and 
of the unrest which followed, these documents did not receive 
the careful and general study by the Moslem Community which 
they required. Several comments and criticisms were, however, 
submitted to Government. Since that date, no further move 
has been made in the matter. 


88. As regards the activity of the Supreme Moslem Councu, 
the following is a summary of its activities since it was 
established : — 


(i) Twenty-one new mosques and three minarets were 
built, and 313 mosques, including their minarets, were 
repaired in towns and villages. 


(ii) Twa hundred and twenty-four new buildings, includ- 
ing shops and houses, were built; some of these buildings 
are of considerable value, such as the waqf building which 
was originally the Palace Hotel in Jerusalem and is now 
used as Government offices. 


(iii) Three hundred waqf buildings, including shops and 
houses, were repaired. 

(iv) The Council drained and assisted in draining many 
swamps on wadf lands. 

(v) The Council planted about 40,000 trees on waqf 
lands. 

(vi) The Council contributed to the enlargement of waqf 
lands by the purchase of about 25,000 dunums. 

(vii) Eight schools for boys, girls, and orphans are main- 
tained by the Supreme Moslem Council, and 24 schools 
receive annual grants-in-aid from it. 

(viii) The Supreme Moslem Council has also granted 
scholarships to 64 Moslem students in universities in Egypt, 
Syria, and Europe. 

(ix) The Supreme Moslem Council established a Moslem 
orphanage which takes care of some 270 to 300 students of 
both sexes. After completing their elementary studies, the 
orphans are trained in various industries including printing, 
carpentry, tailoring for men and women, bent wood work, 
shoe-making, work for the blind, and book-binding. 

(x) The Supreme Moslem Council contributed financially 
towards the training of about forty Moslem midwives who 
graduated from the midwifery school under the Department 
of Health. 


43 


(x1) The most important work undertaken by the Councii 
was the repair of the Mosque of Al Aqsa and other parts 
of the Haram el-Sharif at Jerusalem, the cost of which 
amounted to £P.100,000. 


JEWISH AFFAIRS 


89. The principal Jewish case before the Palestine Royal 
Commission was presented by the Jewish Agency. Their chief 
spokesman was Dr. Ch. Weizmann, the President of the Agency, 
who also submitted a comprehensive memorandum regarding 
the interpretation of the Mandate for Palestine and the Jewish 
grievances. He was supported by other representatives of the 
Jewish Agency. 

Other Jewish institutions and organizations which appeared 
before the Royal Commission in Palestine included the Vaad 
Leumi, the Chief Rabbinate, the Agudath Israel, the Palestine 
Jewish Colonization Association, the Jewish Farmers Federa- 
ton, and the Poale Zion. The evidence given in the public 
sittings of the Royal Commission, which were fully reported in 
the Hebrew Press, was followed with keen interest by the 
Jewish public. 


90. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) made representations 
‘0 Government during 1936 in regard, inter alia, to questions 
of public security, the proposed establishment of a Legisla- 
uve Council, municipal affairs affecting the Jewish population 
in towns of mixed populations, subvention of the Jewish 
religious courts, and grants-in-aid of the Jewish educational 
and health services. The General Council also issued state- 
ments addressed to the Arab population, calling for co-operation 
between Arabs and Jews and disclaiming any design on the 
He of Palestine Jewry on the Moslem Holy Places and any 


te to establish predominance over the Arab people of 
alestine. 


a The hegotiations between the Vaad Leumi and the 
Sudath Israel, which were inaugurated in May 1935, with a 
“ew to meeting the legitimate demands of the Agudath Israel 
within the framework of the Jewish Community Rules and had 
n interrupted by the death of Chief Rabbi Kook, were not 
ae Owing to the disturbances and to the absence of the 
Peintinent of a successor to the late Chief Rabbi. 
bodes thstanding the differences existing between the two 
felde - teligious matters, they have acted in accord in other 
re nee Communal activity where national or external interests 
pies with sectional or internal interests are involved. 
ale ave, for example, continued to work in unison in 
“pal matters in the Jewish Municipal Council and in the 


44 


discussions and declarations of the Jewish community and the 
Jewish Agency in regard to the proposals for the Legislative 
Council. The modus vivend: with the Jewish Agency in the 
matter of the immigration of Agudath members into Palestine 
has continued in force. 


g2. The divergencies between the Revisionist and the Zionist 
bodies, and in particular the Jewish Labour Federation, were 
less marked during 1936, and as a result of the disturbances 
there was a truce between the opposing parties, though no 
permanent conciliation has been effected. At the end of the 
year, the Jewish Agency was, however, attacked by the 
Revisionist press and party in regard to the distribution oi 
immigration certificates under the Labour Immigration 
Schedule, and there were disputes between Labour Federation 
and Revisionist workmen in regard to the allocation of work 
on buildings in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. 


93. A local religious council was constituted in Jerusalem to 
deal with all religious matters affecting the local community and 
particularly with the administration of affairs connected with 
the ritual slaughtering of animals. Hitherto there had been 
four independent bodies controlling ritual slaughtering in 
Jerusalem. Through the mediation of the newly constituted 
council, it proved possible to combine three of the groups con- 
cerned in a single board for the control of ritual killing. The 
Agudath Israel continues to maintain a separate board of its 
own. 


94. The Federation of Jewish Labour continued its campaign 
for funds for unemployment relief works. A sum of over 
£P.100,000 had been collected up to the end of 1936. With 
these funds the Federation has undertaken various relief works 
and invested in a number of undertakings in conjunction with 
the Jewish Agency to provide employment on roads and build- 
ings and in agriculture and stone quarrying. 


95. The Department for Social Services of the Vaad Leumi 
(under the direction of the eminent social worker, Miss 
Henrietta Szold), has considerably extended its activities 
supervising and co-ordinating the social work carried out by 
Jewish local committees. It gave valuable assistance to the 
Government Probation Officers in dealing with young Jewish 
delinquents. 


g6. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) conducted a0 — 
energetic campaign for the naturalisation as Palestinian citizens 
of Jewish immigrants, who are qualified therefor by residence, 
and gave much assistance to the Department of Migration 1n 
the acceptance of applications for certificates of citizenship 
under the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925. 





45 


97. Local Councils were constituted in the Jewish settle- 
ments of Beit Vegan, Kfar Saba, Raanana, and Hertzlia. 


98. The new hospital of the Kupat Cholim (Sick Fund) of 
the Jewish Federation of Labour at Petah Tikvah was officially 
opened by the High Commissioner in October. 


99. A Jewish symphony orchestra was established at the 
end of the year through the initiative of Mr. Bronislaw 
Huberman, the well-known violinist, who secured the services 
of a large number of Jewish players and considerable financial 
support for his scheme from abroad. Mr. Arturo Toscanini 
conducted the first concerts of the new orchestra, which 
achieved a striking success. A number of the concerts are 
being broadcast by the Palestine Broadcasting Service. 


100. Dr. Nahum Sokolow, a former President of the Jewish 
Agency, and for many years a member of the Executives of 
the Zionist Organization and the Jewish Agency, died in May, 
1936. He had been one of the leaders of the Zionist move- 
ment since its inception. He was also well known as a publicist 
and author, and his influence on Hebrew cultural development 
has been profound. 


— , Or. The Jewish community, and the inhabitants of Tel-Aviv 
in particular, suffered a great loss by the death in September 
of Mr. M. Dizengoff, C.B.E., the Mayor of Tel-Aviv, who had 

been so intimately associated with the foundation of Tel-Aviv 

and its subsequent phenomenal growth, and whose services to 
the city had been invaluable. 


Mr. I. Rokach, the Deputy-Mayor of Tel-Aviv, was appointed 
by the High Commissioner to succeed Mr. Dizengoff as Mayor. 


102. Rabbi Amiel, formerly Chief Rabbi of Antwerp, who 
had been elected as Chief Rabbi of the Jewish community of 
a and Tel-Aviv in succession to the late Rabbi Aaronsohn, 
ook up his appointment in January. 


ECONOMIC AFFAIRS. 


st The revised estimate of revenue for the financial period 
with pnil, 1936, to 31st March, 1937, is £P4,550,000, as compared 
i € original estimate of £P6,063,887. The principal 
= occur under Customs Duties (4P1,000,000) , Licences, 

oe (£P310,000) , Fees of Court, etc. (£P146,000), and 
maine (£P4r,000).. This setback in revenue collections is due 
= y to the strike. Expenditure is estimated at £P4,670,000, 
a © excess of expenditure over revenue for the year will be 
e Sea £P120,000 , excluding any charges which may 
British F me by Palestine in respect of the excess cost of the 
Orces temporarily sent to Palestine in connection with 


46 


the recent disturbances. The cost of the emergency measures 
is at present estimated at approximately £P1,250,000. It is 
anticipated that with these charges included, the accumulated 
surplus balance of Government at the 31st March, 1937, will 
amount to approximately £P4,900,000, as compared with an 
actual surplus of £P6,267,810 at the 31st March, 1936. 


104. During the calendar year 1936 a total of 31,671 immi- 
grants entered Palestine, as compared with a total of 64,147 in 
the previous year. The total value of imports decreased from 
ZP17,853,000 in 1935 to £P13,900,000 in 1936, while the total 
value of exports decreased from approximately £P4,766,000 in 
1935 to £P4,040,000 in 1936. It should be pointed out, how-— 
ever, that the Jaffa Port was closed for nearly six months, and 
the fall in exports is mainly due to a fall in the citrus crop for 
the season 1935-36 which is reflected in the exports in 1936. 


105. The number of dunums of land sold in 1936 is estimated 
at 76,000, valued at £P4,921,000, as compared with 187,000 
dunums valued at £P11I,720,000, in 1935. 


106. The estimated value of investments in buildings in 1936 
was £P4,000,000, as compared with £P7,000,000 in 1935. 


107. New area planted with citrus trees was 20,000 dunums, ~ 
as compared with 28,oo0 dunums in 1935 and 50,000 dunums in 
1934. 

_ 108. During 1936, new companies registered totalled 183, with | 
a registered capital of £P1,038,000, as compared with 208, 
with a registered capital of £P3,120,000, in 1935, while 50 
companies increased their capital from #£P1,060,611_ to 
£P1,893,378, as compared with the year 1935 when 55 com- 
panies increased their capital from £P1,182,000 to 
£P2,952,000. At the 31st December, 1936, the currency 
in circulation amounted to £P5,621,134, as compared with 
£P6,561,134 at the 31st December, 1935. Deposits with the 
leading local Banks at the 31st December, 1936, amounted to 
approximately £P16,600,000, as compared with approximately 
P16,000,000 at the 31st December, 1935. 


109. Towards the end of 1935, revenue receipts began to 
reflect the prevailing uneasiness aroused by the unsettled politi- 
cal outlook in Europe, and they continued to fall during 1936. 
The disturbances which broke out in April, 1936, intensified the 
process. Customs receipts, which, until November, 1935, had 
maintained an average of £P245,000 a month, fell to £P138,000 
in August, 1936, but by the end of 1936 they tended to stabilize 
at an average of about £P200,000 per month. Other revenues 
showed a decrease from approximately £P2,900,000 to approxi- 
mately £P2,300,000. The general uneasiness to which reference 
has been made and the uncertainty as to the trend of events in 





47 


Palestine tended to discourage new developments in trade and 
industry. The uneasiness was first felt in the money market, 
and credit facilities were curtailed. Winding-up orders were 
issued in respect of seven companies and six receiving orders 
in respect of others. Seventeen other companies went into 
voluntary liquidation, and 33 bankruptcies of persons were 
entered in 1936 as compared with thirteen recorded in 1925. 
The building industry, citrus plantation, and generally trade 
and industry suffered a setback. 


110. With regard to the trade negotiations with Egypt referred 
tom paragraph 62 of the Introductory Chapter in the Annual 
Report for 1935, the Agreement reached between the two 
Governments was embodied in an exchange of notes between 
His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom and the 
Egyptian Government dated 18th August, 1936.* The benefits 
conferred by the Agreement are summarized in the above- 
Mentioned paragraph of the Annual Report for 1935. In 
accordance with the terms of the Agreement, proposals were 
made in March by the Egyptian Government for a seasonal 
reduction of the Palestine Customs Tariff on vegetables grown 
in Egypt. The Egyptian Government has been invited to send 
a delegation to Palestine to discuss these proposals with a local 
Committee, and the proposed visit is expected to take place 
early in 1937. Negotiations with a view to facilitating trade 
between Palestine and ‘Iraq were opened in 1935, and in 1936 
an Agreement was concluded by means of an exchange of notes 
on the 14th December, 1936, between His Majesty’s Government 
in the United Kingdom and the Government of ‘Iraq.{ In the 
interest of the entrepdt trade of Palestine the ‘Iraqi Govern- 
ment will be given a free zone in the Haifa Harbour; and pend- 
ing the establishment of this free zone the transit trade from 
or to ‘Iraq carried over the trans-desert route will receive special 
treatment by way of extension of the period of free storage of 
goods to 28 clear days. With a view to encouraging the trans- 
desert route, the Palestine import duty on rice of ‘Iraqi origin 
has been reduced to 50 per cent. of the general Palestine duty 
on rice in force at any time. The duty on dates of ‘Iraqi origin 
has also been reduced to one-half mil per. kilo. Barley and ghee 
of ‘Iraqi origin have been exempted from import duty, subject, 
in the case of barley, to such temporary measures of general 
application as may ‘a necessary to protect the Palestine crop. 


111. During 1936 Dr. A. G. Tomkins of the Low Temperature 
Research Station, Cambridge, reported on the question of the 
oversea transport of oranges from Palestine and the need for 
al investigation into the cause of fruit wastage. His proposals 
are under consideration by the Government. 


* Cmd. 5361. Treaty Series No. 7 (1937). 
t Cmd. 5372. Treaty Series No. 9 (1937). 


48 

112. Mention was made in paragraph 63 of the Introductory 
chapter to last year’s report of the appointment of a Com- 
mittee to investigate the question of transportation and market- 
ing of citrus fruit with particular reference to the regulation of 
consignment of oranges by rail and by sea and the need for 
the establishment of a shipping board. The Committee’s labours 
have been delayed owing to the disturbances. The Committee 
has divided its work into two sections: ‘‘ Transportation ’’ and 
““ Marketing ’’, and it has submitted an interim report on Trans- 
portation which is at present under consideration by the Govern- 
ment. It is expected that the Committee’s report on Marketing 
will be submitted in the course of 1937. As a result of the 
special inquiry into the excessive competition of various pro- 
ducts manufactured in countries with low wage levels and in 
countries where export bonuses are afforded which affect detri- 
mentally the conduct of certain local industries, referred to in 
paragraph 63 of the 1935 Report, further protection was 
afforded to certain classes of goods and further exemption from 
duty was granted on certain raw materials. In addition to 
these steps, Customs drawbacks were granted in certain cases 
to locally-manufactured exported goods where exemption from 
duty of the raw material was impracticable. 


113. Further steps were taken to implement the recommenda- 
tions of the experts who visited Palestine in 1935 with a view to 
the re-organization of the Railway in regard to its tariff and 
general lines of development and to its accounting and store- 
keeping methods. Many of the recommendations of these experts 
have already been carried into effect. There remain, however, 
certain major recommendations which have perforce had to be 
postponed owing to the deterioration in the financial position. 


114. During the summer of 1936 the General Manager of the 
Jaffa Citrus Exchange visited the United Kingdom, Denmark, 
Belgium, France, Switzerland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and 
Yugoslavia to continue negotiations with the authorities with 
a view to securing the removal of trade and currency restrictions 
which are an obstacle to the Palestine export trade in oranges 
and grapefruit. The results achieved in 1935 are set out m 
paragraph 64 of the Introductory Chapter of the Annual Report 
for 1935. Various tentative arrangements were suggested, but 
up to the end of 1936 no further definite results have been 


reported. 


115. At the 29th Meeting of the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission held at Geneva from 27th May to 12th June, 1936, I 
was asked whether the Mandatory Power maintained that the 
provisions of the Anglo-Japanese Commercial Treaty of 1911 
could validly be advanced against Palestine in the matter of 
the duties on Japanese imports into the territory. 


49 


The Mandatory Power must accept the legal position 
that so long as that Treaty remains applicable to Palestine, 
discrimination against Japan is impossible. It is the general 
policy of His Majesty’s Government to apply the provisions 
of its Commercial Treaties with foreign Powers to all terri- 
tories for the administration of which it is responsible, unless 
there is reason to the contrary, and in the present instance no 
sufficient cause has been shown for giving notice to terminate 
the application of the Treaty to Palestine. 


_ Inthis connection reference should be made to paragraph 36A 
of Chapter XXIII. 


AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND LAND. 


110. Increasing attention has in recent years been given to 
the connected problems of afforestation, water conservation, 
sol erosion, and the improvement of grazing. These questions 
are of major importance in Palestine: centuries of neglect and 
of the indiscriminate cutting of timber have resulted in the almost 
total extinction of forest cover. Large areas of the country are 
i consequence seriously affected by soil erosion and denuda- 
ton, and the position is aggravated by close and continuous 
grazing which precludes the possibility of natural recovery. 
The immediate result of these conditions, particularly in the 
lls, is a serious wastage both of soil and of water, which gravely 
affects the fertility of the country, while floods are a recurrent 
cause of loss and damage. As a result, also, Palestine is 
dependent for nearly all its timber requirements on supplies 
om other countnes, the value of such imports being 
£P.1,344,000 in 1936. 


117. The establishment of a separate Department of Forests 
on the 1st April, 1936, marked a further step in the develop- 
ment of an active and comprehensive policy with regard to 
these questions. Prior to that date the Forestry Service had 
formed part of the Department of Agriculture. Increased funds 
Were allocated for afforestation during the year, and a new vote 
lor research on soil erosion was provided in the Estimates. The 
activities of the new Department had necessarily to be restricted 
during the period of the disturbances, but considerable progress 
Was made in the formulation of a comprehensive policy, on 


ie the Department’s programme of work will in future be 
sed. 


118. The year was a difficult one for agriculturists. The winter 
_ Tans were poor, particularly in the southern and eastern parts of 
| country where crops were severly affected, and the yields of 

© major crops (with the exception of melons and potatoes) 
Were considerably below those of the previous year. The 


50 


situation was aggravated by the prolonged disturbances whic! 
rendered it difficult for farmers to transport their produce to th 
towns and compelled them to dispose of it locally at very lov 
prices. Jewish farmers, moreover, suffered considerable losse 
from malicious damage to their crops. As the result of except 
ionally heavy rains during November and December, the yea 
closed more cheerfully. In spite of the adverse conditions 
however, notable progress was made in a number of directions 
such as the growing of potatoes and vegetables, the egg anc 
poultry industry, and the use of agricultural machinery. 


119. The activities of the Department of Agriculture anc 
Fisheries with regard to education and propaganda were ex: 
panded during the year. In August a new Agricultural Educa- 
tion and Research Officer was appointed, with a view to securing 
the co-ordination of all forms of research being carned out ir 
the country and the adoption of a more active and comprehen- 
sive policy of agricultural education. Pnor to this appointment 
a new Agricultural Supplement to the Palestine Gazette had been 
started. This supplement, which is published monthly in the 
three official languages, contains a wide range of information on 
subjects of interest to agriculturists. The establishment of the 
Broadcasting Service provided a further opportunity for the dis- 
semination of information and advice to farmers, and talks, 
market reports, and weather forecasts form a regular part of 
the broadcast programmes. 

120. Owing to the disturbances, little progress could be made 
during the year with the scheme for the grant of long-term 
credits to be financed from Loan funds to fellahin in the hill dis- 
tricts, which was described in paragraph 67 of the Introductory 
Chapter of last year’s Report; but since the end of the year the 
High Commissioner directed that the scheme should now be pro- 
ceeded with. Loans amounting to £P.34,000 were also issued 
to farmers in the autumn for the purchase of seed. In spite of 
financial stringency, Government continued to furnish direct 
assistance to the farmer in a number of ways: seed potatoes, 
grain, and vegetable seedlings were issued: beehives were distri- 
buted on generous terms, and a supply of duty-free sugar was 
once again made available for beekeepers: eggs, chicks, and 
swarms were distributed from Government poultry stations and 
apiaries, and fruit trees and vines from Government Horticul- 
tural Stations. 

121. Citrus exports during the season 1935-36 were consider- 
ably less than in the previous season, owing to the effect of hot 
winds on the young fruit in May, 1935. Exports up to the end 
of the year, in the new season, showed a substantial increase. 


The Export of Citrus Fruit Rules, 1936, which were framed in 
consultation with the industry, effected a number of important 
changes, including the prohibition of the export of oranges of a 


51 
size larger than 120 to the box, and the alteration of the date 
of the commencement of the export season from the 15th 
November to the 20th November. The programme of the 
citrus advertising campaign for the season 1936-37 was prepared 
on the lines adopted in previous years: the advertising fee was 
raised from 3 mils to 34 mils a case, in order to ensure that the 
loss incurred in the previous season, when the number of cases 


exported had fallen considerably short of the estimate, should be 
satisfactonly covered. 


122. The new Chief Fisheries Officer took up his duties in 
1936. The Fisheries Service was increasingly active both in the 


enforcement of existing legislation and in the dissemination of 
advice and help to fishermen. 


123. At its twenty-ninth Session the Permanent Mandates 
Commission raised the question as whether the time had not 
come to institute a constructive agrarian policy, and asked 
for information on the subject in the Report for 1936. Minutes, 
page 143. 

The Palestine Government has, in fact, consistently followed 
an active policy of development, designed to increase the quan- 
tity and quality of crops and livestock and to encourage the 
intensification of farming by the adoption of improved irriga- 
tion and technical methods. This policy will be described in 
detail under the following heads:— 


(i) Research and Demonstration. 
(ii) Direct Assistance to Farmers. 
(iii) Protective Legislation for Crops and Livestock. 
(iv) Land Policy. 
(v) Fiscal Measures. 


(1) Research and Demonstration. 


Six agricultural and nine horticultural stations have been 
established for research and experiment. At these stations, 
experiments are carried out to determine the optimum quantities 
and kinds of fertilizer to be applied under varying conditions, 
the most suitable periods of sowing, and the nna of 
modern implements over the local primitive implements. Depth 
of ploughing and sowing, and dates of various cultural 
operations, are also studied. Horticultural research is primanl 
confined to investigations as to tree crops and methods of culti- 
vation best suited to different altitudes and soils. 

The results obtained at the agricultural and horticultural 
stations are then demonstrated by officers who visit villages and 
settlements in order to encourage the rural population to adopt 
improved farming practices and better systems of rotation with 
a view to increasing productivity, especially of lands where 
yields have fallen to the lowest limit of fertility. 

41526 C 


52 
In cooperation with leading farmers, a large number of 
demonstration plots have been laid down throughout the 
country, which also facilitate the dissemination of improved 
seed, and fruit demonstration plots have been established for 
the demonstration of the best methods of fruit culture and the 
most suitable kinds of fruit trees. 


At the central stock farm a comprehensive series of breeding 
vo is in progress, for which a variety of animals of 
different breeds have been imported with a view to the improve- 
ment of the local livestock. 

Iwo agricultural schools were established, one for Arabs in 
1931 and one for Jews in 1934, under the bequest of the late 
Sir Ellis Kadoorie. School gardens have been established in 
192 Arab villages and at 100 Jewish schools. Weekly talks 
to farmers on agricultural subjects are now an established feature 
of the Palestine Broadcasting Service, and the farmer is further 
reached by the Department of Agriculture through a simply- 
worded pamphlet issued monthly as an Agricultural Supplement 
to the Palestine Gazette. 


The work of the various branches of the Department of Agri- 
culture and the agricultural research and education facilities 
of the various unofficial organizations are co-ordinated by the 
Director of Agriculture and Fisheries in his capacity as Chairman 
of the Central Agricultural Council. This Council was established 
in I193I to advise Government on agricultural economics and 
marketing, horticulture, plant protection, agricultural chemistry, 
citrus fruit, irrigation, animal husbandry, agronomy, and 
agricultural education. 


(ii) Divect Assistance to Farmers. 


At agricultural stations, large quantities of improved seed 
particularly of barley and wheat, are raised for distribution 
to farmers. Twenty-five small portable grading machines have 
been purchased for use in the villages so as to enable injurious 
weed seeds to be eliminated and seed grain to be graded. 


Local inferior types of vegetables are gradually being replaced 
by anaes imported varieties, of which millions of seedlings are 
raised at, and issued from, agricultural] stations. 


Farmers are encouraged to grow new crops and vegetables 
and are issued with improved seed, vegetable seedlings, fruit 
trees, bud-wood, and pedigree poultry. They are taught how 
to apply organic manures and fertilisers to the best advantage; 
they are taught the care, management, and feeding of animals 
and poultry, and no opportunity is lost to impress upon them 
the necessity for growing more fodder crops and for making 
silage. The treatment of pests and diseases, and the dipping of 
sheep, goats and cattle, is practised and demonstrated. 





33 


Five plant nurseries are maintained to raise and distribute 
thousands of fruit trees yearly. 


Ten poultry stations and apiaries have been established 
throughout the country for the issue of large numbers of hatch- 
ing eggs, day-old chicks and six-weeks old pullets and cockerels 
at low prices. Modern hives are also issued in replacement of 
native hives. 


Inferior male stock are castrated and pedigree sires are 1m- 
ported, bred, and loaned to villages for the service of female 
stock. Milk recording has been started. Pedigree poultry are 
imported, bred and distributed, and sugar is imported free of 
customs duty and sold at cost price to bee-keepers. 


A Registrar of Co-operative Societies was appointed in 1932 
for the primary task of organizing co-operative societies among 
Arab farmers with the purpose of improving Arab methods of 
marketing. 

Good progress has been made year by year, in the 
construction of roads, particularly in the citrus belt, to facilitate 
the transport of fruit to the ports and railway stations. 

A fruit inspection service is maintained in the interests of the 
citrus industry for the examination of citrus fruits destined for 
export. 

Grants are also made to the Research Institute of the Jewish 
Agency for citrus research, the results of which are made avail- 
able to the industry as a whole. 


(il) Protective Legislation for Crops and Livestock. 


Stock-owners are encouraged to report contagious or infectious 
diseases. Fourteen land frontier quarantine stations are main- 
tained to prevent the introduction of animal diseases. A staff of 
qualified veterinary surgeons is employed to control and 
suppress animal diseases in the country. A veterinary labora- 
tory has been established to diagnose diseases and prepare 
vaccines and sera for use in the field. Life histories of injurious 
insects are studied in order that the most efficacious methods of 
combating pests and diseases may be involved. 


All imported plants are inspected to prevent the introduction 
of injurious pests and diseases. A Locust Destruction Ordi- 
Nance was enacted in 1932 to enable prompt and efficacious 
measures to be adopted in the event of locust attacks. The out- 
put of good types of plants in private nurseries is controlled. The 
spraying and fumigation against Red and Black Scale of citrus 
trees is supervised, and steps are taken to induce farmers to 
combat the Mediterranean Fruit Fly and other pests. 


(iv) Land Policy. 
Under the procedure of land settlement, an impetus is given 


fo the partition of land held in common; with security of title, 
41526 C2 


34 


a definite stimulus is afforded to individual effort and to the 
improvement of private land holdings. The Protection of 
Cultivators Ordinance was enacted in 1933 with the purpose of 
giving a greater measure of protection to agricultural tenants 
and ensuring for them security of livelihood independent of 
changes of ownership. 


A Department of Development was created in 1931 to initiate 
and supervise development measures generally and to supervise 
the re-settlement of landless Arabs, for which a sum of 
£,P.250,000 was set aside. About £P.40,000 has been spent 
since 1933 for the improvement of water supplies in Arab villages 
and Jewish settlements, and a sum of £P.17,000 has been 
expended on boring machines for water-boring investigations. 


Swampy areas have been reclaimed. At the end of 1934, 
the Huleh Concession was transferred from the former Con- 
cessionaires, who had carried out no drainage works to the 
Palestine Land Development Company which has larger funds 
at its disposal. The total area to be drained is 57,000 dunums, of 
which 16,000 dunums have been set aside for Arab cultivators 
in the area, and will be drained and irrigated by the Concession- 
aires free of charge to the cultivators. The remaining 41,000 
dunums will be available for development and settlement by 
Jews. The question of financial participation by Government 
in this scheme is under consideration. 


Irrigation and duty of water experiments are carried out to 
ascertain the most economical use of water. Underground water 
resources have been surveyed and a water table compiled. The 
irrigation system at Jericho has been reconstructed by Govern- 
ment and experiments have been made to conserve winter flood 
water in dams. Two Ordinances designed to protect and secure 
the better employment of surface water and wells have been 


drafted. 


(v) Fiscal Measures and other forms of Assistance. 


The Rural Property Tax has been instituted in replacement 
of Tithe and Werko. This measure was designed to assist the 
poorer farmers, since it provides for a graduated tax on various 
categories of land, the category being determined by produc- 
tivity. The three lowest categories are wholly exempt, and the 
tax bears lightly on the ground crop land of the poorest 
cultivators. A sum of £P.50,000 has been set aside for long- 
term development loans to villagers and settlers in the hill 
districts. An Agricultural Mortgage Company has recently been 
formed; its offices were opened in Jerusalem in October, 1935, 
and the first applications for loans were received in January, 
1936. This Company was formed at the instance of Govern- 
ment with the object of issuing long-term loans, on the security 





aye) 


of first mortgages, for agricultural development. The issued 
capital of the Company is £P.335,000, of which £P.234,500 
was called up during 1936. During 1936, 74 loans aggre- 
gating £P.66,750 were issued to Arab landowners, and 132 loans 
ageregating £P.72,219 were issued to Jews. The comparatively 
small number of loans issued to Arabs is explained by the fact 
that the issue of such loans was postponed during the period 
July to November, 1936, on account of the disturbances. These 
loans were required, as far as could be ascertained, for various 
works of improvement or conservation, building packing-sheds 
and dwelling-houses, purchasing pumps, engines and pipes, 
planting, development and fencing of new citrus groves or other 
fruit trees, and the payment of debts incurred in such works. 
It has recently been decided, on the advice of the Advisory 
Committee, that loans for planting new citrus groves should 
not ordinarily be granted, but that loans for the development 
of already planted groves may be continued in approved 
cases. Owing to the uncertainty of the law with regard to mort- 
gages on leaseholds, no loans are at present granted on this 
security. All applications for loans after having been examined 
by the General Manager are inspected and valued by the Valuer 
and then submitted to the Advisory Committee who advise 
whether the loan should be granted, the amount and the period 
of repayment, which in most cases is 20 years. The rate of 
interest is 8 per cent. 


Since 1930 the Government has assisted cultivators by the re- 
mission of taxes to an extent of nearly £P,600,000 and has 
granted agricultural loans amounting to £P.169,000, and forage 
loans amounting to £P.21,000. 


Fiscal measures which have been taken with the object of 
maintaining prices and encouraging local agriculture include 
the stabilization of wheat and flour at £P.9 and £P.12.500 per 
ton respectively and the licensing in the interests of the local 
grower and miller of imports of wheat and flour in order to 
avoid a surplus on the markets. Tomato cultivation has in- 
creased from 7,000 tons in 1931 to 17,000 tons in 1935, and with 
a view to encouraging the further development of this important 
crop the customs duty of £P.2 per ton was increased to £P.4 
In 1936 so as to discourage imports. Similarly, potato culti- 
vation has been encouraged under the stimulus of a high import 
duty of £P.3 per ton, which is effective during the seasons when 
the local crop is on the market; production, which was negligible 
before 1930, had increased to about 7,000 tons by 1936. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


124. The news of the death of His Majesty King George V 
on the 2oth January, 1936, was received with deep sorrow 
throughout Palestine. In Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa, and Tel 

41526 C 3 


56 


Aviv flags were flown at half-mast and on the 21st January 
many shops and places of entertainment were closed. On the 
day of the funeral, memorial services were held in Jerusalem 
at Talavera Barracks and St. George’s Cathedral at which the 
High Commissioner was present. Similar services were held 
in the Anglican Churches in Jaffa, Haifa, Nazareth, and Nablus 
and also in the churches of most of the other Christian com- 
munities in Palestine and also in most of the synagogues. 

Both the Arab and the Hebrew Press published appreciations 
of the late King’s personality and ability; and messages of 
sympathy were sent and visits of condolence were paid by many 
persons to the Administrative Officers in various parts of the 
country. 


125. On the 16th January, Rabbi Amiel, formerly of 
Antwerp, who had recently been peo Chief Rabbi of the 
Jewish Community of Jaffa and Tel Aviv, arrived in Palestine 
to take up his appointment. 


126. On the r4th February the High Commissioner unveiled 
a signed portrait of His late Majesty King George V in the 
Jerusalem Chamber of Commerce. 


127. On the 24th February on the invitation of the High Com- 
missioner, the Members of the Jerusalem Municipal Corporation 
met His Excellency at Government House. His Excellency 
congratulated the Mayor and Corporation on the work of the 
past year, and in reply the Mayor pointed out how much the 
Corporation was indebted to Government for valuable assist- 
ance, both financial and otherwise. 


128. On the 23rd February the High Commissiner formally 
opened the Municipal Museum in Tel Aviv, the building for 
which had been presented to the town by the Mayor, the late 
Mr. Dizengoff. 


129. On the 25th February the High Commissioner opened 
the Agricultural Land Experimental Station Laboratory in 
Rehovoth which he himself had presented to the Station, and 
unveiled a tablet commemorating the gift. 


130. In March, the appointment of Mr. M. Haskel as the 
first Honorary Commissioner for the Union of South Africa in 
Palestine was announced. 


131. On the r4th March the Austrian Consul-General in- 
augurated the Forest of Nazareth which was dedicated to the 
memory of the late Dr. Dolfuss. The ceremony was attended 
by representatives of the Palestine Government. 


132. On the 30th March the opening ceremony of the Pales- 
tine Broadcasting Service took place at Ramallah, near Jeru- 
salem, where the Transmitting Station had been established. 





57 


The High Commissioner formally opened the station. All 
speeches were broadcast in the three official languages, as was 
a telegram from the Chairman of the British Broadcasting Cor- 
poration in London in which he conveyed to the Palestine 
Broadcasting Service the good wishes of the Corporation for the 
ee their new enterprise. The ceremony was largely 
attended. 


133. The Third Cruiser Squadron under the command of Ad- 
miral G. D. Lyon established its base in Haifa during the dis- 
turbances. Units of the fleet undertook the patrolling of the 
coast to prevent arms smuggling, and on shore the naval ratings 
cooperated with the land forces in many activities notably as 
supernumerary engine-drivers on the Palestine Railways and in 
charge of armoured trains patrolling the track. Reference has 
already been made in a previous section (Public Security) to 
their valuable assistance during the threatened harbour strike 
at Haifa during August. 


134. The Levant Fair was officially opened on the ist May 
by the High Commissioner, and though the attendance was 
adversely affected by the disorders, it attracted a reasonable 
number of visitors. 


135. Early in May, following the general strike in Jaffa Port, 
permission was given by Government to land cargo on the Tel 
Aviv foreshore near the Levant Fair grounds. A jetty with 
loading apparatus was later constructed and a Customs House 
established by Government. It September a start was made to 
create a lighter basin just south of the jetty, with quays and 
warehouses. Work continued through the autumn and in 
December lighters were able to use the basin although the full 
scheme had yet to be completed. A considerable amount of 
cargo was handled in the Port, particularly after the opening of 
the orange season. The cost of these developments has been 
met by a private Jewish Company—the Marine Trust Company 
—whose appeal for funds met with a ready response. 


136. On the 24th September Mr. Meir Dizengoff, who had 
celebrated his seventieth birthday in March and had been Mayor 
of Tel Aviv since the creation of the Municipality, died after a 
long illness. The body lay in state in the great Hall of the 
Museum which he himself had presented to the town, and many 
thousands of persons filed past the bier to pay their last respects. 
General mourning was observed throughout the Jewish com- 
munity in Palestine, and his funeral, at which the High Com- 
missioner, the Chief Secretary and the Southern District Admini- 
stration were represented, was very largely attended. In 
October Mr. Rokach, the Deputy Mayor, was appointed by the 
High Commissioner to succeed Mr. Dizengoff as Mayor. 

41526 C4 


58 


137. On the 27th October, the High Commissioner inaugurated 
the new hospital of the Jewish Federation of Labour Sick Fund | 


at Petah Tikvah. 


138. The progress of the inquiry by the Royal Commission, 
which began on the 16th November and was still incomplete 
at the end of the year, is described in a previous section of this 
Report (Policy). 


139. On the 1st December the elections to the Chief Rabbinate 
of Palestine—a body consisting of a Rabbinical Council of six 
members and of two Chief Rabbis—took place. Three Sep- 
hardi Rabbis and three Askenazi Rabbis were elected to the 
Rabbinical Council; the Chief Rabbi Ya‘akov Meir was re- 
elected Sephardic Chief Rabbi; and Rabbi Dr. Herzog, who 
was then Chief Rabbi of the Irish Free State, was elected to the 
post of Chief Rabbi of Palestine. The ceremony which took 
place in Jerusalem, was attended by the officers of the District 
Administration, and a message of greeting from the Dyistnrict 
Commissioner on behalf of the Government was read. 


140. On account of the disorders the tourist trade practically 
ceased, but there were signs of a slight revival at the end of the 
year. 


|.—JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


1. The affairs of the Jewish community during 1936 were 
almost entirely dominated by the disturbances which broke out 
a April and the results of which are described elsewhere in this 

eport. 


2. The economic situation of the Jewish community showed a 
slight improvement at the beginning of the year and hopes were 
entertained that with the conclusion of the Italo-Abyssinian con- 
flict and the consequent relaxation of tension in Europe there 
would be a gradual return to the prosperous conditions that had 
prevailed in Palestine until the summer of 1935. These hopes 
however were not realized. The political unrest in the country, 
culminating in April in serious disturbances and in the Arab 
general strike, retarded the initiation of new enterprises and the 
development of existing activities, and there was a general con- 
traction of investment in building, industry, and agriculture. 
Nevertheless, despite the difficulties caused by the prolonged 
disorders, the efforts made by the Jewish community to main- 
tain its existing activities were in a large measure successful and, 
save in mixed Arab and Jewish quarters in the towns, com- 
mercial life remained almost normal amongst the Jewish 
community. 


59 
~_ 3. To assist in the protection of Jewish settlements, Govern- 


‘ment authorized the enrolment of a large force of Jewish super- 
mumerary police and special constables, in the recruitment of 
whom the Jewish Agency co-operated. Government contri- 
buted towards the cost of maintaining this force at first in the 

:. proportion of about one-third, which was later increased to one- 
half; the balance was borne by the Jewish settlements and quar- 
ters concerned. Government provided the arms and equipment. 


« 4. Jewish transport companies maintained passenger and 
+ goods traffic on the roads throughout the disorders. Special 
t): Measures were taken by the police and military authorities to 
# protect these transport services. 


.: §. During 1936, 29,727 Jews were registered as immigrants 

- of whom 6,981 were working men and women, 5,780 (including 

- dependants) were of the capitalist category (persons with 

- Z£P.1,000 and upwards), and 9,495 were dependants of residents 
in Palestine. 


The Jewish population at the end of 1936 was estimated to be 
approximately 384,000, equivalent to about 29 per cent. of the 
_ total settled population of the country. 


6. During the year, 18,146 dunums of land were purchased 
by Jews from non-Jews at a total cost of £P.158,826, as com- 
pared with 72,903 dunums at a total cost of £P.1,699,121 in 
1935. There was vigorous Arab agitation against the sale of 

~ land to Jews, and Arabs accused of facilitating the transfer of 
Amb lands to Jewish ownership were denounced in the Press, 
at meetings, and in the mosques. 


7. Government granted a long-term lease of 460 dunums of 
State Domain south of Jaffa for the purpose of a workmen’s 
-‘. Edousing scheme on a co-operative basis sponsored by the General 
1° Federation of Jewish Labour. Government has also under 
~~ Consideration the grant of a lease of an area of State Domain 
yz. North of Tel-Aviv and of the River Auja for a privately financed 
<i; Wotkmen’s housing scheme, which is being planned in conjunc- 
gz Lon with the Municipality of Tel-Aviv, and for the erection on a 
ine & ha of the land of a proposed new power station by the 
sai? ‘alestine Electric Corporation, Ltd. The housing schemes 
eri “Mould eventually assist considerably in relieving the housing 
a “Mortage in Tel-Aviv and in bringing about a reduction in rents. 
: ry, verment has approved the grant of a long-term lease of a 
‘ = of the State Domain north of the village of Mughar in the 
| FR uuhem District (amounting to about 800 dunums) to the 
2 eWish Farmers Federation for the establishment of a farm 

bourers’ settlement in which it is proposed to accommodate 
tt100 families, 


60 


8. The following grants-in-aid by the Palestine Government 
towards the expenditure of the Jewish community upon various 
services of a public character have been approved for issue 
during the financial year 1936-7: 


Education: ° £P. 
Grant-in-aid to the schools of the General 
Council (Vaad Leumi) (recurrent services) ... 42,000 
Capital grant in respect of capital expenditure 
on new schools (non-recurrent services)... 6,618 
Capital grant towards the construction of a 
trade school by the Mizrahi organization ... 2,000 
Health: 
Contribution to Jewish health services— 
(a) Tuberculosis hospital, Safad... _ 1,700 
(6) School hygiene hint se 1,705 
(c) Infant welfare work ee is 1,038 
(2) Tel-Aviv hospital (recurrent service) a 5,841 
Grant to Hebrew aaa! for anti-malarial 
research oe 163 


Agriculture and Pores 
Grant for citrus research by the ee 


station of the Jewish Agency - 3,000 
Grant to Jewish Agency experiments on fruit 

growing at Hillside Station, Kiryat Anavim 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive eu 

experiments ; oe 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency ‘for research .. 2,950 
Grant to Hebrew University for field mice 

investigations 200 
Grant to Hebrew Univ ersity for spirochaetosis 

research i es dee oat ar 180 


9g. The Levant Fair, 1936 (the seventh of the series of Fairs 
held at Tel-Aviv), was officially opened by the High Commis- 
sioner on the 30th April as originally planned, notwithstanding 
difficulties caused by the Arab strike in the clearance from the 
Jaffa docks of materials for the exhibits. On the occasion of 
the opening ceremony a message to the Fair was broadcast from 
London by the Secretary of State for the Colonies in the course 

of which he said:— 


“It gives me very real pleasure to participate in the opening ceremony 
of the International Levant Fair which is once more, after an interval of 
two years, opening its doors at Tel-Aviv to the markets of the Near and 
Middle East. 

The growth of your remarkable city has been startlingly rapid and that 
of the Levant Fair itself hardly less so. It began in 1925 as a small 
exhibition of local produce. Within the short space of nine years, thanks 
to the hard work, enthusiasm, and the constructive imagination of those 
responsible for its inception, it has developed into an institution which 
any great city of the world might properly be proud of ae 


There were six additions to the national permanent pavilions in 
the Fair established by the Governments of the Lebanese 
Republic, Norway, Roumania, Switzerland, Turkey, and Yugo- 
slavia. Sixteen countries had official displays at the Fair, 11 of 


61 


which now possess permanent pavilions. Austria, Holland, 
Norway, and Turkey were represented at the Fair for the first 
time. The Palestine Government exhibit, representative of 
various fields of Government activity, was enlarged in scope 
and attracted much public interest. A notable feature of the 
Fair was the Agricultural Exhibition which was held as a 
separate unit in the Fair and at which a comprehensive display 
of agricultural produce was shown by the Government 
Department of Agriculture. 

The attendance at the Fair (which totalled 320,000) was 
seriously affected by the disturbances, and there were fewer 
visitors from abroad than at previous Fairs. 


Io. Owing to the closure of Jaffa roadstead through the strike 
of lightermen and port workers, permission was granted by the 
Palestine Government in May for the construction by the 
Harbour and Communications Council which was formed by 
representative commercial interests in Tel-Aviv, of a jetty at 
Tel-Aviv for the off-loading of various categories of goods by 
lighters and for the establishment of bonded warehouses at the 
Levant Fair grounds. The Council raised £P.70,000 by volun- 
tary subscriptions for this purpose. Subsequently the work was 
taken over by a Company known as the Palestine Marine Trust 
Limited, which was formed to provide facilities at Tel-Aviv for 
importing and exporting goods. The Company has since invited 
subscriptions to shares for an additional sum of £P.100,000, to 
which there has been a ready response by the Jewish public. 
A lighter port is now under construction which will provide a 
shelter for lighters during rough weather and will facilitate the 
on and off loading of goods. 

A Customs house was also opened at Tel-Aviv railway station 
ane the year to deal with imports by rail from Egypt and 

yTia. 


II. Additional facilities were provided for the transaction of 
business by the population of Tel-Aviv with Government 
Departments within the boundaries of the city. Offices were 
opened by the District Administration, the Department of 
Migration, and the Police for the issue of licences under the 
Road Transport Ordinance; and a District Court now sits in | 
Tel-Aviv as a division of the Jaffa District Court. 

_ A branch sub-district office was also established at Nathanya 
in the Tulkarm sub-district under a Jewish District Officer to 
serve the needs of Jewish settlements in that neighbourhood. 


12, The budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
Jewish Community of Palestine for the year ended the 30th 
September, 1936, provided for an estimated revenue of 
£P.146,185 and an estimated expenditure of £P.145,792, the 
Pnncipal heads of expenditure being Education £P.122,0n2. 


62 


Health £P.10,833, Social Service £P.6,975 and Administration 
ZP.5,738. An Order of the Elected Assembly prescribing the 
rate of fees to be levied by local committees on their members 
and the methods of assessment was approved by the High 
Commissioner. 


13. The term of office of the Elected Assembly expired in 
1934 without its having proved possible to hold fresh elections 
owing to technical difficulties which the General Council (Vaad 
Leumi) had experienced in completing the annual register of 
adult Jews of the community. To regularize the position of the 
Elected Assembly and of the General Council (Vaad Leumi), 
a validating Ordinance was enacted in October which provides 
that these bodies shall continue in office until such time as they 
are dissolved by Order of the High Commissioner. It is intended 
to hold new elections to the Elected Assembly early in 1937. 


To assist the General Council in overcoming the difficulties 
experienced in compiling annually the register of adult Jews 
under the Jewish Community Rules, 1927, the Rules have been 
amended at the Assembly’s request so as to provide inter alia 
that— 

(a) the periodicity of elections to the Elected Assembly 
shall be four years instead of three years; 


(b) the publication of the register of adult Jews shall be 
at four-yearly intervals instead of annually ; 

(c) the term of office of Committees of local communities 
shall be extended from one to four years. 


The amendments do not affect the nghts and position of those 
Jews who have opted out, or who desire to opt out, of the 
official Jewish Community. 


14. The elections to the Rabbinical Council of the Jewish 
Community were held in December under the Regulations made 
under the Jewish Community Rules, 1927. Interest was chiefly 
centred on the choice of an Ashkenazic Chief Rabbi to succeed 
the late Chief Rabbi Kook. Rabbi 1. H. Herzog, Chief Rabbi 
of the Irish Free State, was elected to the post. The veteran 
Sephardic Chief Rabbi Jacob Meir, who has occupied that posi- 
tion since 1921, was re-elected unanimously. The newly-elected 
Rabbinical Council consists of eight Rabbis including the two 
Chief Rabbis, equally distributed amongst the Ashkenazic and 
Sephardic Jewish communities. Chief Rabbi Herzog was 
enthusiastically received by the Jewish community on his arrival 
in Palestine to take up his duties. 


15. As a result of the disorders, the Jewish community was 
faced with the problem of assisting refugees who had evacuated 
their homes in the mixed quarters of Jaffa, Hebron, and Beisan. 


63 


The Tel-Aviv Municipal Corporation organized a Relief Com- 
mittee for the purpose of assisting refugees from Jaffa from 
funds provided by the Municipal Corporation and private sub- 
scriptions. At the beginning of the disturbances, approximately 
9,800 of these refugees who were unable to return to their homes 
were quartered in synagogues, private houses, and camps in 
Tel-Aviv. To these funds Government contributed to the extent 
of half the initial cost of the issue of blankets, etc., and half the 
cost of maintenance, at 20 mils a day per person, actually 
defrayed by the Committee. The number of refugees thus pro- 
vided for decreased gradually to about 4,500 in the middle of 
June. Government reduced its grant in successive stages, 
schemes being worked out meanwhile by the General Council 
(Vaad Leumi) for the rehabilitation of refugees in Tel-Aviv and 
the neighbouring colonies. Government participated in the 
schemes by the grant of half the actual cost of rehabilitation of 
refugees accommodated in refugee camps, and half the actual 
cost of maintenance of certain of those refugees pending 
rehabilitation. 


The Government grants on account of Jewish refugees in 
Tel-Aviv amounted to:— 


LP. 

Initial contribution for blankets ... ite ve 625 

Maintenance grants boats Wits ane oo% 13,275 

Rehabilitation grants ve ue uate “P 1,950 
Funds for isolation and treatment of infectious 

children are sok uae ba ooh III 


Total £P 15,961 


Government also gave assistance in the form of maintenance 
grants for the Jewish refugees whom it had been found necessary 
to evacuate from Hebron and Beisan to Jerusalem and Tiberias 
Tespectively. 

The total expenditure on these relief measures for Jewish 
refugees was: — 


£P. 
(i) Jewish refugees in Tel-Aviv from Jaffa and 
environs... ae gue ae acs 15,961 
(ii) Jewish refugees in Jerusalem from Hebron 639 
(iii) Jewish refugees to Tiberias from Beisan ... 149 


Total £P. 16,749 


16. Further developments have taken place in the Hebrew 
University of Teele. The academic and research staff 
how comprises II0 members and the number of students is 


Over 600. 


In the Faculty of Humanities, new major study subjects have 
been established in Archaeology, Jewish History, Arabic 


64 


Language and Literature and Semitics. The establishment of 
a Chair of English Literature and Institutions has been under- 
taken by a Committee in England with the intention of com- 
memorating the name of Sir Moses Montefiore. 


In the Faculty of Sciences, a laboratory of meteorology and 
climatology has been established, the equipment of the institute 
of physics has been developed to allow of systematic research 
in certain fields of experimental physics, and the study of 
chemistry for beginners has been arranged. Important steps 
have been taken towards the establishment of the post-graduate 
medical school of the University. Construction has begun of 
the building to contain the medical laboratories of the 
University, which with the projected buildings of the University 
Hospital and the nurses’ school of the Hadassah Medical Organi- 
zation will form a University Medical Centre. A University 
club-house has been erected, providing a refectory for students 
and a large hall for public gatherings, and the buildings of the 
laboratory of bio-climatology and of additional chemical 
laboratories have been completed. 


17. A considerable number of local industries which are 
entirely or largely in the hands of Jewish manufacturers were 
assisted by the grant of exemption from import duty on raw 
materials and by the increase of import duties for protective 
purposes on manufactured articles. 


These included protective duties on cast-iron manufactures 
including enamelled cast-iron baths, manholes, manhole covers, 
gratings, grating frames, gully grids, and hydrant boxes; iron 
buckets and pails; chain springs and hooks used in making 
bedsteads and upholstery; crown corks; rice meal, clean rice, 
broken rice and rice flour; flushing cisterns; iron nails; 
envelopes; paper napkins; wire netting; electric light fittings; 
various articles of furniture of wood, iron, and steel; perfumery; 
primus stoves and burners; sauerkraut; and various silk and 
artificial silk goods and items of wearing apparel. 


The raw materials exempted from import duty included lead 
ingots, zinc ingots, crude vegetable turpentine, paraffin wax, 
raffia, hot rolled mild steel wire and strip imported in coils, 
and nickel rivets and silver solder discs used in the manufacture 
of artificial teeth. 


In paragraph 6 of the corresponding Chapter of the Annual 
Report for 1935 (page 34) it was stated in error that Govern- 
ment had granted exemption from import duty on handwritten 
talismans (Mezuzot), phylacteries and Scrolls of the Law used 
for Jewish ritual or liturgical purposes. In fact Government 
has imposed a protective tariff of 20 per cent. ad valorem on 
these articles at the request of the Jewish Authorities to protect 
the local Jewish industry. 


65 
11.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


1. The proposals for the establishment of a Legislative 
Council, referred to on page 13, paragraph 23 of the Annual 
Report for 1935, are dealt within paragraphs 45 to 48 of the 
introductory chapter of this Report. 

2. The activities of all Municipal and Local Councils, with 
the exception of Tel-Aviv, which is a wholly Jewish Muni- 
cipality, were hampered by the strike declared by many 
municipal corporations in sympathy with the general strike 
which prevailed during the period of disturbances from the 
Igth April until the r2th October, 1936. During this strike, 
essential municipal services were maintained in most municipal 
areas without the direct intervention of Government, but it was 
found necessary to make use of the powers vested in the High 
emmione abe the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934, 
to appoint municipal commissions at Haifa and Hebron in 
order to ensure the performance of essential municipal services. 
With the exception of Tel-Aviv, those municipalities, which did 
not take part in the strike, did not display any noticeable 
activity and, during the six months of disturbances, no municipal 
rates or taxes were collected. 

3. After the cessation of the strike, the Municipal Councils 
resumed their normal activities and displayed considerable 
energy in the way of collecting the arrears of rates which had 
accrued during the disturbances and in repairing the damage 
which was caused by six months’ stagnation. 

4. The following Municipal By-laws were issued by the 
different Municipal Corporations during the year: — 


General By-laws (Safad) Licensing of Bicycles and Tricycles 
Licensing of Bicycles and Tri- (Gaza) 

cycles (Beersheba) Licensing of Bicycles and Tricycles 
Licensing of Bicycles and Tri- (Haifa) 

cycles (Beisan) 


Prevention of Noises (Jaffa) 
Town Planning (Jerusalem) 
Town Planning (Haifa) 
Town Planning (Tiberias) 
General By-laws (Haifa) 
Slaughter House (Jerusalem) 
Prevention of Noises (Haifa) 
Rateable Value of Buildings 
(Tel-Aviv) 
Water Supply (Beersheba) 
Licensing of Bicycles and Tri- 
cycles (Jerusalem) 


Regulation of Stationary Vehicles 
(Gaza) 

Market (Jerusalem) 

Preservation of Streets (Jerusalem) 

General By-laws (Shefa Amr) 

Regulation of Stationary Vehicles 
(Tel-Aviv) 

Road Transport (Tel-Aviv) 

General By-laws (Beisan) 

Town Planning (Jaffa) 

Street Trades (Beersheba) 


The following by-laws were issued by Local Councils: — 


Closing of Shops (Ramat Gan) 
General By-laws (Ramat Gan) 


Closing of Shops (Rishon-le-Zion) 


5. Mr. I. Rokach has been appointed Mayor of Tel-Aviv in 
Succession to the late Mayor, Mr. M. Dizengoff. Mr. Rokach was 
for many years the Deputy Mayor of Tel-Aviv. 


66 


6. The Mayor of Hebron died in August and the election and 
appointment of a new Mayor is at present under consideration. 


7. The following new Local Councils were established during 
the year 1936:— 
Beit Vegan. 
Kfar Saba. 
Raanana. 
Hertzlia. 
Elections for the constitution of these Local Councils are now 
taking place. 


8. The Local Councils Ordinance, 1921, has been amended so 
as to enable the setting up of Local Councils in urban and rural 
areas and gives power to such councils, when formed, to levy 
rates, including educational rates, upon owners or occupiers of 
properties. 

9g. The Petah Tiqva Local Council is being now raised to the 
rank of Municipal Conenicn. 


Io. Except during the period of the disturbances, the adminis- 
tration of the mixed Municipalities was generally satisfactory 
and they have on the whole displayed a fair sense of financial 
responsibility. A marked improvement has been observed in 
the working of Municipalities since the enactment of the 
Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934. 


11. A Municipal Auditor who has been able to give material 
assistance in advising the Municipal Councils as to the proper 
organization of their accounts was appointed. 


11l.—JEWISH AGENCY. 


The representations of the Jewish Agency in regard to 
Government proposals for legislation concerned chiefly the Safe- 
guarding of Public Water Supplies Bill, 1936, the Immigration 
(Amendment) Bill, 1936, the proposed establishment of a Legis- 
lative Council, and the proposed restrictions on land to prevent 
the sale of subsistence areas owned by smallholders. 


The Agency urged that provision should be made in the Safe- 
guarding of Public Water Supplies Bill 1936 for reasonable 
notice to be given of the High Commissioner’s intention to 
declare any area to be a public water supply area, specifying 
the locality and purpose for which the water is to be used, so 
as to enable landowners and others to submit their soul ~~ 
the proposed legislation should be made to apply e 
water supplies under the control of private companies w Neh Saad 
been approved as public utility companies; and that machinery 
should be provided for assessing compensation for landowners 
and other water users in the area. 


67 


The Agency’s representations, together with other observa- 
tions on the Bill, have been referred by the Government for 
consideration in the first place by the Irrigation Sub-committee 
of the General Agricultural Council, on which the Jewish Agency 
is represented. 


The Immigration (Amendment) Bill, 1936, was chiefly 
criticized by the Jewish Agency on the grounds that it 1s inequit- 
able that in any prosecution for illicit entry and settlement, the 
onus should be on the accused person to show that he is lawfully 
in Palestine, even though a prima facie case had not been made 
out to show that an offence had been committed; and that this 
might impose an intolerable burden on citizens and new immi- 
grants alike. After careful consideration, Government reached 
the conclusion that the provision is justified in the special cir- 
cumstances of illicit immigration into Palestine, in order that 
attempts at evasion of the immigration law may be more effec- 
tively dealt with. Promulgation of the Bill has however been 
deferred pending the recommendations of the Royal Commission 
in regard to the manner in which immigration into Palestine 
shall be regulated in the future. 


The Jewish Agency reiterated their opposition to the proposals 
for the establishment of a Legislative Council and submitted 
questions regarding certain details of the proposed measure. 


In regard to the proposal to enact legislation to prevent the 
sale of land by landowners below a minimum area sufficient as 
a means of subsistence to the landowner and his family, the 
Jewish Agency made representations to the effect that the pro- 
posed measure was not warranted by the facts of the situation; 
that it was contrary to the Mandate and to the terms of the 
Prime Minister’s letter to Dr. Weizmann of February, 1931; and 
that, so far from improving the position of smallholders, the 
Measure would, if enacted, tend to restrict credit facilities and 
thus prevent the introduction of more intensive forms of cultiva- 
ton and the improvement of agricultural methods. 


Further action in both these matters was suspended owing 
to the disturbances and to the subsequent investigation by the 
Royal Commission whose report is awaited. 


2. After consideration of applications by the Jewish Agency, 
the following labour immigration schedules were authorized by 
the High Commissioner: — 

(a) 4,500 certificates for the period April-September, 
1936, the Jewish Agency having applied for 11,200 
certificates ; 

(b) 1,800 certificates for the period October, 1936— 


March, 1937, the Jewish Agency having applied for 10,695 
certificates. 


68 


3. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish com- 
munity made representations to Government on the subject of © 


the computation of the grant-in-aid to Jewish schools, urging a 
return to the earlier formula based on the proportion of the 
Jewish to the total population of the country instead of the 
proportion of Jewish children of school-age to the total number 
of children of that age. 

Government did not, however, see fit to accede to these repre- 
sentations, for the reasons that the total population formula had 


been abandoned by agreement with the Jewish Agency as not © 


representing a fair division of expenditure on education between 
the two communities and that the school-age population formula. 
represented a just and equitable division. 

The General Council also made representations to Govern- 
ment in regard to assistance in obtaining a loan for the erection 
of school buildings. 


4. Government was unable to accept the demand of the 
General Council (Vaad Leumi) for an increase of the Govern- 
ment contributions to Jewish Health Services, for the reason that 
these demands were not in accordance with the formula agreed 
upon in 1932 with representatives of the Jewish Agency as to the 
basis of the respective grants, and they would have resulted in 
the reduction of the provision for other services which in the 
opinion of Government must have priority. 


5. The Jewish Agency submitted applications for the exemp- 
tion of certain raw materials from import duty and for the 
imposition of protective tariffs on competing imports (see 
Chapter I, paragraph 17); and also made representations for 
certain modifications in the Syria-Palestine Customs Agreement, 
which are under consideration by a special sub-committee set 
up by Government for the purpose. 


6. Representations were also made by the Jewish Agency in 
regard to the increasing of the employment of Jews in public 
works and in the railway and port services. 


The share of Jewish labour in public works during the year 
amounted to 30 per cent. of the total wage bill of the Public 
Works Department. 

Amongst other works Government entrusted to Jewish labour 
the construction of a section of the Jaffa-Haifa road, the by-pass 
road from the Affulah-Nazareth road to the Nazareth-Haifa 
road via Ginegar and Nahalal, and the Affulah-Shatta section 
of the Affulah-Beisan road, which were undertaken as an emer- 
gency measure for public security purposes and on which about 
1,000 Jewish workmen found employment. 


In December, arrangements were made to allot a section of 
Government porterage work in Haifa port to Jewish labour at 


69 


contractors’ rates. About 100 Jewish porters are thus em- 
ployed. In addition about 50 per cent. of the port labour 
pnvately employed in Haifa port is Jewish. 

The proportion of Jewish employees on the railways rose 
from 6 per cent. in 1935 to 8-4 per cent. in 1936. 


7. The Jewish Agency submitted representations during the 
disturbances in regard to questions affecting the protection of 
Jewish life and property. The Agency continued to co-operate 
with the authorities concerned in all matters relating to the 
defence and security of Jewish settlements, and in the latter 
stages of the disturbances, when additional troops were brought 
into the country, the Agency assisted in securing accommoda- 
tion for the forces in Jewish settlements and quarters. Jewish 
lorry drivers and guards were placed at the disposal of the 
military authorities. 

Government authorized the enrolment by instalments of a 
large force of Jewish supernumerary police and_ special 
constables for the protection of the Jewish settlements, in the 
recruitment of which the Jewish Agency co-operated. 


IV.— IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1. The numbers of persons in the several classes recorded as 
having entered or left Palestine during 1936 and distributed by 
“racial ’’’ or ‘‘ national ’’ declarations are as follows: — 


Arrivals. 

Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 

(a) Residents returning after a 
period exceeding one year 1,119 581 450 88 

(b) Residents returning after a 

period not exceeding one 
year site sie - 60,761 17,314 36,858 6,589 
(c) Immigrants ... shits 28,945 27,909 506 530 
(d) Exempted persons 442 I — 441 
() Temporary visitors... 49,505 14,137 16,745 18,623 
(f) Transit travellers 7,160 437 2,509 4,214 
Total 147,932 60,379 57,068 30,485 

Departures. 

(2) Residents departing for a 

period exceeding one 
year Se seh iP 1,178 773 147 258 

(}) Residents departing for a 

period not exceeding on 

year www ke 69,485 23,838 37,931 7,716 
(c) Temporary visitors... 48,313 14,130 16,498 17,685 
(4) Transit travellers ... 6,904 455 2,369 4,080 
Total 125,880 39,196 56,945 29,739 

Net increase of population due 
to recorded migration 22,052 21,183 123 746 


70 

2. The numbers of persons recorded as having entered 

Palestine during 1936 and arriving by the several means of 
transport are as follows:— 


Sea. Land. Ar. 

Total arrivals sans see ae we» == 57,308 89,634 990 
Temporary visitors ... ssi aa ... 14,890 33,914 7OI 
Immigrants ... me ag sae ws = 27,583 1,800 4 
Residents returning after a period exceeding 

one year... age Sass ae wate 870 249 — 
Residents returning after a period not ex- 

ceeding one year ... sae wis ..» 12,601 47,925 235 
Transit travellers... ae aes biscs 1,364 5,746 50 


This information was requested by the Permanent Mandates — 
Commission when examining the 1935 Report (page 142 of the 
Minutes). 

The numbers of persons recorded as having departed from 
Palestine during 1936 and leaving by the several means of 
transport are as follows:— 


Sea. Land. Air, 
Total departures his ie Pe --» 35,996 88,698 1,186 
Temporary visitors ... ah bees ... 14,810 32,707 796 
Residents departing for a period exceeding 
one year ... age ats $26 ea 1,005 173 — 
Residents departing for a period not ex- 
ceeding one year ... oe ae ... 18,823 50,334 328 
Transit travellers... ative suis se 1,358 5,484 62 


3. Of the persons who entered Palestine in 1936 as travellers, 
2,284 were registered as immigrants. Of these, 1,817 were Jews 
and 467 were non-Jews. 

Including exempted persons, the total number of immigrants 
during the year was thus 31,671, of whom 29,727 were Jews 
and 1,944 were non-Jews. 


4. The recorded volume of Jewish immigration and emigra 
tion in 1936 and previous years is as follows: — | 
Jewish persons 








Jewish persons recorded 

. registered ‘as as leaving 

Year. immigrants. permanently. 
1920-1924 ... atone asa sa 42,784* 5,.475T 
1925-1929 ... ss sti Se 57,022 18,501 
1930-1934 ... profs bios eos 91,258 2,345T 
1935 te wan cm sae 61,854 396 
1936 ‘ais a ons save 29,727 773 
Total... ve 282,645* 27,491f 








* The records begin in September, 1920. 

+ No figures are available for Jewish emigration in 1920, 1921, 1932, 1933 
and 1934, and the census taken in 1931 revealed that the actual number of 
Jewish emigrants was larger than that revealed in the migration records. 


71 
5. The countries of previous abode of immigrants registered 


in 1936 (i.e., of persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as 


travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) were as 
follows: — 


Country of previous abode. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Total immigrants registered ... wes 31,671 =. 29,727 675 1,269 
Total Europe ... as ee ws = 27,926 27,001 41 884 

Austria ... ie er sail 592 579 — 13. 
Belgium .. sh eae iis 224 221 — 3 
Bulgaria ae — 177 175 — 2 
Czechoslovakia . sug sae 652 642 — 10 

Danzig ... Ree ee are 66 64 — 2 

Denmark ee es eae 22 20 — 2 

Esthonia... ibe ats ae 20 20 — — 

Finland ... vies ie ve 4 4 — — 

France ... cos oe ae 621 544 9 68. 

Germany ae ire ee 8,265 8,180 — 85. 

Great Britain ... sae sia 751 223 I 527 

Greece ... ait ee es 407 389 — 18. 

Hungary... Sos dave sis 170 169 — I 

Italy — nee ei a 319 211 — 108. 

Latvia ... ox ee ae 507 507 — — 

Lithuania aoe oes so 785 785 — — 

Netherlands... sist gene 330 328 — 2 

Norway ... Sais sy sis I I — — 

Poland ... ean. Seas ... 1,602 11,596 I 5. 

Portugal sisi eis a 9 9 — — 

Rumania a Bh wae 1,455 1,444 I 10: 

Russia... er ae Sree 600 598 — 2 

Spain... oes ae oe 47 14 29 4 

Sweden ... ies a a 5 4 — I 

Switzerland ae Was eee 167 152 — 15 

Yugoslavia sats ae oe 128 122 — 6 

Total Asia... oes sind saa 2,324 1,913 319 92. 

Afghanistan... ‘pie bie 102 102 — — 

China... sists as =e 40 40 — — 

Saudi Arabia... sa ee 9 5 4 — 

India... oes 5 ae 16 8 — 8 

Traq 352 345 4 3 

Tran, ie fe si 214 213 — I 
Koweit ... ate aa 12 12 — — 
Syria and Lebanon “a ie 505 140 305 60. 
Trans-Jordan ... rae or 3 — I 2 
Turkey .. : 7 ioe 317 294 5 18. 
Yemen and Aden ee bee 754 754 — — 
Tolal—A frica 643 304 144 195 
Egypt... aoe sets aor 501 178 14! 182 
Sudan... oe oe 24 20 — 4 
Tripoli... - eis 52 52 — — 
Union of South Africa Stes 44 40 — 4 


Other countries of Africa tae 22 14 3 > 


V2 


Country of previous abode. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Lotal—A merica — a sak 685 486 129 70 
Canada ... bbe — is 30 23 — 7 
United States of America sis 395 357 6 32 
Argentine aes ae sie 59 46 4 9 
Brazil... oe ae sas 23 15 2 6 
Mexico ... wes eas ded 13 9 4 _— 
Other countries of Latin America 165 36 113 16 
Australia zy or see oa 20 16 — 4 
British Dependencies not specified 
above shel ae ae es 73 7 42 24 


6. The following table illustrates the changes in the principal 
sources of Jewish immigration :— 
Proportion per roo Jewish immigrants 
coming from all countries in years 


Country of previous abode. 1922-1929. I934. 1935. 1936. 
All countries... re ne 100 100 100 100 
Poland ... aie ia ee 46 43 49 4! 
Russia... me — eas 20 — I 2 
Germany Be oe ats — 16 II . 27 
Rumania het AAs oat 6 5 6 5 
Lithuania re Sie siete 5 3 3 3 
United States of America ats 3 3 3 I 
Others aes ine : 20 30 27 21 


. 7. Persons granted visas for Palestine are liable to be refused 
admission on arrival at the frontier if the Immigration Officer 
is not satisfied that they are persons who may lawfully be 
admitted to Palestine. The numbers of persons so refused 
admission in 1936 and previous years are as follows:— 
Number Number refused 


Total refused admission per 
Year. entrants. admission. I,000 entrants. 
1930 ae “us 94,576 212 2 
1931 sat Ss 90, 334 401 4 
1932 ere ..» 100,679 253 3 
1933 ee .. 141,478 1,505 II 
1934 oe ... 176,681 945 5 
1935 se ws =. 230,643 831 4 
1936 nee w. 147,932 315 2 


No figures are available prior to 1930. 


8. The numbers of immigrants by sex registered in 1936 are 
as follows:— 


Race. Total. Male. Female. 
Jews ... we ie. -20;727 13,942 15,785 
Arabs ... ease poe 675 218 457 
Others... oe one 1,269 754 515 


These figures indicate that Jewish women formed 53 per cent. 
of the Jewish immigrants registered in 1936—the same per- 
centage as in 1935. According to the census taken in 1931, 


73 


Jewish women formed 49-5 per cent. of the Jewish population 
of Palestine. 


g. The age groups of immigrants registered in 1936 (i.e., of 
persons arriving aS immigrants, or of persons arriving as 
travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) are as 
follows: — 


Age groups. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Total... .+. 31,671 29,727 675 1,269 
O- 4 aig oats 1,534 1,348 II9g 67 
5- 9 ae _ 1,767 1,646 68 53 
10-14 wet sale 2,333 2,198 72 63 
15-19 oe ie 3,486 3,253 152 81 
20-24 sige eae 5,627 5,119 116 392 
25-29 Sor ve 4,466 4,213 42 211 
30-34 Sig og 2,757 2,587 41 129 
35-39 ue ei 1,791 1,684 18 89 
40-44 sdcge? .. =: 1,408 1,340 13 55 
45-49 aos tae 1,173 1,116 15 42 
50-54 hon ie 1,435 1,399 Io 26 
55-59 = re 1,525 1,501 2 22 
60-64 atin wae 1,115 1,093 4 18 
65-09 Sas bate 746 733 = 13 
70-74 sae oe 314 305 I 8 
75 and ove oe 194 192 2 — 


10. The change in the relative proportions of Jewish immi- 
grants over and under the age of 35 years during the Iast five 
years is indicated by the following figures: — 

Under 35 years Over 35 years 


Year. per cent. per cent. 
1931 hie cas den 76°6 23°4 
1932 sig nee oe 74°6 25°4 
1933 = or iat 79°9 20°1 
1934 zee tex ate 75°7 24°3 
1935 a seg Ae 7122 28:8 
1936 oe 7 or 68°5 31°5 


1. The numbers of immigrants by sex and conjugal con- 
dition registered in 1936 are as follows :— 








Conjugal condition. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Males : 
Persons ... bss w+. 13,942 218 754 
Unmarried ae See. 9397 190 650 
Married ... ie ae 6,108 28 99 
Divorced ae Te 72 — I 
Widowed oe a 365 — 4 
Females : 
Persons ... ig ws = 15,785 457 515 
Unmarried re .. 6,873 159 319 
Married ... a we 7,536 281 171 
Divorced no net 149 2 3 


Widowed aes bs 1,227 15 22 


74 


12. The numbers of immigrants by previous occupation 
registered in 1936 are as follows:— 





Total. Jews 
Occupation. | 
S S 
S : 3 = 
8 8 S 
a cy = ky | | 
Total all occupations... | 14,914 | 16,757 | 13,942 |15,785 | 218 | 457 754 | 5 
Total persons in specified | 
occupations... 9,106 | 2,982 | 8,382 | 2,757 74 24 650! 2 
Agriculture, Forestry and | 
Fishing me 2,121 | 1,001 | 2,117 | 1,001 2| — 2, = 
Mines and Quarries sole 2 —_ I — 1} — — = 
Manufacturing Industries : 
Textiles : ‘ 49 7 49 T= ae: = Shee 
Leather works ies 47 I 47 1} — — — a 
‘Wood works ... aan 320 — 316 — i ca 
Metal works ... ia 476 I 469 I 2); — aa 
Ceramics sad 10 3 sce) 3; — —= = a 
Chemical products 52s 3 I 3 rj; — —_ = om 
Food products... see 154 8 148 8 I; — i 
Dress and toilet se 267 384 263 381 3; — I 3 
Building shea 224 4 224 i) = 1 = at i = 
Industries relating to . 
literature and artistic 
trades _ 113 5 III 5 2);— ee i 
Transport... het as 76 — 72 — Cj; = 3) — 
Commerce ise --. | 1,584 28 | 1,556 28 1) — Io {| — 
Other trades... ie 67 3 67 3/— — Sst = 
Clerical Service ... 323 126 265 121 Ke) I 48 4 
Public Officials, Police and 
Army 390 9 3 I 2 3 385 5 
Professions and Liberal | 
Arts: 
Religion oi ont 432 121 281 — 13 7 | 138) 14 
Law... nus baie 87 2 85 2 rj; — I}; — 
Medicine : 
Physicians, ee 64 21 59 19 r| — 4 
Dentists sii 56 12 55 12 I — — i 
Medical attendants.. 59 46 57 36 1| — ry 10 
Education... Gs 107 80 89 67 6; — oe 
Architects, engineers . 143 4 134 4 Ir}; — 8) — 
Arts... 67 18 66 m3); — — 1} 
Other liberal professions 50 25 49 24; — — I = 
Domestic service.. 52 294 42 244 2 7 8; 43 
Insufficiently described ; 
occupations... 822 277 817 274 I I 4 . 
Students (16 years and 
over) ... sig we 941 501 927 492 4 5 10 4 





TOTAL PERSONS OF NO 
OCCUPATION OR OF 
UNKNOWN OCCUPA- 
TION, MINORS AND 
DEPENDANTS ... | 5,808 | 13,775 | 5,560 113,028 | 144 | 433 | oq] 314 


73 


This information was requested by the Permanent Mandates 
Commission when examining the 1935 Report (page 142 of 
Minutes). 


13. Immigrants registered in 1936 belonged to the following 
categories defined in the rules under the Immigration Ordinance 
No. 38 of 1933:— 


Categories. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
A (i) Persons with {P.1,000 and 
upwards... F 3,014 2,970 18 26 


Dependants of persons in 


category A (i) an — 2,833 2,810 14 9 
A (ii) Members of liberal professions 
with a capital of not less 
than {P.500 ais siete — — = 7 
Dependants of persons in 
__ Category A (ii)... ee — ae = =, 
A (iii) Skilled artisans with a capita 
of not less than £P.250 ... 173 170 3 <= 
Dependants of persons in 
Category A (ili)... si 291 287 4 — 
A{iv) Persons of minimum income 
of {P.4 a month ... ae 121 105 I 15 
A (v) Persons with a capital of not 
less than {P.500 ... oe 6 5 — I 
Dependants of persons in 
_ _ Category A (v iii see yj 7 = <— 
B {i) Orphans sen to institu- 
_ _ tions sae oe oe 12 3 8 I 
B (ii) Persons of religious occupa- 
tions es ie ia 501 234 20 247 
Dependants of persons in 
_. . Category B (ii) sss 570 563 — 7 
B (iii) Students whose maintenance 
is assured ... pes is 1,658 1,591 34 33 
Persons coming to employ- 
ment Ss oe ais 7,202 6,981 44 177 
Dependants of persons in 
D Category C de ved 4,533 4,496 12 25 
Dependants of residents of 
Palestine... a we 10,235 9,495 512 228 
Persons exempted from the ; 
Provisions of the Immigra- 
tion Ordinance... is 515 10 5 599 
Total... «ss 31,671 29,727 675 1,269 





14. The fluctuations in the number of Jewish immigrants 
with a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards during the last six 
years is shown by the following figures:— 


Proportion per cent. of 


Year, Number. total Jewish tmmigrants. 
1931 ne Biase si 233 6 
1932 va a es 727 8 
1933 can ses oe 3,250 It 
1934 sae at aoe 5,124 12 
1935 vue des ix 6,309 fe) 


1936... sai ‘i 2,907 10 


76 
15. The increase in number and proportion of dependants 
among Jewish immigrants during the last four years is as 
follows :— 
Proportion per cent. of 


Year. Number. total Jewish immigrants. 
1933 diets wag are 15,653 52 
1934 ae ves can 24,472 58 
1935 is as — *37,739 | 61 
1936 sie 17,658 59 


* The figure in hes Roose for 1935 wrongly included 113 Jewish. immi- 
grants registered in Category A (iv). 


The Permanent Mandates Commission, in its observations on 
the 1935 Report (Minutes, page 140), asked whether the 
Palestine Government could not allow children of 16 to 17 
years of age who are dependent on their families to enter 
Palestine as dependants in category D. The answer is that 
it is possible to permit this form of immigration so long as 
there is evidence that these immigrants will be wholly and 
directly dependent on their parents after arrival in Palestine. 
It has to be borne in mind that labourers’ children normally 
enter the labour market at the age of about 16 years, but that 
those youths who are unlikely to become wage-earners on 
arrival in Palestine are admissible in category Certain 
of those who propose to enter an educational institution are 
admissible to Palestine | in category B (iii). 


16. The numbers of immigrants, apart from dependants, 
authorized under labour schedules during 1936 as compared 
with previous years are as follows:— 


Certificates for 
Jewish Agency and 

Schedule Period. .. deparimental 
vESEYUE. 
April—September, 1933 sia abs ee 5,500 
October, 1933—March, 1934... ees da 5,500 
April—September, 1934 sas me “ae 6,200 
October, 1934—March, 1935... oats wisi 7,500 
April—September, 1935 es dss ids 8,000 
October, 1935—March, 1936... ee eae 3,250 
April—-September, 1936 ae ae sh 4,500 
October, 1936—March, 1937... Ss sie 1,800 


17. The immigration certificates under the labour schedules 
approved during 1936 were issued under special conditions as 
to age, sex, conjugal condition and skill. The application of 
the special conditions as regards age, sex and skill was as 
follows :— | 

Apmnil- October- 


Specification. Total. September. March. 
By age.—18—35 years or ae ws 4,390 3,400 990 
18-45 years ses 340 300 40 


Any age above 18 years .. ..» 1,570 800 770 





77 
A pril— October— 


3 Specification. Total. September. March. 
By sex.—Men ee ha ve wes 3,720 2,775 945 
Women... — ili ... 1,330 1,225 105 
Either sex ... sii Ss w. 1,250 500 750 
By method of selection.— 
Skilled workers nominated by indivi- 
dual employers (part A)... an 500 250 250 


Skilled workers required by individu 


employers (part B) ... ees — 150 150 — 

illed workers, relatives of residents 

of Palestine (part C)... 6 oe 850 600 250 
Workers selected by the Jewish Agency 

(part D) ee ae 3,800 3,000 800 


Workers approved by the Department 
of Migration (part E—Departmental 
reserve) aise ‘ on ... 1,000 500 500 

The distribution of certificates granted to Jewish Agency by 
conjugal condition was as follows :— 


A pril- October— 


Specification. Total. September. March. 
Married men... ee oe w. 1,567 1,200 307 
Unmarried men... ie se ... 1,778 1,200 578 
Unmarried women — Lat wee =: 1,305 1,200 105 
Unrestricted as to conjugal condition... 650 400 250 


18. The Permanent Mandates Commission, in its observations 
on the 1935 Report (page 208 of the Minutes), regretted that the 
means taken to check illegal immigration into Palestine had not 
Proved entirely satisfactory and suggested that this might be 
due in part to the reduction in advance of the authorized immi- 
gration quotas on account of anticipated illegal immigration. 


_The size of each labour schedule is determined by the Pales- 
tne Government on the basis of the economic absorptive 
‘apacity of the country at the time, after taking into account the 
number of places in the labour market that are likely to be 
illed by available workers; and if no allowance were made for 
Persons who may enter and remain in Palestine in evasion of the 
law, calculations would be upset to that extent. 


His Majesty’s Government and the Palestine Administration 
wave under consideration further measures to reduce the illegal 
"migration of Jews and non-Jews. 

h 19. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers still 
ave standing instructions to facilitate the return of any Turkish 
Palestinian birth who wishes to come back to Pales- 

Ong the facilities given are the grant of visas for 
ae without reference to the Department of Immigration, 
chil a Persons and to their wives and minor unmarried 

1 > and of affidavits in the place of the passports ordin- 

'y Tequired, if these latter are not available. In short, these 
eae and their dependants are not obliged to carry out the 

alites and to satisfy the conditions normally imposed upon 


citizen of 
e. 
Palestine 


78 


foreign travellers or immigrants to Palestine, or to pay 
immigration fees. 


20. The numbers of persons entering Palestine as travellers 
(temporary visitors and transit travellers) for limited periods 
who remained illegally in Palestine in 1936 and previous years 
beyond the authorized period of temporary residence are as 
follows: — 





Proportion of travellers 
Number of entering October, 1935— 


Number of travellers September, 1936, and 
travellers remaining remaining illegally at 
Year. entering thlegally end of 1936 per thousand 


travellers entering in 1936. 





1933 (from 


Ist Sept.) 
1934 
1935 
1936 


* The negative sign implies that the population of Jewish illegal immi- 
grants who have abused the facilities granted to travellers actually in Palestine 
at the 31st December, 1936, declined by 132 persons but not that illegal 
settlement by abuse of travellers’ visas has ceased. 


21. The numbers of persons deported in 1936 and previous 
years for immigration offences are as follows :— 


Year. Total. Jews. Non- Jews. 
1934 ... we aig 2,407 772 1,635 
1935 «s sect re 2,445 293 2,152 
1936 ... oh oe 2,039 152 1,887 


22. It is not possible to give an adequate analysis of migra- 
tion to and from Palestine in each calendar year at the time at 
which this report is prepared. Such an analysis is dependent on 
proportionate and other statistics which cannot be completed 
until some months after the closure of the immigration account 
for each year. 


V.—LAND REGIME. 


1. The reorganization of the Department of Lands and 
Surveys, as described in the Report for 1935, was complet 
early in the year. 


2. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance was amended to pro- 
vide that applications for exemption from the tax on new build- 
ings or additions to new buildings must be made before the 31st 
July next following their completion. 


79 


3. State Domains.—The management of State Domains was 
transferred from the Land Registration branch to the Head 
Office Section on the 1st of January, 1936. 


4. The inspection and the preparation of plans of State 
Domains were interfered with by the disturbances, but much 
office work was carried out to summarize the records. 


5. The approximate extent of known State Domain is 
1,036,000 dunams. This figure is subject to increase when titles 
are established at Land Settlement. The area includes 232,449 
dunams of land allotted to Arabs under the Ghor Mudawwara 
Land Agreement, 1921. 


6. To the area of known State Domain about 227,600 dunams 
of sand dunes which are being claimed at Land Settlement 
might be added. 


47. Areas declared Forest Reserves which amount to about 
_ 700,000 dunams are not included in the area of State Domain. 


8. 532,397 dunams of the State Domain are held by Arabs 
and 175,545 dunams by Jews, including certain companies hold- 
ing land which cannot be regarded as entirely Jewish, while a 
turther 29,290 dunams is under negotiation for lease to Jewish 
' Ofganizations. 

9. A housing scheme for Arabs rendered homeless by the 
demolition of part of the old town of Jaffa was prepared and a 
property claimed by Government in the sand dunes south of 
Jaffa was allotted for the purpose. 


10. Part of the Balad esh Sheikh Forest Reserve, Haifa, is 
ing considered for allotment to provide sites for persons now 
lving in collections of tin huts within the municipal area. 


11. During the year, 404 leases and agreements were 
concluded. 


12. Valuations.—A considerable number of valuations was 
made during the year for various purposes including the acquisi- 
ton of land for Government, the Army and Air Force. 


13. An examination under the Land Valuers Ordinance, 1922, 
Was held in March. Out of twelve candidates, four passed and 
Were granted licences. One applicant was found to be qualified 
Without examination. 


a number of licensed Land Valuers at the end of 1936 
| 15. Notices of settlement were published during the year in 
our new villages. 


i The Ordinance has now been applied to a total of 171 
‘ages in the following Settlement Areas: — 


80 


Jaffa Settlement Area say oe see 43 
Ramle Settlement Area ___..... as ee 46 
Gaza Settlement Area — nee ae 39 
Haifa Settlement Area Bai se ve 14 


Tulkarm Settlement Area ... a i 23 
Jenin Sub-District ... se ves siees 2 
Safad Sub-District ... sag ve Bes 2 
Jerusalem Sub-District Sus sie is I 
Jericho Sub- District : I 


17. The ne table illustrates the stages of progress 
reached : — 





Settlement Area. 








Tulkarm. 
Jenin. 
Jerusalem. 
Jericho. 
Total, 


Gaza. 


Ramle. 


Jaffa. 


Villages in which | 
settlement work 
has been entirely | | | 
completed sae 4 SO] 385°) 25 1 38.1 9 
Villages in which 
land disputes are | 
being heard prior | 
to completion of | | 
settlement 
Villages in which | 
final stage of | 
investigation is in 
progress... si I | BZ Oo} 4) tor 1| 42; 
Villages in which | | | 
preliminary field 
investigation is in 
progress ... Tr Li 2 I —_ — — ae 4 


Ill 


_ 
Cool 


N 
~ 
_— 





No 

















Total ... sce | 03. | 46-130: | Ta 23 2 2| t) 2 
| | 
18. The following is a summary of the work completed m 
1936:— 
In Mafruz In Masha’ Total 





Claims recorded :— land. land. number. 
No. of Claims, original .. 8,947 — 8,947 
No. of Counterclaims ... ig 675 — 675 
Total... sae 9,622 — 9,622 





Disputed Claims :— 
Number of disputed claims out- 


standing at the end of 1935... 4,628 138 4,766 
Number received during 1936... 4,705 51 4,756 
Number settled during 1936 ... 1,490 — 1,499 


Number outstanding at the end 
of 1936 bad 7,843 189 8,032 


~ he Pee 





In Mafruz In Masha’ Total 
Land Cases :— land. land. number. 
Total number of actions out- 
standing at end of 1935__—s«... 1,634 — — 
Total number of actions adde 











during 1936 ... or ie 1,606 3,240 — 
Total number of actions decided 
during 1936 :— 
(a) by judicial settlement of 
disputes ou Mag 479 — — 
(b) by amicable agreement 
implemented by judicial] 
decision ; som 163 642 
Number of actions outstanding 
at the end of 1936 ... -- 2,598 = 
Number of actions referred to 
the Land Courts on appeal... — 48 = 
Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules published:— 
Covering 
No. of Total Area 
Schedules published. Registered No. of Metric 
Blocks. Parcels. Dunams. 
Mafruz Land : 
| Schedules of Rights... ‘T 203 7,506 127,246 
Masha’ Land : 
Schedules of Partition ... i — —- —- 
Total number of Schedules pub- 
lished... Sais = ve 203 7,506 127,246 


19. The following is a comparative statement of the area 
‘ompleted under settlement operations to date:— 








Preliminary Investigation. Final Investigation. 
Period. Recording of claims and | Settlement of claims and 
publication of Schedules of | publication of Schedules of 
Claims. Rights and of Partition. 
ss | Seaee ee gern ee care erete S! 
J Metric dunams. | Metric dunams. 
ecember, 1930... 212,992 | 142,799 
§ 1931 Em 255,947 | 138,387 
A 6 «1932 % 358, 303 | 167,293 
" 19330 0 «. 479,195 334,139 
m 1934. 355,732 283,464 
» 1935 se 196,119 298,549 
» 1936 ta 138,276 | 127,246 
Total 1,996,564 1,491,877 
SE 


82 


20. Land Settlement field work and the hearing of cases wa: 
interrupted during a great part of the year by the disturbances 
Several urgent and important settlements were delayed, such 
as the Jidru area north of Haifa, where disputes had resulted 
in disturbances of the peace, and the Jaffa sand dunes, wher: 
decision of title is necessary in order to facilitate developmen 
of the town southwards and the erection of dwellings to replace 
tin huts and slums. 


21. In the Haifa area, where the greater proportion of th: 
complicated cases. has arisen, it was found that the system of! 
deputing an Assistant Settlement Officer to induce disputins 
claimants to reach an amicable settlement is proving more 
successful than was anticipated. Further methods of accelerat- 
ing land settlement, otherwise than by increasing staff, are 
being explored. 


Land Settlement Fees. 


22. The following is a statement of registration, survey and 
court fees derived from Settlement :— 
(a) During the year 1936— _—.. 
Payable. Collected. 
£P.2,034 £P.2,312 


(b) From commencement of settlement, 1928 to end of 
December, 1936— 
Payable. Collected. Outstanding. 


£P.51,629 £P.29,491 £P.22,138 


Urban Property Tax. 


23. Revision and assessment operations, which were begun 
in 1935 for the tax-year 1936-37, were carried out in 28 urban 
areas as follows:— 


Annual Revision operations to which the Urban Property 
Tax Ordinance had been previously applied were completec 
in the following 20 Urban Areas:— 


Jerusalem, Jaffa (including Tel-Aviv and Sarona), 
Gaza, Beisan, Tulkarm, Ramle, Lydda, Haifa, Acre, 
Rishon-le-Tsiyon, Rehovot, Petah Tiqva, Majdal, 
Shefa ‘Amr, Khan Yunis, Tiberias, Nablus, Hadera, 
Beit Sahur, and Ramat Gan. 


Quinquennial Revaluation in accordance with Section 
18 (6) in Urban Areas to which the Ordinance was applied 
five years ago was completed in Nazareth, Beersheba, 
Safad, Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala, and 
Ramallah. 


83 


_ 24. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance has therefore now 
been applied to a total of 28 urban areas. The following rates 
were prescribed for the financial year 1936-37: — 
Per cent. 
On house property, including the site, except house property 
constructed and used solely for the purpose of an industrial 
roa aaa in which Dicerenonoy gener machinery is 
u ‘ag es 10 
On house property, “including the site, constructed and used 
solely for the purpose of an industrial undertaking in which: 


mechanically-driven machinery is used , Io 
On land which is not the site of house property or which is 
used for the cultivation of crops ise IO 


25. Exemption from payment of the tax oe bee granted 
on house property occupied by registered owners of which the 
net annual value is less than: — 

_£P.z20—in the urban areas of Jerusalem, Jaffa, including Tel Aviv and 
Haifa.. 

{P. 13—in the urban areas of Tulkarm, Tiberias and Nablus. 

£P. 10—in the urban area of Acre. 

£P. 7—in the urban areas of Beisan, Gaza, Ramle, Lydda, Nazareth, 
Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Petah Tiqva, Rishon le 
Tsiyon, Rehovot, Majdal, Hadera and Ramat Gan. 

{P. 4—1in the urban areas of Beit Jala, Ramallah, Khan Yunis and 
Shefa ‘Amr. 

{P. 2—in the urban area of Beit Sahur. 


26. Quinquennial revaluation operations for the tax-year 
_ 1937-38 were commenced towards the end of the year and are 
still in progress in the urban areas of Haifa and Acre to which 
the Ordinance was first applied for the year 1932-33. 


27. Annual revision operations for the tax-year 1937-38 were 
begun in a number of the remaining 26 urban areas so that they 
may be completed by the 31st March, 1937. 


28. The total estimated amount of urban tax payable in the 
- 28 areas during the tax-year 1936-37, at the rates mentioned in 


paragraph 24, is £P.306,344, distributed as follows :— 
; £P. 
On house property, including the site, except house pro- 

perty constructed and used solely for the purpose of an 

industrial undertaking in which mechanically-driven 

machinery is used ... 215,360 
On house property, constructed and used solely for the 

purpose of an industrial undertaking in which mechanic- 


ally-driven machinery is used including the site 3,424 
On land other than the site of house property and land 
which is used for the cultivation of crops ee wes 87,560 


29. The annual revision of the distribution of Commuted 
- Tithes in accordance with Section 14 of the Ordinance was 
. carried out during the year in the whole of the Beersheba Sub- 
: District and in the Huleh Concession area to which the commu: 
tation of Tithes Ordinance is still applicable. 

41526 D 


‘ 


84 


30. The total aggregate commuted tithe payable and collected 
in these areas from 1st April, 1936, to 31st December, 1936, 
was as follows :— 


A ssess- Remis- Out- 
ment. sions. Collection. standing. 
£LP. £P. LP. £P. 
Beersheba Ses ... 8,937 6,370 53 2,514 
Huleh Concession Area... 1,332 — ' 283 949 
Total... £P.10,269 6,370 336 3,463 


31. The following is a summary of the amount of arrears 
of ordinary and commuted tithe (including Treasury, Wadf, 
Rental Tithes shares and Badl Tabu) outstanding on 1st April, 
1936, and the amount collected during the period 1st Apmil to 
31st December, 1936:— | 


£P. 
Outstanding on 1.4.36 ee a shed a 141,423 
Remissions during period 1.4.36 to 31.12.36 oe ae - 81 
Collected during period 1.4.36 to 31.12.36 or ae -2,448 
Balance outstanding on 1.1.37 Sere was sa ... 138,894 


Rural Property Tax. 


32. The aggregate area of all the tax categories under the 
Rural Property Tax Ordinance, 1935, now totals 13,592,300 
dunams. 


33. The first annual revision of the tax in those areas brought 
under cultivation or planted with fruit trees since the fiscal 
survey and the introduction of the tax in April, 1935, was made 
during the year. In addition, 55 new industrial buildings were 
valued and found to have a net annual value of £P.8,050. 


34. Each owner was required to submit a notice of develop- 
ment of his land, and a total of 15,252 notices was submitted. 


35. Supplementary Rural Property Tax Rolls, showing the 
revised tax categories of the land by reason of such develop- 
ment, were posted for 1,473 blocks in 343 villages. 


36. To these alterations in the tax category of the land, 181 
objections were submitted and dealt with by the Official Valuers, 
62 being admitted and 119 refused. Subsequently five appeals 
against the decisions of the Official Valuers were lodged and 
allowed by the District Appeal Committee. 


37. In those blocks where changes were made in the tax 
category of the land or where land had been settled during the 
year under the Land Settlement Ordinances, 1928-35, a redis- 
tribution of the tax was required. 

38. Owing to exceptionally severe Khamsin (east) winds in 
the spring of 1935, many growers of citrus suffered considerable 
losses of crop, and the exportable crop was reduced from eight 


85 

million to less than six million boxes. Government theréfore 
authorized reductions in the rate of Rural Property Tax on 
groves in seriously affected areas, for the tax-year 1935-6, in- 


volving a waiver of approximately £P.16,500. The percentag 
_Teductions were as follows :— 


Sub-District : Per cent. Sub-Distvict: ~ Per cent. 
Jaffa oe or 25 Tiberias ie 3 2G 
Ramle ves pis 30 Nazareth ... se 25 
Gaza ae a 30 Safad es fe 30 
Tulkarm ... ... 30 Beisan sas 56 30 
Haifa she ies Nil Jericho ao os 25 
Nablus ve oe 30 Acre... one oes 25 
Jenin ges wkd 30 : 


39. The following is a statement of the amount of Rural 
Property Tax due on the ist April, 1935, collected durin 
1935-6 and outstanding on the rst April, 1936 = | 














LP. 
Gross assessment as at 1.4.35 ee ies tee 222,276 
Exemption granted under Section 6 of the Ordin- 
ance 5s az ee ve oe .-. 53,650 
Remissions granted during 1935-36 $35 ... 14,058 
| 67,708 
. . 154,568 
Collections during 1.4.35 to 31.3.36 ads ok as 100,671 
Outstanding on 1.4.36... ag Si sai 5% £P.53,897 | 
Areas. 


40. The following is an approximate estimate of the area 
of cultivable land in Palestine. The term cultivable is open 
to many interpretations and the accepted definition has been 
“land actually under cultivation or which can be brought 
under cultivation by the application of the labour and financial 
resources Of the average Palestinian cultivator.”’ 


The figures are :— 


Dunams. 
Total cultivable area in Palestine ... ae oak 8,760,000 
Total land area ae wes 26,319,000 


This includes the Beersheba Sub-District where the cultivable 
areas have been estimated by rapid inspection and from descrip- 
tions on small scale topographical maps only. The figures are 
therefore liable to considerable amendment. 


Excluding the Beersheba Sub-District the figures are:— 


Dunams. 
Cultivable area ed we on wid sae 7,120,000 
Total land area or aa ibe ae ... 13,742,000 


40a. Jewish interests own in Palestine approximately 
1,284,000 dunams in rural areas. Of this area, it is estimated 
{22 per cent. is uncultivable, leaving an area of 1,001,500 


dunams of cultivable land in Jewish hands, to which must be 
41526 D2 


86 


added 20,000 dunams of cultivable land leased by Jews from 
the State, making a total of 1,021,500 dunams in all. 

The cultivable area of the country remaining after deducting 
that held by Jews amounts to approximately 7,738,500 dunams. 
which includes lands held by heb: and others. The pro- 
portion of cultivable land in the hands of Jews is therefore 
12 per cent. of the cultivable area of the country. 


Land Registration. 

41. The tendency, to which reference was made in the Report 
for the Year 1935, for agricultural land to fall in value was 
maintained until the outbreak of the disturbances, which dis- 
located the land market. Towards the end of the year the 
market for building sites was recovering its normal level, and 
prices for land were little below those ruling at the beginning 
of the year. Agricultural land declined in value except in areas 
in the immediate vicinity of Jewish Settlements. Unless there 
is further interference with the economic life of the country, 
it is doubtful whether values will further depreciate. 


42. The total number of transactions registered during the 
year was 36,101, as against 49,133 for tht year 1935, a decrease 
of 26-5 per cent. 


43. Areas amounting to 18,146 dunams of land were pur- 
chased by Jews from non-Jews during 1936 at a total cost of 
£P.158,826; the corresponding figures for 1935 being 72,905 
dunams at a total cost of £P.1,699,121. 


44. Fees amounting to £P.219,687 were collected, as com- 
pared with £P.455,146 in 1935. 

45. Five applications were dealt with under the Correction of 
Land Registers Ordinance, 1926, and six new applications were 
received. 


46. In addition to original entries derived from the Schedules 
of Rights deposited by Settlement Officers, 13,978 transactions 
based upon Land Settlement were recorded in the New 
Registers. The corresponding figure for 1935 was 20,686. No 
cases of an unregistered disposition of property recorded in the 
New Registers has come officially to the notice of Government, 
but it is reported that in some of the settled villages land is being 
exchanged in order to obtain consolidated and economic parcels. 

47. Land Settlement operations were commenced during 1936 
in four villages. The submission on behalf of Government of 
claims to State Domain in villages under settlement was 
continued. 

Surveys. 
Tnangulation. 

48. Work was continued during the early part of the year 1n 
the Beersheba Sub-District on the major (observed as 3rd 


87 


Order) and 3rd Order network, referred to on page 59, para- 
graph 55 of the Report for 1935. Reconnaissance is in hand for 
the purpose of securing a satisfactory junction with the 
Egyptian Geodetic Triangulation, which has now been marked 
as far as the Palestine frontier. 


49. A large number of traverse and intersected points were 
provided for control of block plans. 


50. Shifting sands and wilful damage again necessitated a 
certain amount of restoration of triangulation marks. 


Ingonometncal and Traverse Progress. 


Inter- 
Major. 3rd Order. 4th Order. Traverse. section. 











No.of | Area | No. of | Area | No. of | Area | No. of | Length| No. of 
Points.| km.® | Points.| km. | Points.| km. | Points.| km2 | Points. 


ee 
ee | 





16 | 1,300 2,186 








Precise Levelling. : 

51. On account of the disturbances, only one of two parties 
was able to work during the period April to October. The 
second circuit of 242 Km. (Jaffa—Tulkarm—Nablus—Jericho 
—Jerusalem—Jaffa) has therefore not yet been closed. Work 
is now proceeding near Nablus. 


52. Levels are being run from Ramle to Gaza in connection 
with the southern main circuit. 


53. While in Jericho, the levellers ran a branch line down to 
the surface of the Dead Sea. Taking into account the seasonal 
Vanations, it has been established that the present surface of 
the Dead Sea is, on a year’s average, 392 metres below Mean 

a Level. It is interesting to note that Kitchener, in 1878, 
obtained the value 1,292-1 ft. (393-8 m.). 


Precise Levelling Progress. 


Marking. Levelling. 
ne eat Te ee ee | ee a a 
. Number and type of 
Kilometres, Bench mark. - No. of Kilometres. 
Beste ees es ed 
80 Fundamental o 
13 
B 26 


88 


Magnetic Vanation. 

54. During the year, observations were taken with a 
‘Connolly ’’ Standard at a few places to determine the 
magnetic variation. Sun azimuths were used, but individual! 
readings of the compass never varied by more than 2 ft. 


Topographical Surveys. 

55. With the assistance of the Royal Air Force, an Arr 
Survey, covering an area of 600 square kilometres, of the desert 
west of the Dead Sea was used for the completion of the 
Bethlehem 1/100,000 scale sheet. 

This provided a representation of the innumerable wade and 
hills in a very broken, desolate, uninhabited stretch of country 
where mapping by normal methods would have been so expen- 
sive as not to be justified. 

Cadastral Surveys. 

56. During the year, 650 blocks, of a total area of 299,720 
dunams, were surveyed and examined, the details of which are 
given below. 

57. The Land Settlement Branch was issued with 192 Prelimi- 
nary Block Plans, together with schedules of claimants and | 
areas, in respect of 5,504 parcels comprising 90,240 dunams. 

58. Settlement decisions were applied to 187 blocks for which © 
Final Block Plans were submitted for registration. These cover 


an area of 98,105 dunams and represent 5,791 parcels on which 
£P.1,967 in Survey Fees are chargeable on registration. 


59. Progress of Cadastral Survey. 





Average cost per dunam. 


Average 

Category No. of | Area | No. of | Area 

of Land. blocks. | dunams.| parcels. per | Field. | Office. | Total 
arcel,| mils. | mils. | mils. 














p ; 
| dunams £P. 


Mafruz (divided 
lands) wah 501 | 279,050 | 13,180 20 79 13 | 0:092 


SC. I: 2,500. 


Mafruz (divided 
lands) es 132 | 19,860 | 5,380 4 386 53 | 0°439 


sc. I: 1,250. 








Built-on areas 17 810 720 I 698 861 | 1°559 
Sc. I: 625. 
| 
Total ads 650 | 299,720 | 19,280 











a ee eee Eee 


CADASTRAL SURVEY 
PROGRESS OF SURVEY FOR SETTLEMENT PURPOSES 1936. 












Neo. of Blocks No. of Blocks 
5300 5300 
5200 | 5200 
5100 | 5100 
5000 | 5000 
4900 4900 
4600 } AB0O 
4700 } 4700 
4600 | — | 4600 

' a | 4500 
4500 aaa ae 
4400 ee ee, | 4400 
4300 4300 
4200 | 4200 
4100 4100 
4000 y | 4000 
1; 3300 
39300 meas oe 
3800 a= i —7+-z=— 5 We Chien cea | 3800 
; | & 
3700 zistration Block Plans |/ssued |,,£0 3700 


Oe eet: ; 21 EES RNAS roa 
Preliminal 


3600 
3500 
3400 
3300, 
3200 
3100 
3000 
2900 
2800 
2700 
2600 
2500 
2400 
2300 
2200 
21900 
2000 


| 3600 
34500 





34090 
} 3300 
3200 


3730 

beers 

3006 

2900 
2802 a 
aries tee 


iil 


ase 
Completed 


—-- 


de a | 


2800 
2700 
2600 
2500 
2400 
2300 
2200 
2100 
"2000 





WAPI TE 
HATER 


Jan. Feb. 


Aug. Sept. Oct. | Nov, Dec. 
(294-3)3826 4jas437Gp92IC BR LTP 


Survey of Pafsestine, Jaffa 1936. 
Digitized by Google 





A WY¥DSDYVIC 


89 
60. In addition, 35 blocks covering an area of 22,511 dunams 
were re-surveyed and examined owing to the original partition- 
ing not being accepted by the Settlement Officer. 
— Urban Surveys. 


61. During the year, 117 blocks, covering an area of 15,420 
dunams, were completed for the application of the Urban 


ae Tax Ordinances, 1928-36, details of which are given 
ow:— 


- Details of Urban Surveys. 
Average 


Urban Area. Scale. No.of Dunams. Parcels. area per 
blocks. ; parcel. 

Jerusalem ... I: 1,250 99 14,600 5,360 2°7 

Ein Karem ... 1:.1,250 18 820 goo o°9 


Total... ~ 117 15,420 6,260 —_ 





In addition, 78 blocks, coverings an area of 20,720 dunams, 
were surveyed but have not yet been examined. | 


62. Assessment plans of Urban Areas to the number of 597 


were revised and issued to Assessment Committees during this 
year, | 


Water Resources Surveys. 

63. All the records for this survey have now been handed 
over to the Department of Development. The Department of 
Lands and Surveys is, however, still running circuits of tertiary 
levelling, based on the precise network, through the triangulation 
points the trigonometrical heights of which were used for the 


determination of heights above Mean Sea Level of wells and 
springs. 


| Tertiary Levelling Progress. 
Number of trig. points included, 112. 
mM. run, 252. | 
Number of wells involved, 154. 


Water Levels. 


64. The work in connection with the monthly variations in 
oy levels of the Dead Sea and Lake Tiberias is now carried out 
y the Public Works Department. 


Land Registration Surveys. 


65. The number of plans examined and dealt with at Head- 
quarters was 2,976, covering an area of 144,277 dunams. 
F ese figures include the checking of 2,482 plans prepared by 
sine surveyors, covering an area of 138,050 dunams. The 
‘maining 494 plans, covering an area of 6,227 dunams, were 
Prepared by Government Surveyors. 


41526 D4 


go ’ 
66. Mutations in settled areas to the number of 569 were 
dealt with during the year, bringing the total up to 3,124 since 
the beginning of settlement. 


Mapping and Publication. 
67. To meet the requirements of His Majesty’s Forces, 23,000 
maps were issued during the period April to November. 


68. The publication of topographical maps has been 
accelerated. Of the fourteen proposed sheets which are to cover 
the country down to Kurnub and Asluj, eleven, including three 
provisional editions, will be completed by the end of January, 


1937, and the remaining sheets in the south are to be published 


during the year 1937. 
69. The following sheets of the 1:100,000 topographical series 


were published in two editions—the ‘‘ Full ’’ in six colours and 


the ‘‘ Grey ”’ with outline in grey, showing contours and wadis 
only :— 
' Sheet 2—Safad. 
Sheet 6—Nablus. 
Sheet 1o—Hebron (only 3 colour edition printed so far). 
Sheet 9g—Gaza (in printing). 
Sheet 11—Bethlehem (ready for printing). 

70. 1:500,000 Motor Map.—A sixth edition of the Motor Map 
was published early in the year. A seventh is in course of 
preparation. 

71. Sales of maps and plans to the public amounted to 
£LP.1,230. 

72. Owing to the disturbances, progress in survey work was 
considerably retarded during the period April to October. 


Land Surveyors Examination. 
73. Examinations for Land Surveyors Licences were held 
during the year. Thirty candidates entered, of whom five 
passed and received their licences. 


Development. 

74. Up to the 31st December, 1936, the Development Officer 
had received 3,280 applications for admission to the Register of 
Landless Arabs. 

So far, 664 heads of families have been admitted to the 
Register. In all, 2,607 claims were disallowed. Only nine new 


claims were submitted during 1936, the claimants being Arabs © 


who had been displaced from the land some years ago -but for 
various reasons had delayed submission of their applications. 


_75- No new purchases of land were made during the year. 
76. The Arabs of the Wadi Hawarith (North) who are settled 


on a State Domain in the Tulkarm Sub-district, known as 
Basset Sheikh Muhammad, are taking advantage of the 





gr 
improved condition of the former marsh lands, the greater part 
of which has been tractor-ploughed at their expense for winter 
cropping. The majority of the tribesmen are now living in 
stone-built houses. (See Report for 1935, page 63, paragraph 89.) 

The members of the Southern section of the Wadi Hawarith 
Arabs (109 families) continue to cultivate land contiguous to 
their camp site in the Wadi Qabbani, Tulkarm Sub-district. 
(See Report for 1935, page 63, paragraph 80.) 

77. The two experimental schemes, each for the settlement 
of fifty landless families, begun by the Department at the Tel 
esh-Shauk and Mugeibila estates in the Beisan and Jenin sub- 
districts are progressing. Winter crops in both settlements were 
practically destroyed by a hailstorm which fell in May, 1936. 


eileen scheme for the reclamation of the Birket ae = 
eport lor 1935, page 63, paragraph 91), has been drawn up by | 
the Development Office, which, it is hoped, will be followed by 
the owners of the land. In the meantime, endeavours are being 
made to prevent such sporadic cultivation in the former marsh 
as will damage the drainage system. 


79. The experiment at the Abu Samara dam (see Report 
lor 1935, page 64, paragraph 93) has yielded valuable informa- 
ton. The rainfall over the catchment area was only 108 mms. 
It was found that 93 per cent. of this total rainfall was absorbed 
in the catchment area and that only 7 per cent. entered the 
reservoir. The loss of stored water by percolation was estimated 
at 84 per cent. and that by evaporation at 83 per cent. At 
the close of the season only 74 per cent. of the water entering 


ihe reservoir was available for utilisation. The experiment is 


continuing. 

- Investigations into the run-off of rainwater from parts 
t the hill districts have been continued and arrangements are 
Hy being made for the establishment of additional stations 
~ © Purpose. Figures obtained so far indicate that only 
very Small percentage of the rainfall runs off. 


oe vestigations into ‘‘ duty of water ’’ on various crops 
4 © been Carried out in several stations of the Department of 
“ouculture and Fisheries and the investigations started in co- 
one With a citrus planter in 1931 continues to afford 
ms ee data in connection with irrigation practice. (See 
Berea 685: Page 64, paragraph 95.) | Experiments in: the 
deste -ub-district have been unfortunately interrupted through 
ction of the trees by rioters during the disturbances. 


; - Control of the well observation stations established in 
titted “4 Plain between Ras El Naqura and Rafa has con- 
level of ae Report for 1935, page 63, paragraph 92.) The 
. € underground water as ascertained from these stations 

°pped following a slight rise in 1935. The fall has 


Q2 


varied from 30 cms. at Khan Yunis to 1-95 cms. at Benyamina. 
These high figures are, however, exceptional. After the first 
rains in November a definite and promising rise was reported 
from almost all stations and, in view of the heavy rainfall 
to date, it 1s expected that the former levels will be attained 
and probably exceeded. . 


83. The field work of the Water Resources Survey Com- 
mittee has been completed in the Coastal Plain and the valley 
of Esdraelon. An underground water level contour map is 
being prepared. (See Report for 1933, page 53, paragraph 27.} 

84. During the year, Messrs. Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, 
Consulting Engineers, carried out a topographic and hydro- 
graphic survey of the Huleh basin and, on the basis of this 
survey, drew up a project for the reclamation and irrigation 
of the lake and marshes. The project provides for the improve- 
ment of the irngation of 47,000 dunams of land lying outside 
the concession area, for the provision of irrigation facilities for 
8,000 dunams of land in the same tract which are at present 
unirrigated, and for the irrigation of 45,000 dunams within the 
concession area. The cost of the project, which includes exten- 
sive anti-malarial works, is estimated at £P933,000. The 
scheme is now under the consideration of Government and the 
concessionaires. (See page 64, paragraph 96 of Annual Report 
for 1935.) 


VI.—NATIONALITY. 


1. The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, and 
a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine amend- — 
ing Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the Report 
for 1925; and the text of the amending Order in Council of 
I93I was printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


2. Among the qualifications for naturalization are two years’ — 
residence in Palestine out of the three years preceding applica- 
tion, good character, and the declared intention to settle in 
Palestine. An adequate knowledge of Hebrew is accepted under — 
the language qualification. In special cases the High Commis- 
sioner is empowered to grant naturalization even if the period 
of residence has not been within the three years preceding 
application. The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. 


3. The total number of persons naturalized in 1936 compared 
with those in previous years is as follows: — 


Applications Certificates 
submitted. delivered. 
Total... ais ee 39,597 34,647 
1925-1929 Site ae 20,168 15,551 
1930-1934 ee ees 7,978 8,161 
1935 dies es wae 6,007 5,994 


1936 ss ne ae 5,444 4,941 


93 
4. The Naturalization Field Officer accepted the balowing 
number of applications in the Jewish rural settlements in 1936 
as compared with the previous year: — 
_ Applications Field applications 


Total accepted in per cent. of all 
applications. the field. applications. 
1935 6,007 1,322 22 
1936 .. 5.444 946 17 


This field service was initiated during 1934. 


5. The race and nationality of the persons naturalized in 1936 
were as follows: — 


Per cent. 
Number. of Jews 
naturalized. 
A. Jews :— 

Total 4,847 100 
Polish 1,965 41 
Russian ... 416 ~ g 
Rumanian 352 | = 
German ... 652 13 
Other 826 17 
Stateless 636 13 

B. Non-Jews :— 
Total 94 — 
Turkish ... 26 -- 
Egyptian — —- 
Syrian 21 — 
Other 47 — 


There was a notable increase in the number of German Jews 
who applied for certificates of naturalization in 1936. 


6. The services granted by the Passport Office in 1936 as com- 
pared with previous years are shown in the following table: — 


Service. 1930-34. 1935. 1936. 
Total ... sale ae ... 86,064 30,055 34,689 
Palestinian passports issued ... 29,506 11,546 9,039 
Palestinian passports renewed.. 9,234 4,323 3,626 
Palestinian passports endorsed 6,941 2,603 3,141 
Certificates of Identity issued.. 2,695 380 398 
Return visas granted ... . 26,335 12,139 14,507 
Other visas granted... 5,790 3,479 2,484 
Identity and Travel documents 
issued . 782 383 416 
Identity and Travel documents 
Tenewed sas 69 25 59 
British passports issued : 1,970 490 429 
British passports endorsed and 
renewed 2.635 649 463 
Registration of British subjects 
and of retention of Canadian 
domicile Sue IOl 38 67 


94 


7. With the appointment of an ‘Iraqi Vice-Consul at Haifa 
the Department ceased to act as agent of the ‘Iraqi Government © 
In matters pertaining to passports and visas. 


8. The appointment at Jerusalem of a Commissioner for the 
Union of South Africa has relieved the Department of the func- 
tions it performed as agent of the Union in regard to the grant 
of British passports to Union nationals and of visas to foreigners 
wishing to travel to the Union. 


g. Since 1926, when Palestinian passports were first printed, 
79,504 have been issued. 


10. Persons who furnished false evidence in connexion with 
applications for passport services were prosecuted and con- 
victions secured. 


11. The following number of changes of names were registered 
in 1936 as compared with previous years:— 
1933 we ie, “21 1935 we wes -7Q3 
1934 ... os = 412 1936... ... 682 
The majority of these changes are made by Jewish immigrants 
from Europe adopting Hebrew names on acquiring Palestinian 
citizenship. 


Vil.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Legislation. 


The following are the most important Ordinances enacted 
during the year:— 

Press (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance amends 
the Press Ordinance, 1933, by extending the High Com- 
missioner’s power of suspending newspapers to cases where 
a newspaper publishes false news or false rumour which Is 
likely, in his opinion, to create alarm or despondency. The 
measure is a precautionary one designed particularly as a 
safeguard against the publication in the Palestine Press at 
critical times of unverified statements of the nature referred 
to. 

Prisons (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
amends the principal Ordinance with the object of making 1t 
clear that the provisions of that Ordinance apply to all 
persons in lawful custody. 


Dangerous Drugs Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals 
and re-enacts the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 1925, to- 
gether with a number of amendments, in order to comply 
with the requirements of the International Convention for 
limiting the manufacture and regulating the distribution of 
narcotic drugs, of the 13th July, roar. 


95 


Oi in Navigable Waters Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
makes provision against the pollution of the territorial and 
inland waters of Palestine by the escape and the discharge 
of oil from vessels or otherwise, including restrictions upon 
the transfer of oil to vessels at night-time, and provides 
penalties for the infringement of its provisions. 


Criminal Procedure (Release on Bail) Ordinance.—This 
Ordinance provides for the release on bail of persons who 
may be tned summarily by a District Court. 


Regtstrars Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides for the 
appointment of Registrars to the Supreme Court and to 
the District and Land Courts and defines their powers and 
duties. 


Collective Fines Ordinance.—This Ordinance empowers 
a District Commissioner to impose collective fines on the 
inhabitants of any town or village in his district where 
he is satisfied that they, or any of them, have committed an 
offence or caused loss or damage or connived at or abetted 
the commission of any offence arising out of or connected 
with the disturbances of 1936, or have failed to render all 
the assistance in their power to discover the offender or 
offenders. 


Ports (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance em- 
powers the High Commissioner to exercise a measure of 
control over the flying by vessels in Palestine harbours of 
flags other than national or official emblems or signal flags. 


Bankruptcy Ordinance.—This Ordinance replaces the 
Ottoman Law of Bankruptcy. It is based upon the English 
Bankruptcy Acts and is more suitable to deal with the con- 
ditions which now prevail in Palestine. 


Town Planning Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals the 
Town Planning Ordinances, 1921-1929, and re-enacts their 
provisions with considerable amplification and amendments. 
It abolishes the Central Building and Town Planning Com- 
missions and substitutes District Building and Town Plan- 
ning Commissions for each district, with the object of 
effecting a measure of decentralization in the control of town 
planning. | 


Courts (Temporary Constitution) (Further Provisions) 
Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides for the summary 
trial of certain offences by District Courts. 


Prevention of Intimidation (Amendment) Ordinance.— 
This Ordinance provides a more severe punishment for 
contraventions under the principal Ordinance. 


96 
Laws of Evidence (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordin- 
ance, the provisions of which are intended to be of a tem- 
porary nature only at any rate until there has been oppor- 
tunity of seeing them put into practice abolishes the 
necessity for corroboration in criminal cases generally. 


The Commissioners Powers (Conferment of) Ordinance. 
—The object of this Ordinance is to confer certain powers on 
the Commissioners appointed by His Majesty the King to 
ascertain the underlying causes of the disturbances of 1936 
and to report with regard to the implementation of the 

': Mandate and other kindred matters. 


_Cnminal Code Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides a 
general Criminal Code for Palestine, and replaces the Otto- 
man Penal Code. It is based upon model Colonial legisla- 
tion, but contains considerable modifications to suit local 
conditions. 


Companies. 


2. During the year under review, 183 new companies were 
registered in Palestine, bringing the total number of companies 
registered to 1,341, of which 1,087 are Palestinian companies 
and 254 foreign companies. Of the 183 companies registered 
during the year, 167 were Palestinian and 16 were foreign. 


The principal Palestinian companies registered during the year 
were : — 

The Marine Trust Company, Limited, with a capital of 
#,P.100,000. 
The Palestine Agricultural Settlement Association 

- Limited, Bizur Limited, D. Smith & Sons (P. & O.) Limited, 

Atzmon British Palestine Investment Corporation Limited, 
all with a capital of £P.50,000. 

A number of companies increased their share capital during 
the year, namely:—The National Labour Bank (Heamel) 
Limited increased its capital from £P.25,000 to £P.100,000; 
Nir Limited from £P.145,000 to £P.215,000; The Arab Bank 
Limited from £P.45,000 to £P.105,000; The Workers Bank 
Limited from £P.100,000 to £P.150,000. 

The Companies Ordinance was amended during the year to 
enable the formation of private companies in Palestine and 
the conversion of public into private companies. Twenty-five 
public companies availed themselves of the amending legislation 
and converted themselves into private companies. 


‘The total revenue collected during the year in respect of 
registration fees and capital duty amounted to £P.11,790 as 
compared with £P.29,946 collected during the year 1935. The 
fall in revenue may be attributed to the disturbed state of the 
country during the months of April to September. 


Q7 


Bankruptcy. 


3. During the year, seven companies went into liquidation. 
The total estimated assets according to the statements of affairs 
submitted by these companies were £P.43,792.832 mls. and the 
liabilities were estimated at £P.138,993.318 mls. 


The total number of companies under liquidation during the 
year was 22. Of these, the liquidation of four companies was 
completed. In the case of two companies, the Official Receiver 
acted as Liquidator. 


During the year, the Bankruptcy Ordinance, based on the 
English Bankruptcy Act, was brought into operation in 
Palestine, and until the end of the calendar year six Receiving 
Orders, all on debtors’ petitions, were made by the Court. 
The total estimated assets as shown on the statements of affairs 
submitted by the debtors were £P.8,193.627 mls. and the 
liabilities were estimated at £P.22,272.397 mls. 


Changes in Constitution and Jurisdiction of the Courts. 


4. The Magistrates’ Courts Junsdiction (Amendment) Ordtn- 
ance amends section 5 of the principal Ordinance to provide for 
the relief which may be sought where judgment is entered in 
default, and to vest the District or Land Court with power to 
remit an action to the lower Court for trial on being shown 
good cause for non-appearance. 


Section 3 amends section 15 of the principal Ordinance in 
order to save certain subsidiary legislation, made under the 
repealed Ordinances, until it is replaced. This section of the 
amending Ordinance was necessitated by the fact that section 
15 (1) of the Magistrates Courts Jurisdiction Ordinance, 1935, 
repealed the Magistrates Courts Jurisdiction Ordinance 1924. 
The 1935 Ordinance contains no provision whereby Rules and 
Orders made under the 1924 Ordinance were kept alive; and 
in consequence of the operation of Section 4 of the Interpretation 
Ordinance 1929, such Rules and Orders were also repealed. 


5. The Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance amends 
section 9 of the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance (No. 2), 
1927, which contains a proviso that no person shall be punished 
for an attempt to commit an offence triable by a Magistrate 
unless otherwise expressly provided. With the extension of 
Magistrates’ jurisdiction under the Magistrates Courts Juris- 
diction Ordinance, 1935, it was deemed desirable to confine the 
proviso to attempts to commit an offence punishable with 1m- 
Prisonment for not more than a week or, if with fine only, 
with a fine not exceeding five pounds. This Ordinance is now 
repealed with the enactment of the Criminal Code Ordinance, 
1936, which consolidates the law dealing with attempts. 


98 


6. The Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) Ordtn- 
ance amplifies section 3 of the principal Ordinance by making 
it possible at the outset’ to charge a person before a British 
Magistrate or a District Court. Before this amendment was 


introduced it was necessary to bring the charge in the first 


instance before a Magistrate, other than a British Magistrate. 


7. The Courts (Temporary Constitution) Ordinance was de- 
signed so to constitute the Court of Criminal Assize and the 
District Courts as to obviate the embarrassment which might 
arise in trials arising out of matters connected with disturbances 
in times of acute racial tension and to provide for speedy dis- 
posal of such cases. 


With this in view, provision was made that District Courts 
should be constituted of the President or a Relieving President— 
(a) for the trial of cases summarily or upon information; 
(6) for the hearing of appeals; and 
(c) for the purpose of section 9 of the Collective Punish- 
ments Ordinance 1926, 
and that the Court of Criminal Assize should consist of— 
(1) The Chief Justice or the Senior Puisne Judge or a 
British Puisne Judge; and 
(ii) a British Puisne Judge or a President of a District 
Court or a Relieving President of a District Court. 


8. The Magistrates’ Courts Junsdiction (Amendment) Ordin- 
ance suspends the right provided in Section 3 (1) of the principal 
Ordinance to elect to be tned by a District Court in cases 
arising out of the disturbances of 1936. 


9. The Criminal Procedure (Release on Bail) (Amendment) 
Ordinance, No. 39 of 1936, amends the Criminal Procedure 
(Release on Bail) Ordinance 1927 to provide for the release on 
bail of a person who may be tried summarily by a District 
Court. The amendment was necessitated by the re-organization 
of the Courts effected by the Courts (Amendment) Ordinance, 
1935. Opportunity has also been taken in this Ordinance to 
prescribe certain forms for use in matters relating to the granting 
of bail. 


10. The Punishment of Offenders (Imprisonment) Ordinance 
prescribes imprisonment as an alternative to ‘‘ kyurek ’’, or 
penal servitude, as prescribed under the Ottoman Penal Code, 
and provides that imprisonment shall be with labour unless the 
Court otherwise directs. It further vests in the Court and in the 
Chief Justice power to order that special treatment be accorded, 
while in prison, to persons sentenced to imprisonment. 


11. The Summary of Offences (Procedure) (Amendment) 
Ordinance restricts the operation of the proviso to section 2 of 


99 


the Summary Offences (Procedure) Ordinance 1935, and pre- 
cludes the possibility of any child under the age of I4 years 
or person of unsound mind being tried and convicted in absence. 


12. The Oaths Ordinance gives Registrars and Magistrates 
power to administer oaths and to take affirmations, affidavits 
or declarations. Magistrates had no such power prior to enact- 
ment of this Ordinance other than such power as was specifically 
provided for in particular Ordinances. 


13. The Courts (Amendment) Ordinance confers power on 
Relieving Presidents of District Courts to try civil actions in 
which the claim exceeds five hundred pounds, which power was 
previously confined to Presidents of District Courts. Further, 
itempowers Relieving Presidents of District Courts to exercise 
the jurisdiction or power vested in Presidents of District Courts 
by any law, Ordinance or rule of Court. Finally it validates all 
judgments, decisions and orders given or made before the 
commencement of this Ordinance by a District Court of which 
a Relieving President was a member. 


Rules of Court. 


14. The following Rules of Court were made by the Chief 
Justice during the year : — 

The Civil Procedure Rules, made under the Courts 
Ordinance, 1924. This is the first instalment of the Civil 
Procedure Rules which are designed ultimately to replace 
the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure with various supple- 
mentary rules of court which have been made since the 
Occupation. It has been thought advisable not to repeal 
the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure and replace it im toto 
bY a complete code which would of necessity be of consider- 
able length and difficult to appreciate and apply, but rather 
to introduce at suitable intervals rules which bring the 
practice and procedure of the Courts to a nearer approxi- 
mation to the English system. Twenty-one forms are pro- 
vided in the Schedule for general guidance; and certain ~ 
Articles of the Ottoman Code, which are covered by the 
Tules, are repealed. 


The Companies (Winding-up) Rules, made under the 
Companies Ordinance, 1929, which lay down the practice 
and procedure to be followed with regard to the winding-up 
of a company, and prescribe the forms to be used and the 
fees of Court and of the Official Receiver. 


The Civil Procedure (Amendment) Rules, made under 
the Courts Ordinance, 1924, postponed the coming into 
operation of the Civil Procedure Rules, 1936, to the 4th 
September, 1936, when it was anticipated that the District 

ourt Registrars would have been appointed. - 


IO0O 


The Registry Rules, made under the Courts Ordinance, 
1924, and the Magistrates Courts Ordinance, 1935, replace © 
certain of the provisions of the Ottoman Code of Civil 
Procedure. 


The Foreign Tribunals (Evidence) (Amendment) Rules, 
made under the Courts Ordinance, 1924, amend the Foreign 
Tribunals (Evidence) Rules, 1932, by providing for the pay- 
ment of a fee to persons appointed as examiners in 
connection with the taking of evidence in civil cases for © 
foreign tribunals. Such a fee is charged in other countries — 
and there was no apparent reason why examiners in Pales- 
tine should not be remunerated for this work which 1s 
required at the instance of civil litigants. 


The Companies (Winding-up) (Amendment) Rules, | 
under the Companies Ordinance, 1929, which amplify 
Table A of the schedule to the principal rules by additional 
items. 

The Bankruptcy Rules were made under the Bankruptcy 
Ordinance, 1936, and both the Ordinance and rules came 
into operation on the 15th August. With some variation to 
suit local conditions, the English Bankruptcy Act and 
Rules have been followed. The Rules are supplemented 
by a schedule of forms to be used in bankruptcy proceed- 
ings and fees of Court and of the Official Receiver have 
been prescribed. 

The Registry (Amendment) Rules, made under the 
Courts Ordinance, 1924, and the Magistrates Courts Juris- 
diction Ordinance, 1935. Owing to the fact that it was not 
possible to appoint registrars and to bring the Registry 
Rules into operation on the 3rd September last, as was 
originally intended, these rules postpone the coming into 
operation of the principal rules until the Ist January, 1937. 

The Civil Procedure (Amendment) (No. 2) Rules, made 


under the Courts Ordinance, 1924, postpone the coming 
into operation of the Civil Procedure Rules, 1936, until the 


Ist January, 1937. 

The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules, made under the 
Courts Ordinance, 1924-35, and the Magistrates Courts 
Jurisdiction Ordinance, 1935, repeal items 34 and 35 of th2 
Schedule to the Court Fees Rules, 1935, which are no mor? 
necessary owing to the fact that their provision has been 
embodied in Table ‘‘ A’’ of the Second Schedule to th: 
Bankruptcy Rules. | 

The Companies (Winding-up) (Amendment) Rules, 
made under the Companies Ordinance, 1929, amend 
Item VII of Table B of the Schedule to the principal rule: 
by providing that the fee payable to the Official Receive: 


IOI 


for supervising a liquidation should be assessed (as in 
England) on the amount of the company’s assets brought to 
credit after deducting the amount due to debenture holders 
and secured creditors, rather than on the value of the com- 

any’s property as estimated in the statement of affairs. 

he amendment was made on the suggestion of the Official 
Receiver who pointed out that it is not unusual for assets 
to be over-estimated. 


The Civil Procedure (Temporary Provisions) Rules, made 
under the Courts Ordinance, 1924. As no Registrars of 
Courts have yet been appointed it has been found advisable 
for the time being to empower District Court Judges to 
exercise the powers and fulfil the duties of Registrars for 

. the purpose of any matter arising under the Civil Procedure 
Rules, 1935. 


The Registry (Temporary Provisions) Rules, made under 
the Courts Ordinance, 1924. For the reason set out in the 
preceding paragraph, these rules enable any Judge of a 
District Court, for the time being, to exercise the powers 
and fulfil the duties of a Registrar for the purpose of any 
matter arising under the Registry Rules, 1936. 


Work of the Courts. 


_ 15. Munictpal Courts.—Municipal Courts continue to exist in 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Gaza, Tel-Aviv, and Acre. In the last three 
towns they are presided over by honorary Magistrates, and in 


the other two by one of the salaried Magistrates in Government 
service. 


12,405 cases were entered in these Courts and 12,099 decided ; 
548 were pending at the end of the year. No cases were heard 
in the Municipal Court, Acre. (See table.) 


The drop in the number of cases entered is attributable partly 
fo the disturbances and partly to the fact that cases have been 
brought in the Magistrates’ Courts. 


16. Magistrates’ Courts.—41,883 civil cases were entered in 
these Courts, and 41,225 decided; 4,352 were pending at the 
end of the year. 


A Chief Magistrate has now been appointed for Tel-Aviv and 


another for Nablus, and this, it is hoped, will contribute to the 
disposal of pending cases in the Magistrates’ Courts. 


, The number of criminal cases entered was 38,029; 38,446 were 


Uecided, and there were 598 pending at the end of the year which 
is about half those pending at the close of 1935. (See table.) 


17. District Courts.—The total number of cases entered in the 


istict Courts, which showed a slight decrease in 1935, showed 
4 marked decrease in 1936. 


IOZ 


The following table, which shows the total number of civil 
and criminal cases entered in the last five years, indicates a 
considerable reduction in the number of civil cases and a slight 
reduction in the number of criminal cases: — 


Civil Criminal 
Year. Entered. Entered. 
1932 — as ae en 2,490 2,825 
1933 2 ahs oa nae jee 2,117 2,341 
1934 ee aye La ails 2,403 2,338 
1935 — eee ing ies 2,300 1,769 
1936 ae ne ease eae 1,586 1,683 


The following table sets forth the number of civil and criminal 
cases decided and pending in the last five years: — 


Civil Civil Criminal Criminal 
Year. Decided, Pending. Decided. Pending. 
1932 en ve 2,454 663 2,868 169 
1933 op ie 2,286 494 2,379 131 
1934 ee ake 2,385 512 2,339 130 
1935 Sas ants 2,169 643 1,788 III 
1936 bie 1,607 622 1,686 108 


These statistics show that in the District Courts as well as 
in other Courts the policy of giving priority to criminal cases, 
so as to avoid delays in the disposal of such charges, has been 
constantly followed with the result that the pending criminal 
cases are the lowest on record. 

The majority of the serious crimes in Palestine are dealt with 
in the District Courts, where the figures have shown a consider-. 
able drop in all the Courts except Jaffa where they have in- 
creased by 160 cases. The figures for this year cannot be taken 
as a standard of the work of courts owing to the abnormal 
conditions which prevailed. 


18. Land Courts.—543 cases were entered in these Courts 
during the year; 544 were decided and there were 1,017 pending 
at the end of the year. 


19. Supreme Court.—Three hundred and thirteen civil appeals 
were pending at the beginning of the year; 211 were lodged 
during the year; 226 were decided; and the number of pending 
cases at the end of the year was 208. 


Twenty-four criminal appeals were pending at the beginning 
of the year; 247 were lodged during the year; 247 were decided; 
and there were 24 appeals pending at the end of the year. 


20. Court of Criminal Assize.—Eighty-two persons were com- 
mitted for trial during the year on charges involving the capital 
penalty. Of the 82 persons charged with murder, 25 were con- 
cerned with the disturbances and 57 were charged otherwise. 
The Attorney-General entered a nolle prosequt in respect of 
four, and another four were remitted for trial by the District 
Courts on a less serious charge. 


103 


Consequently, 74 persons were tried during the year on capital 
charges; of these II were condemned to death, 20 to imprison- 
ment, and 43 were acquitted. 


Of the rr death sentences, eight were confirmed by the Court 
of Criminal Appeal with a recommendation to mercy, in one 


case, one death sentence was yee and the accused acquitted, 
and two appeals remain pending. 


Of the eight death sentences confirmed by the Court of 
Cnminal Appeal, two were commuted to I5 years’ imprison- 
ment by the High Commissioner, two appealed to the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council, and four death sentences were 
under consideration by the High Commissioner. 


_ 21. High Court.—One hundred and eleven cases were entered 
in this Court, 103 decided and 28 were pending. 


The 111 petitions entered may be classified as follows : — 


(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeus Corpus proceedings 
under sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Courts 
Ordinance, 1924 ... nine 23 te ae a 

(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) in Execution matters ... 43 

(3) Other petitions under sub-section (2) for orders directed 
to public bodies or public officers ies = ay 

(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for change of venue seas I 

(5) Petitions under the Contempt of Court Ordinance a 

(6) Not coming within the above heads x ae 8 


III 
It is hoped that a new Ordinance providing for appeals to 
District Courts from orders made in execution matters may be 
promulgated in 1937 thereby reducing the work of the High 
Court shown under item (2) above. 


22. Special Tribunal.—For the constitution of this tribunal see 
paragraph 16, page 80, of the Report for 1935. 


No cases were entered in this Tribunal in 1936 and two cases 
were pending at the close of the year. 


23. Revenue and Expenditure.—The revenue of the Courts, 
which showed a considerable increase in the years 1934 and 
1935, was at the end of 1936 £P.20,000 less than at the end of 
1935, but it is still very much higher than any previous year 


except 1935. The total revenue at the end of 1936 was 
&P.145,075. 


The expenditure, which in 1935 was £P.77,000, rose to 
£P.79,000 in 1936. 


he decrease in revenue is principally due to the restriction 
of litigation during the disturbances. 


24. Advocates.—Complaints as to the conduct of 14 advocates 
vere made to the Chief Justice during the year under review 


104 


for disgraceful, fraudulent, or unprofessional conduct, under 
Section 15 of the Advocates Ordinance 1922. In some of these 
cases it was found that the complaints were unfounded, in 
others that they were not matters in which the Chief Justice 
could intervene, and in none of the rest were the charges suffi- 
ciently substantiated to justify the convening of a Court of 
Discipline. 

25. Court Buildings.—Arising out of the recent disturbances, 
Government found it necessary to provide judicial] facilities for 
the Jewish inhabitants of Tel-Aviv, who had hitherto made 
Jal of the Court and Execution office in the adjacent town of 

affa. 

In order to meet the difficulty which arose, Government estab- 
lished a special section of the District Court and Execution office, 
at Tel-Aviv. 


26. The Permanent Mandates Commission asked for a report 
on a year’s working of the Palestine (Amendment) Order in 
Council 1935, which extended to all the inhabitants without 
distinction the system hitherto applicable only to foreigners of 
certain nationalities to elect for tnal before a British Magistrate 
or a British majority in the District and Supreme Courts. 

Two Chief Magistrates were appointed, one in April and one 
in December, 1936. Owing to the abnormal conditions which 
obtained throughout the period April to October, it is not 
possible yet to formulate any definite view as to how the tnal 
of cases throughout the year has been influenced by these 
appointments. It cannot be disputed, however, that they have 
lent very considerable assistance in accelerating the hearing of 
cases throughout, or arising during, the period of the disturb- 
ances and in improving the organization of the Magistrates’ 
Courts. 

27. In an effort further to accelerate judicial machinery, 
Government made provision for the appointment of additional 
Judiciary staff. 


28. No registrars of Courts other than the Chief Registrar, 
Supreme Court, have yet been appointed, but it is hoped that 
these appointments will be made soon. 

The appointment of a third British Puisne Judge in the 
Supreme Court will be made very shortly. 


Religious Courts. 


29. Moslem Community.—In the Moslem Religious Courts 
14,299 cases were decided during the year, including 153 
appeals. The Sharia judges issued 6,389 deeds of marriage 
and g4o decrees of divorce. £P.5,432 was collected in fees. 


105 


30. Orthodox Community.—The Ecclesiastical Courts of the 
Orthodox Patriarchate in Jerusalem sat in that town and also 
in Acre, Haifa, Jaffa, Nazareth, and Gaza. The revenue from 
fees during the year amounted to £P.210. They disposed of 
527 cases of which nine were heard on appeal. Most of the 
cases were concerned with matrimonial matters and the adminis- 
tration of estates. Forty-one affected changes of religion. 


31. Jewish Community.—The Jewish Rabinnical Courts 
heard the number of cases shown in brackets:—Jerusalem (in- 
cluding a Court of Appeal) (216), Jaffa—Tel-Aviv (441), 
Haifa (204), Safad (64), Petah Tikvah (239), Hedera (21), 
Nathanya (18), Bnei Beraq oe Ramat Gan (50), Zikron 
Ya’acov. (11), Mazkeret Batya (7), Kefar Saba (42), Nahalat 
Itshaq (8). The classification of suits was: divorces, guardian- 
ship, trusts, wills, and confirmation of documents. 


32. Synan Orthodox Commumity.—The Court of this Com- 
munity disposed of 13 cases: nine cases were concerned with 
marital disputes and four with the administration of estates. 


33. Armenian Patnarchate.—The tribunal of this Patriarchate 


heard 18 cases during the year concerning divorces, guardian- 
ship and alimony. 


34. Latin Community.—During the year, 72 cases were heard 
by these Courts concerning alimony, succession, and wills. 


35. Greek Catholic Community.—Eight cases were heard by 


this Court during the year, most of which concerned the 
administration. of Wakf. 


Cases, Pending, Entered, and Decided During 1936. 














“A” Supreme Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending - 
1.1.36. during year. during year. 31.12.36. 
Civil... "313 211 226 298 
Criminal | 24 247 . 247 24 
Total ... ae 337 - 458 473 322 
B” High Court. 
Pending . Entered Decided Pending 
.I1.36..  during year. during year. 31.12.36. 
Total ... 


20. Ilr. 103 28 


ee C ” 


Total ... 


“Dp” 


Total ... 


€é¢ E”’ 


Civil... 
Criminal 


Total ... 
<e F ‘PP 


Total ... 


aoc (aad 


Civil 
Criminal 


Total ... 


ago eas 


106 


Court of Criminal Assize. 


Pending Entered Decided 
I.1.36. during year. during year. 
4 51 46 


Special Tnbunal. 


Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.36. during vear. during year. 
2 — 2 


Distinct Courts. 


Pending Entered Decided 

1.1.36. during year. during year. 
643 1,586 1,607 
III. 1,683 1,686 
754 3,269 3,293 


Land Courts. 


Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.36. during year. during year. 
1,018 543 544 


Magistrates’ Courts. 
Cases Summarily Dealt with. 





Pending Entered Decided 
r.7.36. during year. during year. 
3,694 41,883 , ‘41,225 
1,015 38,029 38,446 
4,709 79,912 79,671 


M agistrates’ Courts. 


Pending 
31.12.36. 


Cases Presented by Police and Individuals for Preliminary 


Police ... 


Individuals 


Total ... 


46 [”’ 


Total ... 


Investigation. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.36. during year. during year. 
55 1,076 1,088 
4 26 26 
59 1,102 I,114 


Municipal Courts. 


Pending Entered Decided 
I1.36. during year. . during year. 


242 12,405 12,099 


Pending 
31.12.36. 


43 
4 


47 


Pending 
31.12.36. 


548 









Sor 


‘Sj4noy SnO1syay UYY] 49470 aULISIIV Ut SJANOD YD Ut spaddp gsurpnjouy ‘“pasaug sasv) 


PLE br CE1‘9S 
Leo'fr |  — 
= - go£‘gz — 
o1f‘oS Lrr‘vS 
zo€‘I 
oot ‘z 
I 
gII 
L6z 


S99‘9g 
Col‘S1 





gi bbz 
beb' tr 
gte‘z 


Lz 


Ler 


bol‘€¢ 


Cor 
got 


18099 


of6‘SZL 
L£z9‘gI 
C1i¥‘6r 
PREECE 
1?f‘z 


“7outmrsy 


E61 





98 
1gz 


13419 





1801 | pourmrsy | 


= ———_—?s | CO eee: of o_O eR |, WOU LL SS 


PEGI 


190‘vl “°° 7010 7 
Qiz‘bz sjue1rem yeroods 
sutploy SO} CIISIZET 
a10jaq posreyo suosisg 
¥Og‘Sr : §}1n0Z Jedroiuny 
O16‘0£ 8110) (SOPEIISISE 
aan ; S}INOD pueT 
Szg‘z SHINO) WLS 
— *** reunquy jereds 
br “OzISsV [VUIWILIZ) JO Z.ANOT) 
ae ees : z1n0y ysipy 
ZZ yAnoy) swaidns 
[DUuIMmtA’) 





ef6r 


ee lier 


108 








er 


g6r‘ZS LoL‘€b L16‘SS 
zL6‘¥ — — 
660'Z1 — == 
gbh'gt Czz‘1b 19z'zS 
— bes Peo‘! 
9g9‘I £o9‘1 691 ‘z 
_ vA _— 
ge - = = 
—_ €o1 CzI 
Lez Qgzz gIe 
"POUUMAT) |“ 12atD) “jours 12009) 
"Of61 “CE6I 


"SUUNOD SNOIdIaY UYY. 49YJ0 BUSI Ut Sino) TV ut Swaddp JuipniauyT ‘papisaq sasv) 


[99‘98 voL‘€S 
£ol‘S1 — 
gi‘ bz — 
PrP Py Qgb6‘6r 
— z6 
gtt'z €or‘ 
Lz — 
— Cor 
LE got 
‘POUIUIAY | 12012) 
*PEOI 








zQL‘SL ggh‘LP 
L£zg‘gt — 
gI¥‘61 — 
LEI‘SE bbz ‘br 
— 009 
6LE‘z Qgz‘z 
ce — 
— 16 
gol Crz 
‘[DUIM IAT) ary 
"CLOr 





ggi ‘bl o1z‘1S 
giz‘bz — 
IZL‘Gt — 
v60‘1E 9S6‘LP 
— gb 
898‘z Sr 
bP — 
aan bg 
COI gtz 
([OUIMAAT) | *2012) 
"Z£61 





"IDIOT 


2 sjuBLIeM jeloods 
suIploy So}BIFSIBLY 

a10jaq pesieyds suosisg 

s}inoy yediorunyy 

S}.INO?) Sa}e1}SIDe| 

ae sate Sjino, puey 

~ "  $JANOD Fd14SIqT 

"* Teunquy peroeds 

azissVy [PUIWILIZ) JO JUNOD 

yNoD qsIH 

qinoy) ewuaIdns 


« Ws, 


109 


VIII.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. | 


1. The safeguarding of the economic interests of the com- 
munity is comstantly the pre-occupation of Government as 
follows :— : | ; 


(a) The railways, posts, telegraphs, telephones, ports 
and roads are in public ownership and administered by 
Government Departments. 


(6) Haifa Harbour and the Oil Dock were constructed 
by a Government Department. 


(c) All water supplies are administered by the 
Municipalities or by the local Councils concerned. 


Note.—The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was 
completed early in 1936 by a Government Department, employ- 
ing a special staff. It is now operated by the Public Works 
Department and the distribution within the city is administered 
by the Jerusalem Municipality. As a result of this new supply, 
the price of water to the consumer has been reduced from 
80 mils to 40 mils per metre cube. | 


(d) The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been abolished. 
(e) All mineral resources are Government property and 
may only be exploited by private persons in accordance 
with the provisions of the Mining Ordinance. _ 
(f) Other Palestine Ordinances cover the control of:— 
_(I) Fisheries, forests and game. 
(2) The cultivation, manufacture and sale of 
tobacco or liquor. 
(3) The manufacture and sale of salt and matches. . 
(4) The export of fruit. | 
(5) Mewat (waste) lands. 
(6) Companies. 


(g) Measures are being taken to carry out a cadastral 
survey and a settlement of title to land. 


2. It has not been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services and 
utlities. The Jewish Agency is, however, a large shareholder 
in the Palestine Electric Corporation; and the Palestine 
Economic Corporation of New York, the Directors of which are 
hon-Zionist Jews co-operating with the Jewish Agency, has a 
a considerable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


3. A complete list of concessions and the names of the con- 
cession-holders is appended to this report (Appendix III). 


IIo 


4. The latest balance sheets of the several companies holding 
concessions are furnished as an appendix to this report 
(Appendix I). 


5. Provisions are made to secure economic equality under 
different headings as follows:— 
(a) Concessitons— 

(1) All concessions granted by Government for the 
exploitation or development of the natural resources of 
Palestine or public services include time-limit clauses, 
in the interests of genuine and expeditious develop- 
ment, affecting the commencement of the work and the 
expiry of the concession. | 

(2) Concession rights may not be assigned without 
the consent of Government which may also take over 
undertakings in the event of war or of other simular 
emergency - 

(3) At the end of the term of the concession, the 
undertakings and all their assets and effects revert to 
Government. 

(4) The concessionaires’ accounts are, by night, 
open to the inspection of Government which may also 
invest in the capital of the Company. | 

(5) All leases of State Domain Lands specify the 
right of Government to resume possession of the area 
—wholly or in part—for public utility purposes. 

(6) The employment of local labour by concession- 
aires 1s adequately safeguarded. 


Note.—In reply to the Permanent Mandates Commission's 
inquiry, when examining the Annual Report for 1935, the follow- 
ing statement sets out the position regarding the entry of 
Palestine Potash Limited into the Franco-German Potash 
Cartel: — 

An Agreement was made between Société Commerciale 
des Potasses d’Alsace of Mulhourse and Deutsches 
Kalisyndikat G.m.b.H. of Berlin of the one part and 
Palestine Potash Limited of the other part, whereby 
Palestine Potash Ltd. is entitled to a certain percentage of 
the annual export deliveries effected by those two Com- 
panies and Palestine Potash Ltd., calculated on the basis 
of potash exported from France, Germany and Palestine 
in any form whatsoever. 


The Agreement is in the first instance for a short period 
of a few years, but may be extended for a further period or 
periods if notice of cancellation is not given by either party 
12 months before the expiration of the first period. 


III 


Palestine Potash Limited have the option in any fertiliser 
year (ist of May to 30th of April) to deliver to the British 
Empire up to 50 per cent. of their total export quota. 


Palestine Potash Limited retains its own selling organisa- 
tion in the British Empire in co-operation with the Société 
Commercial des Potasses d’Alsace and the Deutsches 
Kalisyndikat G.m.b.H. 


In reply to a question in the House of Commons on 
23rd of March, 1936, the Secretary of State for the Colonies 
stated that the Agreement was clearly to the advantage of 
Palestine and not injurious to Great Britain. There was no 
question of Palestine Potash Limited coming under the 
control of the Cartel and the Agreement actually protected 
the Company. 

The object of the Agreement is to eliminate competition 
and price cutting in the world markets of potash. The price 
of potash as a result of a price war between various 
European potash producers fell in the year 1934 to a level 
below the cost of production figure. The quota allocated to 
Palestine Potash Limited for the limited period is near to 
the Company’s maximum production capacity and has, 
therefore, no adverse effect on the Company’s operations. 
The improvement in prices will make it possible for the 
Company to stabilise its position and its payments of royalty 
to the Government will correspondingly increase. 


(b) Land Tenure.—The Palestine Government has 
removed the Ottoman prohibition against a foreign corpora- 
tion holding land and has abolished the special Ottoman tax 
upon immovable property owned by corporate bodies. All 
foreign bodies, whether individual or corporate, may hold 
land in Palestine upon the same terms as any Palestinian 
individual or corporate person. 


(c) Mining Rights (in particular, Rules in regard to 
Prospecting).—Economic equality is secured by the provi- 
sions of the Mining Ordinance, 1925, which, inter alia, 
prevents speculative ‘“‘tying-up’’ of undeveloped 
mineralised areas by prospectors. 


(d) Fiscal Regime. (Direct and Indirect Taxation.) 
(e) Customs Regulations (Imports, Exports, Transit). 


Note.—For reasons of convenience these two headings 
are taken together. 
There is no economic discrimination either in the Fiscal 
€gime or in the Customs Regulations of Palestine. 
Prior to the war, certain foreign charitable religious and educa- 
tonal institutions enjoyed, under the Ottoman Law of Silhi 


II2 


1281 A.H. and various firmans, special privileges in respect of 
import duty, state and municipal taxation and titles. 


These privileges have been maintained t” toto by the Palestine 
Government, but no fresh privileges of this nature have been 
granted. : 


Otherwise foreign nationals are liable to the same taxation, 
state or municipal, as are Palestine citizens. 


Save for slight exceptions, which will disappear in the course 
of time, taxation on immovable property is now of two kinds 
only :— 


(1) The Urban Property Tax, which is a rate on net 
annual value in all towns and is assessed by committees on 
which the public and the Government are represented in 
equal proportion. 


(2) The Rural Property Tax, which is a tax per dunum 
of land in all rural areas. 


The Ottoman Law of Professional Tax (Temettu), which was 
assessed only upon Ottoman subjects and not upon foreigners, 
has not been applied by the Palestine Government. 


6. The Palestine Government has agreed to extend certain 
facilities, including the landing, warehousing and transhipment 
of goods and a certain degree of manipulation, in free zones 
which will be set up in the port of Haifa. These free zones will, 
of course, be under general Governmental control and subject 
to such prohibitions or restrictions as to importation into Pales- 
tine as are required by international conventions or local needs. 


Officials of the foreign Government concerned will be allowed 
to take charge of all processes within the zones and will be 
granted reasonable concessions in respect of local taxation. 


The Government of Iraq is specially interested in these 
developments. 


7. A trade agreement with Egypt was concluded and came 
into force in August, 1936. Under it, olive oil soap is subject 
to a reduction of duty if certified by Government to be of 
approved quality, and the railway rates for transport of the soap 
have been reduced (see paragraph 110 of the Introductory 
Chapter). 

Notes:— 

(1) Owing to the disturbances there was little development 
‘in mining during the year. | 

(2) In January the Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain 
- was completed. The daily inflow is over a million gallons. 


II3 


(3) Progress has been made during the year in the investiga- 
tions for the provision of water supplies in the following towns 
in Palestine :— 


Jaa, Beit Jala, . 
el-Aviv, Ramallah, 
Haifa, Bireh, 
Bethlehem, | 


(4) The concession period of the popular El Hamme mineral 
springs has been increased from thirty-one to forty-five years 
with effect from the 20th December,'1930, and the Company has 
increased its capital by £P.20.000 and has considerably improved 
and developed its accommodation. 


_ (5) At the end of the year negotiations were in progess for 
the granting of a new lease to the contractors of the Tiberias 
Hot Springs. 

(6) A topographic and hydrographic survey of Lake Huleh 
basin was carried out during the year. 


(7) The development of the Dead Sea Concession has pro- 
ceeded satisfactorily. 


(8) The Palestine Sulphur Quarries Ltd. recommenced work 
in December. 


(9) A new station of the Palestine Electric Corporation was 
completed during the year in the Haifa—Acre Bay near Haifa. 
Plans are in preparation for a similar station near Tel-Aviv, 
and among other developments an extra high tension line from 
the Jordan Power Station to Tel-Aviv is under construction. 


(10) The output of the Jerusalem Electric and Public Service 
Corporation has been increased to meet the growing demand by 
the erection of a further generator at the Power House. 


IX—HOLY PLACES. 


I. Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem.—The annual cleaning 
of the Basilica was carried out without incident on the 
2th December, 1936, in the presence of a British Assistant 
District Commissioner. Owing to a violent snowstorm, the 

odox authorities agreed to omit the cleaning of the northern 
_ St of windows, which are usually the cause of dispute, on 
| ae of the danger to which the cleaners would have been 
exposed. 


2. Church of the Holy Sepulchre.—The ceremony of the Holy 


Fire took place as usual on the Orthodox Easter Eve. There 
WeTe no incidents. 


_.3: No serious incident took place during the year in respect of 
oslem or Jewish Holy Places. 


} 
II4 


4. There was cooperation between the Vaad Leumi, the Chie 
Rabbi, and the Agudath Israel in the matter of the renee 
of Jewish interests in the Wailing Wall or elsewhere. 


5. Ihe Apostolic Delegate in Palestine has addressed al 
Palestine Government in regard to the proposals made in Mr 
William Harvey’s report for the repair of the Church of the Hob 
Sepulchre and of the Basilica of the Nativity. No replies hav 
as yet been received from the heads of the other religiot 
communities in Palestine. 


The Apostolic Delegate intimated that Mr. Harvey’s pre 
posals had been referred to the Holy See, which suggeste 

inter alia, for the consideration of the Palestine Government that 
instead of repairing the existing fabric of the Church which 
with the exception of a few portions, is ‘‘ unworthy of th 
precious memories which it contains ’’, the Government shoul: 
envisage the possibility of the reconstruction of the Church. : 


X—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religiou.- 
observance throughout Palestine. : 


The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the pre 
scriptions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, 
which reads as follows:— 


‘“‘ All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of. 
conscience, and the free exercise of their forms of worshi . 
— subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals. - 
Every religious community recognized by the Government. 
shall enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs of the commu-.. 
nity subject to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order. 
issued by the High Commissioner.’’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change of 
religious community is regulated by the Change of Religious - 
Community Ordinance, 1927, and is directed to secure that there © 
will be public notification of the change of legal status which Is - 
involved. 

An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High | 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to ; 
make regulations for the organization of any religious community : 
which applies therefor. Separate regulations are to be made 1n - 
each case suited to the special circumstances and organization - 
of the community concerned. The regulations may provide for ° 
the constitution of councils or boards of the community, which . 
shall have juristic personality, and may confer on them power . 
to impose contributions and fees for communal purposes which . 
shall be recoverable in the same way as municipal taxes and | 
fees. 


115 


_ The only regulations of this kind which have so far been made: 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish community, which 
ontain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion 
0 Jews who wish to hold aloof from the established community. 


eyes and public works are arranged, as far as possible, 
30 as to allow every labourer to enjoy, in freedom of conscience, 
that weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, subject to 
technical exigencies or considerations of emergency; and a 
six-day working week is general in such works. The precise 
method of securing this end depends on the kind of work to be 
done, the period fixed for its completion, the locality in which 
itis to be carried out, and the different racial and religious ele- 
ments of the labour employed on it. The matter is usually 
susceptible of adjustment by the District Commissioner con- 
cerned, in consultation with the undertaker or contractor 
*esponsible for the work and, if need be, with the religious head 
f the community affected. 
There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual craftsmen 
who can do their work in their own time. 
_ As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.) undertaken 
by Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours 
to avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour 
unavoidable to Jews employed upon the works, or such con- 
‘ditions as might encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by ies 
All Government officers are granted the weekly day of rest 
observed by the religious community to which they belong. But 
in the case of certain departments, such as the Railways, Post 
-and Telegraphs, and Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff, 
the racial distribution of technical skill, and the essential 
‘continuity, for example, of watch and ward duties, entail the 
consequence, in some centres, that some employees shall 
perform essential services on their weekly day of rest. 


2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done 
by Jews and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the 
Wailing Wall Order in Council which was printed in Appendix I 
_ to the Report for 1931.* | 


_ 3. The registration of schools is required by the Department 
of Education and granted subject only to compliance with 
Sanitary requirements of the Department of Health. The 
establishment of schools in Palestine by communities or private 
Organizations or individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 
The Education Ordinance, 1933, ensures the rights of commu- 
nites to maintain their own schools for the education of their 
own members.t All teachers are required to register their 
ee Sa ene, ee ee oe ne 


: Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 75, 1932. 
| oe No. 1 of 1933. The Ordinance came into force on 1st January, 


41526 E 


116 


names and certain particulars with the Education Department, 
but except for this formality there is no restriction on the free 
exercise of the educational profession in a private school, that is, 
a school not receiving assistance from public funds. Private 
schools, other than those private schools exempted by the High 
Commissioner on the ground that only religious instruction is 
given, are subject to inspection by certain officers of the 
Departments of Education and Health. No changes in the curn- 
culum or internal management of a private school established or 
maintained by a religious association may be required by the 
Department of Education. 


The full text of the Education Ordinance was given in 
Appendix I to the 1932 Report.* 


4. In August, 1936, the Holy Synod of the Orthodox 
Patriarchate of Jerusalem passed a resolution deposing 
Monsignor Meliton, titular Archbishop of Madaba, from the office 
of Locum Tenens to which he had been elected in October, 1934, 
and appointing Monsignor Keladion, Metropolitan of Ptolemais, 
to that office in his stead. The appointment of Monsignor 
Keladion as Locum Tenens has been formally recognised by 
His Majesty’s Government. | 


~ Negotiations were held during the year between representatives 
of the Orthodox Patriarchate and of the Orthodox Lay Com- 
munity under the chairmanship of the District Commissioner, 
Jerusalem District, with a view to composing the differences 
between them. 


5. Reference is invited to paragraph 22¢ of Chapter VII— 
pee System—in regard to the constitution of a Special 
ribunal under Article 55 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922. 


6. The Permanent Mandates Commission have asked for 
information in regard to the applicability of the Ottoman Law 
concerning the breaking of the Fast of Ramadan, The appeal in 
this case is still sub judice, having been twice adjourned by the 
Courts: it is due to be heard in February, 1937. 


XI—MILITARY CLAUSES. 
The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prisons 
Service in 1936 was £P.641,276. 
The strength at the 31st December, 1936 was as under:— 


* Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No, 82, 1933. 
¢t Page 103. 




















117 


giz‘€| z£o‘e| S oSb | Ezb‘1r| g6E | gSg | Sz1 | € o€f | oF | 61 Ze |} 6S |—|+r JE 
gof | 6gz |— | § gfz | gf jor | fr |— | + 4 — |¢ 6 | —|—|—|—]% | °° aotarsac uostig a4 
o16‘z| €bl‘z| S Cry | Zgr'1| gSz | geg | zi | € oz | zh | 6r | zz |'S$S|—\|r (| € |Z | iF 9010,J 99T]0g 94] 
ce] sicily] s/pleleieiz sie le legigisls ne 
e/g Fs] ey LSE lE TELE Ta ELE TELE Ee (2781S 
Via ee ae ae a Oe a 2/° |e 1/81 
oy $ =. = by . S 2. ~~ eo) . S =. = 
Nj = =. = a =, S & | &. 
S = Ps) a : Q S ° b~) 
= . > g = g = 
: hy s fe 
: 3 
> 
“i 
“SUDUYSEAYT) “SUDUSTYD "SUD1} 
~“SU4YD 
"syuvy 42410 “s400fO 








41526 


E2 


r18 


2. Compared with the previous year, the Police Force was 
increased by a District Superintendent, three Deputy Superin- 
tendents, eight sergeants, fifteen corporals and 126 constables 
(British); and by nine Inspectors, three sergeants, six corporals 
and 238 constables (Palestinian). 

These increases were rendered necessary by the increase in 
the areas to be policed and the continuous growth of population 
in the large towns. 

3. The health of the Force was uniformly good throughout 
the year. 

4. One hundred and twelve British and eighty Palestinian 
non-commissioned officers and constables sat for the proficiency 
pay examination, and 75 and 22 passed respectively. Fifty-two 
British and seventy-one Palestinian personnel were awarded 
special proficiency pay in recognition of outstanding service. 


5. There were 1o1 British and Palestinian recruits in training 
at the beginning of the year. Six hundred and six recruits were 
accepted during the year, and 594 were posted to districts. 
Promotional and refresher courses for Palestinian police were 
not completed during the year, but a course assembled in 
December for constables to qualify for promotion to the rank 
of corporal. In view of the fact that a number of British recruits 
did not complete their depot training, it was necessary for 
twenty-seven British policemen to return to the depot for a 
refresher course in law and police duties. Twenty-five British 
constables attended a promotion course for the rank of 
corporal. Nineteen Palestinian and ten British other ranks 
were promoted to the inspectorate. 

6. In the higher languages examinations, 35 British policemen 
passed in Arabic and 32 in Hebrew; and in the lower, 100 passed 
in Arabic and 50 in Hebrew. Two British policemen passed the 
Government elementary examination in Hebrew, which requires 
a high standard of literacy. 3 

These figures compare very favourably with last year’s figures 
in view of the fact that it was found impossible to hold exami- 
nations during six months of the year. The need for becoming 
literate in the three official languages is fast becoming apparent 
to all ranks of the Force, and competition is keen as greater 
knowledge of the languages naturally improves the prospects of 
promotion. 

7. The standard of Bnitish recruits has maintained its high 
level and a considerable number of well-educated young men are 
now serving in the Force. 

8. For the past few years the considerable increase in the 
population in relation to the establishment of the Police Force 
has been a matter of concern. The extraordinary expansion of 
Jewish settlements, the building ‘‘ boom ’’ in the large urban 
areas and the growth of suburban areas in the vicinity of the 


119 


larger towns have outdistanced the police resources available 
to cope with the many and varied problems that arise. The 
towns of Haifa and Tel-Aviv have almost doubled their popula- 
tions within the last two or three years. The extra police duties 
entailed by the Arab strike showed clearly that the expansion of 
the Force was imperative, and to this end some four thousand 
supernumerary police were enlisted. 


g. There are now twenty-five wireless telegraphy stations in 
action throughout the‘country, of which four were put into 
service during the year. 

10. Each police division in the country, with the exception 
of Ramle, is now provided with the means of wireless telegraphic 
communication. The value of this scheme was particularly 
demonstrated during the disturbances, when the telephone ser- 
vice throughout the country was continually interrupted and 
frequently wireless telegraphy was the only possible and sure 
method of transmitting and receiving police orders and intelli- 
gence reports; it is interesting to note that, due to this factor, 
the monthly totals of words handled by the signals branch rose 
irom 145,000 in March to 360,000 in June. 


11. Four new police stations and eight new police posts were 
opened in various parts of the country during the year. 

12. Of the First Aid Division Police, 126 members qualified 
in First Aid tests held by the Order of St. John of Jerusalem. 
_ The decrease in the number of those qualifying as compared with 

1935 was due to the disturbances which interfered with classes of 
instruction and the holding of examinations. 

There are now 712 officers and men competent to render first 
aid to the injured, whilst 39 officers have acquired proficiency 
_ under the tests of the Royal Life Saving Society, of which a 
branch now exists in Palestine. 


133. Road Traffic—TIhe continuous increase in vehicular 
trafic necessitated the appointment during the year of a Traffic 
Superintendent, with the rank of Deputy Superintendent of 
Police, to co-ordinate measures for the control of traffic and 
licensing, and to devote special attention to the numerous prob- 
lems arising from the development of motor transport. 

Intensive measures were taken during the year to bring about 
an improvement in the general standard of driving, and at the 
end of the year there was an apparent improvement. 


14. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners was satisfactory. 

At the end of the year there were twenty-six inmates in the 
(nminal lunatic section and eleven prisoners in the tubercular 
ward of the Central Prison, Acre. 

Fifty-three prisoners escaped from the Central prisons, jail 
abour companies, and lock-ups. Of these, six escaped from the 
precincts of the prisons, three from lock-ups, twenty-five when 
on outside labour, six from Government hospitals, ten when 

41526 E 3 


120 


under escort, and three were honour prisoners on work outside 
the prisons. | : 

Twenty-five prisoners were recaptured. 

Forty-five boys escaped from the reformatory school at Tulk- 
pet ,, of whom thirty-five were recaptured or returned volun- 
tarily. 

Under the Penal Labour Ordinance, 4,229 prisoners were 
released and employed on services of public utility. No wages 
were paid to them for this work. This figure shows a reduction 
of 2,520 on the previous year, which is due to the disturbances. 

A daily average of 804 convicted prisoners in jail labour com- 
panies were employed on road-making, quarrying, and railway- 
ballasting. | 

In the central prisons the convicts are employed on carpentry, 
basket-making, tailoring, weaving, blacksmithy, printing, shoe- 
making, and the repair of mail bags. The prisoners receive no 
payment for their work. 

The number of prisoners in custody on the 31st December was 
as follows:— 

Convicted. Awaiting trial. 





Central Prison, Jerusalem ... tins 333 04 
Central Prison, Acre ... ove ats 427 112 
Jail Labour Company No. 1 ae 308 — 
Jail Labour Company No. 2 ob 364 — 
Farm Labour Company sia suid gI — 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem... seis 44 17 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups... sie 30 36 
Southern i as ae ben 61 86 
Gaza 7 ies Sh sens 15 24 
Northern ‘5 i lee, sees 19 37 
Nazareth 7” - eae eee 16 16 
Nablus i ii, . es sie 10 39 

1,718 461 





The distribution of sentences was as follows:—debtors 37; 
up to 3 months, 296; 3-12 months, 437; I-5 years, 450; 5-15 
years, 439; Over 15 years, 24; life, 27; capital punishment, 8. 

At the end of the year there were 212 convicted offenders and 
six boys awaiting trial in the boys’ reformatory schools. The 
average age on admission was thirteen years and six months. 

During the year, 843 debtors were imprisoned as compared 
with 1,081 in 1935. 

Regulations were made for the administration of places of 
detention under the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 193!- 


15. Crime.—The Criminal Investigation Department is under 
the command of a Deputy Inspector-General, and the staff con- 
sists of one District Superintendent, five Assistant Superin- 
tendents, five Inspectors, five sergeants, five corporals, twenty- 
seven detectives, and sixteen clerks. 


I21I 


__ The duties of the Department are to prevent and detect crime 
by the collection of information and evidence and by investi- 
gation in collaboration with the district police, to watch and 

- Feport upon political movements, to repress seditious activities, 

_ fo maintain criminal records, fingerprints, and photographs, to - 
examine the regular organs of the press and occasional pamphlets 
with a view to action in case of seditious, inflammatory, or 

_ pornographic articles, to prevent the smuggling of arms, drugs, 
_ and illegal immigration (and for this purpose Criminal Investi- 

- gation Department men are posted to the ports), to scrutinize 

- applications for naturalization, to arrange deportations and 
extraditions, and to maintain liaison with appropriate depart- 

_ Ments and authorities in Egypt, Syria, Trans-Jordan, India, 
Iraq, Cyprus, and Europe. | 
The following are comparative tables of crime statistics for 

each of the years 1932 to 1936 inclusive: — 































— 1932. | 1933. | 1934. | 1935. | 1936. 
Indictable Offences ... pea 4,133 2,172 1,753 3,971 
Non-indictable offences ... | 17,950 8,454 | 10,525 | 11,502 
Crime :-—~ 
Murder... 7 at, 119 109 115 254 
Attempted murder aes 118 122 115 508 
Highway robbery es 57 32 32 122 
eft by breaking into 
premises cae 533 1,040 337 858 1,194 
Animal theft ... 611 499 393 463 
Agrarian crime ... Lee 1,403 425 443 688 








Police “ogs continue to give valuable service in the detection 


of crime. Two additional trained dogs were purchased during 
the year. Owing to the disturbances which began in April, 1936, 
and continued for some six months, considerable strain was 
thrown’ upon both the dogs and dogmasters. Out of a total 
number of 172 cases in which the dogs were employed during the 
year, they were successful in 87 cases. So great was the demand 
for the services of the dogs that in several cases aeroplanes 
Were used in order to transport them expeditiously from one 
part of the country to another. 

+f persons were extradited from Palestine to Trans-Jordan, 
eight to Syria and two to Egypt. Five were extradited from 


vans Jordan to Palestine, eight from Syria and one from 
ce, 


16, Criminal Records Office.—The Criminal Records and 
lngerpnnt Bureau now holds 40,090 dossiers of convicted 
‘riminals : 4,120 were opened during 1936. Fingerprint identifi- 


Cation slips received for search numbered 7,141, and in 1,808 
41526 E 
4 


I22 


cases previous convictions were traced. In six cases criminals 
were identified by fingerprints which they left on the scenes of 
their operations. 

Deportation orders in respect of persons found to be in 
Palestine without permission during 1936 were as follows:— 


Jews. Arabs. Others. Total. 
For illegal entry ... ... 198 561 69 828 
Overstaying period of visit 40 20 12 72 
For other offences... sais 68 35 3 106 


During the disturbances an internment camp was established 
at Sarafand and was used for the detention of known agitators 
and suspected terrorists. Four hundred and one persons were 
interned in this camp, which was closed in October and the 
internees released. A considerable number of other political 
agitators were made to transfer their places of residence. 


17. Communism.—Communist activity continues to demand | 
a good deal of attention and police surveillance. Of 93. 
communists prosecuted, 24 were acquitted and 69 convicted. _ 

Of the 69 convicted, thirty-three were récommended by the 
Courts for deportation. A considerable number of communists 
were bound over under the Prevention of Crime Ordinance 
and were placed under police supervision. 

Sixty communists were deported, a further forty-two left of 
their own accord and were prohibited from returning, and one | 
hundred and sixteen orders of exclusion of undesirables were 
made during the year. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


18. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 
including the Reserve, at the 31st December, 1936, was made up 
as follows :— 














.| 8 
WH 

& . 
8 = ¢ Rg 
‘X = 8 2S 
NN 3 a 9 a Pe ; 
8 3 < SS| 8 - 
= 2 Ss 3 
Sj s | § SN] Ee | 8S 
= O S H Q K 





Officers aie 
Warrant Officers 
Staff Sergeants ... 
N.C.Os. and 
Troopers 


Reserve N.C.Os. 
and Men 


Grand Total 


123 


- 19. Recruits enlisted during the year numbered 133, of whom 
67 were Arab Moslems; 36 Arab Christians; 10 Circassians; 
5 Druzes; 7 Sudanese and Egyptians; and 8 Jews. 


Two local officers and 142 men were discharged on termination 

of contract or on other grounds, of whom 17 other ranks were 

enrolled an the Reserve and 291 other ranks, time expired, 
_ Were re-engaged for a further period. 


20. For the purpose of enlisting recruits a Recruiting Board 

_ Was constituted and Trans-Jordan was divided into three 
Recruiting Areas—North, Central, and South. The Board tours 

_ districts shortly before a recruit squad is to be formed and 


"interviews prospective candidates at the main centres in these 
areas, 


There is no dearth of applicants for enlistment and many have 
to be refused owing to lack of vacancies. Service in the Force is 
popular, and there is keen competition to enlist. 


21. The discipline of the Force continues to be satisfactory. 
There were no desertions, nor was any man tried by court- 
martial. The amount collected in fines for the commission of 
minor offences was slightly higher than in 1935, chiefly due to 
the embodiment of the Reserve for a period of six months. 


22. Sixty-three awards of special good conduct badges, and 
monetary rewards to soldiers ineligible for good conduct badges 
with pay, were made for conspicious devotion to duty and special 
good work during the Palestine disturbances in 1936. 


23. On account of the disturbances in Palestine, the Force was 

- actively engaged in operations from 17th April to 8th December, 
nthe Jordan Valley from Metulla on the Syrian frontier to 
allia on the Dead Sea, a distance of approximately 100 miles. 


Two and a-quarter cavalry squadrons and one mechanised 
squadron were employed. 


24. The establishment of Reservists, namely 180, was called 
up on 4th June and remained embodied until 16th November. 


25. Save for a high incidence of malaria the general health 

ot the Force has been good. 490 cases were treated in the 

fonter Force hospitals and 16 cases in Government and other 

Ospitals. There were 307 cases of malaria, an increase of 39 

Over the number of cases in 1935. 89 of these were primary 

‘ases. This high incidence is chiefly due to the troops being on 

_ *‘‘Onstant patrol work during the disturbances, particularly at 
_ Might in the Jordan Valley. | 


muiditional medical arrangements in the Jordan Valley were 
€ during the disturbances. Hospitals were maintained at 


124 


Jisr el Mejamie and at Jericho, whence serious cases were . 
evacuated to Zerka by rail and road respectively. Dressing 
stations able to cope with minor ailments were maintained at 

Samakh, Rosh-Pina, Beisan, and Jiftlik. : 


26. The annual training programme for the Force, with the 
exception of the mechanized squadron at Ma’an and part of the ~ 
sabre squadron at Zerka, was modified owing to _ the 
disturbances. It was however possible to carry out individual 
training. 

Although the collective training period in co-operation with the 
Royal Air Force and armoured cars was curtailed, it was 
found possible to arrange three test schemes. 

The Weapon Training Courses were the same as 1n 1935, 
and revealed a satisfactory standard. 

The progress of educational classes during the year was 
satisfactory, although classes were considerably curtailed during . 
the disturbances. Ninety-nine candidates passed the examinations 
held for first, second and third class certificates. 

The school for children of personnel of the Force at Zerka 
continues to show satisfactory results. 


27. The approved grant-in-aid from the Imperial Government 
amounts to £P.147,000. 


28. In connection with a horse-breeding scheme initiated 
during the year, the Force now possesses : — 
2 thoroughbred Arab stallions purchased in September at 
Hama in Syria; 
3 countrybred stallions purchased in Trans- Jordan; 
9 specially selected mares, purchased in Trans-Jordan (as 
remounts). 
The mares have been posted to squadrons, and in the ncn- - 
breeding seasons do ordinary troop work. 
Three stallions are with squadrons, and the two thoroughbreds 
are at Zerka. 


29. All lands used by the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force ior « 
camps, buildings, and training areas have been surveyed with @ 
view to obtaining proper titles. 


Infant Welfare. 


30. The Infant Welfare Centre at Zerka is progressing well, 
and attendances are steadily increasing. 

A special building has been allotted as a clinic, and furniture 
and fittings presented by officers and others interested. 


125 


X11.—_INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 


AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syria 


Syria 


Syria. 
Trans- Jordan 


Egypt 
Egypt 
Egypt 


France ,.. 


Great Britain 


Traq 
Switzerland 
Syria 


Syria 


Palestine. 


(i) penePeon AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum ... 


Amendment 


(ii) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Customs Agreement 


Amendment . 
Transit Agreement _ 


(iii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Convention concerning the Re- 
ciprocal Enforcement of Judg- 
ments. 

Agreement concerning the Meas- 
ures to be applied for the Con- 
trol of Dengue Fever. 

Arrangements for the Transit of 
Palestinian Pilgrims’ through 
Egyptian Territory. 

Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of Palestine 
on the one part and by France 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

Agreement between the Post 
Office of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Ireland and 
the Post Office of Palestine for 
the Exchange of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement : 

Parcel Post Agreement ... : 

Agreement concerning the Im- 
portation of Antiquities. 


--- Agreement to provide for the Dis- 


tribution of certain Receipts 
from Animal Tax. 
Parcel Post Agreement 


Money Orders Agreement rr 
Agreement regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramleh. 
I1.7.21, Palestine. 
15.7.21, oyria. 
10.1.24, Palestine. 
28.1.24, Syria. 
11.9.33, Palestine. 
23.9.33, OyTia. 


4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 
22.10.35, Jerusalem. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


28.12.33, Cairo. 
(Effective date). 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Jerusalem. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 
Amended— 

30.6.30/7.7.30. 

17.1.30/25.2.30. 


30.3.27. 


126 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 


Syria and the 
Lebanon. 
Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 
Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


United States of 
America. 


Syria 


Syria 


France 
Greece 


Palestine—contd. 


Name. 

Agreement for the Reciprocal 
Grant of Gratis Visas. 

Agreement for the Taking of Evi- 
dence on Commission for the 
purpose of any Criminal or Civil 
Matter. 

Agreement as to the Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Convey- 
ance of Corpses from Palestine 
for Burial in Trans-Jordan and 
from Trans-Jordan for Burial 
in Palestine. 

Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to Regulate the Service 
of Judicial Documents between 
Palestine and Trans- Jordan. 

Convention regarding the Rights 
of the Government and Nation- 
als of the United States of 
America in Palestine. 

Agreement relating to the circula- 
tion of motor vehicles. 
Agreements concluded in 1936. 

Agreement to facilitate the move- 
ment of certain animals from 
one territory into the other for 
purposes of grazing and water- 
ing. 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement 


Date of Signature. 
20.8.32, Jerusalem. 
5.9.32, Beirut. 
25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 


14.11.29, Jerusalem. 
25.2.29, Jerusalem. 


6.3.29, AMman. 
1.10.29. 


16.7.34 (Amended 


24.8.35/1.9.35). 
23.11.34, Amman. 
13.12.34, Jerusalem. 


3.12.24. 


18.9.35, Jerusalem. 


22.8.36, Jerusalem. 


31.3.36/19.6.36. 
13.3.36/28.3.36. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Date of Date of 
Name. Signature. Accession. 
International Convention prohibiting the Use of 26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
White (Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufac- Berne. 
ture of Matches. 
International Convention relative to the Protec- 13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 
International Opium Convention and subse- 23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
quent relative papers. The Hague. 
Additional Protocol to the International Copy- 20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
right Convention signed at Berlin on the Berne. 
13.11.08, 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navi- 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
gable Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 
Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- Barcelona. 


national Concern. 


127 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—cozid. 


Date of Date of 
Name. Signature. Accession. 
Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of 20.4.21, g.10.22. 
States having no Sea Coast. Barcelona. (Ratification). 
International Convention for the Suppression 12.9.23, 23.5.-27. 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Geneva. 
Publications. 
Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
matters). Geneva. 
International Convention relating to the Simpli- 3.11.23, 29.8.24. 
fication of Customs Formalities. Geneva. (Ratification). 
Convention relating to the Development of 9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one Geneva. 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 
Convention and Statute of the International 9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Regime of Railways and Protocol of Signature Geneva. 
Convention and Statute of the International 9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocol of Geneva. 
Signature. 
Convention relating to the Transmission in 9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Transit of Electric Power and Protocol of Geneva. 
Signature. 
International Agreement as to Contagious 25.1.24, 13.7.27. 
disease of Animals. Paris. 
International Sanitary Convention . . 21.6.26, 9.10.28. 
Paris. 
International Commission for the Scientific Ex- 26.4.29, 19.12.29. 
ploration of the Mediterranean Sea. Malaga. 
International Convention for the unification of 25.8.24, 2.6.31. 
certain rules relating to Bills of Lading. Brussels. (Effective 
date). 
Convention relating to the International Circula- 24.4.26, 4.12.30 
tion of Motor Vehicles. Paris. (Effective 
date). 
Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial 13.10.19. 11.7.22 
Navigation and Additional Protocol of May, (Effective 
1920. date). 
International Convention relating to Inter- 22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
national Exhibitions. Paris. 
International Convention relating to Dangerous 19.2.25, 25.9.28 
Drugs. Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
International Convention with the object of 25.9.26, 18.6.27 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the Geneva. (Ratification). 
Slave Trade. 
International Convention relative to the Protec- 2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. Rome. 
International Convention for the Execution of 26.9.27, 26.5.31. 
Foreign Arbitral Awards. Geneva. 
International Convention for the Amelioration 27.7.29, 23.6.31. 
of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick Geneva. (Ratification) 
in Armies in the Field. (Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
International Agreement for the Suppression of 18.5.04, 6.5.32 
the White Slave Traffic. Paris. (Effective 
International Convention for the Suppression of 4.5.10, date). 
the White Slave Traffic. Paris. 


International Convention for the Suppression of 
the Traffic in Women and Children. 


30.9.21/31.3.22,2.11.31. 


Geneva. 


128 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—conid. 


"Name. 
International Agreement regarding False Indica- 
tions of Origin on Goods. 


International Convention for the Protection of 
Industrial Property. 


European Broadcasting Convention... 


International Convention for Mutual Protection 
against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for Sanitary Control 
of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


Universal Postal Convention ... 


Agreement concerning Insured Letters and 
Boxes. 

Convention for the Unification of certain rules 
relating to International Carriage by Air. 


International Conventions adhered to in 1935. 


International Convention relating to Bills of 

Exchange and Promissory Notes 6 

International Convention relating to Stamp. 

Laws in connexion with Cheques : 

International Convention pais to Taxation 
of Foreign Motor Cars .. 2 i 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
6.11.25 12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 
6.11.25, 12.9.33 
The Hague. (Effective 
date). 
19.6.33, 15.1.34 
Lucerne. (Effective 
date). 
25-7-34) 3-5-35- 
Athens, 
12.4.33, 1.8.35. 
The Hague. 
9.12.32, 24.5-35- 
Madrid. 
20.3.34, 1.1.35. 
O, 
20.3.34, 1.1.35. 
O. 
12.10.29, 3.3.35. 
Warsaw. 
7.6.30. 18.7.36. 
19.3.31. 18.7.36. 
30.3.31. 29.4.36. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine. 


a Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United King- 22.7.26 
dom and Albania: 

Austria 3.12.1873 
30.7-35- 
26.6.1901 

Belgium - oe Ses 

Belgian Congo aoe 

Ruanda-Urundi peo alld 
2.7.28 

Bolivia ... 22.2.1892 

Chile... 26.1.1897 

Colombia 27.10.1888 
2.12.29. 

Cuba 3.10.1904 

17.4.1930. 

Czechoslovakia II.11.24, ne 
Protocol 4.6.26. 

Denmark 31.3.1873 

Ecuador 20.9.1880 

Estonia 18.11.25 ... 

Finland... 30.5.24 


i e 


Date of Application. 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


23.1.28. 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


18.2.28. 
13.1.28. 
5.12.30 (Effective date). 


i 12.12.31 (Effective date) 


1 5.7.27. 


10.2.28. 


a 19.1.28. 


10.3.27. 
25.11.26. 


129 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine—cozid. 


Country. 


Netherlands 
Nicaragua 
Norway 


Panama 
Paraguay 
Peru... 

Poland ... 
Portugal 
Roumania 

San Marino... 
San Salvador ... 
Spain .... ae 
Switzerland. 
United States of 


America. 
Yugoslavia 


Date of Signature. 


14.5.1872 and 
10.12.1928. 
24.9.10 ... 
4.7.1885 ... 
7.12.1874 
3.12.1873 and 
26.6.1901. 
2.5.1932 ... 
16.7.24 
16.12.1892 
18.5.26 
17.12.91 and 
27.11.30. 
26.9.1898 
19.4.1905 
26.6.1873 
18.2.1907. 
25.8.1906 
12.9.1908 
26.1.1904 
11.1.1932 
17.10.1892 
20.1.1932. 
21.3.1893 
16.10.1899 
23.6.1881 
4.3.I9II ... 
4.6.1878 and 
19.2.1889. 
26.11.1880 
29.6.1904. 
19.12.34. 
2212.31 os 


6.12.1900 


Date of Application. 
17.8.30 (Effective date). 


19.4.28. 
11.9.29. 
13.1.28. 
25.4.28. 


wo 5.6.33 (Effective date). 


7.6.26, 

16.10.28, 

29.3.27 (Ratification). 
5.7.31 (Effective date). 


27.1.28. 
12.1.28. 
13.12.29. 


24.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
12.3.34 (Effective date). 
23.6.34 (Effective date). 


11.11.29. 
19.7.34 (Effective date). 
8.8.30 (Effective date). 


27.2.28. 
13.2.28. 


19.9.29. 


24.6.35. 


1.11.28. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 


list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has been applied to the following 
countries :— | 


Argentine. Mexico. 
France. - Tunis. 
Italy. Uruguay. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Date of 
Country. Name. A pplication, 
etween the 
United King- 
dom and 
Austria .., 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.26, 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


BAZ27. 
Bulear; 13.4.28, 
garia Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.29, 
12.11.25. 
Czechoslovakia ... 


Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23.... wee 5.6.25, 


130 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Palestine—conid. 


Country. 


Egypt 


Finland ... 
Finland ... 


Germany 


Greece 


Lithuania 


Netherlands 
Panama... 


Poland 


Portugal 
Spain 
Spain 


Union of South 


Africa. 


Yugoslavia 


Name. 

Commercial Modus Vivendi, 
Cairo. 

Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of... 

Prolongation until 16.2.36 by Notes of... 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14.12.33. 

Convention regarding the Suppression of 
Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 
into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2.12.24, London. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 
of Origin, 21.6.29. 


5/7.6.30, 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
23.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 

Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 
tions 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 
Exchange of Notes 28.11/10.12, 

modifying this Agreement. 

Trade Agreement, Exchange of Notes, 
18.11.35, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.28. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 

Trade Agreement, 27.2.1935 

Notes on Flag Discrimination in ’ Portu- 
guese Ports, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 

Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 

31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 

Commercial Agreement, 30.8.35, Pretoria 

Supplementary Agreement, 10.3.36, Cape- 
town. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 


12.5.27. 


1929, 


Date of 
Application. — 
11.6.30. 


16/19.2.33. 
13/15.2-35- 
13.2.26. 


13.10.33. 


2.12.26. 
21.6.29, 
5-7-29 
(Effective 
date). 
23.3.27. 
9.7.29. 


1.6.30. 


25.5-24. 
24.4.23. 
10.12.29. 
1.1.36. 
2/19.9.32. 
19.6.24. 


24.7.35- 
14.10.33. 


6.8.31. 


1.12.28. 


1.7.35. 
4.4.28. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Austria ... 


Belgium ae 


Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
31.3.31, London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
21.6.22, London. 


1.4.32 
(Effective 
date). 
13-3 
(i fective 
date). 


131 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine—contd. 


Czechoslovakia ... 
Denmark 

Estonia ... 
Finland ... 


France... 


Germany 


Italy 


Italy 

Italy 
Netherlands 
Netherlands 
Norway. 
Poland 
Portugal 
Spain 


Sweden oe 


Name. 


Supplementary Convention regarding 
Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 4.11.32, Brussels. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
II.11.24. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
29.11.32, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
22.12.31, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.8.33, London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
2.2.22, London. 

Extension to French Colonies and Terri- 
tories under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 
1.8.33. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
20.3.28. 

Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certifi- 
cates and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 
25.1.29. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
17.12.30, London. 

Notes respecting Documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.31, London. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
31.5.32, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
30.1.31, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
26.8.31, Warsaw. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
9.7.31 London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
27.6.29, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
28.8.20, London. 


Date of 


A pplication. 


27.6.35 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2:27 
(Effective 
date). 
27-3-34 
(Effective 
date). 
11.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
27.6.35 
(Effective 
date). 
22.3.23 
(Effective 
date). 
20.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
25.11.29 
(Effective 
date). 
11/25.8.30. 


25.8.32 
(Effective 
date). 


13.4.31. 


1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 

23-5-34 
(Effective 
; date). 

14.11.31 
(Effective 
date). 
17.10.32 

(Effective 
date). 

39.4-33 
(Effective 
date). 

23.2.31 
(Effective 
date). 

23.2.31 
(Effective 
date). 


132 
Other Treaties concluded in 1936 which apply to Palestine. 


Date of 
Country. Name. Application. 
Egypt... ... Agreement to facilitate commercial rela- 18.8.36. 
tions between Egypt and Palestine. (Effective 
Exchange of Notes 18.8.36. date). 
‘Iraq... ... Agreements to facilitate commercial 14.2.37 
relations between ‘Iraq and Palestine, (Effective 
Exchange of Notes 14.12-36, date). 


XII—ANTIQUITIES. 


1. During the year, licences were issued for archaeological 
excavations, soundings or clearances at the following sites :— 

(a) Anata Village, (Soundings), by Professor W. F. 
Albright, for the American School of Oriental Research, 
Jerusalem. | 

(b) ‘ Auja el Hafir, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly, for the 
British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(c) Balata, near Nablus, by Professor E. Sellin and Dr. 
Steckeweh, for the German State Institute of Archaeology. 

(d) Bethlehem, Ard el Baten, by Miss E. W. Gardner, 
for the Wellcome Archaeological Research Expedition to 
the Near East. 

(e) Isbeita, by Mr. H. Dunscombe Colt, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(f) Jebal Kafzeh, (near Nazareth), by Monsieur R. 
Neuville, for l’Institute de Paleontologie Humaine, Panis. 

(g) Jerusalem, Grounds of the Hebrew Umiversity, by 
Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(h) Jisr Banat Ya ‘qub, (Soundings), by Mr. M. Stekelis, 
for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(:) Khirbet Minyeh, by Dr. A. M. Schneider, for the 
Oriental Institute of the Gorresgesellschaft at Jerusalem. 

(7) Shetkh Abreik, by Dr. B. Maisler, for the Jewish 
Palestine Exploration Society. 

(k) Et-Tell, by Madam Krause-Marquet, for Monsieur 
Dussaud, Conservateur des Antiquités Orientales au Louvre, 
Paris. | 

(2) Tell Duweir, by Mr. J. L. Starkey, for the Wellcome 
Archaeological Research Expedition to the Near East. 

(m) Tell el-Jarishe, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(n) Tell Keisan, by Profesor J. Garstang, for the Institute 
of Archaeology, University of Liverpool. 


133 
(0) Tell al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), by Mr. Gordon Loud, 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 


(p) Tell el-Sultan (Jericho), by Professor J. Garstang, 
for the Institute of Archaeology, University of Liverpool. 


2. The Inspectorate of the Government Department has been 
occupied in preventing damage to historical sites and monuments 
and in investigating, by systematic excavation and other means, 
discoveries of antiquities made either by the Department or in 
the course of agricultural, industrial and other works. 

Excavations by the Department have been continued at the 
Citadel in Jerusalem and at Khirbet el Mefjir near Jericho. 


3. Library.—All books have now been labelled and the 
arrangement of the books on the stacks in conformity with the 
subject catalogue has been completed. 

The following catalogues have been prepared: — 

Authors, subject, serial publications, periodicals arranged . 
by authors, periodicals arranged by subjects, and a cata- 
logue of museum catalogues arranged by museums. 


_There were 309 books (comprising 442 volumes) added to the 
library; 93 periodicals were exchanged and 144 periodicals 
received, including the above. : 

The use of the Library by approved students has been 
permitted during the year. 


Records.—The re-arrangement of the records on the loose- 
leaf file system has been completed and the collection now fills 

volumes. There are also six volumes of records relating to 
Trans-Jordanian antiquities. New sites continue to be added to 
the records. A bibliography for each site is being prepared. 


Quarterly.—Part 1 of Volume VI has appeared and part 2 is 
due shortly. Parts 3 and 4 of Volume VI and parts 1 and 2 of 
Volume VII are in the press. | 

The following have been published separately, (as well as in 
the Quarterly) : — 

J. H. Iliffe, Terva Sigillata in the Near East and M. Avi- 
Yonah, Map of Roman Palestine. 


4. Museum.—All antiquities have now been removed from the 
old premises to the new Museum. During the year 2,277 new 
acquisitions were inventoried. Divisions were made with thirteen 
archaeological expeditions. 

_ The arrangement of exhibits in the Stone and Bronze Ages 
iS now almost complete and the Guide and Gallery Books for 
ese periods are being prepared. 

The collection of photographs of objects in the Museum has 

‘0 re-arranged in order of Museum catalogue numbers for 
Convenience of reference; many objects still remain to be 


134 
- photographed. An index to the photographic negatives is almost 
complete. 

A second Assistant Keeper and a Junior Assistant Keeper have 
been appointed to deal with the increase of work in the new 
premises. A joiner has also been added to the staff. 

Further show-cases to complete the South Gallery and to 
furnish the North Students’ Gallery have been ordered. Appara- 
tus for lifting heavy antiquities has been purchased. 

In pursuance of an agreement made with the Government of 
Trans-Jordan, a number of antiquities from that territory have 
been brought to the Museum for exhibition on loan. Antiquities 
from Trans-Jordan are exhibited in the galleries together with 
those from Palestine, but they are distinctively marked in the 
Museum Catalogue and Inventory, and in the Guide Books, 
Gallery Books, etc. reference is made to the fact that these 
antiquities have been lent by the Government of Trans-Jordan. 

During the year, students of archaeology have been given 
access to the collections as far as possible and many members 
of the general public have by request been shown over the 
Museum. 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


1. The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance 
with Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows:— 

** All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of the 
Government and all official notices of local authorities and 
municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the 
High Coramissicner, shall be published in English, Arabic 
and Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates 
and discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject 
to any regulations to be made from*:4me to time, in the 
Government offices and the Law Cour .”’ 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, I920, the practice with regard to the 
use of English, Arabic, and Hebrew in the Law Courts was more 
exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows :— 

‘* In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a trilingual 
area, every process, every official copy of a judgment, and 
every Official document shall be issued in the language of 
the person to whom it is addressed, and written and oral 
pee shall be conducted in any of the three official 

anguages. The Legal Secretary may from time to time issue 
rulesf{ restricting the languages of pleading in any Court or 
class of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 


t These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


135 


‘“‘ In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court shall, 
and in other area may, accept a declaration and register a 
document in any of the three official languages.’’ 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, 
Haifa, and Jaffa, and also the district of Jaffa and sub-districts 
of Tiberias and Safad. The recognition of the three languages 
in the Courts involves some complication in the hearing of cases, 
and occasionally trials are protracted. The rules have, however, 
on the whole worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and 
committees, and departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic, and Hebrew. 


_4. For the use of Arabic and Hebrew characters in transmitting 
inland telegrams see Chapter XXIV—paragraph 18. 


A list of the days which are recognised as holy days by the 
various communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix II 
to this Report. 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
see separate section on Trans-Jordan, page 311. 


XViI.—LABOUR. 


The international labour conventions applied to Palestine are 
set out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 1933. 


2. The introduction of a system of collection and compilation 
of trustworthy statistics of employment and unemployment is 
stil under consideration. — 

It is intended to institute a system of monthly returns of 
employment and wages which will enable the computation of 
teliable index numbers of employment in various industries. 

A family budget inquiry is also under consideration. After 
this inquiry has been completed, reliable index numbers of the 
cost of living will be constructed and the determination of the 


trend of real wages prevailing in the country will be made 
possible. 


3. The possibility of the collection of reliable statistics of 
unemployment in the towns and in the rural areas is being 
considered. It should be noted, however, that in the absence 


136 


of labour exchanges or similar institutions with inducements for 
the registration of unemployed workers, the problem of securing 
reliable statistics of unemployment continues to present con- 
siderable difficulty. It seems, therefore, probable that the Office 
of Statistics (see chapter XXII) will for some time to come 
have to rely on rough estimates of the numbers of unemployed 
workers. 

4. The securing of statistics of employment and unemployment 
will be easier in the case of Jewish unemployment, as the 
majority of Jewish workers in Palestine are members of trade 
unions. 

A problem which is still to be solved is to secure a definition 
of ‘‘unemployment ’’ which would be applicable to all sections 
of the population of Palestine. 


5. The disturbances and the Arab political strike, extending 
over almost six months, made it impossible to investigate the state 
of employment among Arabs. 

At the beginning of April, 1936, and at the end of the year 
estimates of Arab unemployment were made in seven towns on 
the basis of the definition laid down in paragraph 2 of 
Chapter XVII of the Report for the year 1935. 

The absolute data reported. were not of such a nature as to 
give even an approximate idea of the extent of Arab unemploy- 
ment in Palestine. It can only be said that in April, 1936, 
Arab unemployment had apparently slightly decreased as 
compared with the end of the year 1935, and that it increased 
appreciably in December, 1936. The largest increase of 
unemployment took place at Jaffa. 

6. The number of Jewish workers out of employment was 
roughly estimated at the end of 1935 at 5,000 wholly unem- 
ployed and 1,000 under-employed workers. Early in 1936 the 
repercussions of the shock experienced by the economy of 
Palestine in September, 1935, were still felt. At the end of 
February the number of Jewish unemployed was estimated at 
4,500 wholly unemployed workers and 2,700 partly unemployed. 
The number of wholly unemployed workers included new 
immigrants and workers changing jobs. The total number of 
unemployed “‘ units ’’ (after the conversion of part-time 
employees into full “‘ units ’’) was about eight per cent. of the 
total number of Jewish wage and salary earners in Palestine. 


7. In March the position improved, but from the end of April 
unemployment was on the increase and was at its highest in 
the middle of the summer. During the last quarter of the year 
unemployment showed a decrease which was partly, if not 
mainly, due to the increase of employment in citrus plantations 
and in Government public works. 

The number of partially employed workers showed a slow 
but constant increase throughout the year. 


137 

8. The Unemployment Fund of the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour, which was stated to be £P.35,000 at the end 
of 1935, was reported to have reached £P.100,000 at the end 
of 1930. 

Jewish public bodies and the Administration of the Unein- 
ployment Fund of the General Federation of Jewish Labour 
were active in supporting constructive works in order to relieve 
unemployment. 


g. The absorption of additional labour has not stopped during 
the year under review. The number of Jewish wage and salary 
earmers in 1936 and during the preceding two years is estimated 
to have been as follows: — 


1934, June... in see ... 45,000 
1935, January es ne ... 59,000 
1935, December sa 1s es 74,000 


1936, November _.... ae ... 84,500 
(Figures supplied by the General Federation of Jewish Labour). | 


Io. Since September, 1935, there has been a decrease in 
building activities, which is illustrated by the following figures 
of average monthly floor area of building for which permits 
yi issued by the municipalities of Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Jafta, 
and Haifa :— 


1934 he ... 86,000 square metres. 
1935 a ... I0OI,00O0 square metres. 
1936 (rr months) .... 62,000 square metres. 


The number of Jewish workers employed on construction, 
which ranged from 14,000 to 16,500 in 1935, fell to about 
10,000 at the end of 1936. 


11. The expansion of industry which has been in evidence in 
recent years suffered a setback during the year under review. 
While a number of new industrial undertakings were established, 
the decrease in building activities, the state of stagnation in 
business, and the decreased purchasing power of the population 
have affected industrial output. The number mentioned above 
of workers in part-time employment mainly relates to 
manufacturing industry. 

There has, however, been an expansion of Jewish employ- 
ment in quarries and in the production of crushed stone. 


12. No additional areas were placed under citrus plantations 
by Jews, but there has been an extension in the areas placed 
under vegetables. A large number of orange groves planted 
SIX Or Seven years ago have become fruit bearing and provided 
additional work in cultivation and in the picking, sorting, and 
transportation of oranges. 

As a result of the Arab strike, the number of Arab workers 
employed in orange groves belonging to Jews was less at the 
end of the year 1936 than at the corresponding date a year ago. 


138 


13. The employment of Jewish labour has increased in trans- 
portation, porterage, and in various unskilled works. Several 
‘hundreds of Jewish workers found employment at the Tel Aviv 
jetty and in the construction of a lighter-harbour and ware- 
houses. During the disturbances, considerable numbers of 
workers were engaged as supernumerary policemen and 
watchmen. 

Employment decreased in services connected with the tourist 
trade and summer resorts. 


14. It may be concluded that during the year under review 
a redistribution of Jewish labour has taken place. Contrary 
to the process of migration of workers which was characteristic 
iN 1933-1935, a movement of workers from the towns to the 
villages was observed in 1936. Another result of the redistribution 
of Jewish labour is that the proportion of workers employment 
at low wages has become higher than it was during the preceding 
three years, when there was a movement from the low-wage- 
industries to more profitable occupations. 


15. The distribution of Jewish workers has shifted as 
follows :— 





June, 1934. December, 1935. | November, 1936. 




























Class of labour. 
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
POET of total. INSROET: of total. of total. 

Total... .». | 50,500 100 
Urban workers: ... | 30,000 59 65 
Agricultural small- 

holders ... = 6,000 12 8 
Agricultural 

labourers... 4,500 9 14 

Non-Agricultural 

labourers in rural 

areas... ... | I0,000 20 13 





(Information supplied by the Statistical Department of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour and by the Agricultural Workers Union). 

16. Wage-rates in Palestine have declined. Rates of wages 
in building were the first to fall. A decrease in wages has taken 
place in the manufacture of building material and in wood- 
working industries. In other industries no appreciable change 
in the wage rates has occurred, but it is probable that in many 
industrial undertakings a concealed decrease in wages received 
has taken place. There was no great pressure for an increase 
of wages. Nevertheless, in a number of industrial undertakings 
annual increments were granted according to custom or collective 
agreement. 

A downward tendency was observed in wage-rates in orange 
groves. 


139 


Wages of Arab labourers have also shown a tendency to 
decline. 


17. No change occurred in the normal hours of work and in 
other conditions of work, such as insurance against accidents, 
grant of annual leave, etc. 


18. The system of. recruitment of labour or trade union 
labour offices remained unchanged. Public attention was again 
directed to the problem of distribution of work among various 
labour organisations in connection with two disputes in works 
of construction undertaken by Jewish public organisations. 
These disputes were promptly settled by arbitration. 


19. As in the preceding year, the Arab labour unions were 
active in supporting the demands of Arab workers for the 
improvement of conditions of work. New Arab labour unions 
came into existence in the course of the year. 


20. Most of the mixed Arab-Jewish unions which were active 
two years ago practically ceased to exist because of the strained 
inter-racial relations in Palestine in 1936. 


21. Twenty labour disputes caused by demands of an eco- 
nomic nature came into notice during the year, including five 
cases where there was no actual stoppage of work. 

The nature and effect of the labour disputes as compared with 
Previous years is shown by the following figures: 


1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 
Total number of disputes which came 
under notice ... ae ‘de ah 57 49 60 20 
Including :— 
(a) Disputes over wages, hours of 
work and improvement of con- 
ditions of employment ste 24 23 37 10 
(5) Disputes over discharge of 
workers ... 2 4 7 I 
(c) Disputes over employment of 
union labour ... 6 8 4 6 
(@) Disputes over employment of 
Arabs in Jewish undertakings... 19 12 4 — 
Settlements of disputes which were con- 
cluded each year :— 
(a) Number of instances where the 
workers were successful - 29 26 32 13 
(5) Number of instances where the 
workers failed ... re 18 15 13 5 
(c) Number of compromise settle- 
ments 9 6 13 2 
(2) Number of industrial strikes and 
lockouts ... 45. 40 58 15 
() Number of establishments af- 
fected by strikes and lockouts 242 87 331 26 
(() Number of workers involved 
(approximately) 2,050 2,030 3,650 956 
Number of working days lost 
(approximately) 19,100 17,230 28,400 11,625 


140 


22. Of the total number of twenty labour disputes reported in 
1936, twelve occurred before 1st May, and six took place after 
31st October. Between these dates only two disputes were 
reported. 

Half of the labour disputes were caused by demands for the 
improvement of conditions of work. A number of disputes were 
caused by employers’ attempts to reduce wages and by irregular 
payment of wages, which fact indicates the instability of the 
economic situation. 


23. Arab workers were involved in five labour disputes with 
a loss of 10,370 working days. Jwo strikes which caused the 
largest loss of time occurred at Haifa and its vicinity, where 
strikes of Arab workers were frequent in 1935. 


At Jaffa, early in 1936, pickets were placed by Arab workers 
at a Government school building, the contract for which had 
been given to a Jewish contractor; the Arab union demanded 
the employment of Arabs in that building. The contractor 
a eh to allot about 50 per cent. of the work available to Arab 
abour. 


24. The Employment of Women and Children Ordinance was 
published as a Bill in February, 1936. (Minutes, page 160.) 
A number of public criticisms were received from the Postmaster- 
General, the Palestine Jewish Equal Rights Association, and the 
‘Business and Professional Women’s Club of Palestine. These 
criticisms were considered by the Labour Legislation Committee 
early in December and their report thereon is at present receiving 
the attention of Government. 


25. An amended Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance 
embodying many of the recommendations of the Labour Legis- 
lation Committee was published as a Bill in April, 1936. 


_ The Bill repeals the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, and 
re-enacts its provisions together with a number of amendments 
of which the following are the most important : — 


(a) The definition of “‘ employer ’’ has been amended so 
as specifically to include the Government of Palestine, and 
that of ‘‘ workman ”’ so as to cover all employees, whether 
manual labourers or otherwise, in an employment to which 
the Ordinance applies. The definition of “‘ undertaker "’ 
has been omitted, being hardly distinguishable from that of 
‘““ employer ’’, except in the case of co-operative societies, 
for which special provision has been made in section 13. 

(b) The schedule of employments has been enlarged by 
the addition of the following: — 

(i) Stone cutting and dressing, even though not done 

- upon the premises. 


I4I 


(u) Manufacturing and agricultural operations in 
which mechanically driven machinery is used. 


(1) Works connected with the public supply of water 
and public drainage schemes, even though not carried 
out by a public body. 

(c) Section 3 has been amended so as to provide, in con- 
formity with the English Workmen’s Compensation Act, 
1925, for the payment of compensation in the case of death 
or permanent disablement, even though the injury was 
attnbutable to the wilful misconduct of the workmen. 


(d) Section 6, a new section, is taken from the English 
Act and deals with liability under certified schemes. 


(e) Minor amendments have been made in section 7, 
which deals with the bankruptcy of employers. 


(f) Section 9, which deals with the application of the 
Ordinance to workmen in Government employment, has 
been redrafted so as to exclude from the operation of the 
Ordinance all civilian employees of His Majesty other than 
persons employed by the Government of Palestine. 


(g) Two new sections, 14 and 15, taken from the English 
Act, have (together with part II of the first schedule) been 
inserted to provide for compensation in the case of certain 
special industrial diseases. 

(h) Section 17 is new, and penalizes an employer (or any 
responsible officer or partner where the employer is a com- 
pany, society, or partnership firm) who refuses to pay 
compensation for which he is liable, or is unable to pay it 
by reason of his not having entered into an insurance 
contract. 


(1) In the second schedule, which sets out the scale and 
conditions of compensation, 


(i) the weekly payment in case of incapacity has been 
raised from 50 per centum to two-thirds of the 
average weekly earnings, and the maximum weekly 
payment from £P.1 to £P.1.500 mils, while provision 

as been added limiting weekly payments during the 
incapacity to a period not exceeding five years; 

(ii) the lump sum payment in redemption of liability 
for weekly payment in cases of permanent incapacity is 
made such an amount as would purchase an annuity 
for five years, instead of a life annuity, but the sum is 
now based upon the full amount, instead of 75 per 
centum, of the annual value of the weekly payment. 

At the 29th Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, 
the attention of the Accredited Representative was called to the 
change which is to be introduced in the method of calculation of 


142 


the lump-sum annuity. (Minutes, page 161.) Under the exist- 
ing Ordinance where incapacity proves to be permanent the 
liability may be redeemed by a lump-sum payment equivalent 
to a life annuity of 75 per cent. of the weekly payment. In the 
majority of cases of permanent injury the lump sum payable 
would be much greater than the maximum compensation pay- 
able where death results and would probably entail the ruin of a 
small employer. Palestine is a country of small employers, the 
majority of whom would find it impossible to pay the compensa- 
tion required by the Ordinance. 


The Labour Legislation Committee therefore recommended 
that the lump sum should be of such an amountas would purchase 
an annuity for five years instead of for life, but that it should 
be based on the full amount instead of seventy-five per cent. 
of the annual value of the weekly payment, and that cases of 
partial though permanent incapacity should be dealt with, not 
by further limiting the period of the annuity which should remain 
at five years, but by reducing the amount of weekly payment 
payable in proportion to the degree of incapacity. The Com- 
mittee’s recommendation is based on the experience of several 
years’ working of the existing law, and the Palestine Government 
does not consider that the Bill should be changed in this respect 
unless and until experience of its working should show that 
amendment is desirable. 


A number of criticisms of the Bill have since been received. 
Some of these have recently been forwarded from London, where 
Insurance Offices are interested in the change effected by the 
Bill. In June the General Federation of Jewish Labour 
requested that promulgation of the Bill be deferred in order 
to allow sufficient time for due consideration to be given to the 
effect of the amendments introduced in the Bill. The comments 
of the Federation have not yet been received. 


26. In connection with a dispute in Jaffa Port, the stevedores 
submitted four demands. Of these, two, namely the provision 
of minimum wage-fixing machinery and the protection of workers 
employed in loading and unloading ships, had already been the 
subject of reports by the Labour Legislation Committee. 


Another of the stevedores’ demands was referred to the 
Committee during 1936, namely the question of recognizing a 
prescribed number of hours as constituting a normal day’s 
work, overtime being chargeable at special rates. Owing to 
the abnormal conditions at Jaffa during the strike, the considera- 
tion of this question has had to be postponed. 


27. Early in the year the Labour Legislation Committee con- 
sidered whether legislation was necessary in order to apply to 
Palestine the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on 


143 


Native Labour on the Recruitment of Labour. Their recom- 
mendations in this regard are now under consideration by the 
Palestine Government. 


28. In reply to a question raised at the examination of the 
1935 Report by the Permanent Mandate Commission (Minutes, 
page 159), the following information is supplied in regard to the 

artial application in Palestine of the Minimum Wage Fixing 
Machinery Convention, 1928. 


A Bill (the draft Masters and Servants Ordinance) was 
published in May, 1935, containing provision whereby the High 
Commissioner in Council may by order fix a minimum wage 
and providing that any person paying less than a minimum 
wage so fixed shall be liable to a penalty and that any person 
who has been paid less than the minimum wage may recover the 
difference between the amount he has received and the minimum 
wage. z 

The High Commissioner is also empowered to appoint 
advisory boards to enquire into and advise upon any question 
arising out of the employment of persons or upon the terms and 
conditions of employment. 


There have been many criticisms of the Bill, the considera- 
ton of which by the Labour Legislation Committee was delayed 
by the disturbances. The final recommendations of the Com- 
mittee have now been received and are at present receiving the 
attention of Government. 


29. During the year, factory inspection has been carried out 
chiefly by the Government Welfare Inspector, assisted by 
District Officers, so far as possible. 


Work in Arab factories was stopped entirely for more than six 
months owing to the general strike and work was also restricted 
in Jewish factories owing to the disturbances. | 

A number of factories are still working only half-time or with 
two shifts of workers in order to give more employment. 

During the year, 65 factories and workshops have been in- 
spected. There is no great problem of child labour in the 
factories of Palestine. In a small number of cases in which 
children under 14 years of age were found working they were 
sent to their homes. In the large majority of cases the youth 
employed are well over 16 years of age. 


30. The duties of the Government Welfare Inspector comprise 
the following (Minutes, page 148) :— 
(1) Inspection of the Women’s Prison and Lock-ups. 
(i) Superintendent of the Girls’ Reformatory Home. 
(ii) Acting as Probation Officer for girls. 


144 
(iv) Investigation of problems affecting women— 
(a) The immigration of Cypriot girls for marriage to 
Palestinians. : 
_ (6) The hiring of girls on long contracts for domestic 
service. 
(v) The inspection of factories and workshops, under 
the Employment of Women and Children Ordinance. 
(vi) Relief Work on occasions of disturbances, floods, 
earthquakes, etc. 
(vii) Participation in the work of the Cinematograph 
Films Censorship Board. 
(viii) Secretary of Labour Legislation Committee. 


XVIII.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 

The Firearms Ordinance, 1922, was amended during the year 
to enable any police officer to effect a search, without having 
obtained a warrant to do so, of vessels and vehicles and packages 
upon suspicion of their containing firearms or ammunition. | 


2. The following firearms and ammunition were seized and — 
confiscated by the police during 1936:— 


Type. Serviceable, Unserviceable. 
Rifles oe abs ut = cdl 317 II 
Pistols and revolvers vis oe ae 307 12 
Shotguns ... eae ais ve - 73 8 
Bombs and grenades sere ee 420 23 
Rifle ammunition, rounds — 13,903 — 
Pistol and revolver ammunition, rounds 3,087 — 


A noteworthy feature was the number of bombs and grenades 
seized. They were of several kinds, including Mills and some 
types used by Germany and Turkey during the War; also a 
number of home-made bombs fashioned out of iron piping and 
filled with pieces of scrap metal. 


3. The following is a table of seizures effected on or near the 
Palestine—Trans- Jordan frontier : — 


Police : ; re : 

Date. Divison: Firearms seived. Circumstances of setzure. 
18th February Nablus One rifle (with From a shepherd who crossed 
three rounds of into Palestine from Trans- 


ammunition). Jordan with three sheep. 
28th February Safad One revolver ... From an illegal immigrant at 
| Jisr Banat Yacoub. 
6th April ... Safad One revolver ... Found in the house of an 


accused person at Ras él 
Ahmar. 


145 


Police : : : 
Date. Divison. Fivearms seized. Circumstances of seizure. 
‘goth May ... Tiberias One revolver ... From an Arab entering Pales- 
tine at Jisr el Majamie. 
6th May =... Tiberias One automatic From an Arab entering Pales- 
pistol. tine at Jisr el Majamie. 
6th July ... Tiberias Onerifle - ... Found during search of a 
house at Jisr Sheikh 
Hussein. 
16th July ... Jerusalem One revolver ... From an Arab who had just 
Rural entered Palestine from 
. Trans- Jordan. 
22nd September Tiberias One rifle ... Found during a search at 
Two rifles ... Bawati Khanaan. 
20th December Tiberias One rifle ... From an Arab at Zabe village. 


4. The number of persons convicted under the Firearms 
" Ordinance, 1922, during the years 1935-6 was: 1935, 575; 
1936, 522. (Minutes, page 158. | 


Licensed Firearms. 


_5. Firearms licensed during 1936 were in excess of those 
licensed during the previous year. This was mainly due to the 
issue Of provisional licences to carry firearms for protection 
during the disturbances. Persons so privileged were chiefly 
Government officers, bank officials, and isolated landowners. 
In the Nablus Police Division alone, 465 provisional licences to 
cary shot-guns were issued to Jewish landowners. 


6. The following table gives details of licences issued during 
1935 and 1936:— 








1936. 
Pistols 

Shotguns.| Rifles. and 

Revolvers. 
771 30 165 
975 36 160 
1,095 48 53, 
391 23 30 
456 13 42 
168 39 6 
3,856 189 456 4,480 


Increase | Increase | Increase 
12 182 624 





146 





Liquors. ) 

7. The variation in the numbers of factories licensed to ma 

facture intoxicating liquors and spirits during the past five yj 
was as follows: — 


I93I 1932 T933 934 I935 TG. 
Spirits — 22 23 16 15 16 1 
Wine wale siete 14 15 15 15 14 L 
Beer ... ee ae ae — I 

Total 36 38 31 30 31 

Their output was :— 

Other | 
Year, ° Wine Arak Beer Cognac Spirit: 
Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. 
1931 3,838,652 52,568 — 147,250 196,80. 
1932 3,155,928 52,944 — 160,720 420,91: 
1933 1,629,125 38,307 — 121,292 686,9% 
1934 2,378,922 41,855 See 203,495 853,6% 
1935 2,619,980 51,611 242,000 295,539 eee | 
1936 2,257,556 58,540 1,954,786 187,593 —- 1,070,234 


The quantity of arak produced as shown above represents thi 
quantity of spirit resulting from first distillation. ; 


In 1936, 162,789 litres of alcohol of fruits (included on fm 
distillation as “‘ other spirits ’’) and 22,530 litres of alcohol « 
grapes (included on first distillation as cognac) were re-distille 
into arak, producing 181,456 litres. 


8. The abnormal conditions generally which __prevailet 
throughout the country for six months owing to the disturbance! 
and in particular the imposition of curfew for lengthy periods 
in some of the major towns and several villages rendered ! 
impossible adequately to gauge the practical effects of the te 
cation of the Sale of intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 1935. The 
operation of this measure will be carefully watched during the 


year 1937. 7 


9. In connection with Count de Penha Garcia’s inquiry at the 
twenty-ninth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission as 
to whether falsification of liquors for export took place on a large 
scale and in respect of well-known brands of alcoholic beverages 
and spirits, investigations were made but disclosed no evidence 
of any such falsification. (Minutes, page 161.) 


tr , 


147 
lo. Incidence of Drunkenness during 1935 and 19306. 








ed to 1935. 1936. 
sts _ 
| Number of persons convicted. Number of persons convicted. 
3 \ 
6 | O On 
: Once. On two | On three peace Once. On two | On three or ad 
OCCASIONS. OCCASIONS.| occastons.\joccastons 
| i ‘|occastons. ‘joccastons. 
Be ep gee a a ee ete ee ee 
575 | 44 6 5 319 | 30 2 
“ans 97 6 = i ee 69 5 I = 
oa 52 4 2 2 27 7 — 
eas oC aaa ( —_—— | 
al | 724] 54 8 | 7 | 415 | 42 7 2 





‘, she imposition of curfew in a number of towns during the 
‘Sturbances was no doubt the prime cause of the reduction in 
e number of ‘‘ first offenders ’’. 


44 , . . 
«11. The distribution of cases among the various police 
: lvisions was:— 

ack Number of Persons Convicted for Drunkenness. 


: On four or 
a On two On three more 

Division. Once. OCCASIONS. occasions. OCCASIONS. 
érsbrusalem Urban... 43 2 2 — 
frusalem Rural 3 — — oe 
Kbron ee is = _ = 
or Maifa Urban sas I I 3 I 
~ Haifa Rural eee se ne aa == 
1 pre s 3 I 2 I 
*"fafla Urban 146 6 a — 
Ria Rural 2 — — — 
el Aviv ged 16 9 Bs as 
a les I 3 a ae aa 
, Nablus 6 6 a = 
rin ee a sus! Ze 
. ulkarm I ees paueere 
Nazareth i 4 _ _ 
Safad be cae woae earn 
Gaza — a _ a 
es Beersheba 2 a os ae 
Total a 415 42 7 2 


12. The Permanent Mandates Commission at its twenty-ninth 
- <sssion requested information in regard to the practical applica- 
Fa of the new legislation affecting the control of the trade in 
angerous drugs. (Minutes, page 208.) 


41526 F 


148 


The Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 1936, was enacted on 18h 
March, 1936. This Ordinance, besides consolidating the exist: | 
ing legislation which was repealed (Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 
1925, and the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Ordinances, 192! 
and 1932) brought the law into conformity with the Internationa 
Convention of 1931 for limiting the Manufacture and Regulating 
the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs. (Minutes, page 161.) 

In conformity with the objects of the Convention the 
manufacture and conversion of dangerous drugs in Palestine is 
forbidden. The conversion, preparation, and manufacture of 
any drug obtained from the phenanthrene alkaloids of opium 
or from the ecognine alkaloids of coca leaves are prohibited. 
A new provision makes it an offence to keep or to permit the 
sale or the smoking of opium or hashish on any premises. 
Offences have in general been more specifically defined, and in 
addition the proof of documents produced as a matter of defence 
in prosecutions is placed upon the defence. 

Codeine and dionin have been brought within the scope of the 
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance. 

The control of dangerous drugs in transit or diverted has been 
more effectively provided for. The various certificates and 
authorizations governing import, export, and diversions have 
been revised to conform with the recommendations of the 
International Convention of 1931. 


International Opium Convention. 

13. The number of import certificates for — drugs 
granted during the year was 302. 

Actual imports were as follows: — 


t ee 
Medicinal opium Bs ee wee 12.445 
Opium in the form of preparations a 18.650 
Indian hemp in the form of galenical 
preparations (tinctures and extracts) ... 6.025 
Morphine . ime o ses be 5-705 
Diacetylmorphine Pa ane 341 
Cocaine a dies si at ah Lise 
Eucodal ne $4 oe ace ae 0.308 
Dicodide a4 98 ue ote cae 0.486 
Dilaudide ‘eh oe sae ve abe 0.051 
Acedicone a — i se 0.002 


14. Mention was made in the report for 1935 (paragraph II, 


Chapter XVIII) that there were indications of increased activity 
in the smuggling of opium to and through Palestine. _ The | 
following seizures by the Police during 1936 confirm this 
supposition. (Minutes, page 161.) 


| 


149 
Narcotic Drugs Confiscated during 1936. 


Year. Hashish. Opium. Cocaine. Others. 
Kilos. Kulos. Grammes. 
193500 ue ese 2597 33° 507 97 Nil 
1936 af ..  45°624 QI+007 7 Nil 


Of the ninety-one kilogramines of opium seized, over forty- 
two kilogrammes were seized in Haifa, nineteen in Acre, four 
in Jaffa, seven in Safad, and fourteen in Gaza. 


One hundred and three persons were prosecuted in connection 
with the illicit drug traffic, of whom eighty-seven were convicted 
and sixteen were awaiting trial at the end of the year. Fines 
ranged from 500 mils to £P.110, and terms of imprisonment 
from seven days to two years. The fines imposed amounted in 
the aggregate to about £P.400 and the terms of imprisonment 
awarded to twelve years. 


Anti-Narcotic Measures. 


15. The measures taken by the Police for the suppression of 
traffic in narcotic drugs include supervision of the movements of 
known drug dealers, employment of agents to collect informa- 
ton, exchange of information with other Governments, patrolling 
poets, and searches of vehicles and animals en route tor 

eypt. 

_ With a view to preventing the smuggling of narcotic drugs 
into Palestine by ocean-going steamers, Customs guards and 
members of the Port and Marine police are posted on all ships 
entering the ports of Jaffa and Haifa during their period of 
Stay. Lighters, motor launches, and fishing vessels are closely 
examined and lightermen, stevedores, other port workmen, and 
crews of visiting craft are carefully searched on coming ashore. 

e baggage of incoming passengers is examined by the Customs 
authorities. Prompt advance information in regard to suspect 
ships or individuals coming to Palestine is passed to the Customs 
authorities by the Criminal Investigation Department of the 
Palestine Police. 


XIX.—EDUCATION. 


The educational work of the Department of Education in the 
school year 1935-36 proceeded normally during the first two 
tems, but was seriously interrupted by the disturbances which 
broke out in April and continued to the end of the session. 

uring those first two terms the expansion of Arab elementary 
‘ducation, begun in 1933, was continued. The Hebrew public 
system also expanded considerably at the beginning of the year, 
and the disturbances did not materially affect work in Jewish 
schools. In the following comparative table the figures for the 

41526 F2 


150 
year under review are from the returns of the first or second 
term and not of the third term as usual. 


January or 
July, 1935. March, 1936. 





Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. 


Avab Schools :— 
Arab Public System atdeied 


ment) Schools a 350 36,005 _ 384 
Other schools :— 
Moslem schools coe es 190 11,788 183 
Christian schools’... oe *179 19,594 187 
Total—-Arab Schools beg 719 67,387 754 


Jewish Schools :— 
Hebrew Public System bts ad 





Leumi) Schools ue 317 34,071 354 41,147 

Other schools ... =e or 175 17,243 200 19,064 
Total—Jewish Schools... 492 51,314 554 60,211 ° 

Grand Totals ... det 1,21r | 118,701 1,308 | 136,971 


*In last year’s report the figures given, namely, 165 schools and 17,854 
pupils, were not the final figures of the year. 

The ‘‘ Christian Arab ’’ schools include all those maintained 
by Missionary bodies. 

The 76,760 pupils in “ Arab” schools (54,437 boys and 
22,323 girls) comprise 54,020 Moslems (42,039 boys and 11,981 
girls), i.e., 70- 3 per cent., 20,874 Christians (11,248 boys and 
9,626 girls), i , 27-2 per cent., 986 Jews (467 boys and 519 
girls), 1.e., I- = per cent., and 880 others (683 boys and 197 
girls), 1.e., 1-2 sae cent. 

The 60,211 pupils in Jewish schools (31,178 boys and 29,033 
girls) include 17 ae and 7 Christians. 


2. No fresh legislation was enacted since the promulgation 
of the Education Ordinance and Regulations in 1933. 


3. The disturbances which broke out in April deeply affected 
Government schools. Practically all the town schools were 
compelled to close owing to the non-attendance of pupils. In 
the villages, conditions were not uniform. In the early stages 
of the disturbances about 77 per cent. village schools remained 
open, chiefly in the districts of Galilee and Samaria, while later 
on the percentage fell to 52-4 per cent. 


4. The number of classified officers employed by the Depart- 
ment in December, 1936, was 1,008, against 972 in 1935, of 
whom 14 were British and the rest, with very few exceptions, 
Palestinians. 


I5I 


5. The expenditure by the Department of Education in the 
school year 1935-36 on education services was approximately 


as follows : — 


(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Arab and Hebrew). 
Overhead Charges :— 


Salaries 
Other Charges 


(b) Schools :— 


(i) Government (Arab) :— 
Salaries ... 
Grants to local authorities for school buildings 
Books, furniture and equipment 
Scholarships, maintenance, allowances, etc.. 


(ii) Non-Government :— 

Block Grant to Hebrew Public System aes 

Special capital grant to School for Oriental 
Jews ... 

Per capita grant t to other schools :— 
Jewish... ; ee 
Moslem ; 

Christian (including foreign) | 


(c) Miscellaneous -— 


Grant to Board of Higher Studies 
Transport and Travelling ... 
Other minor charges 


£P. 
18,812 
352 





144,237 
6,725 
14,117 
6,755 





35,400 
300 


2,210 
1,496 
1,338 





500 
4,170 
757 





£P. 


19,164 


171,834 


40,7 50 


5427 





£P.237,175 





_ _ The revenue from the sale of books and school materials 
in Government schools amounted to £P.1,618 and that from fees 


to £P.2,880, a total of £P.4,408. 


6. The distribution of educational benefits between Arabs and 
Jews was based on the proportion of school age population as 
then estimated, and educational expenditure incurred by other 
Government Departments was included in the calculation. 





The actual expenditure by the Department under ‘‘ Schools ”’ 
Was apportioned as follows :— 
Arab Schools :— £P. £P. 
Government 171,834 
Non-Government 2,334 
174,668 
Hebrew Schools :— 
Hebrew Public oye a Fe 35,400 
Others... ae ea 2,516 
37,916 





Re benefits to Arab schools are gross, and should be reduced 
-4,498 the amount of the revenue from sales and tees 


mete above. 
41526 


oe 


152 


7. The following additional amounts were expended in 
1935/36 by other Government Departments upon educational 


services :— 


Approximate 
Department. Object. Amount. 
LP. 

Agriculture ... supply of trees . beds 385 
Health ... ... Hygiene and Medical Care of Pupils aes 1,825 
Secretariat .... Printing and Stationery _... : age 400 
Treasury... ... Housing Allowance ... Sa a ee 136 
Public Works 

(Recurrent) ... Rent, repairs, office furniture, etc. _ 15,680 


These figures exclude any share of overhead charges for 
salaries and other administrative expenditure by the 
Departments concerned. 

The Health Department paid a grant of £P.1,765 to the Vaad 
Leumi towards the maintenance of a health service in Jewish 
schools. 

In addition, the following sums were expended during the 
year by the Public Works Department on new Government 
schools or on additions to existing Government schools:— 





LP. 
From the Public Works ues pase yaa 12,180 
From Loan Works budget _... as 56,066 
£P.68,246 





From surplus balances in anticipation of the raising of the 
£P.2,000,000 Loan the Public Works Department also spent 
#,P.1,120 on the Hebrew Technical Institute, Haifa. 

The net expenditure of all Departments was distributed as 
follows :— 





LP. 
Arab education ve hee — oe oe 261,330 
Jewish education 41,740 
Administration—Department « ‘of Education / (Arab 
and Jewish) . : : st 19,164 
Total iste .. £P.322,234 





If the expenditure on Administration and the expenditure by 
Public Works from its Extraordinary and Loan Funds budgets 
are excluded, the net expenditure was distributed as follows:— 


LF. 
Arab education a sa wes .-s 193,084 
ewish education ae aes ue ais 0,620 
J 4 





£P.233,704 





8. There are no exact figures of the total expenditure of 


T53 


private bodies, and especially of foreign organizations. 


figures for the Jewish Public System are given in paragraphs 


22 and 23 below. 


9. The numbers of children in the age group 5-15 at the time 


. 


of the 1931 Census were approximately :— 


Moslems ... 
Christians 
Jews 


Boys. 
85,700 


9,940 
17,160 





112,800 


Girls. 

71,900 
9,140 

17,440 





98,480 


Total. 
157,600 

19,080 

34,000 





211,280 











The above figures refer only to the settled population, as no 
age-returns were obtainable from the Beduin or nomad 
population. 

On the 30th September, 1936, the school age population, 5-15, 
was estimated to be as follows:— 


Arab and other non-Jews :— 








Settled 237,321 
Beduin 23,400 
260,721 
Jews tak ues ee: 60, 384 
Total 321,105 





_ Thus the proportion of Jewish to non-Jewish children at that 
time was approximately 23 per cent. 


The pupils attending schools in January, 1937, were as 




















follows. The age range is 3-20, but the majority are in the 
range 5-I5:— 
Boys. Girls. Total. 
Arabs and other non-Jews :— 
Moslems 42,053 11,984 54,037 
Christians sea 11,249 9,632 20,881 
Other denominations ... 683 197 880 
Total 53,985 21,813 75,798 
Jews ; 31,630 29,543 61,173 
Grand Totals 85,615 51,356 136,971 








These figures do not include pupils in a small number of 
Christian schools which have rendered no statistical returns; 
but they include the whole population, settled and nomad. 


10. Education in Palestine is not compulsory and is by no 
means universal. The extent of education varies considerably 
41526 F4 


154 


among the various religious communities. Thus in the Jewish 
and Christian communities almost 100 per cent. of the children 
receive education of some kind or other; the period of schooling 
varies from about 5 years to Io years or more, the average being 
about 8-9 years. In the Moslem community the extent of educa- 
tion is smaller, as it has not been possible yet to meet the public 
demand for schooling. Further, the demand for the education 
of girls in Moslem villages, though increasing, has been relatively 
small, while at the same time there are great difficulties to 
contend with in the supply of women teachers to villages. 
Roughly speaking, the percentages of Moslem children who 
receive education for some period or other, however insufficient, 
have been estimated as follows :— 


Boys. Girls. 
Per cent. Per cent. 
In towns ae se Sais 75 45 
In villages... sais sieve 40 I: 


The period of schooling averages about six years in Govern- 
ment town schools and four to five years in Government village 
schools. The average in Moslem non-Government schools is 
believed to be less. 


10A. During the examination of the Annual Report for 1935 
an enquiry was made by the Permanent Mandates Commission 
whether it would not be an advantage to introduce regulations 
compelling parents to send their children to school, such regu- 
lations to be introduced in respect of children who had alread 
been admitted to the Government Schools. (Minutes pages Boca 


There is no apparent necessity for this measure since, in 
general, children in the Arab and Jewish public school systems 
prolonged their attendance voluntarily for the minimum period 
necessary for permanent literacy. 


If this period of attendance is extended by law or regulation, 
either a greatly increased financial provision must be made for 
education or, since the number of schoo] places will otherwise 
remain constant, the number of annual entries to the bottom 
class must be reduced. 


tos. With regard to the remark in the Annual Report of the 
Government Department of Education for 1934 that Jewish 
children leave school at Io-1I years of age, it is the case that 
a proportion of the pupils voluntarily leave after completion of 
the fourth or fifth elementary class. Although the average age 
of these classes is 10 and I1 respectively, the pupils ceasing 
attendance after completion of these classes are not, aS was 
implied in the Annual Report, usually aged Io to 11, but are 
generally older pupils. (Minutes, page 139). 


T55 ' 
It is probably true that almost all pupils voluntarily attend 


school long enough and complete enough standards to secure 
permanent literacy. 


School Fees. 


Ir. Avab Public Systems.—In the Government kindergartens 
and elementary schools education is free. In the secondary day 
schools students are required to pay £P.3 a year. Day students 
at the Government Arab College and the Women’s Training 
College pay £P.6 a year and boarders pay £P.24 and £P.21 
respectively. A number of pupils in the secondary schools are 
exempted from payment of any fees when poverty is established. 


In the Kadoorie Agricultural Schools (Arab and Jewish) 
the students pay £P.24 a year for tuition and board. The board- 
ing fees for pupils in the hostels at Tulkarm and Jenin are £P.10 
a year, 


Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees 
paid very rarely exceed £P.1 a year, and are usually less than 
500 mils; in some places the practice of paying fees in kind 
persists. 

In the town schools the fees rise to £P.2.500 mils a year. In 
Raudat al-Ma‘aref College at Jerusalem the tuition fees in the 
elementary classes are £P.6 a year and in the secondary classes 
they rise to £P.8. The boarders pay £P.36 a year. 


Jewish Schools.—The education rates and other revenues 
which support the Hebrew public schools are, in many localities 
supplemented by school fees assessed according to the means of 
the parents and the grade of the class. Total exemptions as 
well as part remissions of fees are frequent. 


In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or main- 
tained by local authorities, the fees range from £P.6 to £P.12 
a year. In the elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to 

.I2 and in the higher classes of the secondary schools rise as 
high as £P.26. 7 | 

In the majority of the purely private schools the fees charged 
lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciably 

gher. | 

At the boarding section of the Reali Secondary School at 
Haifa, local pupils are charged £P.9 a month and pupils from 
abroad £P.10. ~ 

At the agricultural boarding schools the fees, charged vary 
from £P.30 to £P.72 a year. | 

In the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, 
the fees, if any, are generally small. 


156 


Christian Schools.—No information is available regarding the 
fees charged in the schools under the Latin Patriarch, the Greek 
Catholic Archbishop of Galilee and certain consular officers. 


In some of the German secondary schools the maximum fee 
is £P.5 a year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the 
secondary classes. In the Syrian Orphanages the maximum fee 
paid by a boarder is £P.20 a year. 


In the European and American Missionary town schools the 
maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in the large majority of these schools the fees are very much 
lower. In the secondary classes the fees range from £P.6 to 
£P.15 a year. In addition to tuition fees, boarders pay boarding 
fees which do not usually amount to more than £P.35 a year. 
£P.57 a year is charged i in the English Preparatory School of the 
Jerusalem Girls’ College. 


Generally speaking, no fees are charged in the village mission- 
ary schools nor any in the schools of the Orthodox Patriarchate. 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


12. During 1935-36, 965 classified teachers were employed in 
Government schools, compared with 884 the previous year. Of 
these five were British and the rest Arabs. There were in 
addition 185 unclassified teachers, mainly in villages, paid by 
Government, and 13 paid by local authorities. Thus the total 
number of teachers in Government schools was 1,163 (1,036 in 
1935). Six women teachers resigned on marriage, and three for 
other reasons. Iwo teachers retired on pension. 


13. Elementary Education.—In the first term of the School 
year 1935-36 there were 382 Government elementary schools 
with 42,630 pupils (348 and 35,868 in the previous school year). 

The following table gives the number and percentages of appli- . 
cations for admission to Government schools accepted and 
deferred in September, 1935 :— 


1935- 
Towns. Villages. 








No. 





No. 





Per cent. Per{cent. 





Applied dit 
Accepted ... te 4,434 59 
Deferred ... is 


6,476 58 






Owing to the disturbances, no significant figures are available 
for the year 1936. 


137 


Lack of accommodation still retards progress in the grading of 
classes by age. Entries are none for one, two, or three 
years; thus the age range of the lowest class is too wide and the 
average age of entry too high. 


The number of pupils who repeat the lowest class has been 
further reduced, but ‘‘ repeaters ’’ for the lower elementary 
course are still somewhat numerous. The average length of 
school life is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


14. Town Schools.—The following table gives statistics for 
town schools in 1935 and 1936:— 


I934-35- 


Schools. Pupils. 


38 10,044 
29 7,123 


67 17,167 





About 1,278 village boys and 132 village girls attended town 
schools. Iwo small hostels attached to town schools for the 
benefit of these villagers were opened, but, in general, villagers 
attending town schools are badly lodged under their own 
arrangements. The boarding school for the children of Bedu 
sheikhs at Beersheba accommodated 56 boys. 


_In January, 1936, a seventh (top) elementary class existed 
In I9 boys’ and in 12 girls’ schools in towns, with 553 boys and 
196 girls. The disturbances interrupted their studies, and none 
of them can therefore be said to have completed the elementary 
course. 


A commercial class was opened in September, 1935, at the 
Jafia elementary-secondary school for boys who have com- 
pleted the second secondary class. Instruction is through English 
— Arabic, and French is also taught. Four boys joined the 
class, 


A Government school was erected in Jerusalem out of surplus 
balances advanced in anticipation of the raising of the 
£P.2,000,000 Loan. It was opened in February, 1936, but was 
occupied by the troops in June owing to the disturbances. Build- 
ing operations were also ete on another school at Jerusalem 
and on three schools at Jaffa. The contracts were awarded to 
Jews and little progress was possible during and since the 
disturbances. At Haifa a site for one school was bought and 
sites for two more schools were selected. The Government Trade 


158 
School at Haifa was completed, but was taken over temporarily 
as a base hospital by the Army. 


15. Rural Schools.—The following table gives figures for 
village schools in 1934-5 and 1935-6: — 











1934-35: 1935-36. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. | Pupils. 
For Boys sie ae sae 269 17,693 295 21,524 
For Girls — ae Zee 14 ! 1,145 20 1,463 
ee ie ee 
Totals... i 283 | 18,838 315 | 22,987 


Two village schools were closed in 1935-6 and 29 new schools 
were opened. 


Fifty-one villages erected new buildings or made additions to 
existing buildings. The villagers paid about £P.5,400 and 
Government contributed £P.5,675, the grant being reckoned 
at about £P.75 for each room constructed. 


Out of the 315 village schools, 244 included the full four 
years of the elementary course, or more. Higher elementary 
classes existed in 56 villages. Of the 71 schools which have not 
yet developed the four year course, 47 have been established 
within the last two years. 


Practically every village school has now a small library for 
the use of its teacher, pupils, old pupils, and adults generally. 
Circulating libraries also operate in two groups of villages, in 
the north and in the south, and the experiment has proved its 
value. 


Evening classes for illiterate adults were conducted in four 
villages. 


16. Secondary Schools.—There were 496 pupils in the 
secondary classes of 13 Government schools, as against 396 the 
previous year. These figures include the students at the two 
Colleges in Jerusalem, but not the post matriculation class of 
the Government Arab College. 


17. Government Arab College.—Fifty-four new students were 
admitted in September, 1935, making a total of 94, of whom 18 
were Christians and the rest Moslems. 

The College was reopened on 22nd Apmil after the Easter 
vacation, but had to be immediately closed again owing to the 
attitude taken by the students in sympathy with the Arab strike. 
The students of the fourth class, except two, refrained from 





159 
taking as usual the Palestine Matriculation Examination (see 
paragraph 31 below). 
The building was occupied early in the summer by soldiers, 


and, being still occupied at the end of December, it could not 
be reopened during 1936. 


18. Training of Teachers.—(a) The fifth or training class at 
the Government Arab College did not complete the year, and 
no diploma examination was held in July as usual. 


(b) Seventeen new students were admitted to the Women’s 
Training College in September, 1935, making a total of 63, of 
whom 19 were Christians and 44 Moslems. | 

The Women’s Training College students did not go on strike 
and the College remained open as usual till the end of the 
session. In the diploma examination held in July, 1936, 14 out 
of 15 passed. 


(c) The Men’s Rural Training Centre at Tulkarm had ten 
students, including two from Trans-Jordan. It was established 
In 1933 in order to train male teachers for village schools, atten- 
tion being devoted principally to the practical side of teaching 
and of agriculture. The Centre was affected by the strike, and 
the session was interrupted towards the end of April. 


(d4) A Women’s Rural Training Centre was qpened in 
Ramallah, in November, 1935, under a British principal. It 
Is intended for Moslem women village teachers, and aims at 
giving a two-years’ course in practical village school work. 
Domestic work is emphasized. 


_ 19. Scholarships.—Six Government scholars were maintained 
in British universities and one in the Royal Normal College for 
the Blind. The latter completed his course and returned in the 
summer of 1936, and in September two more scholars were sent 
to England. Six scholars were maintained at the American 
University of Beirut; two graduated in the summer, but were 
teplaced by two others. Six scholars were maintained in trade 
schools in Egypt; four returned and three others were sent in 
September. Seven scholars were maintained in non-Government 
secondary schools in Palestine. All these scholars are Arabs. 


20. Hebrew Public System.—The Executive Education Com- 
mittee, consisting of representatives of the Jewish Agency, the 
aad Leumi, the Tel-Aviv Municipality, and the Organized 
Jewish settlements, other than Labour Centres, continued to be 
Tesponsible for the Hebrew public system. A representative of 


€ Department of Education attended most meetings of this 
committee. 


21. The disturbances did not greatly affect work in the 
schools; only four schools were closed for any length of time 


160 


owing to lack of security; two in the old city of Jerusalem and 
one each in Hebron and Acre. In order to keep children out 
of trouble as long as possible, the Jewish authorities postponed 
the termination of the summer term to the end of July. 


22. The estimates of the Jewish central authority for 1935-6 
aa an increase of £P.24,117 over the previous year, as 
ollows:— 








Revenue— 
1. Central Authorities— £P. £P. 
Jewish Agency oe ao sie ie 20,000 
Government ... ate ies se 3 39,400 
Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association... 2,800 
62,200 
2. Local Sources 
Tel-Aviv Municipality shea a. 28,027 
Other local authorities es <r ae 13,932 
School fees... Sate ie sie ae 16,585 
58,544 
3. Miscellaneous en deta ih me hed 1,348 
Total ... aoe £P.122,092 
Expenditure— £P. £P. 
1. Administration and Inspectorate— 
Salaries ree on been ae Shs 5,534 
Other charges ae aes se seis 400 
—— 5,934 
2. Schools— 
(i) Maintained schools. 
Salaries... els oe wee 89,720 
Rent and maintenance ... ae 3,320 
Furniture and equipment eee 2,525 
——_—_— 95,505 
(ii) Assisted schools. 
Grants to Labour schools as 6,000 
Grants to other schools ... ee 3,100 
eae 9,100 
3. Miscellaneous— 
Transport and travelling... ae yas 550 
Contribution to pension fund 5s wet 3,900 
Pensions and gratuities bed fue ops 1,662 
Cost of living allowances ... me oor 4,895 
Unforeseen ... = ue sue siete 486 
—__—__—- 11,493 
Total... nas £P.122,029 


The Government grant for the financial year 1935-6 was 
£P.36,000 as against £P.28,o00 in the previous financial year; 
the increase of £P.8,000 being due partly to the increase of 
Government expenditure on Arab education, partly to the 
inclusion of a deferred payment due from the financial year 


161 


- 1934-5. As this increase came into effect as from April, 1935, a 

- further sum of £P.4,000 was due in respect of the half-year 
April-September, 1935; of this sum only £P.600 was actually 
spent in that period and the balance of £P.3,400 was therefore 
available for the current school year 1935-6. 


23. The estimates shown in paragraph 22 are only in respect 
of the services maintained directly by the Vaad Leumi. Most 
of the expanded and new services are provided by the local 
authorities. The following table gives the actual cost of main- 
taining the schools in the Hebrew public system, mention being 
made of the sources of revenue:— 





Sources of Revenue. 

















Grade or Central. Local. Total 
Type Revenue 
of School. 
Per aoe j Fees. Total. Per 
odtes 
cent, cent 
£P gp. | £P. | gp £P 
Kindergartens 1-16] 37,667; 9,091| 46,758) 98-84] 47,307 
Elemen — 21°98] *127,237| 39,388) 166,625 78-02| 213,564 
Training Colleges 5,542| 49°66 1,600; 4,018 5,618| 50:34) 11,160 
Secon aids 780 1°53 1,920, 48,310} 50,236| 98-47] 51,016 
Trade... ese 48 4°00 1,050 110 I,160 96:00 1,208 
Administration 
Central) 85-58 400} 1,250/ 1,650, 14°42! 11,447 


RS |e | a EA | A SCY 


763,655 18-96 x69,874 102,173] 272,047 81-04} 335,702 











“Inclusive of administration expenses incurred by Local Authorities direct. 
*Comprises : £{P.39,400 (or 61-9 per cent.) from Government. 
£P.20 000 (or 31-4 per cent.) from Jewish Agency. 
£P. 4,255 (or 6-7 per cent.) from Palestine Jewish Colonisation 
Association. 


24. The following tables give comparative figures regarding 
schools and pupils : — 


Table I.—Administrative Groups. 





1934-35. 1935-36. 


Schools. Schools. 





162 
Table II1.—Types of Schools. 
1935-36. 






Schools. 






Schools. Puptls. 








Kindergartens 179 6,524 
Elementary 157 30,312 
Secondary ... ae II 3,021 
Training Colleges ... 511 
Trade gs on 61 
Agriculture 118 





The secondary schools also include elementary classes, and the 
purely secondary classes number about 1,884 pupils. 

The increased number of secondary schools is accounted for 
by the opening of a new school in Jerusalem, conjointly with 
the. Hebrew University, and by the incorporation of three 
‘* central ’’ schools established by the Labour wing in rural dis- 
tricts and attended by pupils from more than one locality; these 
sas not full secondary schools, and they have an agricultural 

las. 


25. The schools, especially the elementary schools, have con- 
tinued to show improvement. 

At the request of the Department of Education, further addi- 
tions were made to the number of weekly periods in elementary 
schools, raising those in classes 3 and 4 from 26 to 28, and in 
classes 5 and 6 from 31 to 32. Greater provision was made for 
furniture and equipment, manual work, and extra-curricular 
activities. 

Improvements were made in the elementary and secondary 
school leaving examinations. 

Fifty-five out of fifty-eight students of the top classes of three 
teachers’ colleges were awarded diplomas. For the first time, 
an external examination was held by the Vaad Leumi Depart- 
ment for teachers trained abroad: out of 40 only two passed. 

Much was done for adult education by local authorities and 
by semi-public bodies. 


26. Other Schools.—I. Moslem Schools.—The following are 
comparative figures for two years:— 


1934-35. 1935-36. 








é¢ Kuttabs dD 
(Village) 
Other Schools 












183 | 10,435] 1,840] 12,275 


163 
27. II. Christian Schools.—The following table gives com- 


‘ parative figures for two years. The figures are only approxi- 


mately correct, as some groups of Catholic schools, not always 


the same groups, have for some years past failed to render 
_ statistical returns. 











1934-35. 1935-36. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
' Catholic”... sas IOI 12,024 III 13,645 
Protestant se 42 4,438 42 4,819 
- Orthodox ... S25 28 2,666 26 2,700 
Others ... oa 8 466 8 556 
Total ees 179 19,594 187 21,720 


4 





The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by local and foreign bodies. Blank spaces indicate 
that no returns were received for the year or years in question. 





1934-35. 1935-36. 























Schools. 





Schools. | Pupils. 


(a) Palestinian 


Latin Partriarchate ... ae 2 1,556 I, 
Greek Orthodox Patriarchate ar 376 343 
Syrian Orthodox Patriarchate 2 144 asace 
Syrian Catholic Patriarchate — ar 25 
Armenian Catholic Patriarchate -- = 4 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate ... 4 642 609 
Orthodox Societies ... ee 6 1,004 1,037 
Custodia di Terra Santa... 15 2,855 3,973 
Greek Catholic Archbishopric — = 857 
Others no whe dak 9 571 75° 
81 7,649 9,064 

(b) Foreign 

French 38 5,173 5544 
British 20 2,231 2,374 
ey 20 2,137 2,395 
ali 14 1,739 1,701 
: it 5 443 434 
Wedish I 222 208 


11,945 


%. III. Jewish Schools (Not included in the Hebrew Public 


sig —The following table gives comparative figures for 
ears :— 


164 





Alliance Israelite Universelle .. 
Anglo-Jewish Association ; 
Women’s International Zionist Organi- 
zation iat she 
Agudat Israel Organization 
Ben Shemen Orphanage : 
Pekidim and Amarkalim of Palestine 
Under Private Control 


Total ... 








*In last year’s report the figures given there, namely 175 schools and 
17,243 pupils, were not the final figures for the year. 


As seen from this table, there has been a remarkable increase 
in the educational activities of the Agudat Israel] Organization. 
Some of these new schools closely follow the modern Hebrew 
type of school, though retaining their strictly religious character. 


29. Secondary and Post-Secondary Education and Examina- 
tions.—The following summaries show the numbers of schools 


in which secondary education was given:— 





Avab Public System. 
Training Colleges : 
Secondary Schools ... 


Moslem Schools 
Christian Schools. 
Teaching in English... 
» 9» French... 
»  », German 
» oa Greek ... 


Hebrew Public System. 
Training Colleges : 
Secondary Schools ... 

Private Jewish Schools 


Grand total 





165 


30. New regulations relating to the admission to the Govern- 
ment Law Classes in Jerusalem were published. During the 
year, the Classes had 191 students in the first and third years. 


31. Only 39, out of 117 candidates who had applied, sat for 
the Matriculation Examination in July. Of these ten did not 
complete the examination, twelve obtained the Matriculation 
Certificate, and seven qualified for the School Certificate. (See 
paragraph 17.) 


32. Hebrew University.—At the end of the year there were 
2 professors and 26 lecturers. 


The number of students was 620 (of whom one-third were 
, Women) as against 391 in the preceding year. 575 were under- 

graduates of whom 440 were in the Faculty of Humanities and 
135 in the Faculty of Science, and 45 were research students. 


six students in the Faculty of Humanities graduated with 
the degree of M.A., and the degree of M.Sc. was granted for 
the first time to rz students in the Faculty of Science. The 
total number of graduates is now 75, of whom 27 occupy teach- 
ing positions in schools and elsewhere. The degree of Ph.D. 
was given to a student in the Humanities for the first time. 


A Faculty of Science has been constituted formally, including 
_ the Institute of Mathematics, which had formerly belonged to 

the Faculty of Humanities. The teaching of Chemistry was 
_ Introduced on a limited basis for advanced students only. 


The following research laboratories were established: two 
laboratories for Cancer Research (in Radiology and in Experi- 
mental Pathology) as well as a laboratory of Meteorology. Pro- 
vision was also made for the development of further research 
facilities in existing departments, notably in Physics. Research 
Fellowships were established in Sociology and Applied 


Psychology. A lecturer in Modern Jewish History was 
appointed. 


_An agreement was signed with the Zionist Women’s Organiza- 
on Hadassah of America for joint action in the field of medical 
Tesearch and teaching. As a result, the erection of a medical 
Centre has begun. This will include a University Hospital, a 
medical school for research and post-graduate teaching, and a 
nurses’ school. 


Extension courses were given in various agricultural settle- 
ments during the Passover vacation. 


The construction of the University Club House and of the 
bio-climatological laboratory erected by Mr. M. Wilbuschewitz 
"as completed. Additional students’ laboratories in chemistry 
Were built and equipped. 


166 


The total expenditure of the University during the academic 
year amounted to about £P.95,000. Government continued 
its grant of about £P.500 towards research in anti-malarial and 
agricultural-veterinarial work. 


33. Language Examinations for Government Officers.— 
Fourteen out of 18 candidates passed the lower standard 
Arabic, and 12 out of 16 the lower standard Hebrew examina- 
tion; while in the higher standard examination, one out of 
four passed in Arabic and three out of six in Hebrew. The 
Arabic examinations were taken by 17 Jewish and five British 
officials, while the Hebrew examinations were taken by 20 Arab 
and two British officials. 


34. Government (Arab) Teachers’ Examinations.—At the 
Teachers’ Lower Certificate Examination, four out of 24 passed 
in Part I (Pedagogy) and seven out of 11 in Part II (School 
Subjects). At the Teachers’ Higher Certificate Examination, 
one out of two candidates passed in Part I (Pedagogy) and 
five out of 22 in Part II (School Subjects). 


35. Foreign Examinations.—Twenty-nine candidates (24 
Palestinian and five others) entered for London University 
Examinations conducted in Jerusalem, of whom eight (Pales- 
tinian) passed. Ten candidates also presented themselves for 
other British examinations, and five passed. 


36. Agricultural Education.—(a) Government  Schools.— 
There were 201 schools which had gardens, with a total area of 
2,106 dunums (about 526 acres). Of these gardens 89 were 
supervised by trained agricultural teachers. 


The school nurseries raised over 41,000 fruit trees during the 
year, and distributed 4,200 seedlings, either free or at a low 
price. Over 28,000 forest tree seedlings were also raised, and 
over 5,000 were similarly distributed. Three hundred and 
seventy dunums were planted with vegetables, and 120 dunums 
with cereals. 


In January, 1936, about 40,000 forest trees, 2,700 fruit trees, 
and 2,000 grape vines were planted by Government school 
pupils. 

Twenty schools kept bees with a total of 160 hives; poultry 
was raised in twenty schools, and rabbits in six schools. Expen- 
ments were made with preserving orange juice, extracting scent, 
and preserving eggs. 

Twenty-four demonstration plots for Arab farmers were 
worked by the schools in co-operation with the Agricultural 
Department. 


167 
At the Kadoone Agricultural Arab School, Tulkarm, 32 new 
students were accepted, making a total of 71, including 11 from 
Trans-Jordan. The school was closed for practically the whole 
of the third term on account of the Arab strike in which the 
students participated. The buildings were occupied by the Army 
and the school has not yet been re-opened. 


At the Kadoorie Agricultural Jewish School, Mount Tabor, 24 
new students were accepted, bringing the total up to 50. Owing 
to lack of security, the school was closed before the third term 
was finished, and the building was taken over by the military 
authorites. It re-opened towards the end of December, 1936. 


37. (b) Jewish and Other Schools.—Interest in school gardens 


in ie schools was sustained, but no marked progress was 
made. 


The following figures give the number of pupils in non-Govern- 


ment Schools where instruction in practical agriculture is 
given: — 


Boys. Girls. 
Jewish i st age 469 518 
Christian ©... st si gt 4 


38. Manual Training and Technical Education.—Progress 
Was made in the teaching of manual work in Government 
schools. Ninety benches and outfits of tools were issued, and 
22 village schools were supplied with carpentry and blacksmith’s 
tools. It has been found that for satisfactory results in the 
higher classes the specialist carpenter is essential. 


The Trade School for Arabs at Haifa was completed but has 
not yet been opened. (See paragraph 14.) 


39. The Max Pine Trade School at Tel-Aviv moved into its 
new building and had about 80 pupils. The New Bezalel School 


of Arts and Crafts in Jerusalem opened in November, 1935, with 
23 students. : 


40. The Hebrew Technical Institute, Haifa, had 409 
students. It provides a four-year course for civil engineers, 
architects, and mechanic-electrical engineers. | Admission is 
open only to holders of recognized secondary school-leaving 
ertiicates. Fifteen students took the final diploma examina- 
ton, controlled by Government, and ten passed. To the Institute 
ate attached a Trade School and a Technical Secondary School 
Comprising 83 and 76 pupils respectively. 


41. Education of Defectives.—There has been no appreciable 
ange in the number of blind and of deaf and dumb persons 


168 


cared for in special schools. The following are the figures fo: 
the year: — 


Deaf ayii 
Arabs :— Blind. dumb. 
Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem ... Se 8 in school na — 
7 in workshops ... _— 
Moslem Orphanage, Jerusalem ... ; 15 
Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul, jerikalen 18 in school eo 
15 working adults ... 13 
The ‘‘ Thankful Hearts’ League ”’ School 
for the Deaf ti a va) s), Jeru- 
salem... oo Io 
Jewish :— 
Institute of the Blind, Jerusalem ae, 50 —— 
Alliance Israelite School for the Deaf and 
and Dumb, Jerusalem .. ses — 24 


Some provision is made for se retarded and defective 
Jewish children in public and semi-private institutions at Tel- 
Aviv, Petah Tikvah, and Jerusalem. 


42. Physical Training, Athletics, Scouting, etc.—Progress was 
made with courses for teachers of physical training in Govern- 
ment schools and the general level of athletics was raised. 

Scouting and guiding suffered from the disturbances. There 
was a total of 3,358 Scouters, Scouts, Cubs and Rovers in the 
Boy Scouts (Arab) Association and approximately 800 Guides 
and Guiders. 

A new Association of Jewish Scouts (boys and girls) was 
established early in the year under the aegis of the Vaad Leumi 
department of education. 


Probation Service. 


43. The Probation Service, which used to be under the 
Judicial Department, was placed under the Department of 
Education on the 1st April, 1936. 


44. Further development in the treatment of the Young 
Offender was practically impossible during 1936 owing to the 
disturbances, but the progress made in the preceding year was 
maintained. 


45. In 1935, I,108 boys were dealt with by the Courts; in 
1936 the number was 1,437, of whom 1,114 were Moslems, 243 
Jews, and 80 Christians. This number includes 314 cases dealt 
with either under the Emergency Regulations or for offences 
directly connected with the political situation such as “ strewing 


nails on the highway ”’ 


169 


~ 46. It is now the general practice for magistrates to hear all 


cases against juveniles in camera, usually in chambers on 


regularly appointed days. This practice has anticipated the 


rovisions of the Juvenile Offenders Bill for the establishment of 
juvenile courts. 


47. The essential co-operation between Police and Probation 
Oftcers has been maintained. A more accurate checking of 
statistics of young offenders has become possible through the 


submission of quarterly returns from each police district to the 
Probation Office. 


48. The Principal Probation Officer kept in close touch with 
he Boys’ Reformatory School. With the help and co-operation 
of the Inspector-General of Police and Prisons, the institutional 
teatment of young offenders is being re-organized along recog- 


_ used lines. During the year, 50 of the older boys from the 
- Reformatory School at Tulkarm were transferred to the Govern- 


- ment stock farm, Acre, and are now housed in up-to-date huts 


othe farm. Provision was made for the purchase of land south 
of Jerusalem on which a new institution on the cottage home 


- plan will be built for younger boys. 


The number of boys committed to the Reformatory School 


- Was 129, as compared with 81 in 1935. This represents 8-9 per 


_ Cent. of the total cases dealt with as compared with 7-3 per cent. 


- 11935. The increase is due chiefly to a number of committals 


th 


. under the Emergency Regulations. 


49. The increase in the use of probation was continued during 
¢ frst quarter of the year, but there was a marked propor- 


~ tlonate decline in most districts during the disturbances. Boys 


fied Te 


to the number of 224 were placed on probation for periods vary- 
ng from 12 months to three years. 


With the exception of Jerusalem, all Courts are still served 
y honorary probation officers. Provision has been made for 
the appointment next year of full-time officers, both Arab and 
Jewish, in Jerusalem, Jaffa, and Tel-Aviv, and part-time officers 
in Nablus and Haifa. 

The regular visits of the Senior Probation Officer to the 
Northern District brought probation and kindred work in that 
district more into line with the rest of the country. 


50. There are 25 honorary probation officers, both Arab and 
Jewish. The Arab honorary probation officers for the most part 


- 4 headmasters of Government secondary schools, and the 


onorary probation officers are the trained social workers 


~. dfthe Department of Social Service of the Vaad Leumi and the 
“Social Service Department of the Municipality of Tel-Aviv. Their 


g help and co-operation is invaluable. 


170 


51. The Probation Staff maintained contact with institutions 
and organizations dealing with young people and is doing what 
it can to develop and encourage voluntary effort in the preven- 
tion of delinquency. The staff is represented on the Boys’ Work 
Committee of the Young Men’s Christian Association, the 
American Colony Playground Committee and the Community 
Service Committee of the Jerusalem Rotary Club. 


PROBATION OFFICE—JUVENILE OFFENDERS, 1936. 


Palestine. 
























x : 3 
é ry : : « 
=< ® do 
E} |e) lesl ied] S| [38] ol Sl fg 
District wos} | Sl gS 2218) | 8]8.l 8 E : 
° etd = ey 8B ZV Vs y S| =| & ; = 
BPA a | SL STA 8 L/S R ee x 8 2) Ay ae 
.i8e/ 3 1-8) 3188 Pal Fa M52] 8) wl] § | 3 
S23) s | S| S/S 8) SiS Sia 8) s| gies) Ss] S | 
= 1S S| o Sl o1e= SSRIs £ Say 2] =] Ss eam 
BR iGA w|S RlSx! Slaxjex HIG A} a} a |S 
1. Moslems. 
Jerusalem | 82 I 
Jaffa ... |136 3 
Nablus 69 4 
Haifa IIo 4 
Total.. 397 | 12 
2. Jews. 
Jerusalem | 48 a 
Jaffa... 104 2 
oie _ = 
Haifa... | 14 I 





re: | emma | om) ote 


Total... |166 | 16 


——— er | cree | ete | RS | 


. Christians. 
Jerusalem | 20 


Ww 


Jaffa... 3 - 
Nablus ... 4 = 
Haifa 7 - 
Total... | 34 _ 
GRAND | 
TOTAL [597 | 65 |177 |18 |32 | 24 |I0 I5 





Cases dealt with under the Emergency Regulations are included under the hea 
«« Political’. There was a considerable decrease in the number of “ wounding’ ma 
Although cases of “stone-throwing ”’ and “damage” show a decrease on the figure : 
1935 the actual number of such cases dealt with under the Emergency Regulation! 
very much greater than last year. 


This table does not include statistics of contraventions of Municipal By-Laws. 


171 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


1. Epidemic Diseases.—During 1936 there were 7,129 cases of 
notifiable disease reported, with 883 deaths, the corresponding 
figures for 1935 being 7,840 and 1,068. The majority of diseases 
showed a fall in the number reported, this being most marked 
in the case of typhoid fever, the number of cases of which fell 
irom 2,000 in 1935 to 1,148 in the year under review. The deaths 
irom this disease were 143 which figure gives a rather higher 
case mortality than in 1935. 


Diseases which showed an increased incidence include 
dysentery with 585 cases as against 465 last year, influenza with 
234 caseS aS Compared with 58 last year, and typhus which 
rose from 55 cases with three deaths in 1935 to 280 cases with 
two deaths this year. The incidence of this last disease remained 
fairly low until the early part of the summer, when it increased 
markedly to reach a peak in September. Thereafter it com- 
menced to decline, but at the end of the year the incidence was 
sll higher than at any time last year. The disease is of the mild, 
endemic, Murine type which has occurred sporadically in 
Palestine for a considerable number of years. Unsatisfactory 
housing conditions in many of the eural settlements, together 
with the considerable immigration of the past few years, which 
led to overcrowding and consequent recourse to temporary 
dwellings, has been instrumental in bringing the human popula- 
ton into closer contact with the rodent one which is the greatest 
lactor in the spread of this disease. 


There was no smallpox during the year, and the percentage of 


oe pepaiation protected by vaccination has been kept at a high 
evel, 


2. Ankylostomiasis.—The re-survey of the Jaffa district, 
though greatly hampered by the disturbances, was continued 
during the year, but will not be completed until 1937. 


In all, 2,968 examinations were made, 2,450 being first 
examinations before treatment, and 518 being re-examinations 
ater treatment. The percentage incidence of the untreated was 
32-4 per cent. and among those previously treated 7-8 per cent. 
_ asatisfactory decline. 


It is proposed to continue the re-survey in 1937 and to extend 
the investigation into the Jewish colonies engaged in citrus 
cultivation where already some evidence of hookworm infesta- 
ton is available. 


3. Schistosomiasis.—An investigation into the incidence of 
schistosomiasis in the Auja River basin (Jaffa district) was 


172 


inaugurated late in the year, but the figures are as yet too smail 
to have epidemiological value. It is significant, however, that 
already 64 cases of this disease have been investigated, all 
apparently infected in this particular area. 


Further investigations will be carried out during 1937. 


4. Tuberculosis.—Clinics for tuberculosis cases were held 
during the year in the principal centres but, as special and inst- 
tutional treatment is not yet available, attendances have been 
disappointing. 


5. Venereal diseases.—The specialist medical officer appointed 
for this work, after completing a course of instruction in the 
United Kingdom, took up his duties, and special clinics were 
opened in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Haifa, and Nablus, as part of a 
general departmental scheme. A full-time medical officer was 
also posted to the Hebron district to provide for a systematic 
campaign against the endemic syphilis prevalent in that district. 

The appointment of two women medical officers has enabled 
valuable work to be carried out among women through the 
medium of gynaecological clinics. 


6. Malaria.—Despite difficulties arising from the disturbances, 
routine anti-malarial measures were maintained in all districts, 
and in only a few isolated instances did failure to secure control 
result in a slight increase in the incidence of malaria. 


The absence of endemic malaria in urban areas is reflected 
in the low spleen rate 1-67 per cent. based on the examination 
for spleen enlargement of 21,162 children under 12 years of 
age. The consolidated spleen rate in rural areas was 6-68 per 
cent. based on 28,827 children examined. 


7. Considerable progress was made with the major drainage 
schemes. 

The drainage of Birket Ramadan was almost completed by 
the end of the year, the lower part of the main channel having 
been concreted. ) 

The Basset Yazourieh (Jaffa district) drainage scheme was 
completed, and functioned satisfactorily during the heavy rains 
late in the year. 

The Musharifa scheme near Ras-el-Nakoura was completed. 


A complete overhaul of the Nahr Rubin drainage channels 
was commenced and will be completed, it is hoped, in we 
spring of 1937. 

Considerable work had to be carried out on the shore of Lake 
Tiberias, consequent upon the artificial raising and lowetns 
of the Lake by the Palestine Electric Corporation. 





173 


Permanent filling work was carried out at Tabgha, 


ta and other parts of the Lake shore with satisfactory 
results. 


The Ain Mudawwara drainage scheme near Migdal on the 
Lake Shore was also completed. 


Plans for a large permanent scheme for the Na‘amein River 


(Haifa Bay) basin were in preparation and a survey of this area 
commenced. 


8. Infectious Diseases. 








I935. 7936. 
Diseases. 
Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
hee ee 
ote Poliomyelitis oes 19 3 21 5 
Anthrax ick wes Les 33 6 31 4 
(tbro-Spinal Meningitis 169 75 107 52 
iphtheria... he 335 43 257 26 
Insentery 0. 0. bce 465 56 585 39 
rioepbalitis Lethargica... 3 I 2 I 
Mluenza 8 
sat 5 I 234 3 
Measles ws. 3,488 224 3,488 199 
Paraty phoid 200 4 170 3 
eumonia ... 623 4II 531 386 
Puerperal Fever Me 54 29 45 18 
Relapsing Fever ~ 34 — 23 = 
i Fever 217 I 197 — 
“malipox 
7 4 ae = 
Typhoid 2,060 204 1,148 143 
Nphus ., 55 3 280 2 
‘adulant Fever 15 I 7 — 
aoe Fever I — I = 
tala Azar 
Pellagra : = ‘i a= . a : 
| 
Totals 7,840 1,068 7,129 | 833 
9. Births, Deaths and I nfant Mortality, 1932-36. 
Birth-  Numbey Number Death- 
oe vale pey t) neti of vate per Infant Infant 
. - 000 births ss = is deaths I,000 deaths. mortality 
ee: img. registered.“ 9“ °"" yegistered. living. 
oe *  44°T4 43,538 986,329 _~—-.21,,958 22:26 6,669 153°17 
1934 44°38 46,089 1,038,331 20,866 20°09 6,656 144°41 
1935 ANSI 45,942 1,104,605 24,136 21°85 7,245 157°69 
36. 278 531940 1,294,529 22,249 18-62 7,092 -131°48 
44°89 57,003 1,269,965 20,450 16-0 6,928 I21°54 


174 
10. Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1936. 


Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 
Estimated population on 


30th June, 1936 --» 106,474 781,789 370,483 11,219 1,269,965* 
Deaths ... ms Bae 1,345 15,611 3,269 225 20,450 
Death-rate per 1,000 of 

population ... ws = - 1263 19°97 8-82 20°05 16-10 
Births... e ree 3,869 41,543 II,O19 572 57,003 
Birth-rate per 1,000 of 

population 7 ws. «= 36°34 53°14 29°74 50-98 44°89 
Deaths—Infants under 

one year uae Sas 440 5,656 757 75 6,928 
Infant mortality-rate per 

per 1,000 births ... 113°73 136°14 68:69 I31°I2 I21°54 
Natural Increase per 1,000 

of population wee «= - 23°71 33°17 20°92 30°93 28-78 


* Not including nomadic Bedouin population numbering 66,553 at the date 
of the Census, November, 1931, and His Majesty’s Forces. 


11. The estimated mid-year population is based on the Census 
of 1931 after allowing for natural increase of population and 
‘that due to migration. This figure however does not include 
members of His Majesty’s Forces or nomadic Bedouin tribes of 
which the latter numbered 66,553 in 1931. 


The calculated rates for births and deaths are crude rates. 


It is satisfactory to note a further drop in the infant mortality 
rate which has fallen from 153 in 1932 to 121-5 in 1936. The 
birth-rate remains more or less the same while the death-rate - 
shows a slight decline with a resulting mse in the figure for 
natural increase of population from 26-5 in 1935 to 28-78 per 
1,000 1n the year under review. 


12. Regulation of Trades and Industnes.—Establishments 
licensed under the Regulation of Trades and Industries 
Ordinance have decreased from 17,I0g in 1935 to 13,584 in 1930. 
This fall is due largely to the fact that during the strike all 
Arab establishments were closed for nearly six months and 
no licences were applied for. A further factor has been the 
reduction in the number of hawkers licences approved by the 
Police. The number of premises of a technical nature and 
dealing with the preparation and packing of foodstuffs has in- 
creased notably in the past few years. 


During the year, the following additions were made to the 
Schedule of Controlled Trades and Industries: — 

(a) Establishments for the preparation, patting, pack- 
ing, or storage of butter or other dairy products. 

(b) Establishments for the slaughtering of poultry. 

(c) Timber Stores (not being Customs Warehouses). 

(zd) Carpentry Workshops and sawmills not employing 
power driven machinery, and establishments for the retail 
sale of timber. 


175 


In additiom Special Rules for the control of Timber Storage 
were enacted during the year. 


The Rules made under the Public Health (Rules as to Food) 
Ordinance, were given effect to. 


During the year, 2,280 samples of foodstuffs were taken and 
examined and in 297 cases adulteration was proved and suitable 
action taken. 


13. Dratnage.—During the year, Consulting Engineers were 
appointed and visited the country in connection with main 
drainage schemes for Jaffa and Tel-Aviv. 


Consulting Engineers also advised on the scheme prepared 
for the drainage of Haifa. 


In Jerusalem no major drainage works were executed, but 
several subsidiary sewers were under course of construction at 
the end of the year. In the case of Gaza a complete scheme 
for the provision of drainage and a disposal plant has been 
pees by the Drainage Engineer of the Department of Public 
Vorks. In Safad the main sewer was extended and the sewerage 
of a further quarter of the town is under consideration. 

A scheme was approved for a main sewer and disposal system 
for Tulkarm and the Municipality of Jenin also submitted a 
drainage scheme for consideration. 


14. Village Sanitation.—During the year, 4,708 latrines of the 
village type were installed in 45 villages. Owing to the disturb- 
ances, WOrk in the hill country had to be suspended for a con- 
siderable period but continued in the plains. 


15. Watery Supply: Towns.—The new supply to Jerusalem 
from Ras-el-Ain was introduced in the early part of che year and 
functioned well throughout the year. During the disturbances 
the Pipe-line was sabotaged on several occasions, but repairs 
Were variably effected promptly and no shortage was experi- 
oe The purification of this supply is effected by the 
chloramine process and a softening and filtration plant is under 
construction, A high standard of purity was maintained through- 
out the year and the daily quantity of water supplied is now 
ver a million gallons. | 


Sonsulting Engineers have submitted reports on the question 

5 € provision of water supplies for Jaffa and Tel-Aviv and in 
© Case of Haifa investigations are at present proceeding for 

possible sources of supply. Proposals have been prepared for 

: € extension and improvement of the Tiberias water supply to 

rae for an increased delivery and the provision of water in 
€ higher suburbs of the town. 


Borin . ue -& 
sub-dis aoe water 1s being proceeded with in the Beersheba 


176 


Water Supply: Villages.—The Village Water Supply Com- 
mittee continued its work during the year. A sum of £P.20,000 
was made available for expenditure on this work during the 
financial year ending the 31st March, 1937. During the year the 
Committee approved expenditure of £P.500 for the investiga- 
tion, with a view to development, of known sources of supply. 
The Director of Public Works made allocations amounting to 
Z4P.1,578 for schemes approved by the Committee dunng the 
previous financial year, and the Committee considered and 
approved expenditure of £P.1I,330 on 35 schemes during the 
current financial year. 


16. Quarantine and Moslem Pilgrimage.—Seven hundred and 
ten Palestinians and 23 Trans-Jordanians proceeded to Mecca 
under official arrangements. Three pilgrims died while on 
pilgrimage. A total of 24 foreign pilgrims passed through 
Palestine on their way to Mecca and 297 on the return journey. 


17. The Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc.—The numbers 
of persons holding licences to practise in the various professions 
is Stated below. 

The legislation to control overcrowding of the medical profes- 
sion became effective, and only 149 licences were granted as 
compared with 596 in 1935 and 492 in 1934. At the end of the 
year, there was one licensed medical practitioner to 576 persons 
of the settled population, a proportion which is higher than in 
any other country. 

In the profession of dentistry there is one dentist to 2,224 
persons of the population. During the year, 83 licences to © 
practise were given compared with 80 in 1935. There were 48 
new pharmacists licensed as compared with 63 new licences 
granted in 1935, and 40 midwives’ licences granted as compared 
with 48 in the previous year. 


Licences of Doctors, Dentists, Pharmacists and Midwives, 1930. 





Cancella- 
Licensed | Licensed | Cancelled tions Licensed 
— until end | during during |withdrawn| until end 
of 1935. 1936. 1936. during of 1936. 
1936. 





Doctors — 2,084 149 29 2,204 
Dentists tas 493 83 6 571 
Dental __‘ Practi- 

tioners a 30 — 2 28 
Pharmacists... 318 48 4 362 
Asst. Pharmacists 45 — — 45 
Midwives sits 445 40 4 483 





177 


18. Hosbttals and Dispensaries.—By the end of the year, a 
start hod beem made with the construction of the new Govern- 
ment Hospital at Haifa, which, it is hoped, will be completed 
by theend of 1938. 


The new hospital (50 beds) constructed by the Kupat Cholim 
(Sick Fund of the General Federation of Jewish Labour) was 
opened in October. 


Hospitals in all parts of the country met satisfactorily all 
emergency calls made upon them for the treatment of persons 
wounded in the disturbances, both civilians and members of the 
defence forces, Police and Army. The bulk of work of this 
nature WaS borne by the Government and the municipal 
hospitals, but voluntary hospitals throughout the country all 


gave a and much appreciated assistance as circumstances 
required. 


Medical attention was also provided for persons placed in 
detention Or concentration camps. Sick-bays in these detention 
camps were equipped and staffed for the nursing and treatment 
of minor Or chronic ailments. Cases of acute or serious illness 
were transferred to Government hospitals. 


The prolonged disturbed conditions interfered to some extent 
with the normal work of hospitals and dispensaries. The total 
admissions to Government and municipal hospitals were 18,574, 
as compared with 17,608 in 1935, and to voluntary general 
hospitals 28 347, as compared with 32,776 in 1935. 


The New cases reporting for outpatient treatment at all public 
dispensaries Government or voluntary were 764,931, as com- 
pared with 747,410 in 1935. 


The Government mental hospitals (157 beds) and the Jewish 
Ezrath Nashim Mental Hospital (60 beds) were continuously full 
lo capacity throughout the year. There were 58 admissions to 
these hospitals, and 32 discharges and five deaths. 


19. Ophthalmic Service.—The first-aid treatment for ophthal- 
mc disease continued to be carried out effectively in ten 
ae Se by the trained medical officers. One additional village 
“Ic Was Opened on account of a sudden epidemic developing. 


The Mobile Ophthalmic Unit operated in 18 villages. Owing 
0 € disturbed conditions, the female nurses of the Unit were 
replaced by trained orderlies. 


The following cases were treated : — 


Total 
Oph New cases. Attendances. 
Sibel Clinics 40,859 591,243 


"paulary Village First-Aid Ophthalmic 
Te a ee ee 21,305 334,904 


178 


In schools, the school medical service as part of its norma 
routine dealt with 7,074 new cases of ophthalmic disease, and | 
total of 1,814,953 treatments were given. 


At general out-patient clinics of the Government departmer 
7,550 new cases of eye disease were treated. 


The Ophthalmic Hospital of the Order of St. John in Jerusaler 
dealt with 679 in-patients and 14,327 new out-patients. Tw 
doctors and three nurses of the Department were seconded to th 
hospital for training in ophthalmic treatment and nursing. 





20. The following is a summary of new patients admitted t 
hospital or attending dispensaries and clinics dunng the year: — 


Unclasst- 
— Moslems.| Chris- Jews. | fied and , Totals. 
tans. others. | 
In-patients :— | 
Government and | 
Municipal Hospi- 
tals 7,724 2,409 8,312 129 | 18,574 
Voluntary Hospitals 7,299 | 4,305 15,008 1,729 | 28,341 
Out-patients :— ! 
Government and | 
Municipal Dispen- | 
saries... ... | 100,705 14,654 24,316 303 ; 139,968 
Voluntary Organiza- ; 
tions ae we 87,403 | 33,965 | 500,722 2,873 | 624,963 


21. The following tables provide information as to the 
activities of :— 
A. Government and Municipal Hospitals. 
B. Voluntary General Pospitals: 
C. Special Hospitals: 
(a) Voluntary. 
(b) Government. 





zif‘g| 6o0b‘z} FzZ‘Z| Sg gt Coz "t* $9010 T. 


ee | S| S| S| AS | SS | LS | 





— | 02 00z — = — °** 0 JUBUITLIBAOY) “eqaqsis9gq 
€ t9 Corr] € b 61 a JUSUIUIOAOY) ‘SNIqeN 
gi1z‘Z| 9 I €z — — ave jediomunyy ‘ATA Y-[9 
I Iv zoS z z P oh Tediorunyy ‘ezey 
blr | o9€ | E1rg‘r| € L €Z me "* JuamIUIaAOy eye 
gor g6 bz¢ — — | gz ma *** JUSTIUIBAOL) PPJES 
Gog | Gog | 9gS‘I] gt 6 of ate °°" JUDTIUWIDAO) PfTeET 


Loz | S10‘r} €£€9‘r| gt gI II (JUSUIUIBAO4)) WWaTesnisf 






















OV 
IN ES SO CREO (Se DONO Se 
eH z 
bey 
‘avak fo |\\patdnoo0 2 a 9 = ze = 
pua yw | spaqfo |. S" S. : Si 
patdnas0 | saqunu sais "syyvaqT o ” & * "syojidsopy 
spaq fo | advaaan rd 
AIQUnn | Aj10Cq 
"Suossstup Py "YIJUaMS-pag [DUMON 





‘Q€61—STVLIdSO}] TVdIOINA ONV LNAWNYAAOD (vy) 


41526 


ze 9-Sz 
z9 g-€S 
GS ¢.9S 
oz L.61 
zl 9: +9 






MANEHO NOOO Ve) 


=/ & 
Ro | FS 
Re] 28 
ae] 33 
Le a 
S28 =e 
3 | S& 

S} os 





"SaTADYIStC] | & 
an 


IZ 











«es e as 


46 ad ae 


suysgZTeg Ul Inoqe’] ystmof 
jo uoHEIapey [e1eUsD Jo puny 41S 

“*  Cw'S'n pue 

wWOpsury pozyiug Aysoum ‘peoiqe 
pur spung fedo]) UTOGD Ing PIO 

“  (Cv's'n pue 

Wopsury poyiug Apsou ‘peoiqe 
pue sSpuny feo!) WITTOND INDIg MON 

‘+ (Teute}xa pre [edo] 
‘sUOleUOp o}eALIg) Goepey qesaziyy 
"** PULTZOIS JO GING) sol Popul) 
Aj21~0S UOISSIFL [COIPSP YSInquipy 
: * WOISSTIA yseqy oy} pue woresnio[ 
smo { 0} vost] yshugd 


ce ce cé 


Ayar0g Areuorsst qounqD 
peyes . e 


welesnief | ueollomy eOLIoUY JO UOIzEZI 


aie JSIUOIZ S,USMIOAA FessepeTy 








on 
S$ 
fe] § | F g 
e 2 a. 
St. S 5 
a 8 2 ge | “40HDIOT A41q0U0110 NT 
28 & 
os & 
z 
"SuotssiMp Pp x 


‘9€6I—STVLIdSOH] AUVINNIOA (g) 


Gz 


‘sjuatzed sIsopnoleqn] I0j speq ov sopnjouy » 








+.610'1| bEz‘Lz| o0z‘1 | T¥E‘gz| 6zL‘r | goo'S1) SoE‘Y| 66z‘L| bzL‘t 


«e ee ce 


brr | Sgr | SZr | oS 





gI 
1€ 6z vLS | €gz | o9 aie ase OULIOT 
Ip euviyez] seuohHeN suolzelossy 
1¥ LSg | oof | gvE | oF SO[IVY) 3S JO SIO}SIS JO IOPIO 
oI € 1v1 | ¥¥ oz aes vs Ajato0s ojduray 
0g Oz 16Z | z£6 | og : neg “UTM 
ure YVIOMIOSIeY Joc] Ulel1a A Uasse 
-uoyetq reysteqdzsayy yostureqy 
z¢ Ghr‘r| Z 9 €¢ ‘“Ueplajsury ‘puey A[O}{ 94} ur 
Ajyunur09 ystmef 943 JO spam 
cz — |ece | Zes | of sta POS Eee ae o 
1¢ Ze c€z zeZ 06 “s os Ss 
1z I 1gs¢ Sof og " ae ou 
SY oz 99S gzZ oS! 04% pezidsofFy qouerngy 
€L4S‘1 | — z ar wyrepy jo APUNUIUIOD qsrmof 





“svak fo pia 40 
patdno0 spaq fo ‘ON 








"pardno90 spaq 
{0 ‘ON advaann Aj10Gq 


*SadADYISICT 


"syjvaq 


"$1040 ] 


"S49410 


‘yUOUI 
— |1 I zS = jWa yal qzog -UWI9A0*) 
| = "yuoUl 
zz z g Sor |woyelqieg -UI9A0*) 











‘9€61—-SIVLldSOH{ Ivi0adS (5) 


@ ‘ON [eqidsopy [eqUI! 


"* 1 ‘ON yezdsoy pews 
nee eee 


sajqeinou] pue suvsu] 10F 
euloxy = ‘AZ9190G a N werd 


*** wopuoy ‘£4190 UeLABIOW 
Jeuoyeuisjuy 4 ‘Teydsoyy = soday 
eee eee : pueysuq ul 
waresnief jo ugof 3S JO I9p1O 

ay} jo yeydsopy orueqiydoO 
‘speyisdoyy =yetoods 9 Areqzunjo, (x) 


ee ee ee GD aD 


"UOUDSIUDTAC 10]1GS0 FT 


vz — — | 09 weaesniof | welutysoTeg 
| ‘feuojeu 
—_ — |9 09 woesniof | - -19ezUy 
€ €g €6S | Sv wayesniof ysipig 
pe | eg] § 
ee. ~ 
pF | 
: go | MounI0T | ‘Agtpouoiuw AT 
SF 
= 
§ 
‘SUOLSSIUD y el 
= 





183 


22. Grant-in-Aid from Government to Jewish Medical Ser- 
vices.—The annual recurrent grants were : — 





£P. 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Service ... seis ss 1,765 
Infant Welfare Services saa or way des sua 1,038 
Contribution to Tuberculosis Hospital, Safad sists ie 1,700 
Contribution to Tel-Aviv Municipal Hospital ee sig 5,841 
£P.10,344 





23. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services.—The construction 
of maternity sections and pupil midwives training centres by 
extension to the hospitals at Nablus and Jaffa have been post- 
poned. Earlier in the year and prior to the disturbances seven 
new village infant welfare centres were opened, and arrange- 
ments were made to keep these functioning as they are greatly 
appreciated by the Arab villagers. | 

There were 16 pupils who completed the six months’ course of 
training in midwifery at the Government Training School in 
Jerusalem and became certificated midwives licensed to practise 
in Palestine. 

The post of Infant Welfare Supervisor was altered to that of 
Superintendent of Midwifery. The number of such super- 
intendents is now five; they supervise and organize Government 
Infant Welfare and ante-natal work in the towns and districts of 
Haifa, Nablus, Jaffa, Jerusalem, and Gaza, and assist and 
supervise the work of practising midwives and dayas in the 
towns and villages of their respective districts. 

The two women medical officers who joined the staff of the 
Department at the beginning of the year are stationed in 
Jerusalem and Haifa and have developed ante-natal and 
gynaecological clinics in those towns and also hold weekly clinics 
In Acre, Nablus, Jaffa, and Ramleh. During the disturbances 
it was necessary to suspend the clinics in Jaffa, Nablus and 
Ramleh, but these have since restarted and are well attended by 
Moslem women. 

There are now 30 Government and Government-assisted infant 
welfare centres in towns and villages with approximately 6,241 
infants on their registers. 

There are also 42 centres operated by Jewish and other 
organizations with 9,394 children on their registers. The 

overnment makes an annual grant to the Jewish infant welfare 
services proportionate to the cost to Government of providing 
such services for other communities. 


24. Laboratory Services.—As in previous years a laboratory 
‘tvice was maintained with its Central Institutes in Jerusalem 
and with branches at the port towns of Jaffa and Haifa. In 
addition, however, to the diagnostic facilities provided by the 

‘partment there are numerous laboratories attached to the 

41526 G 3 


184 


hospitals of private organizations, as well as public pathological 
and bacteriological laboratories licensed under the Regulation of 
Trades and Industries Ordinance, 1927. 


The Department’s Central Laboratories in Jerusalem com- 
prise bacteriological, pathological, serological, entomological, 
chemical, bio-chemical, physical, agricultural and forensic 
divisions and include an anti-rabies institute for the manufacture 
of carbolised killed virus, a calf-lymph establishment and a sec- 
tion for the preparation of other protective and curative vaccines 
and of the agglutinating and precipitating sera required in the 
routine work. The accommodation has recently been increased 
by six rooms due to the Department’s taking over the agricul- 
tural analytical service and to the rapidly expanding bio- 
chemical, forensic, and bacteriological branches. 


During 1936 bacteriological examinations were carried out in 
respect of 220,182 specimens; at Jerusalem the bacteriological 
division, in addition, prepared 402,600 doses of calf-lymph, 
145,280 c.c. of killed carbolised antirabic vaccine, 78,670 c.c. of 
anti-enterica and 5,190 c.c. of anti-cholera prophylactics, a total 
unit dosage of 631,740. Vaccine issues included 185,040 doses 
of smallpox lymph, 177,500 c.c. of antirabic vaccine, 79,080 c.c. 
of T. and T.A.B., 5,490 c.c. of anti-cholera, and go c.c. of anti- 
plague vaccines. The antirabic vaccine was issued to 37 differ- 
ent treatment centres where 1,619 bitten persons have received 
attention. The success rate of vaccine virus insertions exceeded 
95 per cent. Research work included further investigations into 
the causation of typhus and relapsing fevers and further attempts 
to improve the antigenic value of the anti-enterica prophylactics. 
An interesting case of malaria due to apparently tenue forms was 
studied. | 


In the Entomological Division the work was of necessity con- 
fined to the identification and classification of insects of medical 
importance submitted by departmental personnel and by the 
representatives of private enterprises located in midge-infested 
areas. The work included the routine examination of mosquitoes 
and of sandflies and of fleas parasitic on the rats caught at the 
ports of Jaffa and Haifa. 


In the Chemical Division, which provides an analytical and 
advisory service for all Government departments, the total 
samples dealt with have numbered 9,000. A decrease in most 
branches of routine work during the period of unrest was to 
some extent offset by additional investigations for the police. 
Exhibits were examined in connection with suspected poison- 
ing, shooting, bombing, the cutting of telephone and telegraph 
communications, and agrarian crimes. though during the 
general strike little or no sampling of foods was made with 
regard to Arab vendors, activity increased subsequently and 
samples found to contravene the regulations included 210 milks, 


185 


35 samples of butter and semneh, 22 edible oils, 15 condensed 
milk, and 6, 7 and 7 samples of coffee, vinegar, and honey 
respectively. 

A trade agreement with Egypt came into force in August 
(see paragraph 110 of the Introductory Chapter) under which 
olive-oil soap is subject to a reduction of duty if certified by 
Government to be of approved quality. In this connection a 
satisfactory system of factory inspection and analytical control 
of materials has been instituted. Approved factories number 13 
in Nablus and one in Jaffa. Softening experiments were carried 
out for the Public Works Department in regard to the treatment 
of the Jerusalem water supply. 


In the Agricultural Branch, investigations into local soil 


problems and several communications to local journals were 
made. 


Town Planning and Housing. 


25. During the year under review, town planning in Palestine 
was re-organized and decentralized. Previous to the introduc- 
ton of the new Town Planning Ordinance, town planning was 
controlled by the Central Commission in Jerusalem operating 
through various Local Commissions situated in their respective 
towns. ‘This system was satisfactory until the volume of work 
creased in recent years to such an extent as to make impera- 
tive a certain measure of decentralization to ensure greater 
expedition in the consideration of town-planning schemes 
generally. 


26. The Town Planning Ordinance, 1936, provides for the 
setting up of three District Commissions with effective control 
over the areas covered by the three Administrative districts, 
Northern, Southern and Jerusalem. The District Commissioner 
of each district is Chairman of the new Town Planning Com- 
Missions set up under the Ordinance, which are composed of 
the District Commissioner, the Town Planning Adviser, the 
Legal Draftsman, and one representative each of the Depart- 
ments of Public Health and Public Works. 


27. The Town Planning Adviser and the Legal Draftsman 
are members of all three District Commissions and form an 
essential link in upholding the continuity and general policy 
of town planning generally in Palestine. In addition, the tact 
that these two officers are members of all three District Com- 
Missions provides a safeguard against any inherent weakness 
in decentralization. 


28. Broadly speaking, the new Ordinance follows the former 
one in all essential matters, and the powers and duties of the 
former Central Commission now devolve upon the three new 
District Commissions. Provision is made in the new Ordinance 

41526 G4 


186 


for the Municipal Council to become the Local Town Planning 
Commission for areas at present controlled by a Municipality. 

This procedure co-relates the Municipal Corporations 
Ordinance, 1934, and the new Town Planning Ordinance, 1935, 
since it is envisaged that town planning matters in Municipal 
areas should be controlled by the Local Commission through a 
Committee of the Council appointed in accordance with Sec- 
tion 62 (d) of the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934. 

For areas outside Municipal control, provision has been made 
for the setting up of Local Commissions composed of seven 
members, two of whom are to be other than officers of the 
Government. , 

29. In order to facilitate the working of each District Com- 
mission, a Town Planning Section has been formed and set 
up in the offices of the three District Commissioners. The 
duties of the Secretary and officers of this Section will be 
similar to those undertaken by the Secretary of the former 
Central Commission, since all schemes within the District will 
now be submitted to the Secretary of each Commission after 
the Local Authorities have given each scheme due consideration. 


30. A further innovation has been introduced by the creation 
of a distinction between Outline, Detail and Parcellation Town 
Planning Schemes. The intention of the Ordinance being that 
Outline and Detail Schemes should be prepared and submitted 
by the Local Authorities, and passed to the respective District 
Commission and the High Commissioner for approval; whereas 
individual owners are now required to present Parcellation 
Schemes for their particular plots of land, and such schemes 
can be approved by the District Commission without reference 
to a higher authority. 


31. The working of the Ordinance is completely dependent 
upon the declaration of town-planning areas which are submitted 
by the various District Commissions for the approval of the 
High Commissioner and publication in the Gazette. 


32. Provision has also been made in the new Ordinance for 
the imposition and collection of Betterment Tax, but this Section 
has yet to be proved to be effective. 


33. Government were actively concerned with the housing of 
poorer classes casually employed at Haifa and Jaffa, and 
selected areas have been allocated for that purpose on the out- 
skirts of Jaffa and Haifa respectively. 


34. Following the recent demolitions of a portion of the 
Old Town of Jaffa, Government decided on a housing scheme 
for a section of the displaced Arab inhabitants of this area, 
and a detailed scheme was prepared. The houses are of 
one-storey concrete construction erected in blocks of four and 


187 


are designed for an average family of five. Provision has been 
made for the inclusion of a courtyard and the usual water and 
sanitary services. In addition, children’s playgrounds and 
sufficient open spaces have been set aside, and it is hoped that 
when completed this settlement will prove extremely popular. 
It is the intention of Government to collect a small rent in order 
to cover maintenance and other charges from each tenant of 
the new houses. | 

35. For the first five months of the year great building activity 
continued to be displayed in all the important centres. Owing 
to the disturbances, however, there was a noticeable slowing 
down during the latter part of the year and in certain districts 
building work was almost completely suspended. With the 
cessation of the strike in October, however, normal conditions 
were quickly restored and the last two months of the year 
witnessed a building revival. 


XX1I.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from 
Ist July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Govern- 
ment), to the 31st March, 1936, are set out below: — 








Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. £P. 

ist July, 1920, to 31st March, 1921... 1,136,951 1,259,587 
1921-1922... ante sels stots 2,371,531 1,929,341 
1922-1923 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-1924 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-1925 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-1926 2,809,324 2,092,647 
1926-1927... es 2,451,305 2,123,568 
1927 (April to December) 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928... eT oor 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 . 2,389,540 2,530,504 
1931... 0: i 2,333,895 2,374,867 
1932 (January to March) 657,289 511,656 
1932-1933 ve 3,015,917 2,516,394 
1933-1934 3,985,492 2,704,856 
1934-1935 5,452,033 3,230,010 
1935-1936 51779457 4,236,202 

£P.44,662,234 38,394,424 
Surplus Balance at 31st March, 1936 6,267,810 


£P.44,662,234 


Revenue. 


2. Summaries of the Revenue and Expenditure under Heads 
for the financial year rst April, 1935, to 31st March, 1936, are 
contained in Appendices I and II to this Section.* 





* Pages 222, 223. 


188 


3. The revenue for the period under review aggregated 
£P.5,770,457 and the expenditure amounted to £P.4,236,202 or 
an excess of revenue over expenditure of £P.1,534,255. 


The revenue under Head I, Customs, amounted to 
£P.2,751,246 and shows an increase of £P.150,876 over the 
revenue from that source in the preceding financial year. The 
main increases over 1934-5 were due to increased imports of 
benzine, kerosene, tobacco and cigarettes, and wearing apparel; 
but there were heavy falls in the imports of cement, motor cars 
and trucks, cotton piece goods and silk tissues, sugar and wheat 
and wood for buildings, due to the effect of the international 
situation from October to the end of the financial year. 


The revenue under Head II, Port and Marine, amounted to 
£P.107,597 and shows an increase of £P.16,896 over the revenue 
under this Head collected in 1934-5, partly due to the increase 
in the volume of shipping entered and cleared in Palestine Ports 
which rose from 6,514,894 tons in 1934-5 to 7,056,496 tons in 
1935-6, but mainly due to Oil Dock Dues. 

The Oil Dock was not completed during the year and conse- 
qucaty the minimum payment of £P.30,000 per annum under 

e contract with the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company did not become 
operative, but a sum of £P.16,000 was received from dues levied 
at the rate of 2d. per ton on oil loaded into the Company’s 
vessels from sea-lines. 


The revenue from Head III, Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted 
to £P.1,082,427 as compared with £P.1,075,295 collected in 
1934-5. 

The main increases occurred under the following Sub-Heads: 
Road Transport Licence Fees (£P.6,748), Animal Tax 
(£P.22,916), but there were remissions in the spring of 1935, 
Stamp Duties (£P.19,223), Matches Excise (£P.7,117), Wine 
and Spirit Excise (£P.8,721), Fines and_ Forfeitures 
(4P.10,727), Urban Property Tax (£P.15,461) in spite of the 
reduction in the rate of tax on house property from 124 per cent. 
to Io per cent. from the 1st April, 1935. 


On the other hand, there was a decrease under Tobacco Excise 
(£P.17,860) due to reductions in the Excise Duty on tobacco 
and heisheh from 350 mils and 150 mils per kilo respectively to 
250 mils and roo mils, with effect from 16th Apmil, 1935. Local 
production of cigarettes, tobacco and heisheh and tobacco 
haar a rose from 783,221 kilos in 1934-5 to 977,521 kilos in 
1935-0. 

On the 1st April, 1935, the House and Land Tax and Tithe 
in rural areas, except in the Beersheba and Huleh areas, were 
replaced by the Rural Property Tax. Collections of arrears of 
House and Land Tax and Tithes and collections of Rural 
Property Tax amounted to £P.163,346 against an estimated 


189 


revenue for the year of £P.239,000 from these sources. The 
short-fall of £P.49,470 in the Rural Property Tax was due to 
the difficulty of completing assessments in time for collections 
to commence at the beginning of the harvest season. 

The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £P.913,027 and shows an increase of £P.67,104 
over collections in 1934-5. The most important increases 
occurred under the following Sub-Heads: Court Fees 
(£P.26,991), Veterinary Receipts (£P.10,922), Citrus Fruit 
Advertisement Fees (£P.6,267), Porterage Charges, Haifa 
Harbour (£P.28,175), and Warehouse Rent (£P.3,853). The 
new Porterage Service at Haifa Harbour was inaugurated on 
Ist July, 1935. On the other hand there were several minor 
decreases in revenue as compared with the previous year under 
this Head, in particular under Registration of Land Fees 
(£P.8,890). 

The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphs, amounted 
to £P.418,896 and was £P.63,079 in excess of the receipts 
realised in 1934-5. The main increases occurred under the items 
Sale of Stamps (£P.34,584), and Telephones (£P.24,670). There 
was also an increase during the year of 6,100 in the number of 
broadcast receiving licences (£P.3,050) as compared with 1934-5. 

The total revenue earned by this Department in 1935-6 
exceeded by a sum of £P.108,118 the ordinary expenditure, 
excluding Debt Charges in respect of capital expenditure met 
from Loan Funds (£P.188,126) but including a contribution of 
£P.20,000 to the Renewals Fund. It fell short, however, of the 
total expenditure on the Department including Capital Expendi- 
ture (£P.136,043) by £P.27,925. 

The revenue from Head VI, Revenue from Government 
Property, amounted to £P.23,952 as compared with £P.21,618 
collected in 1934-5. 

The revenue from Head VII, Interest, amounted to 
£P.141,279 as compared with £P.97,102 in 1934-5, an increase 
of £P.44,177. Of the total revenue in 1935-6 a sum of 
£P.135,440 was earned on the investment of surplus balances as 
compared with £P.83,673 in the preceding year. On 31st March, 
1930, a sum of £P.657,500 was held in the Joint Colonial Fund 
and £P.4,526,329 was invested in stock as compared with sums 
of £P.1,132,000 and £P.3,086,407 respectively on 31st March, 
1935. 

The revenue from Head VIII, Miscellaneous, amounted to 
£P.154,021 or a reduction of £P.23,865 as compared with that 
of the previous year. The reduction is due to (a) reduction 
(£P.6,827) in the profits on sales of stocks effected during the 
year, and (b) reduction (£4P.9,610) in the appreciation based on 
the middle market price at 31st March, 1936, of investments held 
in respect of surplus balances. The profits on sales of stock in 


190 
1935-6 amounted to £P.3,5607 as compared with £P.10,394 in 
1934-5 and the appreciation in the middle market price at 31st 
March, 1936, amounted to £P.30,717 as compared with 
£P.40,327 at 31st March, 1935. There was also a reduction of 
Z£P.13,046 under the Item ‘‘ Sundries’’. On the other hand 
there was an increase of £P.5,000 in the Profits from Currency. 


The revenue from Head IX, Land Sales, amounted to 
£P.18,874 as compared with £P.31,640 in 1934-5. The decrease 
was due to fewer transferees paying the transfer price on dis- 
posal of their holdings under the Ghor Mudawarra Agreement 
than in the previous year, when a considerable part of the 
revenue was due to moneys received for the redemption of 
properties in 1934-5 which were registered in 1915-6 in the name 
of the Ottoman Treasury owing to the failure of the owners to 
account for tithes farmed out to them by the Ottoman Govern- 
ment. The properties were released on payment of outstanding 
liabilities and accrued interest thereon. 


The revenue from Head X, Grants-in-Aid, consisted of the 
following : — 


LP. 

Three-quarters of the Expenditure under 
Head XXII, Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force, during the year 1935-6 

(£P.171,187) he ‘Re bat ss 128,390 
Whole Expenditure on Capital Works in 
Trans-Jordan under Head XXIX, Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary, 

during the year 1935-6 ... fas sis 11,955 

£P.140,345 


The total receipts amounted to £P.144,448, being £P.142,000 
from the Parliamentary Grant-in-Aid for the year 1935-6 and 
£,P.2,448 from ue adjustments in respect of payments made 
in previous years. The actual amount due was £P.140,345 and 
the unexpended balance, together with local receipts, amounting 
to £P.4,578, was transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit 
Account for adjustment of the grant in 1936-7. 


The receipts under Head XI, amounting to £P.18,793, repre- 
sent assistance by the Colonial Development Fund granted to 
Palestine towards meeting interest charges on the capital cost 
of certain schemes. Fixed grants of £P.12,000 and £P.5,250 
respectively were received in 1935-6 in respect of the Jerusalem 
Water Supply Scheme and the Jerusalem Drainage Scheme. In 
the case of the Hebron Water Supply and Village Water Sup- 

lies (the latter including Water Resources Survey, Underground 

ater Investigations, and Improvements to Village Water 
Supply Schemes), the assistance granted in 1935-6 took the form 


I9I 


of full interest, calculated at bank rate, on expenditure incurred 
to the 31st March, 1936; and grants in the sums of £P.163 were 
received in respect of the Hebron Water Supply and of £P.694 
in respect of Village Water Supplies, etc. 


In addition to grants for approved development schemes, 
eee was also granted by the Colonial Development Fund 
as under : — 


(a) Expenses incurred on Consultants’ charges in con- 
nection with the Zerka Valley Survey for a Haifa-Baghdad 
Railway (£P.657). 


(b) One-third of expenses incurred in connection with the | 
Colonial Agricultural Scholarship Scheme (£P.29). 


Disbursements in respect of (a) and (b) above are shown under 
Expenditure Head XXX, Colonial Development. | 


Expenditure. 


4. The variations in expenditure in 1935-6 as compared with 
the expenditure of 1934-5 are due to the following causes :— 


!.—Pensions.—Expenditure: 1934-5 #£P.28,747, 1935-6 
! 34,243. The main excess occurs under Pensions and Gratui- 
ues (£P.5,696), paid under the Palestine Pensions Ordinance, 
1925, In respect of retired and deceased officers. There was an 


unforeseen increase in the amount of gratuities payable to 
retiring officers. 


II—Public Debt and Loan Charges.—Expenditure: 
1934-5 £P.126,904, 1935-6 £P.126,449. The expenditure under 

S Head shows a slight decrease as compared with 1934-5, 
owing to the payment during that year of the sum of £P.455 to 
the Ottoman Public Debt Council in full settlement of Palestine’s 
lability in respect of Turkish Lottery Bonds. 


IV.—Secretariat.—Expenditure: 1934-45 £P.24,735, 1935-6 
£P.39,487. This Head now comprises three Sections: Chief 

retary’s Office, Civil Aviation, and Printing and Stationery. 

The Civil Aviation Section (£P.1,478) was inaugurated on the 
appointment of the Director in December 1934; and the Govern- 
ment Printing Press (£P.14,687) was in full operation in 
December, 1935. 


V.— District Administration. — Expenditure: 1934-5 
AP 108,790, 1935-6 £P.154,840. The increase is mainly due to 
ae application of the Rural Property Tax (£P.11,064) in sub- 
is tion of the Tithe and the House and Land Tax in rural 
hia and a revised scheme for the remuneration of mukhtars 

ch entailed an increase of £P.24,329 in the vote for 

: mPa ation of Mukhtars and the employment of double the 

ae er of tax-collectors in rural areas in order to reduce to 

i onable limits the number of villages in respect of which they 
“responsible for tax collection. | 


192 


X.—Customs, Excise and Trade. —Expenditure: 1934-5 
Z£P.147,620, 1935-6 £P.243,449. The increase is £P.95,820. 
Trade continued to increase during the first six months of the 
year after which there was a set-back. On Ist July, 1935, the 
Government Porterage Service was inaugurated resulting in an 
increase of £P.29,816 under Personal Emoluments and £P.318 
under Other Charges. Other increases occurred for increases in © 
staff of Guards, Boatmen, Tug Crews and Temporary Officers. 
There was an increase of £P.6,664 on Drawbacks of Customs © 
Duty and of £P.12,926 in respect of Refunds of Revenue 
collected in previous years, hitherto met from Head XXV.— 
Miscellaneous, Purchase of New Tug (£P.20,553) to supersede 
one of the old tugs which was found to be too small, and Con- 
version of Tugs into Oil-Burning Vessels (£P.7,363) account for — 
a large part of the total increase. 


XI.—Department of Health.—Expenditure: 1934-5 
£P.166,311, 1935-6 £P.194,632, Increase £P.28,321. The in- | 
crease is largely due to the expansion of the Mental Hospital, - 
Ophthalmic Service, Quarantine Service, Anti-Malarial | 

easures, Venereal Disease Campaign, and development of | 
Gynaecological Service. The deratization barge, additional | 
grants to Jewish Health Services, and a grant to the Trans- 
Jordan Government for the prevention of the spread of epidemic — 
disease to Palestine all accounted for a considerable portion of © 
the increase. The project for draining and reclaiming Birket | 
Ramadan was continued and up to 31st March a total of | 
ZP.15,085 had been expended on the scheme. The administra- — 
tion of Watan Hospital at Nablus was also transferred to the — 
Government. During the year a new pavilion with 22 beds was | 
installed at Haifa Hospital. The office of the Town Planning © 
Adviser was borne on this vote during 1935-6, but as ein 
tst Apmil, 1936, it has been transferred to the vote of the Legal | 
Department. 


During the year a contribution of £P.15,944 was made to 
Jewish Health Services, covering the following :—_ 


Grant to Municipal Hospital, Tel-Aviv __... ee. 
Maintenance Grant to Tuberculosis Hospital, 

Safad . bos 1,700 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Services ee 1,765 


Infant Welfare Services of the Jewish Agency 1,038 
Grant towards construction of Kupath Cholim 


Hospital at Petah Tiqva ... 4,300 
Grant towards construction of Physician’ 5 
House at the Emek Hospital _... 2s I,300 





£P.15,044. 





193 


XlI].—Department of Education.—Expenditure: 1934-5 
£P.201,498, 1935-6 £P.221,087, Increase £P.19,589. The 
principal increases occur under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.4,037), Grant-in-Aid to Schools of the Vaad Leumi 
(formerly of the Jewish Agency) (£P.8,000), and Grants to Local 
Authorities for School Buildings (£P.1,875). 


During 1935-6, 40 new classified posts were provided in town 
schools. Town children to the number of 5,949 applied for first 
admission to schools in September, 1935, and it was possible 
to accept into the lowest class 3,439 representing an increase of 
102 over the admissions in September, 1934. Nevertheless, the 
number of rejections in the lowest class rose from 2,267 in 
September, 1934, to 2,510 in September, 1935. The total number 
of pups in town schools rose from 17,167 in July, 1935, to 
19,840 in November, 1935, or an average of 35 pupils per 
teacher post. The provision in the approved Estimates for 
Grants to Schools of the Vaad Leumi was increased from 
£P.28,000 in 1934-5 to £P.36,000 in 1935-6 and was fully 
expended. | 


Grants for school buildings and the acquisition of sites for 
school buildings amounting to £P.6,725 were given to local 
authorities, and the expansion scheme for rural education was 
continued in 1935-6 by the appointment of 26 classified teachers 
for the opening of 26 new village schools and six classified and 
30 unclassified teachers for existing village schools. 


Progress was also made on schemes for the establishment of 
Boarding Sections at Jenin and Tulkarm Boys’ School (£P.413) 
and the introduction of commercial classes at Jaffa (£P.3 38); 
and a Principal was appointed in February for the Haifa Trade 
School. A Rural Female Teachers Training Centre to accom- 
modate 12 pupils was established in 1935-6 (£P.642) and it is 
intended in future years to provide for the training of 24 pupils. 


XIII.—Deparitment of Agriculture and Forests.—Expendi- 
ture: 1934-5 £P.147,286, 1935-6 Z£#P.181,003, Increase 

-33,717.. The main increases occur under Personal Emolu- 
ments (£P.6,047), Transport and Travelling (£P.3,145), Citrus 
Advertising Fund (£P.6,267). The provision made in 1935-6 
exceeded the provision in the Estimates for 1934-5 by £P.20,131 
for new schemes or expansion of existing schemes for a new 
agricultural and horticultural station, and extension of an exist- 
ing station, the establishment of 22 horticultural demonstration 
centres, raising and distribution of budded fruit trees, re-estab- 
lishment of the fisheries service which had been abolished in 
1932 mainly for reasons of economy, two new forestry nurseries 
and extension of the afforestation programme, two new poultry 
and bee stations, and for sheep-dipping experiments. A subsidy 


194 
of £P.1,000 was paid to Barclays Bank for the extension oi 
short-term loan facilities to Hebron and Gaza. 


The Citrus Advertising Campaign was extended and 
£,P.20,000 was provided in the Estimates for the purpose, of 
which £P.18,922 was expended. 


During the year the following grants were made to Jewish 
institutions in aid of research and experimental work:— 


LP. 
(a) Grant for Citrus Research by the Experi- 
mental Station of the Jewish Agency 3,000 


(6) Grant to Jewish Agency for Intensive 


Farming Experiments ... ie 300 
(c) Grant to Jewish Agency Experimental 

Fruit-Growing at Hillside Station, 

Kiryat Anavim ... digi ey sat 300 
(zd) Grant to Hebrew University for Field- 

Mice Investigations... 164 


(e) Grants to Jewish Agency for Research ... 2,950 
(f) Grant-in-Aid to Hebrew University for 


Spirochaetosis Research - 150 


ZP.6,864 








XV.—Depariment of Lands and Surveys.—Expenditure: 
1934-5 £P.110,806, 1935-6 £#P.115,823. With effect from 
1st April, 1935, the Office of the Commissioner of Lands, the 
Department of Lands, and the Department of Surveys were 
amalgamated in one Department. The main increase 1s under 
Personal Emoluments (£P.3,652) due to increased surveys 
required in connection with land settlement operations, the 
appointment of an additional Area Settlement Officer and his 
staff and five new clerical appointments to cope with the increase 
in work of land registration. Part of the increase is due to the 
purchase of special technical equipment (£P.465) and the 
compilation of statements relating to land holdings in Palestine 


{£P.449). 


XVII.—Police and  Pnsons.—Expenditure: 1934-5 
£P.506,712, 1935-6 £P.527,467, Increase £P.20,755. The 
principal increase occurs under Police Personal Emoluments 
(£P.14,692) due to transfer and expansion of the Sea Pre- 
ventive Force included in 1934-5 under the Department of 
Migration, formation of a separate Police District for Galilee, 
increase of British Police in the Tel-Aviv Police Division, 
establishment of a new station in Jaffa, expansion of Criminal 


195 


Investigation Department activities, improvement of Traffic 
Services, the appointment of additional clerical staff, and the 
establishment of four additional Wireless Telegraphy Stations. 
Purchase of launches for the Sea Preventive Force amounted 
to £P.2,071 and special equipment for the Criminal Investigation 
Department amounted to £P.1,632. 


XVIII and XIX.—Department of Migration and Office of 
Statistics. Expenditure 1934-5 £P.29,437, 1935-6 Department 
of Migration £P.32,424 and Office of Statistics £P.1,499. The 
main increase occurred under Personal Emoluments (£P.2,951) 
of which an increase of £P.1,406 was incurred in the formation 
of a small force of frontier guards at six frontier posts. 


_Expenditure amounting to £P.3,001 was incurred on repatria- 
ton expenses for which the provision in previous years was 
included under Head XXV, Miscellaneous. 


The Office of Statistics was inaugurated in November, 1935, 
the Government Statistician having assumed duty on 8th 
November, 1935. 


\X.—Trans-Jordan Frontier Force.—Expenditure: 1934-5 
£P.165,165, 1935-6 £P.171,187. The increase was £P.6,022. 
The main increase occurred under Replacement of Mechanical 
Vehicles (£P.5,380), and Pensions Contributions, Pensions and 
Gratuities ({P.1,251) chiefly due to the payment of a gratuity 
of £P.go0 to .the estate of the Officer Second-in-Command, 
who died during the year. 


The increase for replacement of mechanical vehicles included 
£P.2,100 in respect of outstanding charges from 1934-5. 


XXI.—Defence.—Expenditure: 1934-5 £P.144,118, 1935-6 
£P.145,289, Increase £P.1,171. The total payments in 1935-6 
amounted to £P.145,289, but a sum of £P.12,680 had been 
overpaid in 1934-5 in excess of Palestine’s liability for that year 
and this was credited to the contribution payable for the year 
1935-6 in accordance with agreed arrangements. The total 
payments made in respect of 1935-6 amounted, therefore, to 
£P.157,969. Included in the Estimates under this Head was 
asum of £P.85,000 for capital works, including £P.30,000 for 
the construction of married quarters in Jerusalem and Haifa, 
and £P.31,000 for Royal Air Force capital works and hirings. 
The expenditure of £P.145,289 included a sum of £P.4,664 for 
the purchase of a site for Royal Air Force married quarters 
in Jerusalem. The amount of contribution due in respect of 
1935-6 was not notified to Government before the close of the 
year, 


196 


XXII.—Posts and T ee 1934-5 
£P.225,048, 1935-6 £P.310,778, Increase £P.85,730. The 1n- 
crease is mainly due to the following causes: Increases under 
Personal Emoluments (£P.28,273), Conveyance of Mails 
(£P.14,250), Establishment of Renewals Fund (£P.20,000), 
Stationery and Printing (£P.3,092), Rent and Repairs of 
Buildings (£P.5,789), and Broadcast and Marine Wireless 
Service (£P.8,875). The increase under Personal Emoluments 
was necessary owing to the very large increase in work in the 
four principal towns, existing sub-offices, headquarters 
branches, and for the establishment of new sub-offices. 


With regard to Conveyance of Mails, the estimates for 1935-6 
provided £P.61,500, allocated as under:— 








LP. 

Air Mail (10 per cent. increase)... ide 11,700 
Railways ee ied eA — sie 9,500 
Overland Mails ae oe ite 500 
Inland Mails (ro per cent. increase) sas 4,700 
Special Train (74 per cent. increase) ae 322 
International Mails ... as ek see 35,778 
62,500 

Less Anticipated Receipts for French Levant 
Mails sees ae a 6 sf I,000 
£,P.61,500 





The increase envisaged, particularly under Air Mails, proved 
to be inadequate and the total cost amounted to £P.71,925. 


The Renewals Fund was created in order to apportion the 
cost of renewals of post office buildings and equipment over a 
number of years in order to avoid heavy expenditure in those 
years when the assets fall to be replaced. 


The Broadcasting Service was inaugurated in March, 1936, 
but the programme directional and compilation staff was 
engaged and the organization and preparatory steps taken 
immediately on the arrival of the Adviser on the 1st October, 
1935. His services were lent for the purpose by the British 
Broadcasting Corporation. A sum of £P.3,265 was spent on 
the purchase of receiving sets for installation in villages. 


The increase for rents and repairs of buildings was mainly 
due to an unforeseen increase in the rental of hired buildings 
and the rent of additional premises required owing to the expan- 
sion of departmental activities which increased in 1935 by some 
25 per cent. over those in 1934. 


197 
The net excess of expenditure over revenue of the Posts and 


Aa i Department in 1935-6 was £P.27,925 as shown 
elow:— 


£LP. 
Total Revenue (see Head V of Appendix I) 418,89 


Ordinary Expenditure, Head XXII £P.310,77 
Excess of Revenue over Ordinary Expendi- 
ture ... = as 3 £P.108,118 


Expenditure: 
ead XXVI, Extraordina 


Sa .. 132,301 
Head XXVII, Public Works  Extra- 
ordinary ... Se sine 3,742 
Total Extraordinary Expenditure ... £P.136,043 
Net Excess of Expenditure over Revenue #£P.27,925 





While expenditure includes a sum of £P.20,000 in respect of 
a contribution to the Renewals Fund, it does not include debt 
charges on capital expenditure (£P.188,126) met from Loan 
Funds or any charge in respect of capital works carried out 
from surplus balances, either in 1935-6 or in previous years. 


XXIII.—Public Works Department.—Expenditure: 1934-5 
£P.48,944, 1935-6 £P.58,694, Increase £P.9,750. The increase 
occurred mainly under Personal Emoluments (£P.8,099) and 
Transport and Travelling (£P.1,372). The increase was 
entirely due to the expansion of the departmental activities and 
particularly to the staff required in connection with the extended 
building programme. 

The expenditure also included £P.622 on operation of the 


new Jerusalem Water Supply which commenced to function in 
January, 1936 from Ras el Ain. 


XXIV.—Public Works Recurrent.—Expenditure: 1934-5 
£P.228,875, 1935-6 £P.288,086, Increase £P.59,211. The 
main increases occur under Rent of Offices and Quarters 
(£P.36,169), Maintenance of Plant and Machinery (£P.9,088), 
Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (£P,2,985), Maintenance of 
Buildings (£P.2,020), and Maintenance of Jerusalem Water 
Supply (£P.1,912). 

Owing to the fact that two Hejira years 1354 and 1355 fell 
within the Government financial year 1935-6, it was necessary 

to pay twice in the same financial year in respect of leases falling 
on the first day of the two Hejira years in question, accounting 


198 
for £P.24,000 of the increase for rent. The increase was also 
due to additional hirings, mainly for the Departments of Educa- 
tion and Police and to increased rentals of existing hirings. The 
item, Maintenance of Plant and Machinery, was formerly 
included under Maintenance of Roads and Bridges, and the 
increased expenditure was necessitated by the largely extended 
road programme entailing increased cost of maintenance of 
rollers and road-making plant. The increases for Maintenance 
of Roads and Bridges (£P.2,985), and Maintenance of Build- 
ings (fP.2,020) were necessitated by the additional roads and 
buildings maintained during the year; and the item for Main- 
tenance of Jerusalem Water Supply was due to the inauguration 
of the Ras el Ain Water Supply for Jerusalem in January, 1936. 


XXV.—Miscellaneous.—Expenditure: 1934-5 £P.257,868, 
1935-6 £P.297,473, Increase £P.39,605. The principal increases 
occur under the following items: — 

(a) Grants to Municipalities (£P.46,294). The grants to 
Municipalities were considerably increased in 1935-6 to 
enable them to carry out programmes of essential health and 
traffic improvements, which owing to their limited financial 
resources were long overdue. The actual grants paid for 
the year were: — 


LP. 
Northern District: 

Haifa se ee des — ... 18,000 
Acre shes es wu “ es I ,032 
Beisan a6 4 dee as ah 750 
Jenin = oe ia se v8 750 
Nablus as ica ai re as 7,435 
Nazareth ... sep oh ae oe 500 
Shefa Amr ... ane oe di be 336 
Safad es ve i aa se 500 
Tulkarm _... hea et - i 400 

£P.29,703 

Southern District: 

Jaffa 10,400 
Tel-Aviv 15,000 
Ramle 1,500 
Gaza ae 1,027 
Beersheba ... 350 
Majdal 200 
Khan Younis 200 


£P.28,677 


199 


LP. 
Jerusalem District: 

Jerusalem ... sen a ae ... 28,600 
Hebron ak a ae ss a8 2,500 
Ramallah ... ne ide sas Sais 500 
Bethlehem ... ak — oes eee I,000 
Beit Jala... ae sans ee = 500 
£P.33,100 

Total ... - oe a £P.91,480 


(6) Grant for Flood Damage, Nablus, Clearing Land and 
Construction of Dams (£P.1,619). This grant was made 
in respect of areas outside the municipal boundaries of 
Nablus for the clearance of debris caused by a cloudburst 
in February, 1935. 


(c) Payment of Tithes Assigned to Private Wagafs 
(£P.5,328). The increase was due to payment of £P.7,519 
on a claim submitted in 1934 on account of assigned tithe to 
the Mutawalli of the ‘‘ Mustafa Lala Pasha and Fatima 
Khatun Waaf ’’ for the period 1st July, 1920, to 31st March, 
1235; in respect of one-half of the villages of Mujeidel and 
ksal. 


(d) Cost of Living Allowances (£P.60,762). The Cost 
of Living Allowances were restored to the level prevailing 
before November, 1931, when they were reduced by 
approximately 50 per cent. on financial grounds. Pending 
approval of the proposed restoration the allowances were 
extracted from the relevant departmental votes and placed 
under this Head. 


(e) Refunds in respect of Revenue Collected in Previous 
Years (£P.3,395). The greater part of the refund was 
due to the refund of immigrants’ deposits credited to 
Revenue Head III, Item 26, in previous years. Part of the 
sum (£P.2,156) was in respect of a refund to the Jaffa 
Municipality of an excess payment in 1934-35 in respect of 
the Southern Approach Road to the Port. 


(f) Losses on Investments (£P.3,192). In accordance with 
Colonial Regulations losses on sale of investment of surplus 
balances are charged to expenditure. Such losses amounted 
to £P.3,551 in 1935-36. 

(g) Contributions towards the Reconstruction of the 
Matrak-Jisr Majami Road (£P.8,300). Advances totalling 

‘10,000 were made to the Trans-Jordan Government 
towards the reconstruction of this road in Trans-Jordan 


200 


in 1934-35, and a further £P.18,300 was advanced to the 
Trans-Jordan Government on this account in 1935-36. 
A further sum of £P.1,352 will be required in 1936-37. 


(h) Purchase of Copyright of the Handbook of Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan (£P.1,200). An offer was made to the 
Palestine Government by the owners of the copyright of 
the Handbook of Palestine and Trans-Jordan for the sale 
of their rights in the book. An agreement of assignment 
of copyright has been entered into and a sum of £P.1,20c 
paid in full settlement to the owners. 


(1) Flood Relief Measures, Khalisa and Buweiziyya 
Villages (£P.1,694). This item represents the cost of 
relief measures necessitated by a cloudburst in November 
1934, namely the replacement of lost crops, seed and 
animals sufficient for the villagers to carry on with winter 
ploughing and to re-establish themselves as farmers on the 
minimum scale necessary to earn a livelihood. 


(k) Professional Charges and Expenses (£P.133), 
Registration Fees and Capital Duty in respect of Agricultural 
Mortgage Company of Palestine, Ltd. (£P.2,044). Govern- 
ment has undertaken to make the Company a grant equal 
to the amount paid by the Company during its first ten 
years in respect of registration fees and capital duty under 
the Palestine Companies Ordinance (Schedule 6 (a) (i) 
and (b) ); in the event of the conversion after 25 years of | 
the Government loan into share capital, a further grant 
equal to the registration fees and capital duty paid in that 
event will be made. 


Decreases of note occurred under: Stationery and Printing 
(£P.8,809), the charges being mainly borne in 1935-36 under 
Head IV, Secretariat, Printing and S tatonery Section; Flood 
Relief Works, Tiberias (£P.3,267) in respect of a revote; Pay- 
ment to Supreme Moslem Sharia Council in lieu of Assigned 
Waaf Tithes (£P.59,440); on account of Arrears of Tithe of 
additional Waqf Villages and Lands paid in 1934-35; Payment 
to Municipalities in lieu of their share in the collection of Urban 
Property Tax (£P.8,673), incorporated in 1935-36 under 
Grants-in-Aid to Haifa, Acre and Shefa Amr Municipalities; 
Settlement of Claim for Damage by Earthquake to the Kaiserin 
Augusta Viktoria Stiftung, Jerusalem (£P.7,000). 


XXVI.—Posts and Telezraphs Extraordinary.—Expendi- 
ture: 1934-5 £P.71,623, 1935-6 £P.132,301. A further sum of 
£P.11,543 was expended on the equipment of a Broadcasting 
Station, Jerusalem, in addition to the sum of £P.18,951 ex- 
pended in 1934-5 out of a total sum of £P.32,000 provided. 


201 
The remaining expenditure may be summarized as under:— 


bce 
Additional Trunk Lines, Reconstruction of 
Routes, Trunk Entry Cables and Under- 
ground Cables en see ie we 39,285 
Additional Subscribers’ Circuits, Additional 
Exchange Switchboards and Relief Tele- 
phone Exchanges sel ~ ... 34,619 
Installations of Automatic Exchanges, 
Tel-Aviv, and Rural Exchanges and Con- 
version of Subscribers’ Apparatus to 
Automatic, Jerusalem ae aise ... 24,146 
er Improvements, Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa 
and Tel-Aviv Sis see - 22,708 
Z£P.120,758 


XXVII.—Public Works — Extraordinary.—Expenditure: 
1934-5 £P.262,878, 1935-6 £P.645,044. The provisions for 
1935-6 aggregated £P.1,002,952 which was supplemented by 

tther provision under Special Warrants to the amount of 
£P 183,733 being £P.126,016 for Miscellaneous Services 
(including £P.31,000 for the purchase of additional land for 
Government Offices, Jerusalem, £P.44,380 in respect of excess 
cost of the Haifa Oil Dock, and £P.14,490 for the excess cost 
of the Jerusalem Water Supply over the provision made under 
loan Funds), £P.44,065 for Construction of Roads, and 
£P.13,652 for Other Works and Buildings, thus raising the total 
Provision to £P.1,186,685 of which the sum of £P.645,044 was 
expended. The under-expenditure is due to the non-completion 
of works in progress (4P.358,965), to the non-commencement 
of works for which provision was made (4P.57,798) in respect 
of which revotes totalling £P.345,072 were required in 1936-7, 
works transferred to other heads (4P.1,125), works abandoned 
£P.15,910) , and works postponed (£P.100,550). 


The expenditure for the year falls into the following 
Categories : — 


£P. 
1) Works and Buildings... 88 1. 90,964 
2) Construction of Roads and Bridges... 210,640 
(3) Miscellaneous su a fe ... 343,440 
£P.045,044 


_ The excess of £P.382,166 in the expenditure under this Head 
Paes oe as compared with the expenditure in 1934-5 is as 
dlews: Works and Buildings (£P.17,717), Construction of 


202 


Roads and Bridges (£P.109,749), and Miscellaneous — 
(£P.254,700). The major services carried out under Works and 
Buildings were additions and improvements to the Animal 
Quarantine Station, Haifa (£P.8,614), additions to Frontier 
Animal Quarantine Stations (£P.4,214), construction of Police 
Training School, Jerusalem (£P.20,116), and construction of 
Standard Police Stations and Posts (£4P.6,483). The major road 
works carried out were the construction of a feeder road through 
the Hasharon Settlements to the Lydda-Haifa Railway Station 
(Z£P.22,676), the continuation of the Rehovoth-Gaza Road 
(£P.11,777), the continuation of the North Road to Tel Mond 
(4P.16,999), construction of the Tulkarm-Nathania Road 
(4£P.14,652), construction of Village Roads (£P.14,915), and the 
construction of the Southern Approach Road to Jaffa Port 
(£P.36,531), construction of Roads in Tiberias Town (£P.8,131), 
widening of Arterial Roads, Jerusalem (£P.13,600), construc- 
tion of Jenin-Megiddo-El Harithiya Road (£P.9,994), improve- 
ments to Samakh-Jisr el Majami Road (£P.6,465), and recon- 
struction, realignment and widening of roads, etc. (£P.6,259). 


Under Miscellaneous, the continuation of the improvements at 
Jaffa Port accounted for £P.152,283 and the construction of 
Airports at Lydda and Haifa for £P.64,373. Both these works 
are being continued in 1936-37. Other items of interest are the 
extension of the development of the reclaimed area, Haifa 
(£P.11,695), the erection of an additional Citrus Shed at Haifa 
(4P.11,571), and part (£P.12,780) of the excess cost of the 
Haifa Oil Dock and East Reclamation Area Scheme which is 
now estimated to cost £P.265,876 as compared with the original 
provision of £P.210,000 under the projected loan. £P.31,000 
was expended on the purchase of additional land for the proposed 
Government Offices, Jerusalem, for acquisition of the site 
adjacent to the land already acquired from Loan Funds, and 
£P.5,III was expended over the Loan provision of £P.370,000 
for the Jerusalem Water Supply Scheme, the revised cost of 
which is approximately £P.406,000, including £P.39,600 in 
respect of expenditure by the Jerusalem Municipality. 


XXVIII, Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary.— 
Expenditure: 1934-35 £P.26,592, 1935-36 £P.18,477. The main 
projects undertaken in 1935-36 were the re-construction of Zerka 
Camp (£P.10,736), continuation of the re-construction of 
Samakh Camp (£P.1,192), and re-conditioning the Married 
Quarters in the Jordan Area icici & The remaining expen- 
diture was incurred on minor works of re-conditioning and im- 
provements at the various camps of the Force in Trans-Jordan 


and Palestine. 


XXX, Colonial Development.—Expenditure: 1934-35 
£P.271, 1935-36 £P.690. The sum of £P.661 was expended 


203 


on the Zerka Valley Survey in connection with the survey of a 
route fora Railway between Haifa and Baghdad, in respect of 
' which £P.253 was disbursed in 1934-35. £P.29 was contributed 
to the Colonial Agricultural Scholarship Scheme. 


Railways. 


_§5. The Railway deficit charged to Government expenditure 
iM 1935-36 was £P.124,159 as compared with £P.33,805 in 
1934,35- 

The final results in 1935-36 of the four Railway Systems, 
| eet by the General Manager, Palestine Railways, were as 
. Under: — 

Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit, 


£P. £P. £P. fP. 
Palestine Railways ... 588,816 702,928 — 114,152 
Kantara-Rafa Railway... 119,052 110,551 8,501 — 
Hejaz Railway ... ws» 102,751 112,798 — 10,047 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... 2,467 840 1,627 —_— 


In order to arrive at the deficit charged to Revenue, the 
: Accounts of the Kantara-Rafa Railway and the Petah Tiqva 
Way are excluded as the surpluses are subject to a special 
aTangement. In the case of the latter Railway there is an 
— obligation to pay interest to the colonists and to Government on 
their respective advances for the construction of the line. The 
surpluses in previous years have been insufficient to pay this 
interest in full and at the 31st March, 1936, after distribution of 
re ane, there was an outstanding debt of £P.12,394 
asunder:— 


LP. 

To Government ae 7 oes re 1,120 
To Petah Tiqva Colonists ...  .... ... ~~ -11,274 
£P.12,304 


The agreement provides for the payment to the colonists of 
© amount advanced (£P.20,000) with interest at the rate of 
Pet cent. per annum, but a prior charge exists in favour of 

e Government of Palestine in respect of interest on the excess 
ost of the line met by Government over the contribution by 
€ colonists. That excess was £P.34,010. Any deficiency in 
© payment of interest to Government, together with interest at 
5 Per cent. thereon, has first to be met before the claim of the 
ata Is due for payment and any deficiency in respect of 
sth Payment also bears interest at the rate of 5 per cent. per 
aie m. The agreement further provides that after meeting the 
a for interest the net surplus shall be set aside to repay the 

ot £E.20,000 made by the colonists. In 1923-24 a sum 


204 


of £P.568 was repaid to the colonists and in 1924-25 a sum of 
Z£P.267. The net surplus of £P.1,627 in 1935-36 was entirely 
absorbed in the payment of arrears of interest to Government, 
and is included in the revenues of the Palestine Railway. 


Special arrangements were entered into regarding the Kantara- 
Rafa Railway with effect from 1st April, 1933. Prior to this date 
a moiety of the profits of this Railway was credited to the 
Special Renewals) Fund and a moiety of the profits was divided 
between His Majesty’s Government and the Palestine Railway 
in proportion to their respective capital interests in the Railway. 
This method of division gave way to a commuted payment on 
a rental basis with effect from the 1st April, 1933, and a sum 
of £P.4,000 was agreed upon as the annual rent to be paid 
by the Palestine Railway for the use of the line, subject to recon- 
sideration at the end of three years. The profits of £P.17,002 
resulting from the operation of the Railway in 1935-36 was, 
therefore, divided equally between the Special (Renewals) 
Fund and the Palestine Railway. The revenue of the Palestine 
Railway includes, therefore, a sum of £P.8,50r1 and the 
expenditure includes a rental payment of £P.4,000. 


The net deficit charged to Government expenditure under 
this Head was, therefore, £P.124,159, consisting of the deficits 
of the Palestine and Hejaz Railways, which were £P.114,112 
and £P.10,047 respectively. 

The following comparison is afforded between the revenues 
of the four Sections of the line in 1934-35 and 1935-36:— 


Kantara- Petah 
Palestine Rafa Hejas Tiqua Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Ratlway. 


£P. LP. £LP. £P. LP. 

Coaching :— 

1934-35 --- w+ 195,347 81,387 28,285 = 305,019 

1935-36 ... .2. 210,940 80, 388 34,635 — 325,963 
Goods :— 

1934-35 ... ws» 330,211 34,521 56,112 2,880 423,724 

1935-36 ... s+ 336,166 35,637 61,560 2,400 435,763 
Miscellaneous :— 

1934-35 «.. ... 48,056 2,587 6,148 22 50,813 

1935-36 ... .. 41,710 3,027 6,556 67 51,360 
Total :— 

1934-35 «+. £P.573,614 118,495 90,545 2,902 785,556 

1935-36 ... £P.588,816 119,052 102,751 2,467 813,086 


It will be observed that increases occurred in every case 
except in the receipt from Coaching Traffic on the Kantara- 
Rafa Railway and Miscellaneous Traffic on the Palestine Rail- 
way, and from Goods Traffic on the Petah Tiqva Railway. 


205 


Expenditure on the Palestine Railway includes a sum of 
-60,000 for the Renewals Fund and a sum of £P.157,140 
for Debt Charges on the Railway portion of the Palestine 
Government 5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan 1942/67. The 
following table affords a comparison between the expenditure of 

~ the Railways on all Sections in 1934-35 and 1935-36:— 




















Kantara- Petah 
Palestine Rafa Hejaz Tiqua Total. 
: Railway. Railway. Railway. Ratlway. 
i £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
. Maintenance and 
Renewals of Ways 
and Works :— 
1934-35 58,133 24,722 21,967 214 105,036 
1935-36 83,955 31,049 22,179 214 137,397 
Maintenance and 
Renewals of Loco- 
-. motives and 
Rolling Stock :— 
“1934-35 72,350 20,250 28,656 140 121,396 
1935-36 75,530 18,888 22,624 140 117,188 
_. Transportation Ex- 
‘"  penses :— 
1934-35 115,316 21,576 37,226 377 174,495 
1935-36 151,659 26,827 46,031 377 224,894 
General Charges :— 
1934-35 43,029 24,685 13,171 109 80,994 
1935-36 50,672 25,286 17,418 109 93,485 
. Debt Charges :— 
1934-35 157,140 = 63 a 157,203 
1935-36 157,140 — 63 = 157,203 
Extraordinary 
Expenditure :— 
1934-35 76,953 — 17,260 = 94,213 
1935-36 123,966 = 4,483 = 128,449 
Renewals Fund :— 
1934-35 56,700 =e = = 56,700 
1935-36 60,000 — — — 60,000 
Contribution to Kan- 
“ tara-Rafa Railway 
Special Fund :— 
1934-35 sigs — 13,631 — — 13,631 
1935-36 a — 8,501 — — 8,501 
Total :— 
1934-35 £P. 579,621 104,864 118,343 840 803,668 
1935-36 £P.702,928 110,551 112,798 840 927,117 





200 


The financial position of the four Sections of the Railway for 
the two years under review is summarized below :— | 


1934-35. 1935-36. 
Surplus (+) Surplus (+) 
Deficit (—) Deficit (—) 


LP. £P. 
Palestine Railways us gas .-. — 6,007 —I1I4,112 
' Kantara-Rafa Railway ... eke «ss +27,262 + 8,501 
Hejaz Railway... ... w= —27,798 — 10,047 
Petah Tiqva Railway... ne w= + 2,062 + 1,627 


The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 
for the period Ist Apmil ,1935, to 31st March, 1936, were as 
under : — - 





LP. £P. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods Ss eas Seg 547,106 
Miscellaneous or a26 ee is 41,710 
588,816 
Expenditure. ; 
Operation Expenses =e atts bas 361,822 
Debt Charges ae oe ate ee 157,140 
_ Capital Improvements ... Zea was 123,966 
Renewals ... sue eae ae see 60,000__. 
—-~—— 702,928 
Deficit ... saa £P.114,112 


It will be observed from the comparative table of the Railway 
expenditure that there has been an increase of £P.123,307 m 
Palestine Railway expenditure in 1935-36 as compared with 
that of the previous year. The increase is made up as under:— 


£P. 
Operating Costs se ee ae 72,994 
Extraordinary Expenditure ... ar 47,013 
Renewals Fund ae ake aes 3,300 
£P.123,307 


The increase in operating costs is mainly attributable to 
certain wage concessions granted to the staff; washouts; 
measures to prevent rail creeping; arrears of repairs to loco- 
motives and re-construction of carriages and wagons to meet 
traffic requirements; temporary traffic and running staff to deal 
with increased traffic; coal required for additional train services: 
heavy running repairs of locomotives and rolling stock to de 
with increased traffic; increased porterage services due t0 
increased traffic; additional equipment required on account 
of the appointment of additional staff; and arrears of rent for 
land situated near Haifa East Cabin. 





207 
The increase of £P.47,013 in capital expenditure is largely the 
result of the recommendations of the expert who reported early 
in 1935 on the development of traffic facilities. The main works 
and services carried out in 1935-36 were :— 


LP. 
(a) Purchase of Locomotives and Rolling 
Stock... ada eg aa sie 72,986 
(b) Construction and Extension of Orange 
Sheds _... ahs dae ee sae 22,388 
(c) New Works on Main Line for preven- 

_ tion of damage by floods... re 8,205 
(2) Minor New Works oe os sa 3,650 
(e) Crossing Station at Qaqun ___... oe 2,033 
(f) Other Works and Services... as 14,704 

£P.123,966 


In addition to the above expenditure, the following amounts 
were disbursed from the Renewals Fund:— 


(a) Sleepers wu | C 
(b) Renewals of Locomotives and Boilers 29,869 
(c) Renewals of Buildings, Sanitation and 


Drainage ae hee Oe 5,976 

(2) Machirie Tools for Workshops ... es 1,038 
(6) Travelling Water Tanks sis a 623 
(f) Revote from Previous Years ... sa: 1,571 
£P.04,435 


The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railway proper 
31st March, 1936, is appended :— 
From Loan Funds. 


— Of Assets from His Majesty’s Govern- 
(included in Item II of Appendix V1) 784,854 


er Expenditure (see Item I of Appendix VI) 1,639,021 


£P. £P. 


2,423,875 
From, Revenue. 
Capi . 
he Improvements to 31st March, 1935... 661,834 
ee Improvements in 1935-36 ile sins 123,966 | 
| fe 785,800 


£P.3,209,675 


208 


7, The revenue and expenditure of the Kantara-Rafa Railway 
for the year ended the 31st March, 1936, were as under:— 


i. &. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods Tr ifs dis seid 116,025 
Miscellaneous See ees _ es Sas 3,027 
———___-—— 119,052 
Expenditure. : 
Operation Expenses an eo eis ‘ais 102,050 
Net Earnings see ea ses ies ioe £P.17,002 


These earnings were apportioned as under, in accordance with 
the special arrangement regarding this Railway to which mention 
has already been.made:— 





LP: 

Renewals Fund ve or baie or 8,501 
Palestine Railway ... ee oe ee 8,501 
£P.17,002 





8. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway for the 
year 1935-36 were as under: — 





cP £P. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods ee ies ous ne 96,195 
Miscellaneous — sais se aa dave 6,556 
a 102,75! 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses ae Sal oe oe 108,252 
Capital Improvements ... oe sane es 4,483 
Debt Charges a sek ous a ae 63 
——____—— 112,798 
Deficit ae Set ius boss ee seis £P.10,047 


The increase in operation expenses of this Railway is due 
to the same causes as that of the Palestine Railway. 

The main items of capital expenditure, which _ totalled 
£P.4,483 for the year, were the replacement of two locomotive 
boilers (4P.1,438) and new works for the prevention of damage 
by floods (£P.1,898). 


9. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah Tiqva Railway 
for the year under review were as under : — 





£P. £P. 
Revenue. 
Goods _... oe ee wes ate ay or 2,400 
Miscellaneous ... ius sae a or ea 67 
2,407 
Expenditure. $0 
Operation Expenses 4 
ae 
Net Earnings £P.1,627 


209 


Defence. 


1 Asum of £P.157,500 was provided in the Estimates for 
1935-30 to cover the contribution to H.M.’s Government towards 
the excess cOSt of the Royal Air Force Units and Army Units 

' gationed in Palestine and Trans-Jordan and the cost of con- 
_ struction of Army married quarters in Jerusalem and Haifa. 
‘ Theamount diute is paid quarterly on the basis of one-fourth of the 
sum provided’ in the United Kingdom Estimates in respect of 
Palestine’s com tribution towards the cost of Defence. The amount 
due for the last quarter, however, is adjusted so as to allow for 
- the latest estismate of excess cost received from the War Office 
aid Air Ministry, and such contribution is then demanded as 
is sufficient to cover the balance of the excess according to those 
Estimates. “Che sum paid in respect of the year 1935-36 amounted 
to {P.145,289, but a sum of £P.12,680 had been overpaid in 
1934-35 1 excess of Palestine’s actual liability for that year 
and was Carried forward as part of the contribution for the year 
1935-30. Ihe total payments made, therefore, in respect of 
1935-30 amounted. to £P.157,960. 


The following contributions have been made :— 


Financial 
Rete in Financial year in which 
which payment Amount. liability 1s incurred. Amount. 
was made, 
ar £P. £P. 
928... 53,500 1927-28 (1 year) 31,000 
1928—29 (9 months) ... 22,500 
29... 30,375 1928-29 (3 months) ... 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) ... 22,875 
23 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) ... j 7,625 
; 1930-31 (payment for 6 months at 
the original rate of £P.33,500 p.a., 
which was subsequently revised 
1931 to £P.75,250 Pp.a.) ... oe — 16,750 
86,000 1930-31 (payment of balance of 
contribution for the year at the 
revised rate of £{P.75,250 p.a.) 58,500 
1932 (January 1931-32 (6 months) 27,500 
seer eas 27,500 1931-32 (6 months) ... 27,500 
nes 90,000 1932-33 (I year) 90,00° 
1934-35 IOI,00O 1933-34 (I year) 101,000 
1935-36 103,875 1934-35 (I year) 103,875 
145,289 1935-36 (I year) 145,289 
Tota] 
£P.661,914 


a 


210 
Assets and Liabilities. 
11. The Assets and Liabilities are set out in Appendix III. 
At the 31st March, 1936, the surplus balance amounted t. 
Z£P.6,267,810 as under: — 


£P. £PF. 

Surplus Balance at 1st April, 1935 ... oe 4,733,553 
Revenue for the period 1st April, 1935, to 

31st March, 1936 ... 5»779,457 
Expenditure for the period Ist April, 1935, 

to 31st March, 1936 ; 4,236,202 
Surplus for the period 1st Apri 1935, to 

31st March, 1936... wale 1,534,235! 
Surplus Balance at 31st March, 1936 tae £P.6,267,81( 

ASSETS. 
Municipalities. 


12. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities at th 
31st March, 1936, are summarized as under : — 


LP. 
Jerusalem—New Abattoir and Incinerator se bs 14,316 
Haifa—-Oil Storage Area... i za as re 9,143 
Tiberias—Construction of Roads ... sais ... 6,267 
Other Municipalities—For Works and Services ... re 719 
£P.30,445 


In addition, a sum of £P.43,288 has been advanced to the 
Jerusalem Municipality in connection with the City Drainage 
Scheme. This appears in the Statement of Assets and Liabilities 
under ‘“ Advances in Anticipation of the New Loan ” 

Agncultural Loans. 

13. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of 

loans are summarized as under:— 


(a) Agricultural Loans (1919-23) £P.576,319 £P. £P. 
(Northern, Southern and _ Jerusalem 
Districts) — 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 ae 14,802 
Repayments during the year 1935-36 1,942 be 
12 





(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 2-2 per cent.) 
(ob) Agricultural Loans (1928) £P.19,366 (Northern 
District)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 ui 5,094 
Repayments during the year 1935-36 ... 67 





5,027 
(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 26 per cent.) 
(c) Agricultural Loans (1930-31) {£P.29,979 
(Northern and Southern Districts)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 des 22,663 


Repayments during the year 1935-360 ... 376 37 
22,2 





(Percentage of arrears to the total 


loans 74°4 per cent.) 
ate Ne a ee er ee 


* Page 224. 


2iI 


(@) Agricultural Loans £P.17,136 
(Southern District)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 
Repayments during the year 1935-36 


(1931-32) 


f (Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 29-6 per cent.) 


(ec) Agricultural Loans (1932-1933) £P.53,537 
(Northern, Southern and Jerusalem 
Districts) — 


Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 gee 
Repayments during the year 1935-36 


oe 
eons 
‘a 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
instalments due 67-2 per cent.) 
(f) Agricultural Loans (1933-34) 
(Northern, Southern = and 
7 Districts) — 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 sine 
t Repayments during the year 1935-36 


£P.57,259 
Jerusalem 


: (Percentage of arrears to the total 
: loans 94-6 per cent.) 


(g) Fodder Loans (1933-34) £P.20,720 (Northern, 


- Southern and Jerusalem Districts)— 
# Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 
7» Repayments during the year 1935-36 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
os instalments due 98 per cent.) 


(4) Agricultural Loans (1934-35) (Northern, 
Southern and Jerusalem Districts) — 
é LP. 
Total Loans issued to 31st March, 
1935 ia 6,163 


Total loans issued during 19 35-36 150 





Repayments during the hea 
1935-36 
(Percentage of arrears to the total 
instalments due 99-7 per cent.) 
(i) Agricultural Loans, 1935-36 


) Bee-hive Loans (Northern, 
Jerusalem Districts) — 


4 £P 


Southern and 


Outstanding at 31st March, 1935 458 
Total loans issued during the 


year 1935-36 . 1,424 





Repayments during the yee 
1935-36 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
instalments due 83-7 per cent.) 


41526 


5.375 





38,196 
2,075 





56,287 
2,092 





20,602 
288 





6,313 
17 





1,882 


94 





5,007 


30,121 


54,195 


20,314 


6,296 


4,988 


1,788 


£P.168,943 


H 


212 


With the exception of £P.493 under (e), £P.296 under (g), 
and £P.220 under (hk), the instalments comprising the outstand- 
ing balances of (a) to (h) are now overdue. The loans under (t) 
are repayable in one or two instalments and the loans under ()) 
are repayable in three equal instalments. 


Citrus Advertisement Fund. 


14. The balance in this Account represents the difference 
between the amount received by way of fees on exported citrus 
fruit and the amount expended on advertising. The gross 
sear appearing in the Account during the year were as 
under : — 








£P. LP. 
Credit Balance brought forward from 1934-35 ... 7,914 
Fees collected during 1935-36 24,922 
Contribution by Messrs. Den Norske Middelhav- 
slinye (Norway) . 100 
Sale of Coloured illustrations Jee we ssa 7 
32,943 
Advertising Expenditure ... ee sete sek 33,49 
Debit Balance at 31st March, 1936 Seis aa £P.553 





Earthquake reconstruction loans. 


15. Ihe position with regard to advances made on account 
of Earthquake Reconstruction Loans is summarised as under:— 


LP. 
Advances outstanding at 31st March, 1935 17,204 
Repayments during the year 1935-36 4 500 


Amounts outstanding at 31st March, 1936... £P.16,764 


These loans were made principally to a Sale residing in 
Lydda, Ramle, Nablus and Nazareth. he arrears of due 
instalments at the 31st March, 1935, amounted to £P.12,853. 


Investments. 


16. The cost price of stocks held on Government account in 
respect of available balances and loan funds at the rst April, 
1935, was £P.3,024,080 and during the year further surplus 
funds were invested to the extent of £P.1,413,253, making a 
total investment of £P.4,437,333. The value of these stocks, 
based on the middle market price prevailing on the 31st March, 
1936, was £P.4,526,329 as shown in Appendix V*. Investments 
held on behalf of funds in the custody of Government consist 
of stocks forming the Endowment Fund of the Palestine 
Archaeological Museum, valued at £P.278,622; and the invest- 
ment of the surplus balances of the Police Fines F und, valued 
at £P.3,587. The total investments, therefore, at the mean 


* Page 227. 


213 


market value at the 31st March, 1936, amount to £P.4,808,538 
as compared with total investments amounting to £P.3,366,244 
held on the 31st March, 1935. 


Advances in Anticipation of the New Loan. 


17. The Palestine Government proposes to raise a further 
loan of £P.2 million for the following purposes:— 


 O£P. 

(1) Resettlement of Displaced Arabs ... 250,000 © 
(2) Water Supply and Drainage Schemes 

for Jerusalem and Haifa, Water 

Supply for Hebron and various 

villages, and Survey of Water | 

Resources oe a . 933,000 
(3) Agricultural Credits ... oe 200,000 


(4) Construction of Oil Berth and . 
Reclamation Scheme at Haifa ... 210,000 

(5) Public Buildings, including Jerv-. 
salem Post Office and _ various 
Educational Buildings, and purposes 
Incidental to, or connected with, 
any of the purposes mentioned in 
this Schedule, including the raising 

of the Loan ... a ies ai 407 ,00O 
£P.2,000,000 


The bulk of the Loan is to meet the cost of municipal water 
- Supplies and drainage schemes which will ultimately be revenue- 
_ faming. His Majesty’s Government have approved free grants 
fom the Colonial Development Fund of the interest payable on 
_ the Loan in respect of the capital cost of schemes as under :— 


Jerusalem Water Supply... £P. 9,000 in 1934-35 
£P.12,000 in 1935-30 
£P. 5,000 in 1936-37 
Z£P. 5,000 1n 1937-38 
Jerusalem Drainage Scheme LP. 5,250 in 1934-35 


and the four suc- 
ceeding years. 


Hebron Water Supply _... 5 years at full rate 
and 5 years at half 
rate. 

Village Water Supply ... «5: years at full rate. 


41526 H 2 


214 


The fixed grants in respect of the first two schemes, as well a: 
full interest, calculated at bank rate on expenditure incurred tc 
the 31st March, 1936, in respect of the latter two schemes, 
aggregating in all £P.18,107 were received during the yea! 
from the Colonial Development Fund and carried to Revenue 
under Head XI. 


Application will be made for grants in respect of the Haifa 
Water Supply and Drainage Schemes as soon as estimates of cost 
are approved. 


The provision of £P.250,000 for the Resettlement of Arabs 
is in conformity with an undertaking given by His Majesty’s 
Government in 1930 that provision would be made for the re- 
settlement of those Arabs who might be found, after inquiry, to 
have been displaced from the lands which they occupied in 
consequence of the lands passing into Jewish hands, and who 
had not obtained other holdings on which they could establish 
themselves or other equally satisfactory occupation. 


18. The work on the majority of the schemes enumerated in 
paragraph 17 has been started, and the expenditure thereon has 
been met from surplus balances pending the issue of the new 
loan. The expenditure on this account during the year amounted 
to £P.525,189 and was incurred on the following works: — 


LP. 

Resettlement of Displaced Arabs __... 1,798 

Water Supply and Drainage Schemes, etc. 194,812 

Investment in Land Mortgage Company... 150,000 
Construction of Oil Berth and Reclamation 

Scheme at Haifa... a sue “92,701 

Public Buildings, etc. ... gs ae ... 105,788 

£P.525,189 


The total expenditure on these services amounted at 3ist 
March, 1936, to £P.1,052,924, and a statement is appended 
showing the expenditure to the 31st March, 1935; the expendi- 
ture in 1935-6; the expenditure to the 31st March, 1936; and the 
unexpended balance at that date : — 


215 








41526 


Total Total 
Provision Expendt- Expendt- 
in ture to Expendi- ture to Un- 
Work. proposed 31st tuve in 31st expended 
Loan March, 1935-36. March, Balance. 
Schedule. 1935. 1936. 
LP. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
1. Resettlement of Dis- 
placed Arabs ae 250,000 81,989 1,798 83,787 166,213 
2. Water Supply and Drain- 
age Schemes, etc. :— 
(i) Jerusalem Water 
Supply : 370,000 199,633 152,295 351,928 18,072 
(u) Jerusalem Drain- 
age Scheme 150,000 33,870 9,418 43,288 106,712 
(ii) Haifa Drainage 
Scheme a 130,000 1,835 948 2,783 127,217 
(iv) Haifa Water Supply 200,000 504 800 1,304 198,696 
(v) Hebron Water 
Supply 10,000 7,247 2,189 9,436 . 564 
(vi) Water Resources 
Survey os 6,000 2,662 1,468 4,130 1,870 
(vil) Underground Water 
Investigations 22,000 6,230 8,141 14,371 7,629 
(viii) Improvements of 
Village Water 
Supplies See 45,000 12,720 19,553 32,273 12,727 
3. Agricultural Credits :— 
(i) Investment in Land 
Mortgage Com- 
pany ... gee 150,000 — 150,000 150,000 — 
(u) Long-Term Loans 
for Hill Areas... 50,000 — — == 59,000 
+ Construction of Oil Berth 
and Reclamation 
Scheme at Haifa :— 
(i) Haifa Oil Dock ... 150,000 91,371 64,194 155,505 — 
(i) Haifa East Re- 
clamation Area 60,000 45,838 8,597 54,435 — 
_§. Public Buildings, includ- 
Ing Jerusalem Post 
Office and various Edu- 
cational Buildings and 
purposes incidental to, 
or connected with, any 
of the purposes men- 
tioned in this Schedule, 
including the raising of 
the Loan :— 
(i) Government Arab 
College ae 27,000 13,025 10,545 23,570 3,430 
(ii) Government Schoo 
_. _ In Towns Z 106,000 2,833 29,059 31,892 74,108 
(iii) Government Tech- 
nical and Trade 
School ont 40,000 560 16,444 17,004 22,996 
(iv) Capital Grants to 
Jewish Institu- 
tions ae 20,000 — 10,206 10,206 9,794 
(v) Jerusalem = Post 
_ _ Office ... oe 156,000 27,418 39,534 66,952 89,048 
(vi) Cost of Raising of 
.... Loan ... - 56,000 — — — 56,000 
(vii) Unallocated 2,000 — — — 2,000 
£P.2,000,000 527,735 525,189 1,052,924 947,076 


H 3 


216 
LIABILITIES. 


Deposits. 


19. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund. The 
balance of the Account is now made up as under :— : 








£P. £P. 
Amount of the Fund at 31st March, 1935 bes 276,313 
Add :— 
Profits realised on Sale of Investments cums 
1935-36 .. aie 995 
Aor Hon of Tavetneane held at ‘hie erat 
March, 1936, based on the mean market value 
ruling at that date di ds 1,314 
2,309 
£P.278,622 





20. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Fund. 
When Mr. John Rockefeller, Junior, undertook to provide 
$2,000,000 for the cost of construction and endowment of this 
Museum, it was estimated that the building would be completed 
in 1930, and the gift was promised on the understanding that 
the last payment would be called for not later than the Ist 
January, 1931. Owing, however, to unforeseen difficulties, con- 
struction has not proceeded according to schedule and the build- 
ing had not been completed at the 31st March, 1935. 
Nevertheless, a sum of $1,000,000 was received in November, 
1929, and an endowment fund created. Subsequent building 
grants, on a dollar basis, were also made from time to time with 
an extension of the period of call to the 1st January, 1933. 


Owing, however, to the fall in the value of sterling, the dollar 
values of the building grants were considerably in excess of the 
original sterling equivalents, while the enactment of the United 
States Gift Tax Law in June, 1932, increased by almost I00 per 
cent. the cost to Mr. Rockefeller of his benefaction. Moreover, 
the delay in construction of the Museum had postponed the 
necessity for maintenance, and interest thereby accrued on the 
Endowment Fund, although certain expenditure was inevitably 
incurred on staff and research work in connection with the 
classification and arrangement of archaeological material, 
records, and library. 


In view of these changes, it was suggested that the original 
pledge should be replaced by a new arrangement which ult- 
mately took the following form :— 


(a) The cost of construction of the Museum estimated at 
£P.200,000 should be reduced to £P.193,000. This was 
made possible by economies on certain items of equipment 
and fittings. 


217 


(5) £P.14,000 of the unexpended balance of income 
derived from the Endowment Fund at 31st March, 1934, 
should be transferred to the construction account. 


(c) The Endowment Fund should be reduced by the 
amount required to complete construction (this was effected 
In 1934-5) after taking into account the sum of £P.149,308 
already paid by Mr. Rockefeller and the transfer of 
£,P.14,000 from the balance of the current account. 


The amount of £P.5,650 shown in the Statement of Assets and 
Liabilities is made up as under: — 





Amounts received from Mr. Rockefeller AP 
to 31st March, 1935 _.... ee ... 149,308 
Amount transferred from accumulated 
interest in current account ..... aa 14,000 
Amount transferred from the Endowment 
Fund sé re bs ee es 29,692 
' 193,000 
Less: Amount expended to 31st March, 
1936 ae sts is ... 187,350 





Balance in hand at 31st March, 1936 ... £P.5,650 





21. Moslem University of Palestine.—In March, 1935, His 
Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad donated a sum of £P.7,543 
to form an Endowment Fund for the maintenance of a Moslem 
University in Palestine. It is pe osed to invest this money 
and to apply the proceeds towards the upkeep of the University. 
Negotiations are still proceeding and the investment will be made 
when these are concluded. 


22. Sir Ellis Kadoone Bequest.—The bequest was made to 
His Majesty’s Government who appointed the Officer Adminis- 
tering the Government of Palestine to be the local representative 
for the administration of the trust. 


The bequest is for the construction and the endowment of 
Agricultural Training Schools at Tulkarm and Mt. Tabor. The 
total amount received was £P.121,551, but the bequest was 
enhanced in value by transactions on investments and by 
accumulation of interest to a total of £P.179,320. Of this total 
the sum of £P.93,084 had been remitted by the Crown Agents 
for the Colonies at the 31st March, 1936, for the construction and 
equipment of the schools, leaving an amount of £P.86,237 in 
the fund which was held partly on investment in the Joint 

Colonial Fund (£P.18,900) and partly in Trustee Securities 

(£P.67,335), the remainder (£P.2) being held in cash by the 

Crown Agents for the Colonies. 

41526 H 4 


218 


Prior to the year 1934-5 interest from the Endowment Fund, 
together with school and farm receipts supplemented by a 
Government grant-in-aid, were utilised both for construction and 
maintenance. With effect, however, from the 1st April, 1934, 
these receipts were credited to Revenue, and recurrent expendi- 
ture on the schools was provided for in the Estimates of the 
Department of Agriculture and Forests. There remained, how- 
ever, a balance of £P.4,756 in the current account at the 
ist Apml, 1935, which was utilised during 1935-6 for capital 
work on school construction, with the result that a balance of 
4P.1,856 only remained in the account at the 31st March, 1936. 
The estimated cost of construction and equipment of the two 
schools is £P.80,148, of which the sum of £P.77,867 had been 
expended to the 31st March, 1936. A further sum of £P.2,281 
is, therefore, required to complete the work. Of this sum a 
balance of £P.1,856 remains in the current account, and it will 
be necessary, therefore, to draw on the Endowment Fund in the 
hands of the Crown Agents for the Colonies to the extent of 
£P.425 in order to complete the construction and equipment 
of the schools. 


Loan Expenditure. 


23. The expenditure from Loan Funds is shown in 
Appendix VI.* The Palestine 5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan of 
£4,475,000, issued at £100 Ios. per centum, realized 
EP.4,497,375- 

The expenditure during the year amounted to £P.40,642 and 
was incurred on the following works :— 





LP. 
Railway Workshops ... = ih 149 (Credits) 
Jaffa Port Improvements ... ... 12,782 
Haifa Harbour Construction ies 388 (Credits) 
Construction of Government Pmnt- 
ing Office ... a ce ... 28,307 
£P..40,642 





24. The total expenditure from Loan Funds at the 31st March, 
1936, amounted to £P.4,421,910, leaving a balance of 


Currency. 
(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual 
Report for 1929.) 
* Page 230. 


219 


25. During the year under review the Currency Board paid 
a contribution of £P.115,000 to the revenues of the Government 
of Palestine in respect of the year ended the 31st March, 1935. 


20. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the 
total value of currency in circulation at the 31st March, 1936, 
amounted to £P.6,236,134, or an increase of £P.909,906 as 
compared with the value of currency in circulation at the 
31st March, 1935— 


Denomination. 


Coins and Notes 1n Circulation at 


Coins :— 
Silver coins :— 


100 mils 
50 mils 


Face value of silver coins 


Nickel-bronze coins :— 
20 mils 
Io mils 
5 mils... 


Face value of nickel-bronze coins 


Bronze coins :— 


2 mils... 
I mil ... 


Face value of bronze coins 


Face value of all coins 












































27. 


£P.5 
£P.4 (500 mils) ... 
Face value of notes 


Face value of coins and notes 


jist March, jist March, 
1935. 1936. 
EP. LP. 
222,500 248,500 
216,000 231,500 
. £P.438,500 480,000 
24,100 27,320 
29,300 35,080 
19,400 21,600 
. £P. 72,800 84,000 
2,080 2,576 
3,680 4,624 
£P. 5,760 7,200 
£P.517,060 571,200 
11,900 44,700 
90,150 136,700 
958,100 1,188,340 
1,611,575 1,974,355 
1,839,844 2,025,230 
297,599 295,609 
...£P.4,809, 168 5,664,934 
.. £P.5,326,228 6,236,134 


(See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual Report 
= A paragraph 29 on page 165 of the Annual Report 
OF 1933. 





* Non-Parliamentary Publication, Colonial No. 47, 1930. 
t Non-Parliamentary Publication, Colonial No 94, 1934. 


220 


Banks. 


28. On page 200 of the Annual Report for the year 1935 
reference was made to the recommendations of the Banking 
Committee appointed in that year to consider ways and means 
whereby the financial reputation and credit of the country might 
be safeguarded and the interests of Bank depositors protected. 
Those recommendations have, in part, been implemented by the 
enactment of the Banking (Amendment) Ordinance, 1936, under 
which, inter alia, monthly returns of Assets and Liabilities of 
institutions subject to the Banking Ordinance are now rendered 
to Government. 


The first of the monthly returns thereunder was submitted as 
at 31st March, 1936, and the following figures have been 
extracted therefrom :— 





Credit 





Co-operative 
Foreign Local Socteties 
Item. Banks. Banks. subject Total. 
to the 
Banking - 
Ordinance. 
| £P. £P. £LP. £P. 
1. Capital (paid up) 
and Reserve 
Fund ... oe — 1,489,370 423,248 —_— 
2. Debentures — 90,192 210,466 — 
3. Deposits ‘ 11,015,803 3,116,686 2,192,300 16, 324,789 
4. Advances and 
Bills Dis- 
counted 5,608,250 3,878,118 2,501,447 | 11,987,815 
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
Ratio (4) to (3) 51 124 114 73 
Ratio (4) to (1), 
(2) and (3)... — 83 89 = 
LP. £P. £P. £P. 
5. Cash and Balances 
held with other 
Banks in Pales- 
tine (mainly 
Foreign Banks) 738,629 684,274 445,063 1,867,966 
6. Sight Deposits... 9,481,759 2,198,178 1,512,710 13,192,647 
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
Ratio (5) to (6) 7°8 31 29 14°! 





No comparison of the total figures with those obtaining as at 


the 31st March, 1935, can be made as, prior to the ena 


ctment of 


the Banking (Amendment) Ordinance, 1936, Foreign Banks 


were not called upon to submit returns to Government. 


221 


In regard to the low cash ratio to sight deposits maintained by 
Foreign Banks, it should be noted that the figures in item 5 do 
not include— 


(a) Balances totalling £P.3,224,459 (approximately 
34 per cent. of their sight deposits) with their Head Office 
or their own Branches outside Palestine; and 


(6) £P.4,263,138 (approximately 45 per cent. of their 
sight deposits) in investments most of which are in gilt- 
edged securities. 


The bulk of the sums shown under (a) and (b) above could, it 
is understood, be made readily available for the purchase of 
currency locally. 


The enactment of further measures of control over Banks is 
under the consideration of Government. 


Summary of Revenue for the years 1932 to 1935-36. 





Heads of 
Revenue. 


. Customs 
. Port and Marine ~ 
. Licences, Taxes, etc. 


etc. ; ages 
. Posts and ‘Telegraphs sek 
. Revenue from Govern- 
ment i ae 
7. Interest 
8. Miscellaneous 
9. Land Sales 
1o. Grant-in-Aid ; oe 
10a. Railways (excess. of 
Revenue over Expen- 
diture) 
11. Colonial 
Fund 


On mW H 


Development 


£P.| 657,289 13,015,917 


" Fees of Court and Office, 


222 


APPENDIX I. 


1932 
(rst 


January 
to 


31st 


March). 


£P. 


31st 


March, 


1933). 
£P. 


257,107 |1,286,945 


9,789 
173,355 


68,807 
551254 


3,595 
4,271 
26,395 
3,382 
27,734 


27,600 


15,822 
824,443 


332,488 
229,819 


16,217 
83,775 
79,938 
18,682 
127,788 


1933 to | 1934 to 
31st ZIst 
March, March, 
1934). 1935). 
£P. cP. 
1,868,598 |2,600, 370 
56,489 | 90,701 
857,180 |1,075,295 
534,355 | 845,923 
287,843 | 355,817 
14,420 21,618 
56,896 97,102 
121,337 | 177,886 
26,609 31,640 
137,760 | 141,368 
24,006 14,913 

3,985,493 








1932-33 | 1933-34 | 1934-35 | 1935-3 
(rst April,|(rst April, (rst April, 
1932 to 


(rst April, 
1935 10 
31st 
March, 
1936). 


£P. 
2,751,246 — 





107,597 ~ 


1,082,427 


913,027 | 
418,896 : 


23,952 - 
141,279 - 
154,021 © 


18,874 °: 


140,345 


18,793 > 


5,452,633 59779457 i. 





Heads of 
Expenditure. 





1. Pensions .. 
2. Public Debt and Loan 
Charges 
3. His Excellency the 
High Commissioner ... 
4. Secretariat ee 
3. District Administration 
6. Legal 7s sade 
;. Judicial . 
\ Treasury 
g. Audit Department 
‘0 Customs, Excise 
Trade ... 
"1. Department of Health 
2, Department of Educa- 
tion. ee sus 
13. Department of Agri- 
culture and Forests ... 
~\. Antiquities Department 
1 Department of Lands and 
~ Surveys sia 
Land Settlement _ 
Lands Department 
Survey Department 
16. Department of ever 
ment 
I". Police and Prisons 
i, Department of Migration 
10. Office of Statistics 
0. Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force ... 
“1. Defence ... se 
22, Posts and Telegraphs aT 


and 


23. Public Works Department 


44 Public Works Recurrent 

25.Miscellaneous.... 

26. Posts and Telegraphs 
Extraordinary 

27.Public Works 
ordinary i 

28. Trans - Jordan Frontier 
Force Extraordi ; 

29. Railways (excess of Ex- 


Extra- 


penditure over cei, 


30. Colonial Development .. 


223 


APPENDIX II. 
Summary of Expenditure for the years 1932 to 1935-36. 


2,143 
5452 
22,480 
2,308 
22,330 
3,985 
3,033 


16,955 
20,161 


30,322 


20,463 
1,682 


5,706 
4,250 
11,038 


1,595 
III,329 


4,702 


35,599 
36,846 
39,011 
11,869 


35,112 
27,368 

2,678 
18,050 


3»550 


1932-33 | 1933-34 | 1934-35 
(rst Apmril,|\(rst April, 
1932 to 
jist 
March, 


1933). 
£P. 


32,070 
124,355 


9,199 
23,437 
84,755 
Io, 155 
84,459 
14,550 
11,096 


76,767 
III,052 


159,520 


86,515 
7,064 


22,772 
18,283 


48,571 


6,618 
475,042 
18,737 


169,701 
105,922 
154,989 

45,193 
178,018 
206,835 


14,672 
94,240 


5.134 


116,673 


1933 to 
Bist 
March, 


1934). 





£P. 
24,193 








127,198 





9,313 
25,433 
97,712 
10,451 
89,534 
15,746 
12,181 






94,395 
135,838 





179,635 





115,076 
8,359 





27,298 
20,024 
60,007 





7,822 
486,605 
21,392 






172,318 
110,125 
167,245 

49,490 
189,369 
189,908 





27,487 





134,359 





13,075 





59,259 
24,003 





1934 to 
3rst 
March, 


1935). 
£P. 
28,747 

126,904 


10,694 
24,735 
108,790 
10,294 
91,545 
16,553 
12,793 


147,620 
166,311 


201,498 


147,286 
17,197 


26,541 


21,455 
62,810 


6,901 
506,712 
29,437 


165,165 
144,118 
225,048 

48,944 
228,875 
257,368 


71,623 
262,878 
26,592 


33,805 
271 


Pp. 511,656 |2,516,394 |2,704,856 |3,230,010 14,236,202 








1935-36 


(rst April, (rst April, 


1935 to 
Rist 
March, 


1936). 


, e 
Df TU, AES 


£P. 
34,243 
126,449 


9,103 
39,487 
154,840 
I1,000 
94,151 
17,095 
13,628 


243,449 
194,632 


221,087 


181,003 
18,340 


115,823 


8,304 
527,407 
32,424 
1,499 


171,187 


288, 086 
297,473 


132,301 
645,044 
18,477 


124,159 
690 





224 


IIE'SSo'ox 


690°+z6'zSo'r 


S€g'zog‘LPE 


000°00S‘ZS9 


go06'0g6‘Lo 
‘sytur “q7 


LZQ'gzl‘gzG'p - 


1fo0'1bL‘¥ 


16€°gg1‘6S 
€6S-€gi‘z 
oL1°S6z‘S1 


Egg blz‘9 
Cor'LlP'i1 
og6' vrb‘o£ 
6SE°€L6‘gI 
LEz‘gvl‘g 
6bLLLz‘s 
000° F¥z‘z 
C6g°Cg9L‘g1 
99S°zSS 
z£6'zF6‘QO1 
vol ¥61'I 


ary oo spun. 
pus 


—SINHWLSZANI 


SLSAUdW] 


NVO'T 
MAIN 40 NOILVAIDIINY NI SHONVACY 


"** squnoooy Arpuns 

cee ; sACMIICY 

syUNODV asIOF{ 210g 

** syUNODY 

SouBAPY Y baaeisis L pue sqsog 

: [eloue+r) Joj}seur}sog 

SJUDUIWIBAOL) 19TH 

: a sotpiTediormn Ay 

seaquesens) solueduioy) soueinsul 

; SIZ0JO PUSUIWIBAOS) 

soo1oy 1gseqsyy 

- SUBO'TT UOIJONIZSUODIY poopy 

suvO’'] UOTPONIYsSUODSY sHeNbyIWIeW 

puny JUsWIeSIZIOAPY JINIY snIqIg 

SIOFLAIQ[ND 0} sueO'T [feINn}[NoUsy 

““* WOpsUly peyuy ey} Ul syUe 
—SHONVACY 


aNQY TVINOIOZ) INIO[ 


HSV) 


"sass P 


Bane 
eo eo» 


©00'000'O07 °**- dacs ste 
spemouan syduidaye L pue  sqsog 


LS1‘oLz‘Lo - 


ysodoq — sydeiZajay, = pue 


Ove Lrg‘ pun, saurg s110g 
S¥o0°0S9Q'S “s “puny domonysu0; 
uunasnAl yeoiBojoaeqory suysaed 
L60'zz9‘glz**’ pie "puny JUSUIMOPUA 
uInesnyy [eodoposeyoiy aulysa[eq 
66z'°F1z‘Sz ° yueg yein}[Noudsy weul0i3O 
z6z' Lot‘ a ayeyorelyed xOpoyzyIO 
ze Lvi‘z solppedrormn yy 
€6S-zHS'L (peqeropAZy Jo WeZIN 
ogy, ssouysiyy stIHH Aq uornqiy 
“w0D) auijse[eg jo AzIsIaATUy) UWIs[SO} 
CLS-Leg'z *° = gysodaq ,SULId[Ig Boe; 
€6E°616'61 * $90} }IUIWIOZ) UOT}VONPY [eo0T 
z96'6g1‘9 spisodag Aysiday puey 
6SE‘€E6‘g1 “°° saojUBIENS ,solueduIOD souRINsU] 
L96°060'6z **" g90]UIEN) SJULIZIMIU] 
Cgg ESI‘E * qUOTIUIAAO) S Aysoley SIH 
000‘000‘OI °° “+ (beryj—ourjsereg 
‘aynor jaosop-stres JL) JaueqieN urepy 
000°S19‘9 spisodeq s#urpling 
‘eoly ‘peurrepood InMoqieyy ejlepy 
100°690‘0I °"* -  sztsodaq sulojsnd 
ESz11z‘zg ° szisodaq }1n0Z 
€66°6EF‘ZI ° sjisodaq ,s10jOeUO0Z 
—sLisodaqd 
‘star “dF 
"$90}t]1que'T 


‘OL61 ‘TOIL ISTE JV SOPTIGVE] pus sjossy Jo JUSTIAIEIS 


‘TIT XIQGNUddV 


225 


Sgh'gg1‘gg6‘9' GF 


bog Lol‘zb 


9ELIgh'zz 
IoL‘ov€‘z 
Lzv'Sgo'Lt 


gZ9'LES‘g09‘4 


o9L'ogS‘€ 
L60°zz9‘glz 








sydeisajeay, pue s1sog 


qunosoy Arend) sxioM, oIqng 
S210}S [BI9US‘) SHIOM OIIGng 


aurnosny 


—SHUOLS AHLVIOTIVN e) 


puny seuLy so10g 
puny JusuMmopurz 


THWMB0[OseeYoIY |OUIISa]e,T 





z6z'019‘Lgz‘g 


696'Foh‘SZ 
ozz'¥l9g 
voo 61z‘ vg 


Sgh'ggr‘'gg6‘o' qt 


"pe ‘sS1 66L‘9fEF sem YO0}S STy} JO 
uorjdurepal oy} Jof ‘Q€61 ‘yore SIE 
oy} ye puny SUIYUIS 94} Jo JUNOUTY OGL 


o00'SZ¥‘¥ sisployyxs0}S-ueoT ouljsaleg 
F ‘Ldaq aaanny 


pan ons nae (2oueleq snydins) 
SHILITIAVIT UAAO SLASSY dO SSHOXW] 
"* LINNODDY NVO'T 


SHONVILINGAY UNV SLIVUG 





GLE ELPA oe — s 


of6' Lohr 
€12°S66 
gto Zlob 


bo6'1Ez‘I 
¥19‘66S 
1€Qg°SSg‘r 
rZg'f€1S‘Z 
QIS-r1ztk 


sjunososy Arpuns 

"** speoy pure soyddns 197eA44 o8eTIIA 

eee ees see Aysodo1g paulrejou 
sore Sat - yunosoy pry-ul 

-JUBITH 9010.J JonUOLy uepsof-sueryL 

ylounoZ Bireys ulajsopy suraidns 

oe "** 380g aor[og jeroeds 

"** gsonbag sl1oopeyy SIA IIS 


pret AjqszadoXy 2383S UeIssny 
acs sybeaA 22 BAIT 


226 


16£'gg1‘6S°qF °° 
pue szassy jo }UdUI9}e}S 24} UI UMOYS Se JUNODDY soUeAPY S,Joseuep [elousy jo svourleEg 


C6o0°LE1 
gghSz£'6S 
sim = ‘qf 


Z8Q'Bzo'Ogl GF 


EgbCor‘ol1 
Z09'6g6'Iz 
ZQz'198'9 a 
CiS‘F10‘Z ore 


stm ‘qf 


"OE6T ‘YI ISTE 3B 


(III xtpueddy) sariiqery 


pozsn{pe zaA Jou suis} : ssaT 
DAOGES FUIUIIZE}S UI UMOYS SB JUNODOY S,loinsesl] 


‘AINSVII], 9Y} Ut 
JUNODIY VuUBAPY 8,JoseuUB,Y [B1IUI4) 94} GIA SJUNODDY ABM]TEY Oy} UT JUNODIY S,JjoINSsvaL] Jo UOMByPIUOIIY 


STeHoeW Duy $9103$ pezeooyjeuy) ‘F 
"** sgoueApy ‘f 

skemprey 2323S ueyqdAsy *z 

; ysey ‘I 


"SjaSSP 


Z8Q'gzo‘ogl GF 


ogh'Sze‘6S * “ si ie Junos9y § JaInsealy, ‘9 
tro’ 6Ez‘S eee eae ees ase . * puny Soul] -¢ 
COzI6€ ‘Ir eee eee . ees e eee s}isodaq *? 
1g6‘ZL9‘61 *"* "7 gunODDy aera one eably yepg ‘€ 
b6rErg'Zo puny spemauan Aemytey (eyey-eivjyuey) reulg °*z 
z¥g 1SL‘z mae pun, sjemousy Aemley oulysoeg “1 
sina ‘qf 
“S901 tqQUYT 


JUOWIUIZAOL) VUPSIVq 34} Aq poj}esodo sABMIVY 94} JO SOP PIQUL’] puws sjessy 94} JO }JUITUII}BIS 
"AI XIGNUddV 


227 
APPENDIX V. 


Statement of Investments. 


SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS. 


Middle Market 
Nominal Value. Pied Price on 31st 
" March, 1936. 
£ s. a, £P. mils. £P. mils. 
(t} Avatlable Balances and Loan Funds— 
Bntish Guiana 1959/69 3 per cent. 

Stock at 23,000 O O 22,253.500 23,000.000 
Ceylon 1959 34 per cent. Stock 131,894 8 5 133,081.712 138,489.142 
Ceylon 1959/64 3 per cent. Stock 

(25 per cent. paid) 75,000 O O 18,750.000 18,750.000 
Ceylon 1940 3 per cent. Stock 29,9560 I0 6 30,093.800 30,855.221 
Federated Malay States 1960/70 

3 per cent. Stock . 250,000 0 O - 250,000.000 250,000.000 
Jamaica 1958/68 3} per cent. Stock 5,000 O O 4,975.000 5,450.000 
Kenya 1957/67 34 per cent. Stock... 15,000 0 o 14,850.000 16,200.000 
Nigeria 1955 3 percent. Stock ... 76,427 9 3 74,521.258 77, 191.737 
Northern Rhodesia 1955/65 34 a 

cent. Stock . 20,000 O O 19,600.000 21,600.000 
Straits Settlements 1937167 34 per 

cent. Stock . 122,358 3 O 124,316.592 124,805.313 
Trinidad 1958/68 34 per cent. Stock 45,000 O O 44,700.000 49,050.000 
Tnnidad 1965/70 3 per cent. Stock 50,000 0 o 50,000.000 *50,000.000 
Uganda 1955/65 34 per cent. Stock 19,727 7 8 21,017.350 20,516.478 
Commonwealth of Australia 1939/41 

3 per cent. Stock - 121,579 3 I 122,867.657 124,010.737 
Commonwealth of Australia 194 5 l: 7 5 

5 per cent. Stock 5,397 17 Oo 5,816.408 5,991.613 
Commonwealth of Australia 194 3 [48 

4 per cent. Stock 17,000 O O 17,486.538 17,680.000 
Commonwealth of Australia 1964 / 74 

3} per cent. Stock 43,981 I2 9 44,358.955 43,541.822 
Commonwealth of Australia 19 56/61 

3¢ per cent. Stock - 34,7605 17 6 34,114.017 34,765.875 
Bradford 1940/60 42 per cent. Stock 14,126 10 2 15,492.996 15,256.629 
Brighton 1940/60 44 per cent. Stock 7,007 6 9 7,543-634 7,507.925 
Burton-on-Trent 1953 3 oid cent. 

Stock 25,000 O O 23,382.092 25,000.000 
Canada 1940/60 4 per cent. Stock.. 92,266 8 I 96,103.380  96,879.724 
Canada 1953/58 4 per cent. Stock... 34,541 9 II 34,288.272 38,686.476 
Canada 1930/50 34 per cent. Stock 118,470 12 §  119,630.250 120,840.033 
Canada C.P.R. 1938 Land Grant 

34 per cent. Stock : 34,95I 10 IO 35,531.751 36,000.088 

nada 1950/55 34 per cent. Stock 107,062 19 O  103,946.980 ~=—-112, 416.097 
Canadian N. Ontario Rly. 1961 34 

per cent. Stock ... 5,037 13 5 5,173.703 5,113.236 
Cardiff 1914/54 3 per cent. ‘Stock . 34,000 O O 34,383.471 34,000.000 
Colwyn Bay 1953/55 3 Be cent. 

Stock 24,000 0 © - 23,640.000 —_24,000.000 
Conversion 1944/64 5 per cent. 

Stock 40,828 15 I 47,067.570  48,484.145 
“onversion 1948/53 3 per cent. 

Stock .- 246,551 2 8 261,961.400 258,878.691 

Conversion 1944/49 “2h per cent. 

Stock . 553,616 6 10 550,887.712 562,612.608 
Edinburgh 1940/60 4h per cent. 

Stock ... 18,800 0 oO 20,233.500 20,492.000 

Funding 1959/69 3 per cent. Stock 85,064 17 I 90,009.584 87,829.462 


*. Purchase price taken as quotations were not available. 


228 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 


SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conid. 
Middle Marke! 


Nominal Value. Average Price on 31st 
: Cost Price. March, 1936. 


(1) Avazlable Balances and Loan 


Funds—contd. £ s. a, £LP. mils. LP. mals. 
Hertfordshire 1948/53 3 per cent. 

Stock : ae 8,900 Oo O 9,204.104 9,167.000 
Hull 1941/61 5 per cent. Stock ..» 50,000 O O 55,039.100 55,500.000 
India 1942/47 5 per cent. Stock ... 27,000 0 o 27,064.863 31,185.000 
India 1954/59 34 per cent. Stock... 37,065 13 o 39,197.258 39,660.246 
India 1949/52 3 per cent. Stock ... 316,275 17. 5  307,413.496  319,438.630 
India 1948/53 4 per cent. Stock ... 20,337 10 oO 20,836.725 22,371.250 
Liverpool 1955/58 3 per cent. Stock 45,200 o o 44,974.000 45,6052.000 
London Electric Transport Finance 

Corporation Guaranteed Deben- 

ture Stock 7950/55 24 pe cent. 

Stock cn 118,200 0 O- I114,654.000 114,654.000 
Manchester 1952/5: 5 3 per cent. 

Stock si 15,000 O O 14,908.657 15,225.000 


Middlesex 1948/53 3 per cent. Stock 44,373 5 1! 45,608.504 45,482.628 
Natal 1929/49 3 per cent. Stock ... 89,202 17 I0 90, 301.296 90,986.950 
Newfoundland eee 34 pe cent. 


Stock bis 31,500 Oo O 31,441.450 33,390.000 
Newfoundland 1950 “33 per cent. 

Stock ie 32,000 O O 31,997.800 33,920.000 © 
New South Wales 1930/50 34 per 

cent. Stock 118,337 II II 117,043.750 119,520.972 
New Zealand 1945 4h per cent. 

Stock seal - 4,446 8 7 4,768.796 4,802.143 
New Zealand 1955/60 34 per cent. | 

Stock ws : 1,506 17 10 1,537-029 1, 582.237 
New Zealand 1943/63 4 per cent. 

Stock oe - 10,000 0 O 10, 325.600 10,500.000 _ 
New Zealand 1940 34 per cent. 

Stock aa 33,211 6 4 32,963.940 34,207.656 
New Zealand 1945 3 per cent. Stock 142,639 18 7 140,084.534  144,066.328 
New Zealand 1949/54 34 oe cent. 

Stock Ss 72,159 2 3 71,609.318 74,323.885 
New Zealand 1952/55 3 per cent. 

Stock - 193,752 6 8 191,863.774 191,814.810 
Nuneaton 1953/56 3 per cent. Stock 51,259 13 8 50,499.459  *50,499.459 


Palestine 1942/67 Guaranteed 5 per 


cent. Stock a ee: she 9,518 17 7 11,268.571 I1,137.088 
Plymouth (Devonport) 1920/60 3 

per cent. Stock ... 8,500 0 Oo 8,574.875 8, 500.000 
Queensland 1945 34 per cent. Stock 38,028 13 1 36,745.748 38, 789.227 


Queensland noeniA7 3 per cent. 


Stock =i 36,568 18 11 34,160.984 36, 203.256 
St. Helen’s 191 5/55 3 per cent. Stock 600 Oo 9 604.608 594.038 
S. Australia eee 34 Per cent. 


12,620.428 12,625.000 
19,150.248 19,61 5.842 


Stock es 12,500 oO 
I 
oO 10,031.450 10,450.000 
2 


oO 
Stoke 1955/65 3h per cent. Stock.. 18,681 15 
Stretford 1955/65 3} per cent. Stock 10,000 oO 

4 


Ulster 1943 34 per cent. Stock ... 39,606 39,876.547 40,7.94.394 
Union of South Africa 1945/75 | 

5 per cent. Stock 1,052 10 2 1,159.163 1,220.909 
Union of South Africa 1955/75 4h 

per cent. Stock ... 26,664 9 6 29,264.263 31,197.436 
Union of South Africa 1954/64 3 per 

cent. Stock ... 165,000 0 O- 165,492.488 168,300.000 


: Purchase price taken as quotations were not available, . 


229 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conld. 


Middle Market 
Nominal Value. Average Price on 31st 
Cost Price. March, 1936. 
(1) Available Balances and Loan 
Funds—contd. s. d. £P. mils. £P. mils. 
Victoria 1929/49 3¢ per cent. Stock 6,000 O O 6,056.004 6,000.000 
Victoria 1929/49 3 per cent. Stock... 35,100 13 9 33,972.311 34,749.681 
Wakefield 1955 3 per cent. Stock... 23,262 18 7 23,645.030 23,495.558 
West Australia 1935/55 34 Per cent. 
Stock 3 15,70I 2 11 15,937.046 15,701.146 
West Australia 1927/47 34 per cent. 
Stock 25,000 O O 25,129.117 25,250.000 
West Ham 1945 3 per cent. Stock.. 7,800 0 Oo 7 ,627.738 7, 800.000 
4,469,368 15 II 4,437,333.154 4,526,328.821 
(2) Palestine Archaeological Museum 
Endowment Fund— 
Birmingham 1946 or after 34 per 
cent. Stock 50,075 O O 53,132.354 52,078.000 
British Guiana Demerara Railway 
Perpetual 4 per cent. Stock 1,967 0 Oo 2,050.859 2,006.340 
Bristol Perpetual Debenture 34 per 
cent. Stock s 7,079 2 6 7,124.738 7,362.290 
Canada 1953/58 4 per cent. Stock.. 10,000 Oo oO 10,518.812 11,200.000 
Commonwealth of Australia 1948/ 5 
32 per cent. Stock 10,000 0 oO 9,921.975 10,400.000 
Consolidated 1957 or after 4 per 
cent. Stock : 22,177 0 9 18,462,827 25,503.593 
Conversion 1961 or after 3t per cent. | 
Stock 6,347 6 3 6, 363.487 6,775-750 
Croydon Irredeemable 34 per cent. | 
Stock - 2,355 I2 4 2,466.242 2,473.398 
Glasgow Irredeemable 34 per cent. 
Stock 3 21,550 O O 22,880.506 22,843.000 
Guaranteed 1933 or after ‘23 per 
cent. Stock 21,347 8 I 13,258.536 18, 358.767 
Hull Irredeemable. “34 per cent. 
Stock : 6,538 13 4 6,967.788 6,865.600 
India 1931 ¢ or after 34 per cent. 
Stock . 32,149 10 7 27,858.025 31,345.791 
Liverpool Irredeemable 34 per cent. 
Stock - 51,083 5 I 53,535-436 54,659.082 
Swansea Irredeemable 34 per cent. 
Stock : . 10,935 9 8 11,570.126 11,591.613 
West Australia a 1935/55 34 per cent. 
Stock ws 15,158 17 4 15, 386.621 15,158.867 
268,764 5 I1 261,498.332 278,622.097 
(3) Police Fines Fund— 
Commonwealth of Australia 1946/49 
3% per cent. Stock 1,800 0 Oo 1,755.000 1,854.000 
mMmonwealth of Australia 1964/- 74 
3¢ per cent. Stock 497 8 I 504.770 492.430 
New Zealand Enaoolee 34 per cent. 
Stock 1,18] 5 4 1,204.892 1,240.330 
3.478 13° 5 3,464.662 3,586.760 


230 


gvo'¥66‘g9f 
gSb-zot‘oz1 
960°Sgz'Le 
000'00£ ‘Iz 
v6F‘gzI‘ggr 

gor'S6g‘Srh'1 





Lol v6E‘z1z'1 eee eve 


ueoT SuIsTel JO 3807 


ssolg 
Zunuiig PUSUIWIDAO) 
si ops Jo uorzIstInboy 
—: ssulpfing JusuIUIaA0s) 
sauoqdajay pue sydeifajay, 
“AI W9}] 
wolzonI4s 


-uoy) INOqIeFT vyrepy ‘z 


10L°00S ‘£oz sjusuroacidul] Wog eye *1 


000°000‘000‘ I 


C1S‘0z0‘6£9'1 


gSb-r1bo'Shz 


‘sim ‘qf | situ ‘gf 





‘qunoM py 


LS0°6L6‘E6E ‘rx 


: SJUDUIBAOIdUIT JIOg pue 
pue uorjonysu0o, inoqrepy 
“ITT Woy] 
oe “* quowmlUIaA0y 
s,Ajsalep sizy wow 
Sjosse [eyideo say}0 
pue AemIey jo aseqoing 
“TT Wz] 


*°*  (pazazduro0s) 
syIOoM AeMeY 1910 ‘Zz 
doysyio,y ABMTCY ‘1 
—: sABMITEY 
‘T Ul9z] 





"aaAnjipuagxa 


"JUNOU 





000‘ Foz szusursA0o1d 
“Wl yWog eyef ‘1 
—: syusumeAoid uly 
WOg pue uononys 
-onq}suo7) Inoqieyy 
‘TIL W937] 
000‘000‘I va ‘-' “Jueul 
-UWI9A05) 8, Aysofey 
SI}] WoIy sjosse 
[evideo 19430 pue 
AemMrel Jo aseyoing 
‘T] W9}] 
000‘of9g‘I —___— 
6g = pazeooyjyeuy) “£ 
VEQ‘POE‘I °°" "°° SHIOM 
ACME  19qIOC ‘2 
LlLz'Gbz +" "** sdoys 
-YIOM = AVMTEY “I 
—: sAemIey 
"T UWl9z] 


‘dF ‘af 
"3321S Jo ATe}aINES 94} 
Aq poaoidde se uroy jo uorneoorfy pasiasxy 


‘qua0 Jod ‘sor oorF ze pomsst ‘4903S 


oo SLe‘L6r‘'y| ooo'SLb‘bF yo ueoy ‘yuUe0 sad $ Jo speac01g 


‘af 





"8113994 


"9E6T “WOIBW ISTE JV JUBIIIBIG JUNODDY UvOT 


ITA XIQNHddvV 


231 


eee 
o0'SLE‘L6r'F | GF 


o00'SLt‘L6r'v | qF 





696'rob‘SZ 


1fo0'016'1zb'F 





eens ete ame oes & 


soured 


Oe ee wee 








CLE‘LOVF GF 
CLE‘69E 


000‘ggh‘r 





661 | 
Col‘oz1 
z¥9‘09 


1fz‘ggi 


000 ¥9z ‘y eee 
aAnoqieyyT 


isa pozeoo yeu) 
ueO'] SUISIeI JO 4SOD 
s2yO sulqUig 
jo yuauidinby pue 
uolonysu0) pue 
SIOIJO . PUDUTUIIAOS) 
wee "** sauoqd 
-3[9. | pue sydei3afay 
“AT W103] 


uOo1zONISUOD 
BsjIeFT = 


232 


¥66‘99f'qF CLE‘69E' GF 





Col ‘ozI Col ‘oz1 eae eee eee coe ees eee eee _ ueOT Suisrex jo 3807) 
— 661 . pe}eooTTeu pF) 
G9S ‘gS z¥g‘09 29180 sunutsa 5 jo juomdinby a pue Uo!INI}sUO_) PUP SedTYO JUSUTTIEACD 
QZI'QgI If€z‘ggr : souoydeajay, pue sydersajoy7 
‘at “at — Jopun se dn apepy (x) 
: 
Coh‘SZ O16‘1zh'F CLE‘LOb‘F 000‘00S ‘¥ 000‘00S ‘¥ 
1gt‘z (v) ¥66‘99f (v)SLE‘6gE 000‘zZt o000'S bl oa UBOT 94} JO Butsres 9q} Zurpnyour 


‘g[npeyos sty} UI pauotuau sosodind ay} jo 
Aue Y}IM p9}d9UUOD IO 0} [eWUSprIOUI sasodind 
pue ‘jusuidojaAsp jo syJOoM JOUIU ‘sAaAINS 
‘squoydaja3 pue sydei8aja} ‘s8uIpring onqng ‘¥ 






Co1‘2Z C6g‘S1b‘1 000‘'Rgh'I 000‘ggr'r ooo‘'SII'I _ Syuemeaodul] Wog pue uonon13su0, Ainoqsrepy “€ 

— 000‘000‘I 000‘000‘T 000‘000'I 000‘000‘I "es guamUaA0’y s,Aqsofey stpy 

wOdy S}08SE [eqideo 19430 pue Aemyres yO oseyoiIng ‘Zz 

626 1z0‘6£9‘1 000‘ofg‘I 000‘0FQ‘I 000‘oFg‘I vs 6 SABMITEY “I 

‘df ‘df ‘df ‘df t 

"9£61 ‘uvoT fo "41S {0 ‘9z6I ‘9p Suvo 
‘JIUDIDE ‘YDAD IAT ISIE spaav04g 4njasvaS ay, | votafp sv pun 
papuagxauy) | 4” aanjipuadx” gonzon fo tq panosddv 9UNSIIDT "SY40M 
jynjy 403409011 F U034DI0]f0-3 Of aInNpayIS 


| 





"9E6T ‘OIBIL ISTE 3B SaoUR[B_ UOT] JO JUIUII}BIG 
IIA XIGNAddV 


233 


‘AoyTeA exiez ‘AaAing pue sourayos sorddns sa}eAy o8eTTIA pue UOIGeZY 94} pue saeulayos oFeureiq 

pue Ajddng 1s93ze 4, woresniaf aq} jo yoodsal ul puny yusuIdo[eAsq [fetuc[oD 94} Wor szuLIs souRysIsse €62‘g1'gF sapnfouy (p) 
‘samayos sayddng Joye o8eT[IA pue UOIGaz] 94} pue sauIeyIS aseureiq 

pue Ajddng s9ze4, waresnief 94} Jo qoodse1 ul puny jJuoUIdO]aAaq [eIuO[OD 94} WoIF szUeIS sOULYSISSe zzS‘bI'G? sopnfoUy (9) 
‘pepyseg pue eyreyy usom}z0q 9}n01 Aemrel a[qQIssod ® Jo ‘sraeuLsUq [eAOY 

jo A3red e Aq ‘AdAins TelLIoe US JO }SOD 94} IOAOD 0} puN JUoUIdO[eAaq [eTUO]OZ) 94} WoT 4SaI193UT snjd yueIs Qoo‘hz’ GF sepniouUyT (q) 

‘Spun,y UO] 0} pasieyo pue siead snotaoid Ul Ud_ePIOpuN sHIOM snore Jo zOedSar ul 176‘z0z'gF Jo JueuNSNn[pe ue sepnpouy (v) 









o000‘SLt‘F 













































¥z9‘166 z£Q'V61 €oo‘'1gl Lg0‘1zz 61€‘119‘S | (p)ge1 ‘6S "+ of -CE61 
969‘orS TIE‘QQI | ggz ‘Zhi Q6r‘10z ZSE‘9Q6z'S =| (9)1gz‘QSt ooo0'SLt‘b | °° ee **- CE-b€61 
boz‘ELe gtg‘Ser gLo‘SiI C£9‘6L1 LzL‘€zg‘E | (q)gQgZL‘191 o00'SZLP‘F | °° : -*> b€-C£61 
ISh‘Li€ zSO‘III C1S‘9g ozS‘6S1 6z1‘ggg‘e ggl'Ler ooo'SLPb | °°: oes * €€-zE61 
1£0‘Sg 19I ‘gz Egt‘oz tz ‘o£ CSS‘6z9g vEL‘Lz o000‘S LPF ze6r ‘Gorey 0} Meer 
ZSE‘VEE g16‘So1 Lzz‘Ig 9g6‘or1 gg6‘o11‘z 606‘Zzz o000'S Lt‘ : eee 161 
ZQO‘TLE 1gb‘Sor giS‘zor CCG‘ebr ogz‘gvl‘z ggz‘i¥ oo00'SLPh'b | «°° nee eee of61 
L¥6‘00£ bog‘ 1o1 vil‘gl 6gZ‘6t1 6%0‘66z'z €zS ‘bz o000'SLb‘b | °*- oe3 a 6z61 
brL‘zve 19S ‘96 ogt‘zZ C1r‘Ler ozS‘gbS‘z L6L‘SE o000'S LP‘ : soe Qz61 
(v)gzg‘zoS 9So‘fZ o6F‘zS 6£0‘oo! CE0‘60L‘I CrE‘o£€ 000'SLb‘F L261 ‘requrasaq 0} fudy 
IE1‘r1£ 9£9‘16 z1£‘Sog O1g‘gII 6gg‘Fol‘z 9L¥‘9g : - Lz-9z61 
vlo‘Liz 11b‘Sg 6g0‘LE z766‘Co1 goth ‘bog‘z gZg‘bvoz ** gz—Sz61 
PSE‘bS 1 oFb‘tg 169‘SE 999‘ZOI 0z9‘6S6'I gz1‘S6r -++ Cz—bz61 
99S‘Lh1 969‘C6 o£S ‘of zLL‘66 ggl‘Slo‘'I z~ZQ‘obz “+ bz—Cz61 
Cgt‘61z bvlo‘Lit O19‘gt ozS‘16 1£9‘609‘I 000‘S6z "°° €v-—zz61 
vol ‘vor g6S‘or1 © LEC‘ov gib‘o6 r€S‘1ZE‘z — . . *** 77-1 Z61 
IZ61 ‘qorepy 
009‘LS1 tTL7‘IZI g¥o‘1€ 6Lo‘oS beg ‘SEr'r — ysI€ 0} ‘oz61 ‘Ajn{ 4sI1 
‘af ‘df ‘af ‘af ‘af 





























7 ‘squvad — | ‘SaoUvapY 
‘SY40 
Hi MOT | coummnnady | ‘woyvonpy | ‘seanos ) *4Péanoa, | pun 
UMN IQnd ‘ i ouUsajxa uon SUDOT 
l "hDIK INUYDAISIUIMD 
ree a ‘5 40 porruDUtsy 
gpa i ‘S894N0G pousaxay 


uo yusds gyunomp wosl anuanayal 





° eden aaa Teyoods, 


--—-- -- + eer =e ewe 


234 


XXI1.—DEMOGRAPHIC, VITAL, AND MIGRATION 
STATISTICS, AND OFFICE OF STATISTICS. 


Demographic Statistics. 


Note.—For the latest full account of the population, its 
development up to 1931, and its geographical distribution, refer- 
ence should be made to Chapters I and II of Volume I of the 
Census of Palestine, 1931. 


The population of Palestine, excluding members of His 
Majesty’s Forces, was estimated to be 1,336,518 at 30th June, 
1936; the division into religions being as follows: — 


Moslems 2. oh oe ss sti 848,342 
Jews... sas a es bis a 370,483 
Christians... at a sae ei 106,474 
Others bap es - i se 11,219 

Total __... owe ao ee ... 1,336,518 


The classification by religion has been adhered to in popula- 
tion statistics since the time of the British Occupation. This 
classification of vital occurrences is socially necessary because 
the law of personal status in Palestine is the law of the particular 
religious community to which a person belongs. 


2. It was recognized at the census of 1931 that classification 
by ‘‘ race’’ or “‘ nationality ’’ into the broad groups—Arabs, 
Jews and Others—is a political necessity. Statistics of migra- 
tion were put on a “‘ racial ’’ basis in 1935 and in 1937 the 
classification of vital occurrences will be two-fold, namely, by 
religious confession and by “ race ’’ or “‘ nationality ’’. The 
re-introduction of a classification of migration by religious con- 
fession will enable population records to be kept in future both 
by religion and by “‘ race ”’. 


At the time of the 1931 census, persons were asked to state to 
which of the three groups—Arabs, Jews and Others—they 
belonged. The following table shows the inter-connexion 
between the religious communities and “‘ racial ’’ groups that the 
census revealed among the settled population. Nomads who 


235 


numbered 66,553 at the census, and were practically all Moslems, 
are omitted. 











Religion. 
Race. 
All Religions., Moslems. Jews. Christians.| Others. 
All Races 969,268 693,159 174,610 91,398 10,101 
pas 772,904 | 690,420 87 | 73,281 9,116 
Jews 174,809 21 | 174,378 25 385 
Others 21,555 2,718 145 18,092 600 





Out of a total of 693,159 Moslems, 690,420 or 99-6 per cent. 
described themselves as Arabs. The remainder were principally 
Egyptians and Turks. Out of a total of 91,398 Christians, 
73,281 or 82 per cent. were Arabs, while the remainder were 
pnncipally xmembers of European races and Armenians. The 
members Of other non-Jewish religions in the population, who 
ate principally Druze by religion, numbered 10,101, and 9,116 
described themselves as Arabs. 


_ 3. If it be assumed that now, as in 1931, the Arab population 
Smade up of gg-6 per cent. of all settled Moslems, 82 per cent. 
of all Christians, go per cent. of all other settled non-Jews, and 
the whole Beduin population, the following rough estimate of 


the population at 30th June, 1936, classified by ‘‘ race ’’, is 
reached : — 


Arabs .., dex - a ie ... 942,000 
Jews... ease ee nee nee 370,000 
Others ... _ an a oh 7 24,000 

Total os — sue ne ... 1,336,000 


: 4. A census of population was taken in October, 1922, and 
sain in November, 1931. In the intervening years statistics of 

fae and deaths and of migration were used to estimate mid- 
popua ations. A discrepancy appeared between the expected 
ae on and the actual population enumerated in 1931, the 

deathe wey being due to incomplete recording of births and 
suspicions of migration, and possibly to faulty enumeration of 
ctepanew> and primitive people. In the case of Jews the dis- 
distribut, Phe about two thousand. The discrepancy has been 
at : Over the inter-censal years and the adjusted series of 

cd populations are as follows:— 


236 


POPULATION OF PALESTINE (EXCLUDING MEMBERS OF His 
MAJESTY’S FORCES) AT THE CENSUS OF 1922, AND AS 
ESTIMATED AT 30TH JUNE IN EACH OF THE YEARS 1923-36, BY 


RELIGIONS. 

Year. All Religions. Moslems. Jews Christians. Others. 

1922 752,048 589,177 83,790 —- 71,464 7,617 
4973: 778,989 609,331 89,660 72,090 7,908 
1924 804,962 627,660 94,945 74,094 8,263 
1925 847,238 641,494 121,725 75,512 8,507 
1926 898,362 663,613 149,500 76,467 8,782 
1927 917,315 680,725 149,789 77,880 8,921 
1928 935,951 695,280 151,656 79,812 9,203 
1929 960,043 = 712,343 156,481 81,776 9,443 
1930 992,559 733.149 164,796 84,986 9,628 
1931 1,023,734 753,812 172,028 87,870 10,024 
1932 1,052,872 771,174 180,793 90,624 10,281 
1933 1,104,884 789,980 209,207 95,165 10,532 
1934 1,171,158 807,180 253,700 99,532 10,746 
1935 1,261,082 826,457 320,358 103,371 10,896 
1936 1,336,518 848,342 370,483 106,474 11,219 


5. There has been unrecorded illegal immigration both of 
Jews and of Arabs in the period since the census of 1931; the 
position in regard to this will be clearer when the next census 1s 
taken. 


6. The estimated total population has increased in the 14 years 
since 1922 by 584,470 persons. The increase is due to immigra- 
tion and to the excess of births over deaths, the allocation of the 
total increase between these two factors being estimated to be as 
follows :— 


All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Christians. Others. 
Total increase of 
population ... 584,470 259,165 286,693 35,010 3,602 
Increase by mi- P 
gration 269,457 22,535 237,038 9,548 33 
Natural increase 315,013 236,630 49,655 25,462 3,266 


7. The precision of these figures is not great, but they indicate 
that all three religions have gained by migration, the smallest 
proportional gain being that of Moslems. It is of imterest that 
the Jewish increase by migration in the 14-year period Is very 
nearly the same as the Moslem natural increase in the same 
period, viz., about 237,000. 





237 


The increase by migration includes about 10,000 people, who 
were added to Palestine by an alteration of the boundary with 
syria In 1923. Gay aie settlements of Tel Hai, Kfar Giladi, 
and Metulla are in this area and had a total Jewish population 
cea 300, the remaining inhabitants of the area being 

ems. : 


Vital Statistics. 


8. Records of vital occurrences are compiled for the settled 
population, statistics being available, classified by religion, from 
the year 1922. 


The nomadic population, among which vital occurrences are 
not recorded , numbered 66,553 at the census of 1931. 


A re-calculation of birth and death rates was made in 1936, 

upon a revised series of estimates of the population in 

the years between the census of 1922 and the census of 193I. 

The following tables give the average number of births and 

deaths, as well as the average crude birth and death rates in 

the years simce 1922, and the actual figures for the individual 
yeals 1934, 1935, and 1936. 







Births. 

















Yeay 
All Religions.| Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 

ect ee Ne 
1922-25 

average 32,338 25,976 3,388 406* 
1926-30 

ave e 6 2 
31-35 47/533 a5 23 5»29 423 
ou tee | 47,096 36,319 6,893 471 
a eng 45,944 34,489 7,666 449 
1936. 53,940 39,918 9,867 467 
ie 57,003 41,543 11,019 





372 


* Average 1923-25. 


238 


NUMBER OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS PER THOUSAND OF SETTLED 
POPULATION. 





Births. 


All Religions., Moslems. Jews. | Christians. 





46° 34 50°09 34-81 
48-58 53°45 34°29 
44°66 50°24 30° 33 
41°59 46°56 30°21 
45°16 52°54 30°80 35°61 42°86 
44°89 53°14 29°74 36° 34 50°98 
Deaths. 
1922-25 
average 23°73 26-83 13°62 16:13 22-10* 
1926-30 
average 24°34 28°31 11-66 17°91 25°06 





INFANT MORTALITY: DEATHS OF INFANTS UNDER ONE YEAR OF 
AGE PER THOUSAND LIVE BIRTHS. 


















Year. All Religions.| Moslems. Jews. | Christians. 

1922-25 

average 190° 39 
1926-30 

average 193°46 146°73 
1931-35 

average 166° 41 161-05 
1934 ... 175°15 202 °67 
1935 ... 148°10 177°72 
1936 ... 136°15 


* Average 1923-25. 


g. The very high birth-rate of Palestine is established by the 
preponderance of the Moslems, who show the highest birth-rate 
of all the religions. The Moslem population advanced by natural 


239 


increase at an average rate of 18,000 per annum, or about 24 per 
cent. per annum, in the five years 1931-5. The Jewish birth- 
rate is considerably lower than the Moslem, but it was higher 
for the same quinquennium than in any European country 
except Rumania. 


10. A very great disproportion is evident between the Moslem 
and Jewish death-rates and it has been accentuated by a steady 
decline in the Jewish death-rate over the period under review. 
While it is undoubted that the difference reflects a greater 
expectation of life, particularly in infancy, among Jews than 
among Moslems, it must be noted that the Jewish population 
is made up largely of young adult immigrants who are in those 
years of life when the risk of dying is at its lowest, and the 
smaller proportion of infants and old people which this immigra- 
tion has produced is itself a cause of a low crude death-rate. 


Migration. 


1. De facto population records are kept, the increase by 
migration being taken as the excess of arrivals over departures. 
However, no person is allowed to stay indefinitely in Palestine 
unless he falls into one of the categories of immigrants, and over 
a long period the excess of authorized immigrants over emigrants 
gives approximately the same result as the de facto excess of 
amivals over departures, which takes account of the movements 
of travellers and of residents making trips abroad. 


The following table shows the recorded immigration and 
‘migration of Jews and non-Jews into Palestine in the years 





since 1920:— 
a a ee a ee, 
Recorded Immigration. Recorded Emigration. 
Year. 

Jews. | Non- Jews. Jews. Non- Jews. 
ae (part) se 5,514 202 — — 
sae, Be. lags 71,071 2,581 7,575" 5,382* 
= JO” ine vane 28,165 5,425 18,029 7,338 
331-35 sae = 148,168 8,921 1,062* 1,067* 
en nee a 4,075 1,458 666 680 
oh a 9,553 1,736 — = 
io, ee sie 30,327 1,650 — — 

a a 42,359 1,784 — = 
1936 ves vee 61,854 2,293 396 387 
29,727 1,944 773 405 


a Ce ae: Sree Leet 


* Incomplete. 


Emigration statistics by race were not compiled prior to 1922 


ee pes the years 1932-4 inclusive. In 1935 and 1936 the figures 
mee are those of ‘* residents departing for a period of 


an one year.”’ 


240 


12. According to the records of the Department of Migration, 
supplemented by figures supplied by the Jewish Agency in 
respect of early post-war migration and the classification of 
migrants by citizenship in the years prior to 1935, the total 
number of Jewish immigrants authorized to enter and to remain 
in Palestine in the years 1919-36 inclusive was 289,626. Of 
these immigrants, 124,010 were of Polish citizenship, 30,429 of 
Russian, 14,754 of Rumanian, 9,305 of Lithuanian, 8,529 of 
Yemenite, and 7,674 of United States citizenship. The number 
of German citizens was 28,629. Many persons migrating to 
Palestine from Germany are of other citizenship than German. 
In the same period the total number of Jewish migrants whose 
previous residence was in Germany was 35,860. (Minutes, 
page 164.) 

On page 215 of the Report for 1935 the corresponding passage 
on the subject of German immigration was obscurely worded, 
and should have read :— 

‘“ During that period (1919-35), 20,784 German citizens 
entered, but to these must be added the number of Jews of 
citizenship other than German, who formerly resided in 
Germany.”’ 


Office of Statistics. 


13. Ihe Government Office of Statistics, set up in accordance 
with the Statistics Ordinance of 1935, began active operation in 
February, 1936. It is a separate office, under the general super- 
vision of the Commissioner for Migration and Statistics, but 
directly administered by the Government Statistician. 


14. The Government Statistician has consulted with officers of 
other Government departments in order to secure the centraliza- 
tion in the office of statistical material for publication, and has 
advised them how best to present their statistics in a compendi- 
ous form and in line with the best practice in other countries. 


15. In some fields the Office will undertake the direct collec- 
tion of statistical material, and already it has taken over and 
reorganized the collection of statistics of wholesale and retail 
prices and of wages. Work involving direct contact with the 
public has been hampered in the past year by the disturbed 
political conditions. In other fields, notably in migration, in 
vital, in judicial, and in customs statistics, the office is making 
arrangements to carry out the work of compilation which is at 
present done in the respective departments. For this purpose a 
set of machines for preparing, sorting, and tabulating punched 
cards has been installed, and it is expected that the new method 
will result both in a saving of labour and an increase in the 
available statistics. 


241 


16. Publication of statistics has begun, the publications being 
issued in the form of mimeographed bulletins. Manthly bulletins 
on trade, wholesale prices and retail prices are issued, as well 
as a large general monthly bulletin which contains material 
under the heads of demography, agriculture, trade, and trans- 
portation, prices, finance, statistics of general business, and 
police statistics. Vital statistics bulletins have been published 
quarterly, and special bulletins on banking and wage statistics 
are being issued. ° 


17. A statistical abstract of Palestine has been compiled and is 
being printed. 

18. A library of text-books on economics and statistics and of 
exchange statistical publications from similar offices in other 
countries is being built up, and is at the disposal of the other 
Government departments. 


XXi11.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 


1. At the beginning of the year under review the Italian- 
Abyssinian war had a disturbing effect upon the market and 
affected commercial confidence. This was further augmented 
by the political disturbances which took place later and lasted 
until October. 


2. There was a considerable decrease both in the volume and 
value of the Saas imported into Palestine during the year as 
compared with 19306. 


3. The normal working of the Department was affected by the 
Arab strike, and by the action of the lightermen at Jaffa whose 
participation in the strike resulted in the closure of the port. 
Arising out of this, a Harbour and Communications Council was 
formed in Tel-Aviv and is at present engaged in constructing in 
the northern part of Jaffa Port a jetty and lighter basin. 


4. The construction of the jetty was followed at the end of the 
year by the construction of a small lighter harbour principally 
for the exportation of citrus fruit, but intended also to deal with 
imports. 


5. A Custom House was also opened at Tel-Aviv railway 
ar during the year to deal with imports by rail from Egypt 
and Syria. | 


6. The Arab strike which resulted in the closure of Jaffa port 
put considerable additional strain upon Haifa. This was accen- 
tuated by the fact that the railway for a considerable time was 
unable to run trains at night, which resulted in the accumulation 
at Haifa of a large tonnage of goods destined for Tel-Aviv. This 
accumulation was cleared, however, within a few weeks follow- 
ing the end of the strike. 


242 


7. During the year another large shed, principally for 
storage of citrus fruit for export, was erected at Haifa, and 

construction of the cargo jetty was commenced in the last mont 
of the year. 


8. As a consequence of the Arab strike, the completion of th 
Jaffa Port Improvement Works was considerably delayed. A 
the end of the year, however, practically the whole of the sshem 
as originally sanctioned had been completed. 


g. All categories of cargoes which had to be diverted fron 
Jaffa to Haifa during the continuance of the port improvemmen 
works can now be landed at Jaffa, with the exception of timbe 
(other than prepared wood for the manufacture of citrus cases 
and certain boards and planks for the manufacture of citri 
cases. 


10. ern © of import and export cargo handled at the port: 


of Jaffa and Haifa during 1932-6 was :— 
Jaffa. Haifa. 
Year. eee een 

Discharged. Loaded. Discharged. Loaded. 

Tons Tons Tons Tons 

1932 221,113 106,824 273,411 54,164 
1933 348,797 96,888 401,410 71,632 
1934 486,974 120,967 589,203 99,756* 
1935 402,263 171,819 787,307 138,427* 
1936 163,134 117,156 756,722 164,028* 





* Exclusive of crude oil. 


11. The net revenue of the Department for the last five years 
was :—1932, #£P.1,51I,149; 1933, £P.2,071,370; 1934, 
£P.2,936,513; 1935, &P.3,459,164; 1936, £P.2,589,753- 

12. The principal articles imported from which the bulk of the | 
import duty is derived and the amount of import duty received 
from each in 1936 are set out below :— 


243 


000‘Z 
000‘g 
000‘ 
000‘6 
ooo'rr 
ooo'ZI 


- OOO'ZI 


OOoOo‘zI 
OooO‘ZI 
ooo‘f 1 


ooo'f 1 
ooo‘6I1 
000‘1Z 
000'ZZ 
000‘€z 
000‘SZ 
000‘Sz 
000‘9Z 
000‘o0£ 
ooo're 
o00‘or 
000‘64 
000‘0S 
o000'zS 
000‘09 
ooo'zZ 
ooo0'tZ 
o000'LZ 


oo0o'Sor : 


ooo'fer 
000‘00S 


‘at 


*paj2ajjo2 


; 


OR 


“"* owe [IU zZ-0 
<0 SozJeY SNOLIeA 
($a}zeY SNOLISA 

masojpn po *yuae Jed ZI 
aa So}eY SNOLTE A 
1940100 po ‘yuUad Jed ZI 
one $9}eYT SNOLICA 
o[ty 10d sjrur 1 pue € 
ae opty asd sytur or 
o[ry sod sprur SE 


$d}eY SNOLICA 

eIN sod sjrur oSz 
ua4010A pv *yUad od ZI 
; Sazey SNOLIe A 
ofty 10d sjtur 1 pue € 
o[ty aod 1ur S.o pue g-o 
ot aod [tu $.o pue $.1 
sJN tod sjtur oof 

OTF aod sjtur or pure $ 
. sazey snowed 
o[ty red yrur Sg-o 

ojry sed strum oz 

ory sed sjrur of 

Oty 1d sjra ooo‘! 

o[ty Jod sjtur ooF 
S9}zeY SNOLICA 

So}ZeY SNOLIEA 

SozeY SNOLIEA 

or3T] Jod spur $Z.1 

ory sed syrur ¢ 

diz sod sprur 11 


ane Ve AVY JUISIAT 


ooo'rgI 
OooO'ITI 
000‘0S 
o000'fZ 
000‘9z 
000‘Fvol 
ooo'Fz 


oo0o0‘Sol . 


o00'FS 
000'9S 


000‘Sg 

000‘gSz 
Ooo‘IgI 
000‘g0z 
000‘ 1 bz 


- 0OO'ERZ 


000 ‘6gI 
000‘00Z 
000‘QQgI 
oo0o0‘SSt 
000‘z£I 
000‘ZZZ 
ooo‘f61 
ooo'f€ 


— 000‘Zb 


o0o00‘Sr¥ 
000‘66z 
oo0o0‘Lre 
000‘o061 

‘C61 


1 


000‘9Z0'gg 
o00'SoZ‘t 
000‘SS9‘z 
000‘f9g'F 
000‘or6 
000‘006‘gI 
000‘00Z‘T 
000‘OI¥ 


000'GZ 
000‘Z6z 
000‘Z60'F1 
000‘00g ‘SE 
000'FZ9‘g1 
000°gg 


— e00'Ezo’S 


000‘gSt 


~ 000‘'00Z ‘69 


000‘ogh‘z 
000‘! 
000‘zS 
000‘OST1 


o0o0'zrr'z 


' 000‘0gz ‘of 


000‘019'6S 


- 000'009‘QGz 


oo00‘ooF ‘Sh 


"AIWUDNO 


—— yom 
I cae ~ roe 
7 | \ oy oh Oe 


- 


eos Sis s33q 

Ino] J aAY 

T'O Buneouqny ™ 

me SoLlepisi1y 

ooe eee 3 AY 

"aren, ArezIUeS 

+ WBOgg 

$90}2}0g 

suvog 99]J0% 

soqny pue solAy Joqqny 
“SHONIT 


10j0}{ PUe Se) IJOJOW jo Satlosssooy pue szreq 


SOSED) SNIHD 10F paredaid poo, 


SONSSTT, UITTOOAA, 
230 ‘Spoosy 9113909] 
es se" samy ‘ina 


_ SHOP] pue spoy ‘sepsuy ‘seg uoI] 


901K] 
Sarit IO} POOM 


pouuly pue ysery ‘poyes ‘Aig ‘auug ut ys 


- — mee em ee 
oy ; 


~a eee od 


(sasuog Sutpnyoxo) SONSSTT, HIS 


quota) 
ee50 eco 137}3ng 


SYONIL 10,0 PUL SIED-10j0W 


$o}}oIesID 
S9ACIT ODDEGOT 


+ (53205 IW) jereddy Sutreajy 


SPOO0‘) 999g W0}307Z 
INOLT FEIT MA 
eussOolOyy 

re3ns 

eulzusgd 


"SajINaA Pp 


41526 


z44 
13. Excise duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 
eae spirits, salt, and matches. The receipts during the 


last five years were :— 
1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 


£P. £P. £P. £P. {P. 


‘Tobacco, Duty .. .-- 201,722 222,864 255,588 246,677 230,582 
Licence Fees ... 6,281 6,672 7,420 8,437 8,707 
Intoxicating Liquors, Duty 34,457 38,853 42,260 49,586 66,337 
Licence Fees... 4,290 3,723 3,753 3,819 3,797 
Methylated ee Duty 3,175 5,132 7,406 8,900 9,066 
Salt, Duty : ss 12,000 12,550 14,300 15,550 13,500 
‘Matches, Duty .. sibs 16,382 14,625 21,785 29,173 27,459 
Licence Fees _... Gs 50 50 50 50 50 

Total ... .. £P.278,357 304,469 352,562 362,192 359,498 


14. The number of licensed tobacco, tombac and snuff 
factories during 1932-6 was:— 
1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936: 


Tobacco and Cigarettes 9 10 10 10 IO 
Cigars... or Ses — — 2 2 2 
Tombac ... ae oe I I I I I 
Snuff... we ae 3 2 I I I 

Total ... as. 13 13 14 14 14 


Their output was:— 













Hetsheh. 


Year. Cigars. 
Cigar- 
Tobacco. ee 


cc cc nem fer conte eae | pct | oe | 
fl 


Kilos. 


Klos 
1932... — 1,228 839 
' 1933 =e an 2,039 1,644 
1934... 1,032 4,021 7,766 
672 


1935 ese 1,748 
site 205 





The number of tobacco growers in Palestine in 1936 was 2,473, 
as compared with 2,157 in the previous year. 
The annual crops for 1931-5, in kilogrammes, were : — 


Tobacco. Tombac. 
1931 nie ele se 503,641 558 
1932 vr ues dia 565,617 5,771 
1933 “i ee ve 402,623 17,905 
1934 is cae — 958,344 52,829 
1935 950,248 43,594 


15. The production of mie at Athlit (by sea evaporation) and 
at Jebel Usdum (rock formation) and of methylated spirits and 
matches during the last five years was as follows:— 


Unit. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935- 1936. 
Salt ... Kilos 8,045,800 8,404,400 9,389,040 10,375,700 9,148,399 
Methylated in 211,675 342,156 493,712 593,307 604, 398 


Spirits. 
Matches ... Gross of 138,153 127,761 175,758 221,275 217,433 
boxes. 





245 


16. The value of- pie dae granted during the yer — 
was :— 


| Exemptions Beeabiions 
under the under the 
Customs duties Syria-Palestine ~ Total. 
Exemption Customs 
Ordinance. Agreement. 
. £P. LP. . £LP. 
Food, drink and tobacco’ me 915,000  —S- 928,000 _~—s: 1,843,000 
Goods mainly unmanufactured 645,000° _ 2,000 - 647,000 
Goods mainly manufactured ... 1,717,000 . - 400,000 2,117,000 
Miscellaneous and unclassified .. 2,464,000. — 2,464,000 
Total ... £P.5,741,000 1,330,000 = 7,071,000 





' 


These ecapeans do not include bensine and _ other oils 
supplied free of duty from bonded Seana in Palestine to 
certain undertakings. 


17. The value of goods imported by charitable and religious 
institutions, Consuls and ere rncolerieab societies during the past 
hve years is shown below :— | 






‘Under the Customs duties 
Under the Exemption Ordinances. 
Ottoman Law | 
Religious 
Orders. Charitable 
and other 
Institutions. 















£P. £P. 
33,971 7,690 
31,152 19,309 
39,779 16,331 
31,492 23,330 
27,905 26,409 





* Including benzine, etc., delivered to consuls from bonded oil installations. 


18. In addition to the importation duty free of all articles 
consigned to them direct, the followin goods were also supplied 
from bonded oil installations to the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, 
the Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes and the Administration 
Giabrale des Phares: — 


Amount of 


Supplied in 1936 free of duty to— Benzine. Kerosene. Duty involved. 
Litres. Litres. £P. 
Iraq Petroleum Co. ws. 1,362,004 222,025 15,371 
me eeey and Air Force In- | 
sie re 261,181 77,501 3,009 
eaten Générale des Phares — 1,761 3 


19. The following is an analysis of Customs taxation and 
exemptions for the years 1932-6: — 
41526 12 


‘uaa sod 9-9 
oOOoOo‘IOI‘'I 


*"q3u00 19d g-or 


573100 ~ oon enaA, FOU ©F OEM wWAUD DAA 
Ooo ‘OLE ‘Ir 


" quoulscigy 5 Cy 


ourysaped—eAs ey} Jepun jduiexe spood jo snje,a 
: syodury JO ON[BA JOU 0} BFL JUDNIEg 


‘quoo aod S.Z2 
coogi Z 


"QUaD saad G-9g 


"qUua0 lad 6 
000‘'1Z26 


000‘g6S 
"yuao Jod ¥.€€ ‘3ua0 tod 9-gz ‘queo rad $.2£z ‘yua0 10d S.gz *3uU99 10d zz 














ooo'Io1‘F 000‘6EL'F 000‘'bS9'E 000'6SS ‘z 000‘ Lzb‘1 poe ae bad QoueUIpPIO uondwexy7 
sonnd ‘suI0}sND out z9pun }dulexs spoosd jo one, 
000'097‘ZI 000'b9S ‘or 000‘096‘E1 000‘+¥9‘6 000‘g9F‘9 *** sy1odum so anyea yony 
‘quao Jod $.6z ‘qu00 1od g-9z ‘yu90 19d $.9z ‘qua0 tod S.gz ‘yua0 Jad Lz eas ; : A3np jo 9}e1 Sutpuodsaizi075 
000‘€ 10% 000‘029‘z 000‘of ¥‘z 000‘'gg9‘I 000‘v61'r ae “ = si “ pezdaT]0o9 Aynp Jean 
000‘'678‘9 o000'¥zZL‘or 000'Sg1‘6 000‘Lgf‘g 0001 hry oat ae ee "s  - Syrodult ajqetiyng jo onje, 
o00‘o£ ‘TI OOO‘IOI‘I 000'176 o000‘giZ 000‘g6S es "+ guourseisy sul0jsny suT}sa[eg 
| —erths eu} aopue 3yduraxa spoo3 jo oanfea ssa7 
000‘6S 1‘ o00'Szg‘11 000‘9OI ‘OI 000‘Sgo'Z 000‘6£0'S “s+  sqiodurt Azeulpig jo one, 
‘gua0 tod £.bz *yua0 Jod €'¥z =*3u90 sed bz "uae sod tz "yua0 Jad S.€z A3Np jo oye Zutpuodsea1i07 
Oo 000'€10‘% 000‘0Z9‘z 000‘of Fz 000‘gg9‘I 000'F61‘I sid — ae se ei po}9019 Aynp aN 
+ 0006S 1‘g 000'Szg‘11 000‘QOI ‘OL 000‘Sgo‘L 000‘6£0‘S ; : szioduit AIeuIpio jo onye, 
oo00'1o1'+ 000‘6£L‘F 000‘bS9‘t 000‘6SS ‘z o000‘Lzv'1 ne "** -UIBLIO UeLIAS Jo Spoos 
: | Suipnjour ynq ‘eoueUIpIQ uoNduiexy saijng 
BUIO}SND 94} Jepun ydurexe Spood jo onyea ssaT 
000‘09z‘Zr 000'¥9S‘gI 000‘096‘E 1 000‘¥+9'6 000‘99h‘9g ss nee "**  sqI0dull Jo anyeA oN 
*yu00 tod ¥.g1 ‘quod dod €.41 ‘quoo stad $.Z1 ‘yua0 10d $.Z1 ‘quad 10d S.g1 °°" sits ae “+  Aynp jo ozye1 Sutpuodsa1i07 
000‘f 10‘z 000‘0Z9‘z 000‘ hz 000‘8g9‘I 000'F61'I ee ee zi mat = poz9e][09 Aynp zany 
000‘09Z‘ZI 000‘¥9S ‘91 — 000‘096‘E1 000‘t¥9‘'6 000‘99%‘9 cr a ae os *** ~« sqyiodult jo onjea JON 
000‘org ‘I 000'6gz'I 000‘f61'I 000‘6ZH'I ooo‘fof ‘I a saiojg Aueduioy winsjo13eg be1y, pue 
TH V'V'N ‘ATEUTA. ‘PUSUATLIBAOD JO ON[eA ssaT 
000'006'E1 oo00'€S9'Z1 ooo'fS1'S1 ooo'€z1'11 000‘69L'L * spiodumt jo onjea [230], 
‘dF ‘af ‘at "dF ‘af 
*9f6r "SE6r “bEOI "EL6I "Z€6I 


(-9€61 reoA oy} Jo syyUOU UaAaTe jSIY 9Y} JOJ soINsYy [enjoe UO paseg) 


247 


ow] 
° bd 
*3u90 tad 6.06 ‘3u00 Jad 6.6€ ‘yua0 tod $.6€ ‘zua0 r0od Cb "yu90 Jad £F os ane *** sq10dult JO aNn[eA [e}0} 0} B3ezUDDIIg 
ooo’ 1 Lo‘l 000‘6z1‘Z 000‘g96'S 000‘9SZ‘¥ o000'gzt‘t sce os ** — suo13duraxe Jo [e}0} pueiy 
‘4u00 od g-6 «=‘qua0 tad z-g = *guua0 Jad 9 -yuao Jad G.g ‘jua0 Jod g vs ae * spodury JO ON[eA [e}0} 0} OSeJUDDIOg 
ooo‘of€‘T OOO‘IOI‘I 000‘'176 ooo‘grZ 000‘96S id aisie ae * *** JuoWs0IS YW SUIOISN) 
ouTyseTeq—eHAS 294} Jopun 3dulaxe spood jo one, 
-yu90 tod €.1% ‘quad tod g-€€ ‘qusasod $.€€ ‘quaosod S-.9€ ‘quoosed SE. : * syioduit jo onjea 12303 0} 983U9010g 
0001'S 000'gz0'9 000‘L¥o'S o000‘gfo'r o000‘0tZ‘z aes dc mee cues see : *** $3I10}S 
| Aueduiog umefoned bery, pue ‘Tv V'N ‘Aes 
‘qUOWIMIDAONH ~BuIpNoUI ‘soueUIPIQ uUOWduIexy 
saynnqd aon) 94} Jopun suondutexe jo anyea [eI0]7 
000‘006'E1 o00'€Sg‘L1 Ooo‘eS ‘SI oo0o0‘€z1'II 000‘694'Z ee > ‘++ sqiodum jo anfea [%07 
sziodurr jo anjea Jau 0} asezUadIAg 





41526 


*yua0 JIod €.¢b ‘ua0 tad z.SE ‘3zua0 sad HE ‘yua0 Jad ¥E *3u99 rod rf 
coor *‘S ooo0‘obg's ooo 'SZLL‘¥ oo00'ZZz‘€ 000‘'Szo‘z an sa : ans “> 3uauIaa1sy surojsny 
auizsayeq—vers ya ay} Ppue soUBUIPIO uoijdulaxy 

S9I3NC swowsns, oy} JOpuN Sucndues- jo oo pain ey 


248 
Commerce and Industry. 


20. A number of new undertakings were established during 
1936. Among the more important were factories for the produc- 
tion of milled rice and rice products, razor blades, plate glass, 
murrors, flour, bakery products, glass tiles, adhesive dressings, 
tricotage articles, carbonic acid, and insulated electric wire. 


During the year, 183 new companies were registered with an 
authorized capital of £P.1,038,064, and 50 companies increased 
their total capital from £P.1,060,611 to £P.1,893,378. 


21. In the field of manufacture there was considerable 
development in the products of the new factories and also in 
pharmaceutical products. Some branches of industry showed 
negligible changes in production. Thus the output of tobacco 
factories increased from 908,128 kilogrammes in 1935 to 920,479 
kilogrammes in 1936; methylated spirits from 593,307 kilos to 
604,398 kilos; while that of salt decreased from 10,376 tons to 
oe tons; and matches from 221,275 gross to 217,433 gross of 

Oxes. 


22. Generally speaking, however, the disturbed conditions 
were reflected in the reduced outputs in almost all other branches. 
During 1936 154,000 tons of cement were manufactured as 
against 187,000 tons in 1935. The decreased imports of yarn 
indicate reduced production in factories manufacturing textile 
articles, hosiery, sweaters, bathing costumes and other knitted 
wearing apparel. 











1936. 
Imports. 
Klos. Value. 
£P. 
Silk and artificial silk 
yarn a ee 41,472 102,000 40,000 
Cotton yarn ee 97,958 420,000 54,000 
Woollen yarn ... Ea 37,124 65,000 33,000 
Cotton, raw and waste... 27,181 510,000 26,800 
Wool, raw and waste ... 2,123 5,000 1,400 
Total ... 1,679,488 1,102,000 155,200 






Factories engaged in the extraction of oil showed little change 
from the previous year. The following are the imports of raw 
material for these factories: — 





Imports. 


Copra.... cae ze 
Sesame and Gingelly Seeds 
Linseed seed one 
Sunflower Seed ek 
Ground Nuts, shelled ... 


Total oat 208,395 





249 


Building Activity. 

23. There was a great decline in the building activity in 1936 

which was only partly compensated by the erection of co-opera- 
tive buildings in settlements and suburbs, and of warehouses, 
ofces and shops in the reclaimed area in Haifa. 
_ The following table shows the decline in the imports of build- 
ing materials during 1936 as compared with 1935. (The figures 
for 1936 are based on actual figures for the first 11 months and 
an estimate for the last month) :— 









1933. | 1934. | 1935. | 1936. 


£P. £P. £LP. 
460,410 | 500,137 | 200,000 


Imports. 1932. 





| LP: 

Timber and wood for building | 184,267 

Iron bars, angles, rods and 
girders... soe sate 











2535777 


96,683 | 240,096 | 520,604 | 614,437 | 278,000 


Sanitary ware us ..- | 39,288 | 66,041 | 177,999 | 130,199 | 104,000 
Electrical fittings and in- | 

sulated tubes and pipes ... | 29,475 | 58,491 | 100,609 | 133,457 | 90,000 
Cement ae ues ... | 25,264 | 88,328 | 267,624 | 288,968 | 132,000 
Paints and colours ... | 24,471 | 39,339 | 57,664 | 64,150 | 31,000 
Plate glass and window glass | 21,984 | 34,431 | 58,419 | 68,041 | 32,000 
Tilesand bricks... ... | 20,849 | 34,523 | 88,334 | 125,483 | 61,000 
Door and window fittings* ... | 20,000 | 40,000 | 60,000 | 69,510 | 33,000 





* Figures in respect of 1932-1934 are approximate. 


Citrus Trade. | 


24. The new citrus season opened with better promise as 
legards production, but considerable damage to the trees and 
drop of fruit were caused by gales in December. 


During the year, 5,715,000 cases of oranges and 878,000 cases | 
of grapefruit were exported, as compared with 6,878,911 and 
1793 Cases respectively during 1935. 


Imports. 


_ 25. The approximate value of imports for home consumption 
IN 1936 was £P.13,900,000, a decrease of £P.3,953,493 in com- 
Panson with the preceding year. 


The prolonged strike rendered difficult the marketing of home- 
sown products: this, and the increased needs of the growing 
Population, were responsible for an increase of £P.450,000 in 
_ value of food products such as ce wheat, animals for 
slaughtering, eggs, butter, and fruit. uel also showed an 
‘ppreciable rise. 


es the other hand, the decline in building activity resulted in 
: uced imports of building material such as wood, tiles, sanitary 
ate, cement, iron bars, rods and girders, pipes and fittings; 
€ total reduction being about £P.1,100,000. 


41526 I4 


250 


Reduced purchasing power is reflected in the decrease of 
£P.1,360,000 in the import of radios, electrical goods, cotton 
piece goods, woollen tissues, silk tissues, wearing apparel, and 
motor cars, motor trucks and parts. There were noticeable 
decreases also in imports of machinery (£P.490,000); cotton, 
silk and woollen yarns (£P.50,000) ; drugs (£P.38,000) ; lubn- 
cating oil and grease (£P.30,000); medical appliances 
Pe aeneees coal (£P.40,000); and wood for citrus cases 
£P.100,000). 


26. The following is a comparative table showing the principal 
articles imported during 1935 and 1936. 


(Figures for 1936 are based on actual figures for the first 11 


months and an estimate for the last month.) 





Dental, medical  sur- 
gical and optical 
instruments and 
appliances ... wee 


110,214 


I935. 1936. 
Articles. 
Quanitty. Value. Quantity. 
£P. 
Barley Kilos | 12,503,131 63,5 35,036,000 
Rice » | 17,919,053 | 193,204 | 18,674,000 
Wheat a 17,892,377 | 117,428 | 21,605,000 
Wheat flour ... see r 33,786,722 | 348,950 | 30,280,000 
Cattle for slaughtering 
(oxen, cows and 
calves) sn No. 28,535 | 296,990 34,000 
Sheep and goats 5 344,002 | 252,290 335,000 
Eggs ... ae oon 55 75,924,295 | 138,209 | 88,026,000 
Fish in brine, dry, 
salted, fresh and 
_ tinned : ..- | Kilos}] 4,856,981 | 173,564 | 5,023,000 
Poultry, alive... No. 1,764,614 | 133,479 | 2,000,000 
Butter ee Kilos| 2,291,750 | 191,353 | 2,480,000 
Fruits, fresh ... se 12,672,803 | 204,235 | 14,092,000 
Coffee ... 7 1,903,405 79,969 1,200,000 
Sugar ... es 26,960,409 | 206,829 | 26,600,000 
Potatoes os 15,774,355 97,208 | 16,900,000 
Coal... bee - 79,924,260 91,502 | 38,629,000 
Wood for building M3 207,047 | 500,137 88,000 
Seeds, beans and nuts 
for expressing oils... | Kilos | 23,493,480 | 208,700 | 20,799,000 
Fuel oil ae a 3 62,503,000 | 121,554 | 83,000,000 
Paving tiles M2 525,377 | 103,057 255,000 
Sanitary ware... — — 130,199 — 
Cement ss ... | Kilos {169,536,552 | 288,968 | 69,200,000 
Iron bars, angles, rods 
and girders ; ' 87,082,542 | 614,437 | 35,800,000 
Iron and cast iron 
pipes and fittings 
thereof af » 32,262,946 | 496,404 | 14,400,000 





251 










935. 
Articles. 


Quantity. 










thereof ae rer 
Frigidaires and parts: 
thereof sate be 
Electric goods and fit- 


81,873 
84,699 


sai sea eats 308,487 
Agricultural machinery 72,068 
Industrial machinery... 991,792 


Wood prepared for 
citrus Cases... dies 





















105,500 | 358,776 
4,856,724 87,933 


75,000 
3,025,000 
















Yarn, cotton, silk and 
woollen ieee 


site 587,000 
Cotton piece goods 


2,442,000 


952,168 | 176,534 
3,974,523 529,242 
























Woollen tissues 486,853 | 289,757 292,000 
Silk tissues 609,838 | 291,213 358,000 
Apparel, all sorts — 749,581 — 
gs... — 160,077 — 
Benzine §2,610,370 | 275,209 | 45,400,000 
Kerosene 57,589,808 | 199,494 | 59,610,000 






Lubricating oil and 













2,655,000 
146,000 


4,135,204 
186,482 


grease ata 79,930 
Upper leather... - 67,005 
Motor-cars and motor- 

trucks a vag 
Parts and accessories 


of motor-cars and 















519,622 


2,956 I,000 


















motor-trucks 7 a — 130,306 
Rubber tyres and tubes | Kilos 619,450 | 86,011 
Chemical fertilisers ... » | 12,070,471 | 97,332 

vemnment stores ... — 793,029 
Military stores we | — 232,862 
NAAFI. stores ...{[ — 58,955 

q Petroleum Co. 

stores aes oe 203,196 

Used personal effects 536,893 










Exports. 


27. The value of exports of Palestine produce amounted to 
: -3,625,000 in 1936, a decrease of £P.590,000 in comparison 
with the preceding year. 


The decrease was primarily due to decreased. exports of 


Oran 


below the value in 1935. 


Bes In cases and grapefruit which amounted to £P.715,600 


rp of locally-manufactured articles showed a net increase 
of 68,600 over 1935, the increase being chiefly in respect of 
Confectionery, edible oils other than olive oil, cotton yarn and 


» bromine, potash, and essences. 


252 


There were decreased exports of other hey Sereraserions 
products such as olive oil, cakes of all sorts for feeding animals, 


socks and stockings, soap, and wearing apparel. 


A table showing exports of locally manufactured articles 


during the fast five years is set out below :— 


1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936.* 
LP. LP: LP. LP. £P. 
Cakes of all sorts for 
feeding animals ... 8,980 7,594 14,637 9,630 2,200 
Biscuits and cakes ... 2,728 1,517 1,256 1,007 1,100 
Bread, Passover 3,430 2,292 1,903 1,924 1,600 
Cheese 4,401 7,11! 695 1,254 1,000 
Chocolates 1,653 548 266 548 goo 
Confectionery ae 1,813 2,118 1,489 7,117 15,100 
Fruit juice and syrup 4,509 6,793 6,751 9,145 8,600 
Brandy and cognac.. 2,740 2,206 5,721 852 2,700 
Wines 30,737 22,270 23,214 20,551 20,000 
Olive oil 32,414 20,786 18,687 32,787 26,200 
Sunflower oil 29,353 612 — —— — 
Oils other, edible 473 26,459 35,978 23,808 51,000 
Cement 22,151 14,063 1,700 2,650 S00 
Mirrors st 3,551 3,249 1,973 2,775 1,300 
Bedsteads and parts 
thereof 4,343 818 462 261 300 
Aluminium manufac- 
tures us — — 2,053 2,665 3,200 
Tin manufactures ... 1,117 1,464 1,283 667 5300 
Olive wood manufac- 
tures dae 1,567 1,726 1,691 3,435 1,900 
Cotton yarn and 
thread 2,039 2,533 1,931 1,678 19,300 
Cotton manufactures 2,338 1,795 936 1,084 1,300 
Stockings and socks 12,538 11,584 8,920 11,095 7,500 
Wearing ey Pere: of 
all kinds ... ; 16,508 26,959 38,124 63,459 47,500 
Soap .,. : 108,101 79,342 71,532 79,311 53,800 
Paper and cardboard 
goods sab 2,544 1,768 4,142 5,011 4,400 
Curios and articles of 
piety ; 2,819 3,936 5,742 6,993 5,800 
Beads and mother- 
of-pearl manufac- 
tures b ae 9,569 8,634 6,877 3,778 5,300 
Leather handbags ot 5,290 7,249 6,035 6,731 4,000 
Stationery ... 6,770 4,620 989 1,066 300 
Artificial teeth 13,429 23,674 28,585 33,762 32,200 
Essences of all kinds 2,285 3,923 7,447 6,360 13,700 
Bromine : — — — 18,751 35,100 
Potash wee — — — 80,231 132,900 
Other manufactured 
goods — — — 38,421 45,600 
Total ... £P. 435,623 406,398 404,840 478,807 547,400 


* Figures for 1936 are based on the actual figures for the first eleven 


months, and the estimate for the last month. 





666'2S6 


boS ‘Siz 


oom 


6S6'1Sr 
9g ‘06S 
‘af 
"SEOI 
4IPUN | 
ISDIAIA(T 


.253 


zSE‘Lob'h 





006‘1gt 
6S6‘1Cr 
C6P‘ES6'E 
‘af 
"SEOI 


sapun 
asnasvaq’ 


-_—- 


"q}UOUL 4SET 9Y} 10; oxeUlyse oy} Pue ‘SUJUOUL UZAI{a YIY oy} OJ sornsy [enjoe uo paseq are g€61 ACJ samnsrny 


Pog'LS€ 


6zE‘ ThE 
GSS‘gr 


"SE6r 
4300 — 
asvasouy 


CEO 
4300 
gspasIuU [ 


o000'f£6‘F 


000‘1SZ 
000‘z #9 
000‘S9 
o000‘oft 
000'Szg‘t 
‘dF 
"g£6I 


000‘oZLe‘¥1 


ooo‘ort 
ooo0‘oLt 
000‘006'f 1 
‘af 
*9f61 








Ggo'f€S'S 


voS‘ggh 
1Zg‘oo€ 
CHb‘99 
6S6‘'1g9b 
ogh'Siz‘b 
‘df 
"SE6I 


zSE‘LSQ‘g1 


006‘1zS 
6S6‘1gh 
COP‘ESg‘L1 
‘af 
“CLO6I 


ELE‘obg'v 





09z‘0S¢ 
9b6‘Egz 
Lto‘6b 
gSS ‘6Ez 
zoS‘Liz‘€ 
‘at . 
‘PEOI 


69L‘S99‘SI 


of b‘ELz 
gSS‘6Ez 
igl‘zS1‘S1 
‘dF 
"VEOI 


C96‘g96‘E 


glg‘Ibg 
zoe ‘6r€ 
Cgz‘gth 
Egg‘Zer 
L19‘16S‘z 
‘af 
"EO6r 


glg‘oSh'r1 


got ‘Shr 
Ege‘Ler 
Ogh‘Ez1'II 
‘at 
"ELOI 


gzb‘Lzee'b 


ZS6'SOS‘1 


Log‘tbz 


9L€‘961 
16h‘IgQt‘z 
‘at 
‘ZE6I 


L6L‘oz1'g 


roS‘SCr 
gL ‘961 
0z6'g9Z‘Z 
‘af 
*Z£6I 


‘at 


‘dF 


1070] 
ais "** — groeds jo szrodxq 

Spood UsIdI0F JO sz10dxa-9y 
es “* puoq woy sj10odxq7 
eee "+ ysueay ur syodxq 


2 


*SIAOGX T 


1070 
eee "** —- groeds jo sziodury 
Isuely ul syiodury 
uonjduinsuos of sjioduy 


"Sjsogusy 


4. Of61 anv S€6r ‘b€6xr ‘€€6r ‘zE6r Aoa SH1dV]J, JAILVAVdIWO’) ‘SLNOdX] ANV SLUOdW[ IVWLO[ AJOANIVA ‘gz 


254 


ggz‘¥69 zog‘fo1 
6rg — 
= g1g‘9P 
— 9g6‘9S 
6EF'E69 © = 
ra ‘af 
"SEOI “SEO 
sAapun 4300 
9S09499(T ISDBLIUT 
- ogl‘ztg'b Lgz‘6Lo 
— vg ‘g6E 
vE6'6Sz'v — 
gbg‘zLe —_ 
— €zxr‘€gz 
‘df ‘df 
"CEOI “SE6I 
sAopun 4910 
asvaaIa(y aSpasu 


fan hid } 


yt o«ef 


‘, f fy 


¢ a 


yh 


"YFUOUL FSR] OY} JOF OPUUITZSS 0Y} Pte ‘syzUOUI UDAVIa JSIQ OY} JOJ SOINAY [en}zoOe uO pase o1e OEGI IOJ SAINBIY » 





000‘Sz9‘E 


000‘Z 

ooo‘Zr¥ 

000‘gST 

000‘gto't 
‘dF 

— GEOL 


000‘006‘E€ 1 


000‘06+‘z 
000‘o£S‘g 


000‘'0S6 


000‘o0f6‘E 
‘af 
"gf61r 


ogh'Siz‘b 


6Fg‘z 
ver‘oL€ 


VIO'IOI 


6Cb' THLE 
‘at 
*SEOIr 


COv‘ESQ‘L1 


9£9‘€60'z 
b£6‘6gZ‘o1 
obg‘zzf‘1 
LLe‘gbo‘t 
‘af 
"SEOI 


zoS‘Liz‘€ 


009‘Z 
Cbz‘v6z 


Cov'Ss 


viIE‘Sog‘z 
‘df 
‘vEOI - 


1gl‘zGr‘S1 
€1S‘Soo'z 


1gz‘gg1‘6 
¥63‘9L0'! 
£60‘'206‘z 
‘af 
*PEOI 


LIQ‘Igt‘ze 


rZS‘Z 
z60‘90f 


Cr16‘1E 


6£0‘gbhz‘z 


‘af 
“Ef61 


ae, 


6gh‘Ez1'11 
C6L‘L11‘z 


POL‘E PLS 
Sgh‘ofg 
Lig'Szv'z 
‘at 
"CLOI 


16b‘1gt‘z 


gis 
zOE‘Z1E 


L16‘z¥ 


¥g9‘Szo'z 
‘at 
"Z£61 


0z6‘ggQZ‘Z 


€r1L‘g1S‘1 
11¥‘O16'E 
996‘9SS 
ofg‘bgl‘t 
‘af 
“Z£O6r 


“at eos eco 1240] 

eee Poutsse[oul pue SNnosuel[sosi fy 
eee eee . ne pein 
-seynuem Ayurew Jo Ayjoym saponsy 
cee soe "**) peinzoRjnuewuuNn 


Ajuyeur SgforzIe pue s|eLio}eUl MeL] 
"**  Q99BQO} PU YULIP ‘poo a 


'sp4ogxq 


10707 


aes peyrssejaun pue snoosury[aostpy 
; ate pain} 
~oeynUeUL Ajureut 10 A][OYM sopoIy 
painzoeynuewun 
Ajureul sajpoizie pue s[elioyew Mey 
099eq0} pue YULIP “poo.T 


eee eee 


‘spogu] 


¢ QCOI anv SfO6r ‘PEOI ‘€€6r ‘z€6r yoda SHTdV], AAILVAVANO’) ‘SASSVID) AD SLUOUXY ANV SLUOdW] AO ANTVA “62 


255 


30. | IMPORTS BY COUNTRIES DURING 1935 AND 1936.* 





 , Countries. 





United Kingdom 
British Possessions 
Austria ... : 


Turkey ne 


United States of America 


er countries 


Total 





oes Figures for 1936 are based on the actual figures for the first 
onths, and the estimate for the last month. 


Value by country of origin. 


1935. 
£P. 


, 3,212,378 


618,922 
356,098 
718,596 
206, 382 
667,536 
115,455 
350,103 


2,197,144 


272,136 
202,825 
449,446 
778,789 


1,208,204 


234,007 
‘227,850 
175,309 
201,285 
594,378 
645,695 


136,276 . 


219,776 


1,310,363 


338,807 


1,499,109 © 


916,024 





17,853,493 





























=~ 
hm O 


a] 


| 
QN HOH HNWHHOONWO ORR HONON SH 














13,900,000 


100 


Percentage. 
1936. 


eleven 


250 


31. EXPORTS BY COUNTRIES DURING 1935 AND 1936.* 








Value by country of 





































destination. - |. Percentage 
' Countries. 1936. 
: £P. 
United Kingdom 2,553,986 54: 34 
British Possessions 85,083 1°88 
Belgium ... 77,844 1°85 
Denmark 39,120 1°24 
France .... 89,769 1°32 
Germany 250,909 3°61 
Holland ... 185,438 5°49 
Italy 22,679 0:08 
Norway ... 64,186 1°49 
Poland 122,245 3°75 
Roumania 92,219 1°99 
Sweden.... 54,374 3°48 
Egypt 77,402 1°74 
Japan 10,707 1°66 
Syria 302,988 8°55 
Turkey ... ae sa 6,646 1°49 
United States of America 15,855 0°61 
Other countries 164,027 5°43 
Total... we. ZF, 4,215,486 100 





* Figures for 1936 are based on the actual figures for the first eleven 
months, and the estimate for the last month. 


257 


i 


Price Movements. 


32. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 
living are shown below :— 


Wholesale Prices. 





- (Basis, Cost of Living. 
corresponding (Basis, 
month 1935= January, 1922= 

1936. Ioo per cent.) roo per cent.) 

January es if 99°7 54°1 
February... su ace 97°6 53°3 
March a ee 100°6 53°5 
April ae ie 96-2 52°9 
May... ah — 103°7 54°2 
June... .e, ve ao 102°2 56-4 
(er ae ons 104°2 59°1 
August = gg, te 107°0 59°2 
September ... 0... ade 105°7 60° 5 
October ne bas 107°9 57°7 
November... 0... III+5 57°8 
December... oe i 109° 57°5 

Average... oe 103°8 | 56-4 





The average index number of cost of living in 1936 was 56-4, 
aS compared with 54-7 in 1935, an increase of 1-7 points or 
3'I per cent. mainly due to the increase in local food prices 
uring the strike, but partly to the general increase in prices of 
staple foods in the most recent months. 


33: During the year 1936, drawback was granted in respect 
of imported leaf-tobacco used in the manufacture of cigars 
‘xported from Palestine; and in respect of the refuse tobacco of 
manufacturers engaged solely in the manufacture of tobacco, 
“garettes or cigars from imported duty-paid tobacco. 


: S} Ula] SIYZ JO (1) UOTZDaG Aq 
WIy Ul pazseA S1oMOod oy} JepuN apely 
pur osIoxy ‘suI0}SNZ) JO 10709NIG 94} Aq 
pouruiazep se U0} Jed anyea ay} ere (v) 


> SI DOULUIPIO Sty} JO (q) UOTQVIaG Aq 
UIT] UI Ps9zs0A sIOMOd dq} JopuN spe1y 
pue osioxy ‘su0}SND jo 1079011, oY Aq 
PoUTULI9}Ep sev U0} Jed anyfea og} a104,A, (”) 
‘(a[nouIes ZUIPN]OU!) BUTTOWISs pue }eoyM 
punoi3 10 peysnio ‘aAI 10 }eEaqM JO INOLT 





‘aAY Jo Nop] 


wasojon py °juad Jad Sz 14940100 po *yUed Jad ZI 


‘op ‘Op ‘op Lz “ Lz 
‘Oop “op “op gz ce c@ ox 4 
“op "op “op of « of 
‘op ‘op ‘op I¢ «e ac If 


°19} 2013 9Y} SI IOAaqOIYM 


wasojva po °3u90 I13d Sz Jo o[ty Jed strm ff opy sed sprur ££ 


Oty ted sya ¢ 


6 I¢ 
yore situ £z 


q¢ ae ZI 
14940]00 py *4U99 Jad Z1 


ory red spur ¢.Z o[ty Jad strum + 


“Ainq man "Ajnq 4auUso.y 





InoLy aA pues ANop.y FEO AA ‘9A ‘FEO AA 
‘Teqyou yo Ayureur 


Jo AToyM opeum s8u7Wyg 343, OLND9/q 


ogz 
ce ‘e Ogz oz 
- “ obz 00z 
° ‘* 00% oLI 
sJN tod suid o£1 obi 
"‘surpaaIx 7 JON ‘JuipaaIx y 
—spoo3 a9a1d u0}}09 peAp JO pazUulig 
‘sexoq JueIpAY 


pue spu3s Ayn3s ‘some gure 
‘sSurze13 ‘sI9A00 g[oyUeUI ‘sajoyUep] 
—: uodtzosep 
BULMOTIOF Oy} JO SaINJOeJNUeUI UOI] SD 
oe? J9}JIUIVIP UI “WID Bz BUIPIIOXy 
1a}BUILIP UT “WD gz ZUIPIVOKe JON 
—: uoll 
paziueales Jo uo jo sted pue sjaxong 
ae set me sjnu pur so 





‘sajauysp fo uoydtiassaq 





—:g€6r SuLMp apeur alam YUeT sWO}sND sy} 0} S}USUIPUSUTe SUIMOTIOF oY] “PE 


"1148, SWO}SND 


ce 


000'Z 
oSZ'9 
00S"9 
oSz'9 
000'9 
oSZ°¢ 
o0o0S°S 
oSz'¢ 
000'S 
oSZ‘+ 
ooS + 
oSz'r 
000'F 
oSZ°€ 


uo} tad o0S'€ 


259 


sprur oSl°S-qF spun 


oSZ'g 


ce 


ea 


oZS°¢ 
000°9 
oSz'9 
00S°9 
oSZ‘9 
ooo'Z 
oSz'Z 
00S: Z 
oSL:Z 
000°g 
oSz'g 
00S'g 


000°6 Japun I0 oSZ'g 
1I2A0 10 000°6 


: (g[nNoWes Zurpnou!) euljourss pue 


yeoyM PUNOId JO paysnid ‘yeayM jo NOL 


a¢ 


oSZL's 
o00S'S 


oSZ¢€ 


uo} Jad o0S'f 


SIN ‘dF 
“Aing fo ajo 


oSZ: s° ‘d7 riapup 


oSZ:Z 


€¢ 


oGZ°¢ 
000'9 
oSz'9 
00S"9 
oSZ-9 
000'Z 
oSz'Z 
ooS°Z 


000'g Japun Jo o$Z°Z 
I9AO IO 000°9 


SIN ‘dt 


‘SIN ‘dF 


"anjv A 


“SITTIN 


‘Ang fo away 


s[tur oGZ: Ss" ‘at Japuy) 


000'9 oGZ°S 
oSz'9 as 000'9 
00S'9 - oSz'9 
oSZ'9 a 00S"9 
o0o0o0'Z o oSL‘9 
oSz'Z me 000'Z 
00S°Z ms oSz'Z 
oSZL:Z rs o0S'Z 
000'g “ oSZ:Z 
oSz'g = 000°§ 


00S'g ‘oS z'g 
oSZ'g 00S"9 
000°6 1apun 10 o$Z'g 

J3AO I0 000°6 


"SINA ‘dt ‘SITAL “a ¥ 


‘anjvA 


260 


pur asiox 


ce 


«é 


e¢ 


soca L pur asiox a : ‘GUIOPSU) JO AOPIOIICT 
ou? ‘Ajipouui0s Aue yo onTea 943 Sut 


-UlUIId}ap OS UZYM PUe ‘9OULUIPIO sy} 
yo (v) uoj098 ul pequioseid sarynp oy} 
JO JueuIssasse yo osodind ay} Joy ‘AzIp 
-OUININD FOI JO ONT VA 9Y} VdI}OU IsyzINy 
[Qun JO s0MH0U YoNs UT poze}s oq Avur 
se potted qons jo oedsai ul sUTULIOZap 
ot} OF OUT} Wo ‘9}}0zZe5) 94} UT 
peystqnd oq 0} 80130U Aq ][eys epely 


ooS°¢ 


oSz'r 


"m0} Jod 000°! 


“STUNT 


a ‘sulo}sn) Jo JoJOeNG sy_ (2) 


sjrar oSZ: s ‘df Japuy 


*** 000°9 oSZS 
eee oSz'9 ¢ ooo’ 9 
eee 00S‘9 ce oSz'9 


oSL‘g “ 00S"9 
000°Z oh oSL'9 


oSz'Z 000'Z 
“= Qgo0S'Z i oSz'Z 
ove oSl°Z ee 00S: 


000’g Japun 10 o$Z°Z 
ae I2ZAO IO 000g 


— OS FEO MA 
s[tur oSZ: r- ‘af Jopuy) 
000°S oSZ'+ 
oSz's - 000'S 
00S°S - oSz's 
oSZ¢ - o00S'S 
000°9 a oSZ:¢ 
oSz'9 000'9 
00S"9 is oSz'9 
oSZ'9 “ 00S‘9 


000° 1apun 10 oSZ'9 
I9A0 10 000°L 
—oAY 
STN “dF STA ‘dF 
“Onjv A 





‘Aing man 


me reeneere tes Yuen ree a wns pittiem ‘z0R10U ULE ; 
uv YoryM so1rid OU} OF Pprieso.2 savy jpeqs 
VPPLL Pu ZSIDXZ ‘SUIOJSND Jo 1070011, 
294} ‘AzZIpourwi0s Aue jo onpea oyy But 
-UIULI3}9P OS UTM PU BdULUIPIO SIyy 
jo (vy) uotzoes ur paqiioseid sarynp 943 
JO JusuIssesse yo osodind 93 10; AzIp 
-OUIWIOS 49d JO ONTeA Vy} qZUOU! YONs 
jo yoodsa1 UI SUIULIe}Ep ‘YWUOT Yee jo 
A&P {SI 9Y} V1OJOq 10 UO 9}}9Ze*) JY} UL 
peystiqnd aq 07 sorj0u Aq ‘TTeys oper 
pue asioxa ‘surojsn’) Jo 10}001IG OYE (9) 


“  —00G-€ *** — sptur oSZ: s- ‘df Jopuy) 
“  oSz'€ *** o00'°9 oSZ¢ 
ee ooo't eon oSz‘9 se 000'9 
“  oSL°z 00$’9 . oSz‘9 
“  —oe0S'z *** OSL'9 00S"9 
“ oGz'z = *** ooo's “ oSZ‘9 
“ —e00'z *** OSzZ me 000°Z 
“  oGZL*r ***) o0G'Z = oSz'Z 
ee ooS'I eee oSZLL ee 00S: 
“  oGSz'r *** «o0o'g Japun Jo oSZ°Z 
uo} Jod ooo'r *** ; I9AO0 IO 000°9 
—yeoym pue 9A 
‘STUN ‘STUN “df ‘STW ‘df 
“And fo 4vy "anv A 


| "AING: AIULAO.T 





*pzuo0r7—INO[ J 
eaAyq pue Imojrq yeaym ‘ahy ‘eouM 


‘saauspy fo uoydrsosaq 








261 


‘Opry sed sira z 
‘sodeys q8noi “ot ‘Mei “poomzued (2) 
‘ory sad 
simu Sx ‘syed ul 10 ATIoys posyodult 
‘peredeid-tmies ‘ainzuiny poompzued (9) 
_. ‘opry r0d 
spur. S-zz ‘spred ul 10 AToyM poyiod 
-uit apem Apeal sinzuIny Poompue_ (v) 
—poredaid Jo mer poomjued sInyTUIN 
"440100 py *ya90 Jad SI 
‘peytoeds oreymasye Jou sinzUIN | (9) 
-muga0jon po “yuao rad Sz ‘srreqo ‘se[qeL 
‘1a9}S pue WOM Jo speul 
uondissep SUIMOTIOS 2q} ‘Jo oinzruin.y (9) 
“ug40jva po “yua0 Jed Sz ‘saajeqsxood 
put seyos ‘seqorprem ‘speq ‘spreoqdno 
‘sjoulqes ‘siteyo-uTe ‘sireyo  ‘soiqe lL 
poom jo Ajureur 10 Ayjoy 
apeut (ainjztuingy poomjzueq Sutpnyoxe) 
uoydussep Sutmopoy ayy JO sINzTUINY (v) 
| yore SIU OOL 


beg -AjIpoululo09 

yons Aue jo satyifenb 10 sepeld 

qua1zyIp jo qoodsei ut san[eA zUSIO¥ZIp 

xy Avr opvlp pue asfoxa ‘sulo}sna 
yo 107007 «(OF FBI. PAPHAO 

: uoyezzoduit jo vovV|[d 10 

qued aus 28 PUG ul pred evIuUVINsup PUL 


ma40100 py *ya99 Jad of ‘poomzusgd 91nz{UINY 


"44940100 py *yuad Jed Sr ‘aIn}UINy 
poomjzueq Zurpnjoxe ‘spury [Te Jo smNpUIN 
14940100 po *yU90 Jed ZI 


‘QOULUIPIO STG} Jo (v) WOTZDes 
ul poqlioseid sotynp eq} Jo JuauISsesse 
yo asodind oy} Jog Arpowmmoo yous 
jo onfea oy} 3uImsua }xeu sq}UOUI 
ge1q3 jo potied ove jo qoodser ul 
guiuliajep ‘eof yoes ul 1aqo}O FO 
Aep ys1y 0g} pue Ainf so Aep ysry oq} 
qudy yo Aep ysrg ay} ‘Arenuef jo 
Aep 3s1y 94} a10Feq IO UO 9}49ZPDH It} 
ur pegsi{qnd sornou Aq ‘Teys eperL pue 
QSIOXa ‘SUIOJSND Jo 10z0aTIC, 9} ‘vE6I 
qudy jo Aep 4sig aq} Woy SutousuL 


-wioo yey} JoqzINy pepracid puy 
-A}Ipoulwo0s yons 


Aue jo saizipenb 10 sopeis UuaIZyIp © 


yo  yedsor Ur senfeA UsIOyIp 
xy Aeul pue spell ssfoxy ‘surojsn7 
JO 31020921Iq 9432 3eYe P2PIAOCLT 


2 uc wugsocduy yo Oovufd 40 yaod ay3 
Bommel eis wintcie. mae ws cee-¥ nner vesarre Pore 2:1 Rar 


“+ gmyzmung 


suloysiy SUIYSN] A 


*o[b{ Jed strur oof ‘axnour 
erenbs sod 3y3Ziem sured Og Zutpesexe (q) 
‘oly sed spiw 00g ‘areur arenbs 
sod 4q810m sured 0g 3uIpesoxe jou (p) 
> QOBEINS ules GRIM 
3do0xa Inojod 9uO UT goatd 24} 10 ured 
ey} ut peAp JO payovelq ‘peyoverqun ‘adary 


‘ory iad spur ooF ‘ar;0u1 orenbs 
Jod 3y81I0m $surei8 Aayy Butpseoxe (q) 
‘o[ty sed sjrur 006 ‘amour orenbs 
zed 3y310m sured Azy Butpesoxa jou (p) 
> SOVEINS ulZeS GPM 
ydaoxa inojoo suo ut oos1d aq} Jo ured 


masoqva po *yuad Iad Sz 
44940100 po *yu90 Jad Sz 
ory Jed sfrur € 


e131] 19d sfrur ooz 
wg40f00 pv *yUad Jad Sz 
o[ty sod stra o1 

‘o[ry red sprur oS°Z 


ory zed syrur € 


ojry Jed strat oS - + 


ofty sod stu oz 
uo} Jed sfiur oo! 


“Ainq man 


oq} UI peAp JO poyporetq ‘payoevarqun ‘edai7 


s4a40102 py *3u30 Jad ZI 
ma40j0n po *yUdd Jad ZI 
ory sod prom x 


446240100 po *3U99 Jed Sz 
ma40j00 po *yuad Jad Sz 
44940100 po *yUad Jad ZI 

opty sod syruz $ 


‘OTH Jod sirur z 


o[ry sed sr € 


ee ee ov 
oly Jed stra oS -o 


“AING 49Us40.7 


| 


“HITS [eInzeuU Jo unjzUs. Jad AzuaMm} UP} 
2IOW ZUIUIE}ZUOD sanssy SurIpnjoul poy 
“peds aroy meso jou sonssy IL AS renjyen 
= “*gneryiones 
“ad A} Iejrutts & JO siauING 
pue S8A038 10 sieving pue seaojs snug 
*** = sadid uo 4s) 
*OUINJOA kq joqoore 
jo ‘yu90 rod of ueyq} alour Sururezu09 
syaids pournyrod 194}0 IO augZO[O9 op ney 
AIOWUIN19g 
"+  surydeu siodeg 
(asian S[TeU O1IM }Q3LIG 
—: 4ysue] 
ul ‘smu Sz ZuIpesoxa jou s[teu uoly 
“SUI Z-2 UY} DIOUI 
yOu pue ‘swIUI I.z UY} SS2] JOU 
ssouyoIy} eB ZUIAeY pu qzS3UIT UI 


“‘suiu $£% pue ‘suru €b (peotmpuryA5) 


sjreu orm 348IIq pue s[reu J9y30 (9) 
"SUITE Z-% ULYY 
91OU JOU puUe ‘SMIU I-Z ULY} SS2T 
}OU SSOUHSIQ} & ZulAeY pure zu] 
Ul ‘suum $#€% pue ‘sum EF ydaoxa 
(festrpurAo)  sjreu alm = 3 y8LIq (7) 
Y}SuUg] Ur ‘stu Sz Sulpsaoxe sje Nt wor] 
—: STEN 
* sotie}7eq PUL SIOJE[NUINIE Ted-10}0 


**s  (sqores) suvaq ysno07[ 
‘sajayap fo woydrsosaq 


263 


Us940JVR pv 499 Jad ZI 
ory sed strut ¥ 


o[ty Jed strar $ 


o[ty 3ed sjrur SP 
ovo s[rur 000‘r 
yove spr oSZ 


OTH sod sjtur oS .1 
o[ty Jed syrur oS.o 
o[ty tod sjrur oS .1 
oty rod syrur € 
opty ted [tw I 


WI401DR po “yUsd Jad Sz 
o[!y aed syrur + 


ma40j0a po ‘U0 Iad Sz 
M3a40100 po "yUAD Iad Oz 


usad40f0A po *yuUao Jad Fzz 


MIA0JUR po *yuVd Jed OF 
m940100 po *yu90 ad OF 


‘med sod sprur $z 


pozdurexe 
ory sod sruz oS .Z 


W49401D2 po *yWAD Iod ZI 


ma40102 po *yUad Iad ZI 
Umad0[DA po *yUad Iod ZI 
u4a40100 py *yUId Jed ZI 


masojon py *yuad tod ZI 
o[ty ied sjrur oS .1 

oTty Jed spur oS .o 

o[ty sed sytur € 

oy!y tod strur € 


44940100 po *yUad Jad ZI 
opty sod syru z 


Ma401D0 po ‘judd Jad ZI 
masojDA py *yUa Jad SI 


14940100 po *3uU99 Jed SI 


wmasoqvn po *yu99 Jad Oz 
14940100 po *4U20 Jad OZ 





SHIO9 UMOI) 
Mel ‘AIOOIYD 
*£19}S]OY 
-dn pue speoyspoq sutyeUI ul pasn 
sadA} oy} Jo syooy pue ssurids ‘sureyqy 
*Sayo1o} 91370919 pure sdure] }9x90d I0jF 
sorie77eq] Aip ‘yey pue punol ‘soira34egq 
SS9I IO SO[IY OIL " (tt) 
SO[TY OLI UeY} dIOW Bumsram (1) 
— petfeueue ‘uOII-jSe9 Jo suze 
ee = "* NOP sR 
_ 80H ysnoy 
nes “ * yeoul-s01y 
Tudy ages 0} A[nf{ 4s 
ounf{ yQot 0; Avy 3sI 
: (SUOTITA JozeM ZuIpNSul) suOTIP[ 
syonpoad OFPUIO} 1ay}0 pue soinf oyewoy 
; "* soozeUIO], 
*Bu1j30u oNbsour 
se | 4dutaxe sulaq jou SBurjjou OIA 
joredde Butream 19430 


‘Team poyAluy 
‘Teamropun 30013. ‘szarys $= ‘sewelAg 
—: SHUN 


‘sTela}eUr Jeqjo jo jaredde surreayy 
; _joredde Suiream 1370 
sassolq| ,SoIpe] 
—s Ais 
Telogizre pue xis yo joredde Burreayy 


s 


‘yIIS Telogrzre *yu90 ied oz ueg} s1oul 
ZulurezUoo [elIezeur 310 HITS Teroyryze (9) 
‘Ired tod sim or ‘}u90 
tod oz paadxa 30 sa0p HTIs Jo JuNoure 
94} 38Yy3 poprAold ‘HTIS [eIogI7zze qIIMKM 
S[VIIOVBU O59) JO OANBFXTU BV IO ‘yoo1ayq? 


BInQXIUE JO OOM 1407309) pospzao19us (wv) 
re 7 “ # - ' far 6bl oer var 


‘ared 1z0d sprur or ‘soo10Y4} saznyxrurt 
AQ JOOM PB [WIDOW FBT °UO}IOD pastioo1o0Ur bak 262) SHuryIOIS 
: L oged power | . oe eo I 


204 


35. The following articles are exempted from payee of 
import duty :— 


Welding machines. 

Lead ingots. 

Zinc ingots. 

Crude vegetable turpentine. 

Paraffin wax. 

Raffa. 

Private aeroplanes. 

Hot-rolled mild steel wire and strip imported in coils. 

Asphalt sprayers. 

Water meters imported by and for the exclusive use of Municipal and 
Local Councils. : 

_ Anchor cables of the ‘‘ studded link ’’ type. 

Benzine and alcohol for use by certain approved institutions. 

Certain goods when imported by the Young Men’s Christian Association 
for use by His Majesty’s Forces in Palestine. 

Goods sold directly to the Palestine Government from Bonded premises. 

Nickel rivets and silver solder discs used in the manufacture of 
artificial teeth. 

Certain goods when imported for the use of the Imperial War Graves 
Commission. 

Certain goods when sold to the Young Men’s Christian Association direct 
from Bonded premises in Palestine. 

Certain goods when imported by any duly authorised War Graves 
Commission. 

Locally-manufactured beer for consumption by His Majesty’ s Forces. 

Dutiable goods in parcels or letter packets when the import duty on 
each parcel is less than 25 mils. 


Shipping. 


36. Number and tonnage of steam and sailing vessels entered 
and cleared in the foreign trade of Palestine during the years 
1935 and 1936:— 










Entered. Cleared. 


1935. 
2,060 


















‘Steam Number 2,061 1,985 












Tonnage | 5,510,847 | 4,976,026 
Sailing ... .... Number 1,689 1,053 1,642 
Tonnage 52,670 29,849 50,863 













3,038 
5,005,875 


3759 
5,503,517 


3,702 


Total... .... Number ; 
| 5,534,777 | 4,784,816 


Tonnage 





1935. 1936. 


Total shipping dealt with ... ... Number ... 7,452 6,022 
ie is, Og =a Tonnage ... 11,098,294 9,790,691 


205 


36a. The question of discrimination in the matter of Customs 
Yaniff against countries which have ceased to be Members of the 
League of Nations has been considered on several occasions. 
Investigations elicited the fact that since Palestine is dependent 
on importation for practically all its requirements of manu- 
factured or semi-manufactured goods and raw material, it is in 
Palestine’s own interest to purchase in the cheapest market. 
Discrimination at best tends to increase the cost of living and to 
weigh heavily on the poorer classes of the population. There is 
reason to suppose that the cheapest supplies of certain of Pales- 
tine’s requirements come from States which are not Members of 
the League of Nations, and the only justification for cutting off 
supplies from these sources would be if it could be shown that 
by purchasing such supplies from other countries Palestine could 
increase the volume or value of her own exports. No evidence 
can be produced to show that this would be the case. It is by 
no means to be assumed that it would be night to apply a dis- 
criminatory tariff against a State for the sole reason that because 
that State is not, or has ceased to be, a Member of the League, 
it has no legal right to non-discriminatory treatment. It is true 
that discrimination in this sense might operate in favour of 
States Members of the League; but it would not be in accordance 
with the spirit of the Mandate that such advantage should be 
given to States Members of the League to the disadvantage of 
the Mandated Territory. 


37. During 1936, 495 applications under the Registration of 
Business Names Ordinance, 1935, were received, thus bringing 
the total number of applications to 1,822. The sum of £P.248 
was paid in fees. 


Trade Marks. 


38. Applications for registration of trade marks numbered 420 
during 1936, bringing the total number of applications filed to 
4,476. The sum of 2P.4.1 52 was paid in fees. 

The following table shows the countries of origin of 
applications in the last four years:— 

Number of applications. 


Country, 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 
Palestine oa site we. O04 137 145 114 
United Kingdom _... ‘ay. ° 34 144 255 107 
Germany ibe tee a. 56 44 206 68 
United States of America ... II 25 64 36 
Switzerland ... ee ied I 39 30 5 
France 5 12 21 32 
Holland sats xs 4 II I2 6 
Hungary de ig oe 5 II 4 I 
Austria ieee ise ie 3 9 13 4 
Poland I 6 9 4 


266 


Number of applications. 


Couniry. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 
Sweden 
Italy ... 
Egypt : 
Czechoslovakia 
Portugal 
India ... 
Japan... 
Denmark 
Spain ... 
Syria ... 
Ceylon : 
Trans- Jordan... 
Belgium 
Australia 
Lithuania 
Roumania 
Latvia.. 8 
South Africa . 
Finland ae 
Trinidad wt 
Norway > 
Canada 
Scotland 
Tunis .. 


46 


ae | 
Wms) et mw 


i rere ee aeeee: ee gl een emer 
Pica: oes nie weeeecrer crea tae 


GegG wrerees ieee oe 


but 
1) 
‘°) 
Ww 
vn 
‘J 
o~ 
0° 
s N 
TY) 
°) 


| 
| 
| 
| 


Patents. 


39. The number of patent applications in 1936 was 264 (of 
which 113 were from local residents), as compared with 231 in 
the previous year; and altogether 1,052 Yip are now 
filed. Receipts from fees amounted to £P.1,740. The main 
interest lies in the building and chemical industries. 


Classification of Patents. 


Number of 
Subject Matter. i. 4 Applications 
| Received. 
Chemical inventions ... se bog bis 40 
Agriculture, irrigation, incubators adi al se IO 
Buildings, roads, methods of _ construction, 
materials and accessories ... oa — 53 
Sanitary appliances, valves and geysers abs ee 7 
Refrigerators ... 3 
Electrical apparatus, lamp, radio and telephony .. aI 
Food preparation and preservations, beverages and 
fruit juice extractors s hi ae ne 9 
Medicine, dentistry and hygiene = 15 


F urniture, furniture fittings and household articles 25 





267 


Classification of Patents—cont. 


Subject Matter. 


Treating, wrapping and packing of citrus fruit ... 
Fuels, gas, manufacture and supply, burners, 


stoves and the like ... oe 
Boxes and cases a eae 
Photography, sound recording __... ie 
Printing, writing utensils and office forms ... 
Machinery, scaffolding, tools oh 
Vehicles, motor and other, railways 
Refuelling of aircraft ... sg ee 
Boats, seawalls, harbour equipment ___... 
Recovery of salt, production of alcohol ... 
Games ... Meee. oye ane 2s 
shoes, socks, clothing ee af ‘3 
Lamps (Fixtures), Light-filters, signboards 

eS... as Sai au sled oy 


Manufacture of cigarettes 


Number of 
Applications 
Received. 


3 


- 
Ww : 


HH 
HAE DNYNWRHNHWD OMaNaW 


40. Thirty applications for registration of designs were 
received during the year 1936, bringing the total number of 
applications to 128. Fees amounting to £P.15 were collected. 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


Despite the adverse conditions resulting from the disturbances, 
€ increase in volume of business which occurred in the years 


1934 and 1935 was maintained in 1936. 


2. Revenue.—Revenue amounted to £P.450,456 compared 


mth £P.409,173 in 1935 and £P.333,572 in 1934. 
The principal increases were as follows :— 


LP. 
Sale of Stamps se ... 18,474 (9 per cent.) 
Telephones... nes ... 19,042 (13 per cent.) 
Broadcast Licence Fee ... 4,315 (7o per cent.) 
Other increases were: — 
Commission on Money Orders 357 
Postal Order Poundage __... 270 
Telegrams ois se ... 1,270 
Rents of Letter Boxes ae 2601 


There was a fall of 4P.1,754 in the receipts from foreign Parcel 
st which may be attributed to interference with business activi- 


hes during the period of the disturbances. 


2608 


3. Expenditure.—Expenditure amounted to £P.342,580 com- 
pared with £P.288,290 in 1935 and £P.206,082 in 1934. 
The principal increases were as follows: — 


LP. 
Personal Emoluments ... os oe ... 30,484 
Lighting and Heating ... set se 1. 2,074 
Stationery and Printing ... ” ah .. 4,076 
Maintenance Stores id ee sti ... 3,888 
Rents and Repairs of Buildings a i 539 
Renewals Fund ... sia he aa i 780 


The increase under Personal Emoluments was due to addi- 
tional personnel and increments; that for Stationery and Print- 
ing was necessitated largely by the need of replenishing reserve © 
stocks which had become unduly depleted by the sudden and > 
unexpectedly large increases in consumption during the two | 
years immediately preceding. 


In consequence of the fact that payments for the conveyance © 
of mails outside Palestine had been made during the year 1935 
in respect of previous years as well as for that year itself, there — 
was an apparent decrease of £P.13,979 in the cost of the 
conveyance of mails in 1936. 


4. Surplus.—The surplus of revenue over expenditure was — 
£P.117,876, compared with £P.120,883 in 1935. 

The fall in the amount of the surplus as compared with that of 
the preceding year is attributable wholly to the Broadcasting — 
Service which was inaugurated in March, 1936; expenditure on 
this service was considerably in excess of the receipts from the 
sale of Wireless Receiving Licences, which form the only source 
of direct revenue. 


The value of the free services rendered to other Government — 
Departments, was £P.II,070. 


Posts. 


5. Inland Mails.—With the exception of the period of the dis- 
turbances, the inland mail services generally were maintained 
with regularity and in conformity with schedule. 


During the strike considerable delays and interruptions (pmin- 
cipally due to sabotage on the railways and restricted road and 
rail services generally) were at times unavoidable. In spite of — 
these handicaps, however, mails between the principal towns, 
though not so frequent as in normal times, were exchanged 
several times daily, and there were no serious delays. 


6. Trans-Desert Mail.—Bad weather in the closing months of 
the year interfered on several occasions with the expeditious 
transportation of the overland mails to Iraq. 


260 


7. Overseas Mails Inwards.—The port of Jaffa was closed 
during the disturbances, and it was necessary to disambark at 
Haifa the European mails arriving by the direct Tnrieste- 
Brindisi-Palestine Service. This arrangement was still main- 
tained at the end of the year as the Company had not resumed 
the use of Jaffa as a port of call for the mail steamers. 


8. Air Mails.—The popularity of the air.mail service con- 
tnued, and during the summer the use of the machines of the 
Dutch (K.L.M.) Service to Europe and to the East was resumed. 
This additional service afforded the public the benefit of five air 
mails a week to India, Malaya, etc. 


The air service of the Misr Company having been extended 
to Iraq, air mails for that country are now made up daily. 


The total weight of air mails for all destinations conveyed 
from Palestine increased from 25,041 kilogrammes in 1935 to 
32,244 kilogrammes in 1936, an increase of 28-77 per cent. 


9. Parcel Mails.—Parcel mails generally showed a decline 
compared with the previous year. Agreements were concluded 
during the year for the exchange of parcels by parcel post be- 
7 the Post Office of Palestine and the Post Offices of France 
and Greece. 


10. Registered and Insured Correspondence.—There was an 
increase in the use of registration and insurance facilities. Not- 
withstanding that increase, however, the sum of £P.60-204 
mils. only was paid as compensation for loss or damage. 


_ Ir. Returned Letter Office.—This Office dealt with 512,187 
items, of which 252,018 were returned to the senders. ‘The total 
of undelivered items represents, however, a substantial decrease 
as compared with 1935. Almost half of the items dealt with were 
etters and post-cards, and the remainder consisted mainly of 
printed and similar matter. Over 36,600 of the items were 
tegistered. The value of articles found in undeliverable 
correspondence was £P.2,925-633 mils of which £P.2,158-885 
mils was represented by cheques and bills of exchange. The 
Value of articles other than cheques and bills of exchange 
teturned to the senders amounted to £P.680-263 mils, whilst 
the balance of £P.86-485 mils remained unclaimed or un- 
delivered owing to inadequate address. Of the total of 
&P.2,158-885 mils of cheques and bills of exchange, a sum of 
-I,162-822 mils was returned to the senders, whilst the 
alance remained unreturned owing to inadequate address also. 


: 12. New Post Offices and Postal A gencies.—Additional Branch 
ost Offices were opened at Herzl Street, Tel-Aviv, Rehavia, 
Jerusalem, and Talavera Barracks, Jerusalem, whilst the Postal 


270 


Agencies at Shekhunat Borokhov, Qiryat Haim, Magdiel, Tel 
Mond, and Metullah were converted to Post Offices. 


Postal Agencies were established at Gedera, Givat Brenner, 
Nahalat Yehuda, Beit Vegan, and Kefar Vitkin. 


13. Postage Stamp Vendors.—The number of licensed postage 
stamp vendors was 243 at the end of the year, an increase of 
43 as compared with 1935. 


14. Total Cash Transactions.—The total value of cash trans- 
actions during the year was £P.1,783,113. 


_ 15. Postage Stamp Booklets. Air Mail Label Booklets.—The 
sale of booklets containing postage stamps was resumed and has 
proved popular. Air mail labels in booklet form are also issued. 


16. Prepayment of Customs Dues on Parcels.—A_ service 
whereby the sender of a parcel may make a deposit of cash to 
ensure the delivery of a parcel free of all charges to the addressee 
was introduced reciprocally with the United Kingdom. As the 
introduction of the service occurred late in the year only very 
brief experience of its working has been obtained. 


Telegraphs. 


17. Traffic.—There was a fall of approximately 5 per cent. in 
the number of telegrams transmitted during the year, 1.e., 
482,886 in 1936 as compared with 508,732 in 1935. 


Notwithstanding this reduction, however, the telegraph 
revenue increased from £P.26,196 in 1935 to £P.27,466 in 1936. 


18. Telegrams in Arabic and Hebrew scnpt.—The acceptance 
and delivery of telegrams written in Arabic characters was 
introduced at Rosh Pinna, and the acceptance and delivery of 
telegrams in Hebrew characters was extended to Benei Beraq, 
Nes Tsiyona, and Ahuzat Samuel. (Minutes, page Igo.) 


Telephones. 


- 19. There was a reduction in the demand for telephone 
service during the period of the disturbances, but the number of 
applications did not fall below 75 during any one month. The 
previous rate of application was resumed almost immediately 
after the disturbances had ceased. 


20. During the year, 1,537 additional exchange lines were 
installed and 325 recovered, representing a net increase of 1,212 
lines. The subscribers’ stations increased by 2,099. In addition, 
about 500 telephone stations were provided for His Majestys — 
Forces and in connection with security measures. 


271 


21. At the beginning of the year, the number of applicants 
on the waiting list was 1,641. tn spite of the large number of 
further applications which was received, the list had been 
reduced to 1,144 by the end of the year. 


22. A temporary manual exchange equipped for 2,400 sub- 
sribers was installed in Jerusalem and was brought into use 
on the 26th June. This replaced the old exchange in the Post 
Ofice, and enabled 468 additional exchange lines to be con- 
nected by the end of the year. 


The building of the new General Post Office was delayed for 
over Six months by the strike; the installation of the new auto- 
matic exchange will, it is hoped, be completed by the end of 
1937. | 


23. A temporary manual exchange equipped for 1,200 sub- 
smibers was opened in Tel-Aviv on the 24th July. This 
exchange has provided service for new subscribers and for a 
number of those who were previously connected to Jaffa, thus 
reducing the congestion in the cables between the two towns. 
Since the new exchange was opened, 439 additional lines have 
been connected. 


24. Trunk Circuits —A number of additional trunk circuits 
Was provided on routes serving the smaller exchanges. 


25. Revenue and Traffic.—Telephone revenue increased from 
£P.146,099 in 1935 to £P.165, 141 in 1936. 


Local calls increased from 28,735,257 to 30,992,423 and trunk 
calls from 1,497,256 to 1,870,490. Of the trunk calls, 1,814,983 
were internal and 55,507 international. 


20. New Exchanges.—New exchanges were established at 
Gedera, Kefar, Vitkin, and Haifa Bay. In the latter case a new 
automatic exchange with a capacity for 100 subscribers was 
Installed. This will serve an area from which hitherto telephones 
"ere connected to Haifa by long and expensive lines. An 


'xchange of roo-line capacity was provided at the Levant Fair 
In the spring. 


27. Conversions to Automatic Working.—Automatic ex- 
“ianges were provided in replacement of manual exchanges at 

amat Gan and Petah Tiqva. The existing automatic exchange 
at Rehovoth was replaced by one of a larger capacity and more 
Up-to-date pattern. 


8. Provision of Continuous Service.—During the year, con- 
huous service was provided at Rosh Pinna, Samakh, and 
ton Ya‘aqov exchanges, where attendance had previously 


272 


been limited to the day. At Rishon-le-Tsiyon exchange the 
hours. of attendance were extended to: include ‘Saturday, 
providing thereby a continuous service also. © 


29. Overseas Radto-telephone Service.—The Overseas Radio- 
telephone Service was extended to places in the Insh Free State 
not previously available, Iceland, Tasmania, R.M.S. Queen 
Mary, and Windhoek in South Africa. | 


Engineering. 

30. The year was notable for the extent of the work neces- 
sitated by sabotage during the disturbances, and by the large | 
arrears of telephone installation work throughout the country. 
In spite of the difficulties caused by the disturbances, develop- 
ment proceeded at a rapid rate. The distribution cable systems — 
in the principal towns were considerably augmented. Trunk — 
entry cables were also provided in a number of cases. Aerial 
cables were extensively erected in Gaza, Hebron, and Tiberias. 


The route length of underground cables was increased during © 
the year from 30 to over 56 kilometres. This cabling now repre- 
sents a total single wire length of 27,974 kilometres, as compared — 
with 13,403 kilometres at the commencement of the year, an 
increase of 100 per cent. | 


31. Automatic Exchanges.—As a result of the disturbances 
and the consequent delay in the erection of buildings, the instal- 
lation of the automatic exchanges for Jerusalem and Tel-Aviv 
has not yet commenced. Automatic exchanges were opened at 
Ramat oe and Haifa Bay, and installed at Petah Tiqva and 
Rehovot, whilst the installation of six others was started. 


32. Reconstruction of Routes.—Reconstruction work on trunk — 
routes proceeded rapidly despite the interruption caused by the 
necessity of restoring routes wilfully damaged. Restoration was 
effected so expeditiously, however, that protracted interference 
with trunk communications was rarely experienced. 


33. Workshops.—Switchboards rebuilt from the material 
recovered from the Jerusalem Magneto exchange which was — 
taken out of service in June were made up for Safad, Hadera, 
Gaza, and Nablus. This work has been rendered possible by 
the establishment in Jerusalem of workshops with an augmented 
staff of skilled artisans. The staff were, moreover, extensively 
employed on construction and renovation work and overhauled — 
a large number of telephones and considerable quantity of con- — 
comitant apparatus during the year. The assembly and repalt — 
of Wireless Community Receivers and studio equipment for the — 
Broadcasting Service was also effected. 





273 


34. Location and Suppression of Electrical Interference.— 
185 cases of electrical interference with radio reception were 
dealt with during the year. 


_ 35. Sinat Telegraph and Telephone Route.—The fitting of oil 
insulators and the replacement of white-wood arms by oak ones 
continued during the year. In spite. of abnormally adverse 
weather conditions for six months of the year, few faults were 
observed and no interruptions to communications occurred. 


30. Commercial Transmitters and Receivers.—The erection 
at Ramallah of two 150-feet lattice masts, and the installation 
of four transmitters for Police, Civil Aviation, and Marine 
purposes was begun in December. Preliminary work on the 
nes of commercial receivers at Lydda Airport was also 

gun. 


Broadcasting. 


37. Inauguration.—The Broadcasting Service was in- 
augurated by the High Commissioner on the 30th March, 1936. 
Since that date eile transmissions for five hours have been 
made daily. 


ae n-lingual Programmes.—The programmes are tn- 
ingual. 


39. Development of Service.—The development of the service 
at the outset was seriously handicapped by the disturbances, 
since the difficulties of travelling, especially by road, limited 
the field of selection of artists, speakers, and other performers 
to those resident in Jerusalem. 


Notwithstanding these handicaps, however, remarkable 
progress was made and the Service achieved considerable 
pouty The number of licensed listeners, which in 
ecember, 1935, was 12,175, had increased to 20,400 by the 
end of December, 1936. 


40. Village Sets.—Village receiving-sets have been installed 
experimentally in 69 villages. Maintenance is provided at 
Government expense. 


41. Outside Broadcasts, eitc.—Programmes of the British 
Broadcasting Corporation have been relayed, by means of the 
Re-broadcast Receiver on the Mount of Olives, on 44 occasions, 
while Outside Broadcasts (which numbered 81) have been a 
regular feature. On six occasions during the year Outside 
Broadcasts were specially provided for the British Broadcasting 
Corporation and American Broadcasting organisations. 


Several broadcasts were relayed from Palestine to the United 
States of America and to France. 


274 
Revenue and Expenditure. 


| Increase or Decr 


Public Service. 


1936. Increase. | Decrease. 
REVENUE :— | £LP. £P. 
Sale of Stamps ; ts 199,525 217,999 
Commission on many. 

Orders ... a 1,317 1,674 
Postal Order Poundage ie 1,237 1,507 
Foreign Parcel Post 16, 332 14,578 
Telegrams .. 26,196 27,466 
Telephones _ : 146,099 165,141 
Rent of Letter Boxes 4,754 5,015 
Maintenance of lines in 

Sinai ; 2,986 3,098 
Miscellaneous ais 4,569 3,478 
Broadcast Licence fees ... 6,158 10,473 
Sale of publications — 27. 

‘Total ... Bais £P.| 409,173 450,456 


EXPENDITURE :— 

All services except Convey- 
ance of Mails outside 
Palestine - 

Conveyance of Mails out- 
side Palestine Ss 


Total ... ae £P. 


232,230 


56,060 


300,499* 
42,081 


342,580 


13,979 | 





a SSSSSa...aQQQ0gawm 
* Includes the sum of £P.28,780 in respect of Renewals Fund for 1936-37 


Postal Order and Money Order Statistics. 





Increase ov — 

— 1935. 1936. Decrease 

per cent. 

Postal Orders issued (Palestine) | Number 136,209 164,770 + 21 
Value {P. 106,472 | 129,179 + 21 

Postal Orders issued (Imperial)... | Number 30,498 38,386 + 26 
Value £P. 19,045 24,273 + 27 

Postal Orders paid (Palestine)... | Number 135,077 | 163,748 + 21 
Value £P. 105,756 | 128,615 + 22 

Postal Orders paid (Imperial) ... | Number 8,564 | 12,536 + 46 
Value {P. 4,961 6,953 + 40 

Postal Orders paid (Egyptian)... | Number 6,008 6,995 + 16 
Value £P. 5,343 6,271 ly, 

Postal Orders paid (Trans-Jordan)| Number 3,708 5,229 + 41 
Value £P. 3,039 4,331 + 43 

Money Orders, Inland, issued ... | Number 12,691 17,803 + 40 
Value £{P. 126,774 | 169,288 + 34 

Money Orders, Foreign, issued... | Number 4,768 5,127 + 8 
Value £P. 21,959 23,669 + 8 

Money Orders, Foreign, paid Number 56,657 95,065 + 68 
Value £P. 103,979 | 138,300 + 33 


SSS Sc ceeesseesseeereensnsessssssSSSET 





273 


_{stimated value of Free Services rendered to and by other 
_ Government Departments during the period 1st January, 
1936, to 31st December, 1936. 


_—— 


bys £P. 
— Rendered to Other Departments. 

nS 

~ Official Correspondence ... es bs 5 7,939 
_, Money Order Commission ou a vie I 
_ Customs Services (5 per cent. of £P.62,628) .... 3,131 
17 See 
., £P.11,071 


I Traffic Statistics. 





Increase or 





7 Item. 1935. 1936. Decrease 
per cent. 
~ Letters... fa was os ... | 28,960,959 | 33,736,968 + 16 
_ Post Cards Sas ne sas ... | 2,874,014 | 3,309,904 + 15 
_ Printed Matter and Samples ... ... | 18,552,877 | 20,786,808 + 12 
Parcels Inland ... en ve wae 46,648 63,096 + 35 
- Air Mail Despatched, Total Weight (Kgs) 25,041 32,244 + 29 
- Parcels, Foreign, Despatched dios 30,556 30,457 — 0°32 
- Parcels, Foreign, Received Sais 127,742 110,193 — 14 
Cash on Delivery Parcels (Foreign) 
Despatched ... ake ies on 27 | 38 + 41 
Cash on Delivery Parcels (Foreign) 
Received Jos ae is tee 2,903 2,510 — 14 
, fash on Delivery Parcels, Inland, 
Posted ‘iets sais oe Wass 748 1,574 +110 
Telegrams is sas ike +. ohare 508, 332 482,886 — 5 
_ Telephone Subscribers’ Exchange Lines 5,829 7,041 + 21 
Telephones (Stations) ... Bet Se 10,381 12,480 + 20 
_ Telephone Local Calls ... ae ... | 28,735,257 | 30,992,423 + 9 
Telephone Trunk Calls... - ..» | 1,497,256 | 1,870,490 + 25 





XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS, AND FISHERIES. 


I. The crops during 1936 were generally below the average. 
The disturbances prevented farmers from transporting the bulk 
of their vegetables, fruit, and poultry produce to the towns, 
with the result that it had to be disposed of locally at very low 
prices. The disturbed state of the country precluded the 

41526 K 


276 


launching of new schemes, owing to the difficulties of transport 
and supervision. The general financial situation also dictated 
the necessity for economy and the postponement of new schemes 
or the expansion of existing services. Likewise, the scheme for the 
distribution of £P.50,000 as long-term loans to hill villages had 
to be suspended, but is to be proceeded with after the close of the 
year. 


2. The condition of crops in the early part of the season 
was Satisfactory on the coastal plain and in the central and 
northern ranges, plains and plateaux, but not in the Beersheba 
sub-district where an area of about 80,000 dunams either 
perished or failed to germinate. Continued lack of rain on the 
eastern slopes of all districts had an adverse effect on crops, and 
by mid-January cereals were dying off. In many instances 
farmers were forced to plough under or graze off backward or 
dying cereals, and the general rain of mid-February came too 
late to be of much benefit to crops in the southerly areas. This 
rain did, however, alleviate to some extent the position in regard 
to grazing in the vicinity of Beersheba and prolonged the life 
of cereal and leguminous crops in the southern hills, the greater 
proportion of which ultimately perished as a result of insufficient 
rain. Heavy and wide-spread attacks of scythnis temperatella 
(el doodeh) were favoured by dry conditions. In the northern 
areas, with the exception of the eastern belt, both cereal and 
leguminous crops were better than elsewhere and favourable 
climatic conditions in March aided their development consider- 
ably. Barley was generally in better and more forward condition 
than the wheat crop. 


3. The fall of the spring rains, although beneficial in the 
coastal plains and the northern areas, was, owing to the meagre 
amount of moisture already in the soil, insufficient to produce 
good summer crops in all cases. The melon and tobacco crops, 
however, were satisfactory, but marketing was greatly hampered 
by the disturbances. The setting of olive berries was poor and 4 
small crop was gathered. 


4. Jewish farmers sustained considerable losses during the 
disturbances. Cereal, vegetable and hay crops, covering an 
area of over 12,700 dunams were destroyed, representing a cash 
loss of more than £P.6,000. 


Arab villages, on the other hand, were unable to market their 
crops satisfactorily during the disturbances. The small quantities 
of produce which reached the towns fetched high prices, but 
the bulk of perishable foodstuffs such as vegetables, fruits, and 
eggs remained in the villages and realized low prices during the 
summer months. 


277 


5. The following statement indicates the yields of the major 
crops during the past four years :— 


1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 

Tons. Tons, Tons. Tons. 
Wheat 44,400 82,000 103,000 76,059 
Barley 34,000 68,000 68,000 55,169 
Melons ... 20,400 40,500 69,000 81,335 
Lentils ... — 1,500 2,250 2,600 2,379 
Durra_.... ate 8,800 42,000 46,000 22,122 
Sesame ... ae 214 2,600 6,900 1,847 
Olive Oil... sys 720 1,329 8,818 2,788 
1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 

Citrus Exports 

(cases)... 4,498,241 5,526,097 7,330,846 5,897,310 


_6. Towards the end of 1936, as the sowing season approached, 
it became evident that there was little surplus grain in the 
country and Government issued loans in cash to farmers totalling 
£P.34,000 for the purchase of seed, mainly cereals. 


7. Abnormally hot weather was experienced in the summer 
until abundant rains fell on and after the 21st November. The 
hot weather allowed, however, a longer period than usual for the 
cultivation and sowing of “‘ afir’’ crops; and the initial rains 
at the end of 1936 stimulated satisfactory germination in all 
localities with the exception of the southern area of the 
Beersheba sub-district. | 


8. The cultivation of potatoes continues to make steady and 
satisfactory progress. Both the area under cultivation and the 
yields obtained are expanding, year after year, as the following 
table shows: — 


Avea under 


Year. Cultivation. Yield. 
Dunams. Tons. 
1931 eee ea on 2,344 821 
1932 or es aaa 2,329 1,018 
1933 oe sae Ria 5,000 2,500 
1934 en ani se 6,234 3,000 
1935 ies vas — 9,054 5,000 
1936 ae sere ve 12,000 (estimate) 7,000 (estimate). 


Satisfactory crops were raised from seed potatoes imported 
from the United Kingdom in 1935, and 240 tons which the 
Department imported in the year under review for demonstration 
purposes were sold to farmers at cost price. Storage of seed 
potatoes in Palestine presents difficulties which, though still under 
Investigation, have not been solved. In addition, the danger 
of importing pests and diseases in seed of foreign origin pre- 
cludes the possibility at present of increasing considerably the 
production of early crops sown under irrigation. 

41526 K 2 


278 


g. Considerable activity among market gardeners is shown by | 
the increased area cultivated with vegetables. Locally-grown 
foreign varieties are now appreciated by all sections of the com- © 
munity and, in the case of tomatoes, only a very small pro- 
portion grown in the country are of the indigenous type. Jewish — 
vegetable growers are paying attention to improvements in > 
packing and grading vegetables with excellent results. Arab 
vegetable-growers are paying attention to improvements in © 
largely because of the absence of marketing societies for the 
co-operative sale of their produce. | 


1o. There is continued progress in the use of agricultural 
machinery. Both Arab and Jewish farmers are purchasing 
tractors, threshers, reapers, and cultivators. Bntish, Continental, — 
and American manufacturers are all represented in the larger — 
towns. 


11. Increased purchases of artificial fertilizers indicate the — 
effectiveness of departmental efforts in experiment and demon- 
stration stations and in propaganda in the villages. 


12. Continued extension of areas sown to forage crops is noted 
in all districts. Special attention is being given in the plains to | 
berseem and lucerne. There is a strong demand for lucerne seed 
of a recently introduced Australian variety which has 
demonstrated its suitability to Palestinian conditions. 


13. The yields from Agricultural Stations in 1936 were con- 
siderably higher than those obtained by neighbouring farmers. 
Grain amounting to 984 tons was reaped and, after allowing 
for the requirements of Agricultural Stations, 29 tons were made 
available for extension work in Agricultural Schools and Demon- 
stration Plots; 52 tons were distributed and sold to the public. 
In addition, there were distributed to farmers from Government 
Agricultural Stations, 1,000,000 seedlings and 180 kgs. of seed of 
various improved varieties of vegetable. 


General Agricultural Council. 


14. The Council met three times during the first quarter of 
the year. Further meetings were not possible owing to the 
disturbances, but it is now hoped to continue regular meetings. 


15. On the recommendations of the Council, Government 
enacted legislation during the year for facilitating the construction 
of roads in village areas. It is intended later to replace the 
present legislation and amendments by a _ consolidating 
Ordinance. 


16. In order to stimulate the development of poultry pro- 
duction, a sub-committee was appointed to ascertain the methods 
and costs of poultry production. Its major recommendations as 





279 


to increasing the customs duty on eggs and imposing a duty 
on poultry were endorsed by the Council and are at present 
under: consideration by Government. The Council’s recom- 
mendation to introduce legislation requiring all imported eggs 
to be marked with the country of origin was given effect in 
February, 1936, the object being to enable the purchaser to dis- 
tnguish between fresh local eggs and imported eggs and to 
maintain the higher price of the local fresh egg. 


17. The cost of producing tomatoes was carefully studied by 
the Committee on Agricultural Economics and Marketing in 
order to support a recommendation that the customs duties on 
imported tomatoes should be increased in the interests of the 
local grower. This was necessary in view of the removal of the 
embargo on the import of tomatoes on phytosanitary grounds 
during September 1935, and in order to encourage the further 
expansion of this crop. The recommendation was endorsed by 
the Council and in March 1936 Government doubled the duty 
from £P.2 to £P.4 per ton. This action and the general know- 
ledge that Government is anxious to protect the local grower 
has resulted in a very satisfactory expansion in both the area 
under cultivation and the production of tomatoes. This crop is 
now produced in adequate quantities to meet all demands 
throughout the year. 


18. Financial provision has been made available for a test 
survey of the incidence of tuberculosis in cattle prior to intro- 
ducing a comprehensive scheme of control. 


19. The sub-committee on organic manure completed its 
examination of this important subject after eight meetings, 
during which evidence was taken from farmers in different parts 
of the country. The resulting recommendations of the Council 
Were submitted to Government, and arising from them the 
Municipal Corporation of Haifa’s Sanitary Surveyor visited 
Egypt to obtain data on the making of compost from town refuse 
lor utilization as manure. It seems probable that this method 
will not be practicable owing to the high cost of land and labour 
required; and alternative methods of converting refuse and 
sewage into manure will therefore continue to be explored. 
“Meanwhile, an Ordinance has been drafted on the recommenda- 
tons of the Council with the principal object of vesting the 
Ownership of manure in the owner or occupier of the field on 
which the manure is deposited by animals, and making it an 
offence for such droppings to be removed without the permission 
ot the owner or occupier. 


20. The problems of the citrus industry—various and 

Cuitold—continued to receive the constant attention of the 
ittus Fruit Committee and the Citrus Fruit Advertising 
41526 K 3 


280 


Committee. The Citrus Fruit Committee held ten meetings in 
the year. Trial shipments for the purpose of evolving standard 
boxes were made and the Citrus Export Regulations were 
amended and codified. The export of all large size oranges 
below 120 to the box was prohibited and the date of commence- 
ment of the export season was changed from the 15th to the 
20th November. 


The Citrus Fruit Committee also considered proposals for the 
control of Mediterranean Fruit Fly and Red Scale, and special 
arrangements were made for the members to discuss with 
Dr. R. S. Tomkins of the Low Temperature Research Station, 
Cambridge, the possibilities of fruit storage and the prevention 
of wastage of fruit in transit. His report was duly received and 
action is being taken on the recommendations. Trade restric- 
tions and quotas in foreign countries continued to receive 
anxious consideration by the Committee. 


Agricultural Education and Research. 


21. An Agricultural Education and Research Officer was 
appointed. This officer deals with all matters relating to agn- 
cultural education, research, publications and propaganda, and 
assists in the co-ordination of all forms of research by official 
and non-official workers and institutions. 


22: Beginning in January 1936, a monthly publication known 
as the Agricultural Supplement to the Palestine Gazette was 
issued in the three official languages. It comprises articles of 
topical interest, notes on crop conditions in the various districts, 
information regarding local and foreign markets, abstracts of 
technical publications and items concerning departmental and 
other activities of interest to agriculturalists, and is written in 
simple language. 


23. A series of talks to farmers were broadcast from the 
Jerusalem Studio of the Palestine Broadcasting Service. From 
the middle of June these talks to farmers became a regular 
feature of the broadcast programmes, one lecture in Arabic and 
one in Hebrew being given each week. The duration of a talk 1s 
approximately a quarter of an hour, the subjects selected are 
of topical interest and the matter is so expressed as to be easily 
understood. Material for 72 broadcasts, of which 36 were In 
Arabic, 32 in Hebrew, and 4 in English, on 37 different subjects 
was prepared by the various services of the Department. 


24. Work in connection with agricultural research conducted 
under Government and private auspices was considerably 
hampered and delayed by the difficulty of travel and supervision 
during the disturbances. 


281 


Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm. 


25. The spring term opened on oth January, and ended on 
31st March. | 


The summer term began on 13th April, but the school was 
closed on 25th April, on account of the disturbances. From that 
date to r1th December troops occupied the school buildings as 
billets. While the school was occupied by the Army, farm work 


ies on satisfactorily and the wheat and barley fields gave good 
results. : 


The vegetable garden was increased in size and the produce 
was sold at good prices. The winter fields have been sown for 
harvesting in 1937. The livestock are in a satisfactory condition 
oe calves of the South Devon-Baladi cross are being 
obtained. 


_ Hatching eggs of a new Leghorn strain are being introduced 
ito the poultry section. The Baladi pen has again done well 
and particular attenion is being paid to this breed. The hone 

extracted from the hives was in great demand and sold well. 


The orchard and vineyard are very satisfactory and good 
leturns are expected next year. 


Kadoorie Agricultural School, Mount Tabor. 


26. The area devoted to deciduous fruit trees has been com- 
pletely planted and missing trees replaced. All the trees are 
doing well. Plum trees bore their first fruits. The vineyards 
ate developing nicely. Grapefruit gave their first fruits of 
excellent flavour. 


In the nursery, various fruit and forest trees are raised for 
ling up existing plantations and for afforesting the school 

. A large supply of deciduous fruit stock was secured for 
grafting by the students. The bulk is for sale, and. part for 
distribution to farmers in the vicinity. 


Students are taught home-canning and they utilised second- 
grade vegetables and fruit grown on the farm for this purpose. 
Xperiments are carried out on the suitability of different olive 
vanetes for pickling. 

This year, the cow-byre reflected a slightly higher average 
mulk yield than that of last year. The yield was 4,085 litres 
per head, with a fat content of 3°55 per cent. 

bp turned out products mainly for consumption at 

ool. 


| oe sheep flock consisting of 160 head, including 56 new-born 


s, 18 a Satisfactory state of health. The local breed will 


pees by selection with a view to raising the milk yield. 
4152 K 4 


282 


In the poultry section are 270 laying hens, and bee-keeping 
was commenced. A glass-house and three bungalows for the 
staff, which were under construction last year, have been 
completed. 

The regular school work was interrupted by the disturbances, © 
and for reasons of public security it was considered advisable to 
close the school on the 7th June, when it was occupied by 
troops. The school re-opened on the 20th December. 


Advice was frequently sought by and given to farmers in the - 
neighbourhood. | 


Veterinary Service. 


27. The condition of livestock throughout the year was good. 
The rainfall in the spring months produced a sufficient growth — 
of natural feed throughout the country with the exception of 
Beersheba District and the eastern areas of both Northern and 
Southern Palestine where grazing was scarce. There was no 
scarcity of stubble-grazing during the summer and early autumn, | 
but due to the lateness of the rainfall (the first rains fell towards © 
the end of November) there was little or no vegetation available 
for grazing until late in December. In consequence, semi- © 
starvation coupled with infestation by stomach worms caused | 
anaemia, relapses of tick fever, and general weakness of 
pregnant ewes and does. Losses in adult animals and their 
progeny were unusally high in general and particularly serious 
In certain areas. | 


28. Grazing is now rapidly improving and judging from the 
rainfall to date it is anticipated that natural feed for the live- 
stock of the country will be available during the late winter — 
and the spring and early summer months of 1937 when stubble 
grazing should meet requirements. 


29. No outbreaks of serious epizootic diseases occurred during — 
the year. 


30. The number of cattle imported for slaughter, mainly — 
through Haifa Port Animal Quarantine Station, remained almost — 
stationary (36,500 in 1936 as compared with 34,600 in 1935). 
On the other hand, there was a considerable decrease in imports 
of sheep and goats, particularly by sea route (332,500 in 1930 — 
as compared with 430,100 in 1935). 22,600 horses, mules, 
donkeys and camels were imported. Quarantine receipts 
totalled £P.22,900, a slight increase over those of 1935 
(£P.22,684). 


31. The number of dairy cattle imported during the year was 
2,150 an increase of 800 over the preceding year. All such cattle 
were tested at Haifa Station for tuberculosis and bovine con- 
tagious abortion and those found affected were slaughtered, with 





283 


the exception of the more valuable cows affected by the latter 
disease which were branded and transferred to herds known to 
be infected with bovine contagious abortion. 


32. There was a very large increase in the number of poultry 
imported by sea for slaughter, namely, from 915,000 in 1935 
to 1,764,000 in 1936. Imports of poultry by land decreased, 
on the other hand, from 856,000 in 1935 to 192,000 in 1936. 


33. Rules were published prescribing the conditions under 
which cattle for breeding purposes may be imported from 
Furopean countries. | 


34. Rules were also published for the purpose of protecting 
livestock during conveyance by sea to Palestine from injury, 
overcrowding and unnecessary hardship and suffering. 


35. The eradication of bovine contagious abortion from dairy 
herds is making good progress from year to year, and most of the 
herds in settlements where cattle-breeding is undertaken 
systematically are now under Government supervision. 


36. The losses due to tick-borne diseases in those settlements 
where cattle are dipped were considerably reduced, and the 
value of regular dipping is now appreciated by dairy farmers. 


37. Horses tested during the year for dourine infection 
numbered 2,255. One stallion and thirty-eight mares proved 
positive. The stallion was castrated, six mares were destroyed 
and the remainder branded, and their use for breeding purposes 
was prohibited. 


38. Sixty-five outbreaks of anthrax were reported, involving 
12,000 animals of which 368 died and the remainder were treated 
by vaccination. Protective vaccination of sheep and goats, 
which was attended with remarkable success last year in the 
Jerusalem District, was continued during the first quarter of 
1936 and 43,500 animals were vaccinated. This practice, how- 
— not be furthered owing to the unsettled state of the 
country. 


39. Four cases of glanders and eleven cases of epizootic 
lymphangitis were detected or reported. The affected animals 
were destroyed. 


40. Seventy-two cases of rabies were reported, twenty- 
‘even of which were confirmed by the Government Central 
Laboratories. With the assistance of the Police and Local 
uthorities, 13,362 dogs, cats, and jackals were destroyed during 

year in towns and villages; 617 suspected biting animals 


ne as under observation and of these six were found to 
abid. 


284: 


41. No serious epidemics of poultry diseases were recorded. 
Fowl pox is, however, widespread, and in most of the up-to- 
date poultry farms preventive vaccination is practised with — 
satisfactory results. A number of outbreaks of fowl cholera 
and fowl typhoid were reported. The two Poultry Disease 
Officers of the Veterinary Service have given all necessary advice _ 
ce assistance in combating reported outbreaks of poultry 

isease. | 


42. The work of the Veterinary Laboratory has continued to — 
increase especially in regard to the control of contagious bovine 
abortion, and 35,000 agglutination tests, as compared with 
21,000 in 1935, were conducted. In connection with dourime 
control, 4,090 complement fixation tests were carried out. 218,000 | 
doses of various vaccines and anti-sera were prepared. | 


43. As regards animal husbandry, the establishment of breed- — 
ing stock at Acre Stock Farm was further increased by eight 
Karakul ewes purchased in Roumania, fourteen Damascus — 
female goats, nine Damascus male goats, and one Lebanese | 
cow. In addition, the following animals were bred on the Farm: | 
one Arab filly foal, one Arab colt foal, one donkey filly foal, 
one jack foal, fourteen bull calves, five heifer calves, 143 lambs, 
1,148 kids, and eight pigs. 


44. The cereal crops of the Stock Farm were not very good: 
21 tons of grain, 60 tons of hay, and 30 tons of straw were — 
harvested. An abundance of green forage was available 
throughout the year. 


45. Four bulls and six cows, fifty-three pigs, sixty-two sheep, 
and twenty-nine goats were sold. Receipts from the sale of stock 
realized £P.208. 


46. Twelve jackasses were distributed in different areas during ~ 
the breeding season and 235 donkey and ‘* Kedish ’’ Arab mares 
were served by them, while the Arab and West Highland pony 
stallions served eighty-eight Arab mares. 


47. Forty-five Government bulls were issued on loan to 
different villages and served approximately 1,200 cows. 


48. Seventy-three bulls and thirty-three jackasses were selected _ 
in seventy-three villages and their owners granted premiums 
in return for allowing their bulls and jackasses to serve all cows 
and donkey mares in the respective villages. All scrub bulls — 
and jackasses in such villages were sterilized. 


49. Twenty-two Damascus male goats were lent to villages 
for crossing with the local breed of goat. The resultant progeny 
show a marked improvement. Sixteen Awasi rams were also | 
issued on loan to demonstrate to villagers the benefit of using | 
selected sires. 





285 


50. The castration of scrub male stock in villages was con- 
tinued, and 1,370 bulls and bull calves, 961 kids and lambs, and 
1,284 equines were castrated. : 


51. Bee-keeping is developing from year to year and it is 
estimated that there are now 22,000 populated movable frame 
hives in the country. The total honey yield was below normal— 
150,000 kilogrammes approximately. Owing to the disturbances, 
the entire summer honey crop was lost in many localities, as it 
was extremely difficult to transport hives in the fields and moun- 
las and to extract the honey. 


52. Short courses of practical instruction in bee-keeping for 
beginners were held at Acre Government Poultry Station and 
Apiary. Over fifty students attended, most of whom afterwards 
established aplaries. 


53. During the year, 450 bechives with equipment were 
distributed on the hire-purchase ’’ system to beekeepers in 
possession of the native type of hive and to others in possession 
of one or two movable frame hives. This was intended to 
‘tcourage them to adopt the modern system of bee-keeping 
which is more remunerative, and to assist them to extend their 
small apiaries. 


ah As the honey crop was below normal, over 200 tons of 
pe Sugar were sold to beekeepers, to enable them to feed 
adequately their bees during the winter season. 


55- The Poultry industry has made further strides and almost 
he oe Modern poultry farms were extended in capacity, 
: lle a good number of new farms was established. A number 
mammoth electric incubators was imported and installed in 


{nous parts of the country to meet the large demand for 
day-old chicks. cf : 


5. The Production of eggs was quite normal throughout the 
year in Jewish settlements, and the output was greatly increased 
es 9 millions in 1935 to 15 millions in 1936. Prices for fresh 
oes remained normal, but those for the table fowl decreased 
pusiderably due to the large increase in cheap imports from 
rerseas, The local demand for fresh eggs and table fowls 
pis by far the local supply, and imports during the year 
: a to 85 million eggs and over one and three-quarters of 
mossibae 2 of live poultry. It is obvious that there are great 
this | tes for the development of the poultry industry, but 
, 2 rendered difficult by large cheap imports. Government 
. sent considering the recommendations of a committee 
of dey bie appointed during the year to study the possibility 
ftom fc Oping this industry and the necessity for its protection 
reign competition. 


286 


57. The development mentioned above refers principally to 
Jewish settlements. In Arab villages, due to the unsettled 
condition of the country, no development took place; on the 
contrary, in many villages this branch of agriculture deteriorated. 


58. Government poultry stations and apiaries were develop- 
ing satisfactorily up to the time of the outbreak of the 
disturbances which adversely affected them. Four stations were 
closed, and the activities of others were curtailed. 40,500 
hatching eggs, 12,500 day-old chicks, 2,850 pullets, 2,600 
cockerels, and 410 swarms were distributed from Government 
poultry stations and apiaries. 


Horticultural Service. 


59. Citrus exports for the season ending April 1936, amounted 
to 5,897,310 boxes as compared with 7,330,846 boxes in the 
previous season. The smaller crop was due to hot drying winds 
(Khamsin) in May 1935, which caused a heavy drop of young 
fruit. 


60. The crop consisted of 4,997,302 boxes of oranges, 850,120 
boxes of grapefruit, 46,915 boxes of lemons, and 2,973 of other 
citrus, principally tangerines. The United Kingdom took, as 
usual, the greater part of the crop, viz., 4,009,803 boxes. 
Countries showing an appreciable increase in demand for 
Palestinian citrus were Poland, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, 
Czechoslovakia, and Bulgana, whilst Germany, France, 
Belgium, Roumania, Holland and Yugoslavia showed decreases. 
On the whole, rather higher prices were realized for oranges 
than in the preceding season, but a further low level for 
grapefruit was reached. 


61. The 1936-37 citrus season opened with better promise as 
regards production, but considerable damage to the trees and 
drop of fruit was caused by gales during the month of December 
1930. Approximately 2,700,000 boxes of the new season crop 
were exported by the 31st December. The Rules made under 
the Fruit Export Ordinance, 1927, were revised and the important 
changes made were the prohibition of export of all large sizes 
of oranges below 120 to the box, the changing of the date of the 
commencement of the export season for oranges from 15th to 
the 20th November, a more precise definition of ‘‘ blemishes ’’, 
and the option to export in a new type of box. Some changes 
have been made in the sytem of fruit inspection for the purpose 
of making it more efficient, and propaganda was continued 
to improve the standard of exports. Regular periodical maturity 
tests for both oranges and grapefruit were commenced 11 
August. 


287 


62. The 1935-36 programme for citrus fruit advertising was 
completed according to plan, but owing to the short crop the 
advertising fund was in debt at the close of the season. The 
programme for 1936-37 provides for advertising in the United 
Kingdom, Continental countries, and India on a scale similar 
to that of last year and for the repayment of all debts to Govern- 
ment. The advertising fee was raised from 3 to 3} mils per 
box. An honorary advisory committee of United Kingdom fruit 
brokers and salesmen was appointed to assist the contractors 
lor the advertising of Palestine citrus fruits in the United 
Kingdom. 


63. A general survey of citrus groves was started during the 
summer with the object of obtaining data as to the area under 
citrus, the varieties and stocks, and the ages of the trees. A 
total of 83,921 dunams were surveyed comprising :— 


Dunams 
Oranges ae Sa hes oa ve 65,621 
Grapefruit a ~ ibe: sag Be 12,618 
Other citrus... ses at sah - 5,682 


Total 83,921 





This area includes 5,039,134 trees in 4,385 groves of 31 
settlements and villages. 


_ 64. The comprehensive economic survey of the citrus groves 
in the Acre sub-district, which was started in 1935, was con- 
cluded in June, 1936. A Commission has since been appointed 
to study the report and to recommend to Government what 
action should be taken. An additional horticultural instructor 
Was appointed in February, principally to give more attention 
to groves in the Acre district. 


65. Estimates of damage due to the disturbances which have 
been brought to the notice of the Horticultural Service total: — 


Damaged or destroyed. 


Citrus trees... me vie ie sae 131,215 
Deciduous... a ent a sol 35,150 
Vines pe re = a Sh 34,643 
Miscellaneous Sa sae eit ~ 3,495 

Total sa ee — ink 204,503 


ae Great difficulties were encountered by fruit producers in 
atxeling their crops during the disturbances, but citrus fruits, 
ng out of season, were not affected. | 


288 


Two demonstrations in raisin preparation were made in the 
principal vine districts as propaganda for the utilisation of 
the crop as a means of alleviating the situation. Samples were 
sent to the Impenal Institute for report. 


67. The number of Horticultural Stations was reduced from 
ten to nine, as the station at Jerusalem was handed over to 
the Entomological Service for capnodis investigation. The work 
at the stations was restricted largely to consolidation and to 
the collection of data. A general scheme for recording annually 
measurements of the growth of deciduous trees has commenced 
and observations taken as to compatability of stocks and scions. 


' 68. The Farwaneh Station suffered considerably during the 
disturbances from the uprooting of a large number of citrus 
trees and some vines and olives. The only other damage was 
of a minor nature at Ain Arroub and Farradiya. 


69. Government plant nurseries are maintained at most of 
the Horticultural Stations. 78,083 trees and 89,233 vines were 
raised during the year, and are available for distribution during 
the 1936-37 planting season. 


70. The control of private plant nurseries, which was started 
last year in order to stimulate and improve plant production, 
has operated successfully. One hundred and_ thirty-three 
nurseries were inspected, of which 54 were approved for 
registration and licensing. 


71. The olive crop was rather poor throughout the country. 
Experiments in pruning olives were instituted in order to study 
the effect on growth and yield of old trees. Investigations were 
continued with the collaboration of the Government Analyst 
into the quantity and quality of olive oil extracted from fruit 
at different stages of maturity. 


72. A close study was undertaken of the composition and 
conditions of an area of only 3,450 dunams of vineyards, 
preparatory to a survey of the vine industry. 


73. There was an extension of vineyards of wine grapes due 
to the opening of the market for wines in the United States 
of America. 


74. A further experiment in sericulture was_ instituted. 
About 30 kilos of good quality cocoons were raised, but the 
experiment was a failure owing to the difficulty of supervising 
the work during the disturbances and the impossibility of pro- 
ducing saleable quantities. 


Entomological Service. 


75. The activities of the Entomological Service were naturally 
handicapped by the disturbances. 


289 


Arrangements were made in the coastal plain, in the Valley 
of Esdraelon, and in the Jordan Valley for the study of the 
bionomics of the Mediterranean fruit fly in order to found the 
now empirically used methods of control on a scientific basis. 
Broadcasting, the Press, and coloured posters were all used in 
order to draw the attention of fruit-growers, and especially 
citrus-growers, to the importance of this pest, and methods of 
control were demonstrated in citrus-growing areas. 


76. The studies on the bionomics of Black Scale (Chrysom- 
phalus ficus) were completed, and control experiments based 
on the results of these studies were carried out. As a result 
of the educational endeavours of the Entomological Service, 
citrus-growers now begin to realise the serious damage done 
by scale insects, and their control is becoming a routine opera- 
tion in the citrus grove. Compulsory fumigation, which was 
sill necessary in citrus groves north of Acre, had to be aban- 
doned owing to the disturbances. 

Endeavours were made to establish a hymenopterous parasite 
from Japan for the control of Red and Black Scale on trees 
other than citrus. 

A survey of the spread of Black Scale (Chrysomphalus ficus) 
and Mussel Scale (Lepidosaphes beckt) was started in the 
southern parts of the country. 


77. Preparations were made for investigational work on 
methods of control against Capnodis sp. the most important 
economical insect pest of stone-fruit trees. 

A spraying and dusting calendar was worked out for certain 
pests on vegetables; and non-poisonous insecticides were 
tested in preference to poisonous ones. 

The study of the bionomics and the control of a virus-trans- 
mitting insect on potatoes was undertaken. 

Preliminary experiments were carried out with different sprays 
for the control of the Fig Wax Scale (Ceroplastes rusci). 

A Field Laboratory was erected at Sarafand for the southern 
area. 

A Field Assistant was sent to East Malling Research Station 
for practical training in the application of methods of control 
of pests and diseases, with special reference to spraying. 


Fisheries Service. 


78. There are at present engaged in the Fisheries of Palestine 
about 1,200 fishermen, 460 sailing boats, and six motor-boats. 
Enforcement of the Fisheries Ordinance, particularly with 
reference to taking fish by use of dynamite, occupied much 
of the time of the Service. The staff was augmented and the work 


290 

of the Service facilitated by the provision of a patrol launch 
on Lake Tiberias. The number of arrests of offenders increased 
through the more efficient patrols maintained. During the period 
of the stike, May to September, the number of cases of dyna- 
miting fish dropped, probably because the sale of blasting 
powder for building operations was severely restricted during 
the strike. The bona fide fishermen co-operated with the Fishery 
Officers in suppressing this destructive practice. The Fisheries 
Service on a number of occasions mediated in disputes between 
different groups of fishermen, with good results. 


79. The Fisheries Ordinance of 1926 was amended in 1936 
with the object of restricting ordinary fishing licences to persons 
manning or operating any fishing vessel registered in Palestine. 
At the same time, the High Commissioner was empowered to 
grant, at his discretion and subject to such conditions as he 
might think fit, a special licence to persons operating or manning 
a vessel not of Palestinian registry. The local fishermen were 
thereby afforded some protection against the competition of 
foreign fishing vessels. 


80. A new Fisheries Ordinance to replace the Fisheries 
Ordinance of 1926 and the Fisheries (Amendment) Ordinance 
of 1936 is under preparation. The principal new features of this 
measure are the inclusion of the provisions of the Fisheries 
(Amendment) Ordinance, 1936, including the granting of exclu- — 
sive licences to take fish in specified parts of Palestine or fish 
of a special species, this last referring especially to sponge 
fishing. 

81. The powers ot the High Commissioner to make rules tor 


the better regulation of the fisheries were extended to include 
the regulation of the size of the mesh of fishing-nets. 


82. The penalties for taking fish by explosives were increased, 
and the Courts are now empowered to grant rewards, out of the 
fines imposed, to persons giving information or assistance 
leading to the conviction of offenders. 


83. Special regulations to protect and encourage a sponge 
fishery were prepared. Licences will be restricted to not more 
than two machine diving boats so as to preserve the stock of 
sponges. 


84. The development of the ports at Haifa, Jaffa and Tel-Aviv 
has driven fishermen to seek new fishing grounds. Statistics as 
to the appearance and movements of shoals were collected with 
a view to establishing a fishing calendar and the position of 
new fishing grounds. 


85. The Fisheries Service advised fishermen as to the source 
of better fishing gear than that at present in use. Detailed 


291 


information was collected of the gear at present in use and the 
economics of existing arrangements were examined with a view 
to ensuring a better return to the fishermen. 


86. A small motor fishing-boat has been ordered from the 
United Kingdom and will be used by the Fisheries Service for 
demonstrating modern methods of fishing and for prospecting 
new fishing grounds. 


Meteorological Service. 


87. Ten official Meteorological Stations are maintained where 
readings of air pressure, temperature, relative humidity, cloud, 
wind velocity, and rainfall are recorded by observers. 


88. The records are scrutinized by the Meteorological Service, 
Cairo, and meteorological summaries are published annually. 
In addition, rainfall records are obtained from 60 non-official 
rainfall stations, and monthly statements of rainfall are com- 
piled, showing comparisons with the average of previous years 
for periods ranging from a few years up to 89 years. These 
statements, together with the monthly weather reports, are 
dene and distributed to institutions and _ individuals 
interested. 


89. The rainfall at official meteorological stations up to the 
31st December, 1936, as compared with that for the same period 
last year, is shown below: — 


Ist June, 1935 to Ist June, 1936 to 


Station. 31st December, 1935. 31st December, 1936. 
Millimetres. Miullimetres. 
Acre ... a an 322-0 294°5 
Beisan... QI°5 190°9 
Beersheba 58-0 125°5 
Gaza ... wa ae I31I-oO 220:2 
Haifa ... oe bet 278°9 381°5 
Jerusalem 83:6 286-3 
Jenin ... rer det I14°I 235°5 
Jericho see — 36°5 82-0 
Tel-Aviv oe ae 458°9 353°7 


go. It is particularly welcome to record that up to the end 
of December, 1936, the rainfall at places where precipitation is 
usually low, viz., at Jericho, Beisan, Beersheba, and Gaza, was 
about double the rainfall for the corresponding period of 1935. 


Forest Service. 


gr. The widespread impoverishment of the hill country by 
the loss of soil and water, and the serious damage at certain 
Places, as in Tiberias, by flooding and erosion, have concen- 


see attention on the need for a more comprehensive forest 
cy. 


292 


g2. A new Department of Forests was inaugurated on Ist 
April, 1936, to deal with these important problems. 


The tasks before the Department include : — 

(a) The reafforestation of considerable areas of land 
to conserve water supplies and to prevent soil erosion and 
denudation. 

(6) Sand dune control. 

(c) The production of timber, fuel, and other forest 
produce. 

(d) The provision and maintenance of grazing or fodder. 

(e) The establishment of hardy fruit trees in suitable 
areas. 


g3. One and a-quarter million plants were raised in 14 Forest © 
Nurseries. Government plantations in Forest Reserves ab- 
sorbed 905,000 plants and 750 kilogrammes of pine seed. The — 
total area planted by Government:in Forest Reserves at the end — 
of the 1935-36 planting season was 4,576 acres. Afforestation 
by private agency has also made progress, particularly in Jewish 
settlements, 126 small plantations, covering 768 acres, having © 
been formed in 1935-36. Some 224,000 plants were issued free 
from Forest Nursenes to institutions and individuals during the ~ 
year. | 


g4. Since the end of 1934, 43 new Forest Reserves have been 
proclaimed and one cancelled, bringing the total number to 276 
with an aggregate area of 182,302 acres; 216 of these reserves 
have now been demarcated and mapped. The effects of reser- 
vation and protection are noticeable only in a few cases, and 
over-grazing and overcutting are general. Protective measures 
are mainly designed to check encroachment. 


g5. The reclamation of sand dunes was continued on a small 
scale at Gaza. As the Acre sand dunes are required for other 
development, planting work in this area has been discontinued. 
A small experiment has been started to test the possibilities of 
arresting inland sand dnft over the Beersheba—Asluj road by 
the planting and protection of desert vegetation. 


g6. Seeds of 62 exotic species of timber and ornamental plants 
were obtained for trial from abroad by purchase or exchange. 


97. Forest revenues totalled £P.5,080, mainly derived from 
felling-fees collected from the owners of trees on private land. 


The estimated value of forest produce extracted from forest 
reserves by right-holders for their domestic needs was £P.4,000, 
and the value of forest produce extracted from reserves under 
trade licences for sale was £P.1,900. The estimated value of 
produce sold from privately-owned plantations and woods was 


£P.49,000. 


293 


_ 18,905 forest licences were issued by District Officers, includ- 
ing 3,G67 to nght-holders. 


69,800 animals were licensed to graze in forest reserves. Of 
these, 68,721 belonged to right-holders. Estimating the value 
of grazing at 100 mils per head per annum, the value of forest 
grazing was £P.6,980. 

I,II7 persons were convicted for forest contraventions. © 


98. Olives planted by the public numbered 113,177, of which 
8,230 were wild olive suckers extracted from forest reserves 
under licences and 104,947 were obtained from privately-owned 

oves or nurseries. 25,000 wild olive suckers were extracted 

om forest reserves at Government expense and planted at 
Government Horticultural Stations for budding and issue to 
cultivators. 


Carob plants raised at Government nurseries during the year 
fambered 67,000, of which 19,000 were issued gratis to the 
public and other Government Departments, and 30,500 were 
planted in 13 Government plantations. 


12,000 wild carob trees were budded in 10 forest reserves with 
Cyprus and local bud-wood. 


_ Imports of forest produce, including manufactures, amounted 
in value to £P.1,343,649, and exports to £P.16,848. 


XXV1I.—PUBLIC WORKS AND GEOLOGY. 


Public Works. 


The total expenditure by the Public Works Department was 
approximately £P.1,008,000, as compared with £P.1,050,000 
in 1935. The 1936 programme of works was considerably 
retarded and interfered with by the disturbances and the strike. 
With the exception of a few works in purely Jewish areas, there 
was little progress on normal services during the six months of 
the disturbances, and the works which could not await post- 
ponement on grounds of public security were mostly carried out 
under military or police protection. 


2. Recurrent and maintenance services were carried out satis- 
lactorily, with special intensity during the last three months 


of the year in order to make up for the time lost during the 
disturbances. 


_ 3. Owing to the deterioration in the financial position, it was 
not possible to proceed with many of the building works pro- 
vided for in the Draft 1936-37 Estimates; as a result of this factor 
and of the stoppage of works during the disturbances there was 
oe little Government building activity during the 


294 
4. Progress in the construction of the General Post Office, 
Jerusalem, which was commenced in 1934, was delayed during 
the period of the disturbances. 


Progress was made with the construction of a building in 
Jerusalem to be used as married quarters for the Palestine 
Police. 


The construction of town schools was also continued. In 
Jerusalem a boys’ elementary school was completed and a girls’ 
central school was nearing completion at the end of the year. 
The construction of three town schools in Jaffa was interrupted 
during the disturbances and one building was set on fire. The 
construction of the trade school near Haifa was nearly com- 
pleted and work was commenced on the construction of a 
telephone exchange in Tel-Aviv which will ultimately form part 
of the new Post Office block. The preliminary work in con- 
nection with the construction of the new Government Hospital 
in Haifa, estimated to cost £P.100,000, was commenced. 


Tenders were adjudicated for the construction of a police 
station and police married quarters in Tel-Aviv. 


The following buildings commenced in the previous year were 
completed during 1936: a post office and a police station at | 
Nahalal, animal quarantine station at Jisr Damieh, agricultural 
and horticultural stations at Hebron, and quarters for the — 
British Police at Mount Scopus camp near Jerusalem. A hut © 
was also constructed for the accommodation of juvenile delin- 
quents at a farm labour company near Acre. Rural automatic 
exchange buildings were constructed at Haifa Bay, Hertzelia, 
Kefar Saba, Petah Tiqva, Ramat Gan, Rehovoth, and the 
construction of another building at Bethlehem was well 
advanced at the end of the year. 


Apart from these works many additions, improvements, 
structural alterations and special repairs to police buildings, 
schools, hospitals, quarantine stations, agricultural stations, 
animal quarantine stations, customs posts, departmental stores 
and offices, etc., were undertaken. Electric lighting was also 
installed in a number of Government buildings. 


5. On grounds of public security, work was started on the 
construction of the continuation of the Jaffa-Haifa road north- 
wards to Hedera over a total length of 26} kilometres; the 
construction of a by-pass road from the Affula-Nazareth road 
to the Nazareth-Haifa road; and the construction of the Affula- 
Shatta section of the Affula-Beisan road. 


The estimated cost of these three roads is about £P.150,000. 
Notwithstanding considerable difficulty in obtaining stone 
during the disturbances and unusually heavy rains in November 
and December, appreciable progress was made. 


295 


Extensive work of new construction or improvement was done 
on the following roads :— 
Hertzelia-Qalqilya road. 
Jenin-Megiddo road. 
Shafa ‘Amr-Haifa-Acre road. 
Rehovoth-Gaza road. 
Rosh Pinna-Metulla-Yessod Hama ‘alah road. 
Tulkarm-Nathanya road. 
Beit Jibrin-Majdal road. 
Nablus-Jiftlik-Jisr Damieh road. 
Roads from Lydda and from Jaffa leading to the Lydda 
Air Port. 
El Humeima-Tarshiha road. 
Widening of Tel-Aviv-Petah Tiqva road. 
Southern Approach Road to Jaffa Port. 
Road from Gaza town to Gaza port. 
Branch road from Rehovoth-Gaza road to Beer Tuviah. 
Haifa-Acre road to Haifa Air Port. 
Ras el Ain—Majdal Yaba road. 
Pardess Hanna settlement road. 


Work was put in hand towards the end of the year on the 
construction and improvement of a number of village roads. 
These services are designed to give a measure of relief to dis- 
tressed areas. 

Preliminary works have been carried out in connection with 
the erection of a new bridge over the Jordan near Jericho; the 
existing bridge is to be moved to Jisr Damieh, in order to 
Worden better communications between Nablus and Trans- 

ordan. 

A Jail Labour Company stationed at Et Tira, south of Haifa, 
was employed throughout the year on road construction which 
will form part of the Jaffa-Haifa road. 

In connection with the provision of facilities for motor traffic, 
the Department carried out various road improvements includ- 
ing the construction of some roundabouts at the intersection of 
main roads. 


6. Government has under consideration the construction of 
more feeder roads to the railway, mostly in the citrus growing 
areas, with a view to providing improved facilities for the trans- 
portation of citrus fruit. 


7. The water supply scheme for the town of Hebron was. 
completed and put into operation towards the end of the year. 
The water supply scheme for the town of Tulkarm, carried out 
by the Department on behalf of the Municipality, was also 
completed. 

_ The construction of the Jerusalem Water Supply, commenced 
in the early part of 1934, was completed and water was de-. 
hvered to Jerusalem from January throughout the year. With 


296 


the exception of the construction at Ras el Ain of a filtration 
and sedimentation plant, which is well in hand, the scheme is 
completed in its entirety. 


With the successful completion of the scheme, the old supply 
obtained from five different sources has been abandoned. 


The Ras el Ain installation, though designed and primarily 
intended for the supply of water to the City of Jerusalem, can 
be used and was used in the summer of 1936 to assist villages 
and settlements adjacent to the pipeline in times of drought. 


8. In addition to the amount of £P.45,000 provided for im- 
provements to permanent village water supplies under the pro- 
posed £P.2,000,000 Loan, a further sum of £P.20,000 was made 
available for the same purpose. As the villages are in most 
cases situated at some distance from main roads and access 
by workmen and supervising staff during the disturbances was 
practically impossible, the programme of improvements to 
village water supplies suffered considerable delay. At the end 
of the year about 220 schemes were in progress or had been 
completed; this number included some 150 schemes commenced 
in previous years. 


go. A water-tower was built on Mount Carmel from Govern- 
ment funds, in replacement of an unserviceable installation, for 
use in connection with the existing temporary water supply of 
the residential area of Mount Carmel. This tower will form 
pee of the future permanent water supply scheme of the town 
of Haifa. | 


Extensive investigations have been carried out during the year 
by the Consulting Engineers in connection with the finding of 
an adequate supply of water for the town of Haifa. 


10. Four Government drilling plants were in operation dunng 
the year, but work was suspended on two plants for almost four 
months owing to the disturbances. Four wells were completed 
and in each case water was found and work is proceeding on 
four other wells. 

The following are detailed reports of drilling operations carried 


out by Government drilling plants: — 

Rig No. 1.—Early in the year this rig carried out an important 
test bore in the Jordan Valley situated on the west terrace near 
Wadi Fusail. This bore-hole encountered water at a depth of 165 ft. 
in bituminous limestone and was continued in similar material to 
a depth of 355 ft. A test of four days continuous pumping at 
37 M3 an hour showed no down-draw in the water level. It 1s 
therefore probable that the well is capable of giving more than 100 M3 
of water an hour. This bore-hole proves an extensive area in which 
water may be obtained at much less depths than the present well, 
and there exist in the area about 12,000 dunums of irrigable land. 
The water contains 40 parts of chlorine per 100,000, but it is believed 
it is sufficiently good for the cultivation of bananas. From the 
results of this bore, important deductions can be made for the rest 


207 


of the Jordan Valley which is very similar, and it is possible that 
water may be obtained in the bituminous limestone in a very large 
section southward to a point south of Jericho. 


On completion the rig was moved to a site near Km45 on the 
Hebron-Beersheba road in connection with the Hebron water supply. 
The depth of this bore is 126 ft., and water was encountered at 85 ft. 
A bailing test gave 14 M3 of water an hour with a chlorine content 
of six parts per 100,000. 


The rig was then moved to Bir el Sakaty, 13 km. north of Beersheba, 
where it is expected to tap water under pressure in the older rocks 
and, moreover, will furnish important geological information and 
data of the underground water with regard to irrigation of this 
large sloping plain. The bore has reached a depth of 150 ft. and is 
entirely in gravel. 


Rig No. z.—At the beginning of May this rig was moved to Huligat 
in the Gaza district. The site chosen was determined by the results 
of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s geophysical work in the synclinal 
structure 14 km. east of the village, which forms the southern part 
of the attractive Faluja plain. An abundant supply of water was 
obtained with a chlorine content of 44 parts per 100,000. 


The rig was then moved to a site 2 km. west of Faluja. A private 
bore-hole had already been put down to a depth of 200 metres 
immediately west of the village and had entered Eocene marls and 
chalks without finding water. In the site for the Government bore it 
was expected to obtain water in the synclinal structure in the Pliocene 
beds. Water was struck at a depth of 135 ft. and rose to 123 ft. 
from the surface; the chlorine content is 41 parts per 100,000. The 
bore is being carried to a depth of 300 ft. in order to obtain important 
geological data, particularly as regards the occurrence of Miocene and 
Pliocene beds in this area and their water-bearing capacity. 


Rig No. 3.—Drilling was continued at Sundela, but owing to the 
disturbance the rig was closed down for about four months and the 
bore-hole was not completed until November. Water was struck at 
251 ft. and the bore continued to 302 ft. The only pumping test 
made was by bailing at the rate of 9 M3 an hour without fall in the 
water level. The chlorine content is eight parts per 100,000. 
Nummulitic limestone was encountered at a depth of 260 ft. As the 
sequence corresponds almost exactly with that of Belt Qad, it is 
evident that the nummulitic limestone series forms an important 
source of water in this area, which probably extends under the whole 
of the southern section of the Plain of Jezreel. 


The machine was then moved to Yabed in connection with village 
water supplies, where work is in progress. 


Rig No. 4.—On its arrival in March the rig was moved to Sejera 
where there were two important purposes in view: first to ascertain 
whether the drainage of the underground water towards the Medi- 
terranean reaches back to this basin in which the Sejera bore site 
stands on its eastern fringe, and secondly to find water for Sejera 
if possible, two expensive bore-holes having been sunk on the slopes 
towards the Sea of Galilee without success. Owing to the disturbances 
this rig was also closed down for about four months. At the end 
of 1936 it reached a depth of 600 ft., which is still 60 ft. above 
Mediterranean level. No water has so far been encountered and, as 
the rise in the water table should be over 100 ft., it seems probable 
that, in spite of the general structure which should produce a 
drainage westward, the great east-west fault on the north side is 
draining the basin towards the Sea of Galilee. 


298 

11. No progress was made on the Jerusalem drainage scheme 
financed by advances from surplus balances in anticipation of 
the new £P.2,000,000 Loan wich is being executed by the © 
Jerusalem Municipality under Public Works Department | 
control. Work was practically at a standstill throughout the 
year owing to the disturbances and to exceptionally inclement 
weather afterwards. 

The detailed scheme for the drainage of the town of Haifa 
prepared by the Public Works Department was considered by | 
the Consulting Engineers, on whose advice certain experimental 
works have been executed during the year. 

The Drainage Engineer of the Department also prepared a 
sewerage scheme for the town of Gaza. 

Certain works were carried out during the year on the irriga- 
tion system of Jericho, including the extension of the network 
of channels and several improvements to the distribution system. 


12. A reinforced concrete revetment wall, over a length of 
about two kilometres at Samakh on the southern shore of 
Lake Tiberias, was constructed for the protection of the town 
against erosion by the artificial raising of the level of the lake 
in connection with the Jordan Hydro-Electric Station. 

13. Under the Steam Boilers Ordinance 1927, 41 boilers and 
four prime movers were examined and licensed, and several 
applications for the establishment of oil depots under the 
Petroleum Regulations were dealt with. 

The District Engineers, as Inspectors under the Fencing of 
Machinery Ordinance 1927, examined a number of factories in 
which mechanical plant is installed. 

14. During 1936, compensation claimed under the Work- 
men’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927, for accidents to labourers 
employed directly by the Public Works Department was paid 
in 59 cases, including five fatal accidents. A number of claims 
in respect of accidents which occurred during the year are still 
under consideration. 

15. The Road Board considered a number of questions 
during the year, including the programme of road construc- 
tion for the coming year, the maintenance of roads built from 
funds provided jointly by Government and private bodies, the 
construction of the Jaffa-Haifa road, and the taking over by 
Government of a number of roads built by private bodies. 


16. The Public Works Department participated in the Levant 
Fair held in Tel-Aviv in the spring of 1936. 


Geology. 

17. The issue of the contoured 1: 100,000 maps by the Survey 
Department has been a great help to geological mapping. 
While work has been concentrated on the Haifa sheet, a good 
deal of geology has been impressed on other sheets, viz., Safad, 


299 

Zikhron Ya‘agov, Beisan, Jerusalem, and Tel-Aviv. The 
basis on which this mapping is being done is contained in the 
report by the Geological Adviser on ‘‘ The Stratigraphy of 
Palestine and its Building Stones ’’ published early in 1936, 
in which also a small-scale map indicates the general strati- 
graphical sequence that has been adopted. Two divisions have 
been made in the Cenomanian strata which have not been 
adopted elsewhere. These divisions have been found necessary 
in order to show the structure in an area which may comprise 
2,000 feet of Cenomanian limestone and dolomite, containing 
several water horizons, the development of which becomes of 
such great importance to the economic aspect of the country. 
Some important stratigraphical data have been obtained by 
several of the bore holes sunk by Government, as for example 
the discovery of a continuous series of bituminous limestone 
bordering the main fault scarp of the Jordan Valley, which 
corresponds in general lithological character and age rather 
with the Har Tuv and Yarmuk sequence than with that of 
Nabi Musa. A bore at Bassa in the Acre District, which was 
sunk to a depth of 150 metres, was found to consist principally 
of Upper Eocene strata. Important Tertiary formations have 
been penetrated in the Government bore holes at Huliqat and 
Faluja in the Gaza area. 


18. Quarries.—The year commenced with considerable 
development in the quarrying of stone particularly for concrete 
work. Numerous new quarries were opened and stone-crushers 
installed. The disturbances, however, decreased the number 
of quarries working, and finally almost brought work to a 
standstill until October. The number of quarry licences there- 
fore considerably decreased as compared with 1935:— 


Stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) ... aa 58 
Sand (including zifzif) and clay ... ~ see °133 
Gypsum ‘ st ass Sex - — 2 


Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate. 


19. The development of the Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) 
Estate continued. | 


20. Out of the area of approximately 130 dunums available 
or development for general and commercial purposes, 68 
sites in all have been leased of which 21 with an approximate 
total area of 214 dunums are restricted in their use to ware- 
Ouses, cold stores, or other storage purposes. The remaining 
40 sites, having an area of 16 dunums, are intended for develop- 
ment as shops, offices, banks, and residential flats. Certain 
sites are reserved for specific purposes, which include a 
Passenger railway station, a general post office, an hotel, 
motor-car parking spaces, and a municipal fruit and vegetable 
market. These reserved sites, together with a few plots for 


300 


warehouses which will be offered for lease when the demand 
arises, have a total area of about 26 dunums. About 64 dunums 
have been laid out as roads or public open spaces. There is 
a further area, not included in the above, at the western end 
of the estate, the development of which is dependent upon the 
completion of the Harbour. 


21. An agreement was concluded with the Haifa Bay Water 
Company tor the supply of water for domestic purposes to 
the Estate, and the supply is now in operation. Concurrently 
with this supply the Public Works Department provide water 
for building purposes at a low charge which 1s collected by the 
Estate Office. 


22. Schemes for ae laying of underground cables in con- 
nection with the su of light and power to the area and 
the provision of telet < toe services were submitted by the 
Palestine Electric Corporition and the Department of Posts 
and Telegraphs respectively. The schemes were approved and 
the work was put in hand. 


23. Plans have been submitted and approved in respect of 
the buildings to be erected on all of the 68 sites, and building 
is in progress on all but 11 plots. Fourteen certificates of com- 
pletion were issued during the year, making, with seven which 
had already been issued, 21 in all. Several lessees who were 
required under the terms of the lease to erect at present the 
first two or three storeys only have elected to build up to the 
maximum permitted height of five or six storeys. Work was 
commenced on the new passenger ey station, which is 
nearing completion. 


24. A building known as the Princess Royal Seamen’s Insti- 
tute erected at a cost of £P.15,000 by the British Sailors’ 
Society on a site at the Eastgate entrance to the harbour was 
completed. 


25. The first half-yearly instalment of rent on the shop and 
office sites became due on Ist July, 1936, and consequently a 
full year’s rent was not payable during the year. The total 
amount collected in respect of rent and interest was 
£P.18,502,932, while £P.937 was outstanding on the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1936. In addition to rent the following items of non-re- 
current revenue arising out of the development of the Estate 
since its inception have been collected to date: — 


Land Registry Fees in connection LP. 
with the registration of leases and 
assignments ... I ,709.500 

Stamp Duty on leases and assign- 
ments 4,781.154 

Charges for water supplied for con- 
structional purposes nas a 507.150 





£P.6,997.804 


301 


20. The western portion of the Area, which had been allocated 
temporarily to the Department of Customs, Excise and Trade 
as a timber store, was requisitioned by the military authorities 
as a stores depdt. A portion of Plumber Square was used as a 
park for Army vehicles, and several buildings were occupied by 
Army personnel by arrangement with the lessees. 


27. A model, constructed to a scale of 1:500 and showing the 
completed aspect of the portion of the Estate now under 
development, was constructed and exhibited together with photo- 
graphs and plans at the Levant Fair. An explanatory and 
descriptive pamphlet was printed for distribution to the public. 


Jaffa Port Improvements. 


28. During the year practically the whole of the scheme as 
onginally sanctioned was completed, except for the installation 
of electric light and power. 


The works included the breakwater, sea-wall, reclamation, 
dredging, moorings, quays, transit sheds, electric cranes, 
hoists, elevators, drains and sewers, new offices, fresh water and 
fre mains, stormwater and sewerage system, customs fence. 
Decauville railway, and lighter slipway. - 


The new transit sheds and quays, with access and equipment, 
together with certain dump areas on the reclamation had been 
handed over and were in use during the whole year. The dredged 
basin was in use throughout by lighters for mooring and traffic 
Purposes; and the slipway and lighter repair area were in use 
for about six months. 


Construction progress was as satisfactory as was possible 
during the year under the difficult circumstances created by the 
disturbances. Work was continued throughout the strike with 
hve hundred Arab workmen, but certain items were either not 
started or considerably delayed. Difficulty and delay were 
experienced in obtaining certain materials both from the United 

gdom and locally. 


Haifa Harbour Development. 


29. Good progress was made on the construction of the oil 
dock, and by the end of the year, with the exception of the 
electric power for operating the winches controlling the entrance 
boom and the permanent lighting on the east and west jetties, 
the dock was virtually completed. 


, During the year, considerable use was made of the dock by 

the Royal Navy and oil-tankers discharging oil into the ‘Iraq 
etroleum Company’s tanks on the 20-acre reclamation area. 
Reinforced concrete boundary walls around an area of three 

acres were constructed during the year for use by the ‘Iraq 
etroleum Company. 


302 
The cargo jetty shed, of 3,926 M? floor area, with road and 


railway approaches, was completed and handed over to the Port | 
Authorities in December. 


Preliminary works were undertaken during the year and the 
construction of the cargo jetty was started in December. 


30. The expenditure on works carried out by the Harbour | 
Development Works Department during the year, was 
approximately £P.80,000. 


XXVII.—RAILWAYS. 


The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated . 
Lines is divided as follows :— 


(a) In Palestine. 


Standard Gauge 105 cm. Gauge 
(4 ft. 84 inches). (Hejaz Railway). 


Kilometres (excluding sidings). 











Rafah—Haifa_... sis hon 226 — 
Jaffa— Jerusalem ses me 87 — 
Ras el Ein-Petah Tiqva... aS 6°5 — 
Sarafand Line se ie 4°5 — 
Beit Nabala Line aie re 5 — 
Haifa—Samakh san aa ~—- 88 
Haifa (junction at kilo 2)—Acre — 18 
Nablus—Tulkarm* — 38 
329 144 
(b) In Sinai. 
El Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafah 203 — 
(c) In Trans-Jordan. 
Nassib—Amman—Maant ve — 323 
Total length of system (exclusive 
of sidings) age aie bck 532 467 





* The section of the Hejaz Railway from Affula, on the Haifa—Samakh 
line to El Mas‘udiya near Nablus, a length of 60 kilometres, was closed in 
1932 aS a measure of economy and owing to the lack of traffic, but the line 
has not yet been removed. 

+ The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans- 
Jordan runs through Syria as part of the line from Haifa to Damascus and 
from Damascus to Trans-Jordan and is administered and operated by the 
Syrian Authorities. The Trans-Jordan line formerly continued southwards 
from Maan to Mudawara (113 kilometres beyond Maan) on the border of 
Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz, and thence to Medina; but this section of the 
line has not been reconditioned since the damage done during the War, and 
is not in use. 


303 

2. The lines operated by the Palestine Railways Administra- 
tion traverse three States—Egypt, Palestine and Trans-Jordan— 
and serve country of widely differing character: thus, the 
long stretch of dune sand desert in Sinai, one of the most difficult, 
as regards maintenance, with which any railway has to contend; 
the alluvial plains of Palestine where the foundation consists of 
treacherous clays and black cotton soil; the mountainous country 
of the Judean Hills through which Jerusalem, at 2,468 feet above 
sea level, is approached by steep and narrow valleys; the valleys 
of the western slopes of the Jordan cleft through which the line 
of the Hejaz Railway descends to 324 feet below sea-level; the 
rocky highlands and plateaux of Trans-Jordan on the way 
to Amman and Maan; and the desolate sandy clay wastes 
through which the line runs along the western fringes of the 
desert of Arabia. 


3. The system which serves Palestine comprises three lines 
of separate and distinct origin: 


(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line. | 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 


(2) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
x0vernment as a feeder-line from the Port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed principally 
lo carry pilgrim traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. 
Its origin was a length of standard-gauge line starting from 
Haifa which an English Company had built, but had not com- 
pleted, under an Ottoman concession. The original concession- 
naires were bought out by the Hejaz Railway Administration 
and the 105 centimetre gauge Hejaz Railway system was laid out 
of Haifa on the formation completed or partly completed by the 
English Company. 


(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line was laid originally as a metre- 
gauge railway by a French Company, also under an Ottoman 
concession. At the outbreak of the War it was taken over by 

e Turkish Army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to 
serve as part of the projected extension southwards of the Hejaz 

allway as a military track. Subsequently the line was converted 
by the British Army to standard gauge and incorporated in the 
line of that gauge built during the War from the Suez Canal to 
Palestine and referred to in (:) below. 


(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge 

_ System in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British 

4 y in 1918 as the northern extension of the line which had 
olowed the Army during the advance from Egypt. 


304 
At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre 
gauge lines come together and at Haifa, in order to use the space 
available for shunting to the best advantage, it is necessary to 
make use of many dual gauge tracks. 


4. A summary of the principal operating statistical results 
compared with 1935 is given below :— 


Gross Revenue. Working Expenses. 

1936. 1935. 1936. 1935. 
(a2) Palestine Railway ; 635,630 637,028 606,664 567,392 

(b) Sinai (Kantara—Rafah) 
Railway wats sae 176,406 124,046 120,134 94,50! 
(c) Hejaz Railway ... abe 100,575 99,451 110,466 104,560 
(2) Petah Tiqva Railway ... 5,415 2,797 840 840 
Notes. 


(a) Working Expenses of the Palestine Railway include Interest and 
Sinking Fund Charges. 

(6) The Sinai (Kantara—Rafah) Railway pays rental charges for the 
use of Palestine Railway engines and rolling stock. 

(c) The Working Expenses of £P.840 for the Petah Tiqva Line represent 
a flat annual charge for maintenance. 


Year ended 31st December, 


1936. 1935. 
Passengers carried (excluding Season 
Tickets) ses iat au vie (INO; 2,394,000 2,402,000 
Freight Handled eee se ... Tons 1,009,457 1,114,744 
Trains run ‘ irs sate sv. NO; 31,752 32,520 
Engine Mileage (including Sentinel 
Cammoell Cars) . m ... Miles 1,918,149 1,850,892 
Total Staff at 31st December ... No. 5,286 5,056 
Total Salaries and Wages ee ee ose 396,408 350,828 
1936. 1935. 
Passenger Traffic. LP. £P. 
Palestine Railway ‘ — ee 201,944 219,251 
Sinai (Kantara-Rafah) Railway ah _ 79,525 84,623 
Hejaz Railway : ; ses aie 36,996 33,636 
Petah Tiqva Railway . au sae ve — — 
318,465 337,510 
Goods Traffic. 
Palestine Railway ae .. 386,955 373,366 
Sinai (I<antara-Rafah) Railway ae oe 94,221 30,979 
Hejaz Railway .. : ae si 2G 57,213 59,386 
Petah Tiqva Railway . se sa se 4,773 2,737 





543,162 472,468 





305 


The principal commodities carried during the year were :— 


Commodity Total Tonnage Carned 
I. Barley 23,080 
2. Wheat 25,749 
3. Maize... 8,103 
4. Other Cereals 9,427 
5. Tibben 13,231 
6. Oil Cakes 4,769 
7. Flour 20,958 
8. Rice 12,590 
9. Sugar ; 18,340 
10. Groceries and Provisions 68,557 
Ir. Sand oe iti 16,452 
12. Stone | 60,545 
13. Lime 11,463 
I4. Cement 134,128 
15. Asphalt... 12,648 
16. Other Building Materials 75,047 
17. Wooden Planks for Boxes 19,480 
18. Manure = af 16,137 
Ig. Oranges ... 118,330 
20. Grapefruit 21,062 
21. Lemons 968 
22. Melons 9,044 
23. Grapes. 2 222 
24. Kerosene and Fuel Oils 92,467 
25. Coal ne 30,992 
26. Petrol... 16,826 
27. Fire Wood 3,360 
28. Soap I ,534 
29. Salt 8,840 
30. Potash 17,680 
31. Bromine ... I ,302 
32. Chlorine ... 121 
33. Caustic Soda... 1,096 
34. Nitrate of Soda ... 54 
35. Magnesium 425 
30. Sulphur... 450 
37- Mineral Water 1,497 
38. Empties ... 177 
39. Machinery 2,298 
40. Miscellaneous 114,408 


T,009,457 


306 


The principal increases and decreases in goods traffic in 169 
as compared with 1935 were as follows: — 








Commodity Increases 
Tons 
Barley ... 3,851 
Maize I,130 
Flour 8 ,049 
Rice... a 5,370 
Sugar... she a 2,888 — 
Groceries and Provisions 31,033 
Sand an 2,340 © 
Oranges -_ ad 8,141 
Grape Fruit... om 9,173 
Kerosene and Fuel Oils 5,536 
Miscellaneous ... 42,842 — 
Others ... 6,046 — 
Decreases 
Tons 
Wheat ... sid 2,218 
Other Cereals ... 1,528 
Cement ioe sa II0,683 
Other Building Materials 71,788 | 
Manure a as 11,843 | 
Melons ... 6,540 — 
Coal is oe ae sa et 35,314: 
Others ... Be oe ated ua a 2,900 ; 


XXViil.—CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES. 


An Ordinance amending certain sections of the Co-operativ 
Societies Ordinance, 1933-35, with regard to the creation an 
registration of charges on the property of co-operativ 
societies was enacted in January. : 





2. In connection with an investigation made by th 
Examiner of Banks into the general credit problems 0 
Palestine, the position of Co-operative Credit Societies wa 
thoroughly reviewed during the course of the year. It wa 
found that control of these societies by several authorities anc 
under diverse legislative enactments was likely to retard the 
development of these institutions in a true co-operative spiril. 
A number of undesirable practices within certain societies wer 
found to be connected with such multiple control and with 
prevailing methods of audit. Government had under cor 
sideration at the end of the year certain proposals designed '0 
secure a centralized and more effective control of Cred 
Societies by the Registrar of Co-operative Societies through the 
Co-operative Societies Ordinance only. 


307 
Arab Movement. 


3. Owing to the disturbances which broke out in April, it 

Jo. 88 Dot possible to proceed with the formation of new societies 
j. Arab villages, nor was any progress achieved in other fields 
co-operation among the Arab population. 


:4. The 61 village credit and thrift societies formed during 
le preceding years continued to be of great help to their 
embers. They were able to enlarge their membership and 
;) increase their own funds to a limited extent. 


1 5. As in previous years, Arab societies have obtained all 
‘leit borrowed funds from Barclays Bank in the form of short- 
‘am loans. It should be mentioned that, notwithstanding the 
jmsettled conditions prevailing during the year, the members 
;f all except five of these societies were regular in the repay- 
oJent of loans granted to them. 


0. 6 In the towns, one co-partnership of vegetable sellers and 
, ue society for loans and savings were registered, while the 
7 estration of one marketing society and of one producers’ 
_bclety was cancelled. 
1s Jewish Movement. 
10 7, There was a further increase in the membership of the 
‘we Audit Unions registered in 1934, and the total number 
i1Mf affiliated societies rose from 257 at the end of 1935 to 322 
bint the end of 1936. This voluntary growth indicates that the 
ovement is gradually advancing towards. centralized 
2,uitganization. 
8. General progress was slightly affected by the disturbances. 
e number of societies registered during the year amounted 
D0 129, as compared with 164 during 1935. The decrease was 
-nainly noticeable in the numbers of societies for agricultural 
“services, which in 1935 had represented 4o per cent. of the 
“otal number of societies registered in the course of that year. 


' 9. The following table shows the development of Jewish 
; wocleties during 1936: — 


Is trae 


ns | Declared 

af P Registered.  Liquidated. Defunct. 

it. Irrigation sie Sia ae IO — I 

, General Agricultural and Mar- 

er keting ue aay aii 10 3 6 

I.’ Agricultural Settlements fee 23 = 5 

ie Co-partnerships of Labour ... 33 II 8 

; Building fas sah a 35 3 4 

- Credit and Thrift (Urban and 

ural) a ee a 6 2 I 

Consumers be oe bus 10 I — 

: Miscellaneous... — sae 2 I I 
Total iis as 129 21 26 





41526 L 


308 


It will be seen that, as in 1935, building societies retained 
their leading position. The majority of societies of this class 
have as their object the erection and maintenance of co-opera- 
tive apartment houses. An impetus to such development has 
been the mortgage loan facilities offered by several British 
Insurance Companies and the general increase of credit facilities 
resulting from the large influx of capital from abroad. An 
indication of this expansion was to be seen in the development 
of suburbs in the vicinity of Tel-Aviv and Haifa by members 
of the Jewish Labour Federation. 


10. All old societies showed constant and steady increases in 
their turnover. The Tnuva society (a general marketing 
society for co-operative agricultural settlements) increased its 
turnover by 29 per cent. (£P.530,000 as compared with 
£P.422,000 in 1935). The citrus marketing societies handled 
2,567,580 cases out of a total of 5,897,310 marketed, or 43-5 per 
cent., as compared with 42-9 per cent. in 1934-35. 


11. In paragraph 12 on page 271 of the report for 1935 it 
was stated that the co-operative societies had been unaffected by 
the economic effects of the Italo-Abyssinian dispute. This 
statement now requires some modification, since early in 1936 
a general shrinkage of deposits and increase in lendings became 
noticeable. It is to be noted with satisfaction that the down- 
wards trend did not last for any length of time and a marked 
recovery set in almost immediately. Developments were, how- 
ever, carefully watched throughout the year and, on the advice 
of the Examiner of Banks, credit societies were called upon to 
render monthly statements of their assets and liabilities and 
steps were taken through the Audit Unions to ensure and enlarge 
the liquidity of their funds. 


12. The increase in the number of societies liquidated during 
the year requires some explanation. The majority of these 
societies went into voluntary liquidation and are in a position to 
meet their liabilities in full. The 26 societies which were de- 
clared defunct and struck off the Register had never commenced 
operations and had incurred no habilities. ; 


13. The process of adapting their rules to the 1933 Ordinance 
was continued by societies registered pnor to that date. 


General. 


14. The following table shows the position of the co-opera- 
tive movement at the end of 1936, as compared with the posi- 
tion at the end of 1935:— 


309 


1936 1935. 
Total number of functioning societies. 
Jewish see ee ae ee ee we 767 688 
Arab ... ad ae _ nies ae ee 75 74 
German 5 b) 
Others... 2 2 
Total wie yy i ahs ... 849 769 
Total societies in liquidation. » 
Jewish — ies Bee sais bate ss 78 57 
Arab ... one ese aes ee see nae 9 9 
Total ae is ted ses wes 87 66 
Total societies struck off the Register. 
Jewish Mes ve at a wee ae 89 64 
Total — eG die sas oat gt 65 
Classification of functioning societies. 
I. Credit and Thrift Societies. 
(a) Urban ae ee ae “ea ie 50 44 
(6) Rural Lae sus i Sees Boe 126 126 
II. Agricultural Societies. 
(2) Settlement ... oe ae na .. 166 — 158 
(6) General Agricultural sua ae aie 75 66 
(c) Irrigation ... ae _ - _ 58 50 
(dz) Cattle Insurance ... ee sud be 3 3 
III. Diverse Societies. 
(a) Industrial Producers and Service So- 
cieties... ees das sie w. 159 141 
(6) Garden Cities and Communal Housing 
Societies ... ike ae we = «52 126 
(c) Consumers’ Societies ee ae ee 48 37 
(2) Mutual Insurance Societies es 2 2 
(e) Audit Unions 2s a nts _ 5 5 
(f) Miscellaneous 5 II 


XXIX—CIVIL AVIATION. 


ww ork on the construction of the airports at Lydda and Haifa 
: The mpered by the disturbances during the summer. Diffi- 
a with labour and transport increased the cost of construc- 
ne, and though the amount of labour obtainable decreased at 

me periods it was found possible to avert a complete stoppage 


0 
work. The ‘‘ runway ”’ surfaces have now been completed. 
41526 
L2 


310 


2. During the heavy rains in November the aerodrome at 
Gaza was unserviceable for several days and in consequence 
the machines of the Royal Dutch Air Line (Koninklijke 
Luchtvaart Maaschappij) used the newly-completed runways 
at Lydda. 


3. From 27th November, 1936, the machines of the Misr 
Airlines, an Egyptian company, have been using Lydda airport 
regularly and it is expected that the Dutch service will make 
Lydda their regular stopping place, instead of Gaza, early in 


1937. 


4. The service of Imperial Airways Ltd. between England 
and Australia continues to call at Gaza twice weekly in each 
direction and the K.L.M. continue to maintain a similar service 
between Holland and the Dutch East Indies. 


5. Ihe daily service maintained by Misr Airlines between 
Egypt and Palestine is increasingly popular and the demand 
for passages between Ramleh and Haifa was greatly in excess 
of the carrying capacity of the machines during the period of 
the disturbances. 


With the return of more normal conditions in the country and 
in consequence of a 50 per cent. increase in the fares on this 
section, the traffic between Ramleh (or Lydda) and Haifa has 
been very greatly reduced. Traffic between Lydda and Egypt 
continues to be good. 


An extension from Haifa to Baghdad of the Misr Airlines 
service is attracting passengers. 





311 


TRANS-JORDAN 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, Etc. 


1. Trans-Jordan is bounded on the west by Palestine, on the 
north by Syria and the Jebel Druze, on the north-east by ‘Iraq, 
and on the east and south by Saudi Arabia. It has a desert 
frontier of about goo kilometres. In length the country is some 
380 kilometres from north to south and in breadth from east to 
west is 150 kilometres at its narrowest and 330 kilometres at its 
broadest. It has an area of some 90,000 square kilometres. 


Area and Climate. 


2. Of the total area some 4,600 square kilometres (4,600,000 
dunums) are cultivable. The cultivable land is a strip of 
territory, broad in the north and narrowing towards the south, 
having an average width of 4o kilometres, and is bounded, 
approximately, by the Jordan and the Dead Sea in the west, 
the Syrian frontier in the north, the Hejaz Railway in the east, 
and in the south by parallel 30° N. This cultivable area 
comprises : — 

(1) The deep valley (the Ghor), in which the River Jordan 
and the Dead Sea lie, having an area of 550 square kilo- 
metres, 300,000 dunums of which are cultivable. 


(2) The range of hills, running the length of the country 
from north to south and nising in the south to heights of 
5,000 feet, having an area of 6,700 square kilometres, of 
which 2,000,000 dunums are cultivable. 


(3) The strip of territory between the hills and the Hejaz 
Railway, a plateau varying in height from 1,500 to 3,000 
feet, having an area of some 5,250 square kilometres, of 
which 2,300,000 dunums are cultivable. This cultivable 
pcan gradually merges eastwards into the desert which 
oses elevation until, in the Wadi Sirhan, just beyond the 
eastern frontier, the height is only 1,000 feet above sea-level. 


The Jordan Valley and the western hills are well watered by 
Springs and streams, but the upland plateau depends for its 
water supply on rain-water cisterns. 


To the south of parallel 30° N., between Ma‘an and Aqaba, 
ere is a sudden fall of 2,000 feet to an area known as the 
asma, 5,000 square kilometres in extent, which contains small 
patches of cultivation. Beyond this area the land continues to 
all, through very rough country, to the Gulf of Aqaba. 
41526 L 3 


312 


3. The desert area comprises some 72,000 square kilometres. 
There are oases at Azraq and Jafar which lie respectively 80 
and 45 kilometres east of the railway line, but apart from these 
there are very few water points other than rain-pools. The 
grazing is sufficient, after a year of good rain, to support the 
camels, sheep and goats of the nomads who spend their time 
between the highlands to the west in summer and the Wadi 
Sirhan and the Ghor in winter. 


4. The climate on the whole is very pleasant. In summer the 
shade temperature seldom reaches 100° F. and the nights are 
always cool. In winter it is cold in the uplands and the rain, 
which is often insufficient for the agricultural needs of the 
country, only falls from November to March. Between the 
rainy days the sky is bright, and in the sun and out of the wind 
it i$ warm. The winter climate of the Ghor is mild and that 
of Aqaba is most attractive although in both places it is hot and 
oppressive in summer. 


The High Commissioner. 
5. General Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., 
C.I.E., D.S.O., is High Commissioner for Palestine and 
Trans- Jordan. 


Changes of Personnel 1936. 

6. Mr. C. A. Hooper, the Judical Adviser, left Trans- Jordan 
on the 2oth March, 1936, on transfer to Mauritius, and was 
replaced on the 6th December, 1936, by Mr. A. L. Gardiner. 

Mr. G. Horsfield, the Chief Curator of Antiquities, retired on 
the 1st April, 1936, and Mr. G. W. L. Harding was appointed to 
the vacant post on the Ist August, 1936. 

Mr. W. S. Moffat, Director of Surveys, returned to the Pale- 
stine Government on the termination of his period of second- 
ment to Trans-Jordan on the 13th September, 1936. 

Mr. G. F. Walpole was appointed to the post of Assistant 
Director of Lands on the 24th September, 1936. 

The death on the 24th December, 1936, of Tewfic Bey Sinnu, 
the President of the Court of Appeal, deprived the Trans- Jordan 
Government of the services of one of its most able judicial 
officers. 


Public Security. | 


7. Events in Palestine and Syria during 1936 have been 
followed in Trans-Jordan with an interest which is the greater 
because of the considerable number of merchants and _ others 
from these two countries who are gaining their living in Trans- 
Jordan. At the beginning of the year some half-hearted attempS 
were made to shut the shops in sympathy with the strikers 1” 


313 


syria, and there was some indiscipline in the Government 
schools. 


8. On the whole, the Trans-Jordanians are satisfied with their 
form of government and, when the troubles began in Palestine 
in April, were obedient to His Highness the Amir’s command that 
they should take no active part therein. Trouble-makers 
were able to provoke isolated demonstrations in April and May, 
but these Were firmly dealt with, though a state of some tension 
continued in the larger towns until the highest secondary classes 
in the Government School in Es Salt and the Arts and Crafts 
School in Amman were closed at the end of May and seven boys 
were expelled. Political clubs, of which the members wore 
shirts of distinctive colours, began to appear, but were suspended 
under powers taken in an Ordinance which was subsequently 
ny Hae by the Legislative Council. This Ordinance prohibited 
the formation of clubs and societies except with the permission 
of the Executive Council. | 


g. As regards sabotage, five bombs were exploded in Amman, 
the telegraph lines were cut on six occasions, and the trans- 
desert line of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company was interfered 
with on three occasions within the cultivable area. His Highness 
the Amir made it known that interference with the pipe-line 
would be regarded with the greatest disfavour and, additional 
guards were placed thereon by the Arab Legion from their own 
men and with funds provided by the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 


Io. The Property of persons who had bought goods from 
Jews in Palestine was damaged on three occasions. The Ottoman 
Penal Code provides only a very small penalty for those who 
wilfully CaUse injury to the movable property of others, and an 
Ordinance was enacted in July raising the penalty to imprison- 
ment not ©xXxceeding one year or a fine not exceeding £P.50, or 
both. In J uly and August some animals were looted by Trans- 
Jordanians from Arabs in Palestine, and a small number of 
people for a short time joined the bands in the hills there. 


II. It Was not necessary to proclaim the Defence Law in 
Trans-J ordan, but a small Arab Legion Reserve of 115 men was 
formed and embodied, and 200 additional men were temporarily 
enlisted in the Force. The Reserve was demobilised and the 
additional legionaries were discharged by the end of December. 


Constitution and Legislature. 


12. The constitution of the Amara of Trans-Jordan is 
perc In the Organic Law of 1928. His Highness the Amir 
hi ee ibn Hussein, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., the second son of 
a ate Majesty King Hussein (formerly King of the Hejaz) is 

e Amir of Trans-Jordan and exercises authority through an 

41526 L4 


314 
Executive Council composed of the Chief Minister, appointed 
by the Amir, who presides, and other members, not exceeding 
five in number, appointed by the Amir on the recommendation 
of the Chief Minister, either from among the principal officers 
of the Administration or the elected representatives of the people. 

The Mandatory responsibilities of His Majesty’s Government 
are discharged by means of the Agreement of 1928 between 
His Majesty the King and His Highness the Amir, as amended 
by the Agreement of 1934. (See pages 238 and 239 of the Report 
for 1934.) 

The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by a Bnitish 
Resident acting under the direction of the High Commissioner 
for Trans-Jordan (who is also the High Commissioner for 
Palestine). The British Resident lives at Amman and is assisted 
by two Bnitish officials and a small clerical staff. 


13. Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Council with 
His Highness the Amir. The Legislative Council consists of :— 
(a) Sixteen representatives elected in accordance with the 
electoral law, which has regard to the proper representation 
of minorities; and 
(6) The Chief Minister and other members of the Exe- 
cutive Council not being elected representatives. 


The electoral law provides that the sixteen elected members 
shall be made up of nine Moslem Arabs, three Christian Arabs, 
two Circassians, and two nomad Beduin. 

Normally the Council has one annual session which lasts for 
three months from the rst November. The duration of the 
Council is three years, but His Highness the Amir has power 
to prorogue or dissolve it in accordance with the law. 


The election of members is conducted by primary and second- 
ary elections. Every male Trans-Jordan, not being a Beduin, 
who has attained the age of 18 is entitled to vote at the primary 
elections, and any person may be elected as a secondary elector 
provided he is on the register of primary electors for his 
particular electoral district. 

Under the guidance of His Highness the Amir, and in close 
and friendly relation with the Mandatory Power, the members 
of the Trans-Jordan Government, having as their common 
objective the welfare of the country, have brought it safely 
through the past decade without disturbance or discontent and 
with a considerable measure of success. 


14. The third ordinary session of the present Legislative 
Council opened on the rst November, 1936, and adjourned 02 
the 14th November for the month of Ramadan, opening again 0” 
the 21st December, 1936. | 


315 
The most important laws passed by the Legislation Council, 


_ which have not been referred to in other parts of this Report, 
are the following :— 


(1) Addendum to the Ottoman Disposition of Immovable 
Property Law, 1936.—Owing to the fact that prior to the estab- 
— ishment of the present Administration most transactions and 
nghts in immovable property acquired on succession were not 
recorded in the Land Registers, and to the fact that the rule 
of evidence in force, except in areas where land settlement 
has been declared, is that oral evidence will not be heard to 
disprove a written document, it has been the practice in many 
Cases for a person in possession of a Land Registry Certificate 
_ ‘oclaim, or to threaten to claim, rights to land which had been 
m the possession of another party for many years. A pro- 
posal was laid before the Legislative Council by one of its 
members that, in order to put an end to cases of this nature, 
Courts in the areas where land settlement has not yet been 
declared should be given the same powers as regards evidence 
_ Ware given by Article 10 of the Land Settlement Law to the 

Land Court Judge. 


The tule Of evidence referred to above is not limited to Land 
Registry Certificates but extends to every class of document 
referred to in Article 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure where 

€ value exceeds #,P.10, and it was considered expedient to 
“act a law empowering the Court to postpone judgment in a 
‘ase of this mature when the person in possession could produce 
ral evidence that he had been in possession for the period of 
egal Prescription so that the case might await settlement under 

¢ Land Settlement Law in due course. 


(2) Woods and Forests Law (Amendment) Law, 1936.—As 
‘ated in the section of this Report which deals with Lands, 
an area of ,ooo0 dunums has already been acquired during 
land settlement as forest State Domain. The law now referred 
0 provides that upon application by the Director of Agricul- 

fe and Forests a magistrate may order that land which has 
been Cleared of forest shall be re-afforested by the Department 
: Agriculture and Forests at the cost of the offender, if known, 
"jointly by the inhabitants of the nearest village. The object 
«Othe law is to discourage the clearing of forest for cultivation 

‘Ss settlement approaches, but in order that the power may not 

th abused, the order for re-afforestation may only be given on 

demands of the Director. 


Administrative Affairs. 


nd. The country is divided into four Districts, namely, Ajlun, 
ee Kerak, and Ma‘an, with headquarters respectively at 
roid, an, Kerak, and Ma‘an. | 


316 


Ajlun, the ancient Gilead, is bounded on the north by the 
River Yarmuk and on the south by the Wadi Zerqa, and is 
divided into the sub-districts of Ajlun, Irbid, Jerash, Deir abu 
Said, and Malka. 


Belqa, the ancient Ammon, lies between the Zerqa and the 
Wadi Mojib (the Arnon) and is divided into the sub-districts 
of Amman, Salt, and Madeba. 


Kerak, the ancient Moab, lies to the south of the Belga, and 
includes the sub-district of Tafileh. 


Ma‘an is the most southerly of the four Districts, and 
includes the villages of Shobek (Montreal) and Aqaba and the 
ruins of Petra. | 

District Administrative Officers have no magisterial powers 
except under the newly-enacted Tribal Courts Law of 1936, 
but it is on their recommendation that the Collective Punish- 
ment Law and the Prevention of Cnme Law would be brought 
into operation. : 


They administer their Districts with the help of an Admini- 
strative Council which sits under their presidency and is 
composed, in addition to the President, of two official and four 
non-official members, the latter being selected by a committee 
presided over by the Administrative Officer and composed of two 
Government officials, the President and Members of the Munici- 
pal Council, the Heads of the religious communities and the 
Mukhtars. When the male Christian population of the area 
exceeds 500 souls, one of the selected members must be a 
Christian, and when the number exceeds 1,000, two members 
must be Christians. 


16. The Permanent Mandates Commission asked for additional 
information as to the numbers and duties of the foreign staff 
on the one hand and of the Arabs on the other in the Trans- 
Jordan Government Service, and, with respect to the latter, 
how many were born in the territory. 


The classified and unclassified officials of the Trans-Jordan 
Government, other than British, including the officers of the 
Arab Legion but excluding other ranks, number 683. 


These are divided as follows:— 


422 Arabs born in Trans-Jordan. 
43 Circassians born in Trans-Jordan. 
215 Arabs born outside Trans- Jordan. 
1 Circassian born outside Trans-Jordan. 
1 German engineer of the Public Works Department. 
1 Italian engineer of the Public Works Department. 


It is to be noted that Article III of the Agreement of the 
20th February, 1928, provides that no official of other than 





317 


Trans-Jordanian nationality shall be appointed in Trans- Jordan 
without the concurrence of His Britannic Majesty. 


The British Staff of the Government is as follows:— 


The Judical Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, drafts all laws and regulations, and 
supervises their translation into English; advises the 
Government in legal matters; advises the Minister of 
Justice; is a member of the Senior Judical Council which 
is concerned in the appointment and discipline of officials 
of the Judical Department, and is a member of the Diwan 
Khas which decides questions regarding the interpretation 
of laws or regulations. 


The Financial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, prepares the Annual Estimates of 
Revenue and Expenditure, advises the Government on 
matters of revenue collection and expenditure, ensures com- 
pliance with the Financial Regulations, and is in close 
touch with the Treasurer. : 


The Officer Commanding the Arab Legion, who is in 
executive command of the Arab Legion and is a member 
of the Tribal Court of Appeal. 


The Second in Command of the Arab Legion, who is in 
charge of the desert area wherein he has the powers of a 
_ Mutessarrif under the Tribal Court Law, 1936, and the 
powers in regard to nomads granted to the Officer Com- 
manding the Arab Legion under the Beduin Control 
Law, 1936. 
An officer of the Arab Legion in charge of Administra- 
tion and Training. 


An officer of the Arab Legion in charge of motor 
transport. 

An officer of the Arab Legion in charge of musketry. 

An officer of the Arab Legion, who is assistant to the 
officer commanding the desert area and in charge of the 
security of the pipe-line of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 

An officer of the Arab Legion, who is Traffic Inspector 
and Registrar of Vehicles. 

The Director of Lands, who is in charge of Land Registry, 
Survey, Land Settlement and Partition and State Domains. 

The Assistant Director of Lands. 

The Director of Customs, Industry and Trade, who is 
also President of the Tenders Board. 

The Chief Curator of Antiquities, on whose advice the 


Director acts in all matters requiring expert technical 
knowledge. 


318 


The Chief Audit Examiner, who audits. the accounts of 
ue pees the Municipalities, and the Agricultural 

ank. 

The Chief Forest Ranger, who is reponsible for the 
conservation of forests. 

The Bacteriologist, who acts as Director of Health in the 
latter’s absence. 
The Medical Officer in charge of the recently-established 
desert mobile unit. 


In addition there is the British Resident, assisted by two 
British officers and a small clerical staff, who is responsible 
to the High Commissioner that the terms of the Mandate and © 
the Agreement of the 2oth February, 1928, between His 
Britannic Majesty and His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan 
are carried out. 


17. Lord Lugard’s suggestion in regard to the development 
of village councils has been brought to the attention of the 
Trans-Jordan Government, but the latter do not consider it 
desirable to endow any of these councils with judicial powers; 
such powers are only being provided for the first time for 
Municipal Councils in the Municipal Law which is now before 
the Legislative Council. The village councils at present have 
considerable executive duties in marking out the land in villages 
where it is held in Mushaa tenure, in dividing among individual 
taxpayers the tax assessed as payable by the whole village, 
and assisting in the distribution amongst the different persons 
who own a block of land, according to the degree of loss suffered 
by each, of any remission of taxation which may have been 
granted in respect of that block on account of crop failure. 


18. The duties of District Administrative Officers, which have 
oeen largely increased by the responsibility for tax collection 
and the examination and distribution of tax remissions which 
now rests on them, have been further added to by the provisions 
of the Protection of Crops and Plants Law, 1935, which require 
them, on receipt of a complaint of damage done, to proceed to 
the spot and sentence the persons responsible to pay compensation 
and possibly also a fine. This measure has been widely used, 
and on an average most of the Administrative Officers have had 
to deal with some 200 cases in the year, so that an amendment 
to the law for the purpose of relieving them of some of these 
cases 1s necessary. 


19. Trans-Jordan has maintained satisfactory relations with 
her neighbours. His Highness the Amir Abdullah, in colla- 
boration with Their Majesties the Kings of ‘Iraq and Saudi 
Arabia, used his influence to improve the position in Palestine, 
and to bring about the termination of the Arab strike in October. 


) 
! 


319 
The Officer Commanding the desert area has maintained amic- 


able relations with neighbours to the north and east, whilst 


the Government of Saudi Arabia in July removed the heavy 


_ charges on merchandise crossing the frontier, which until then 


had brought trade to a standstill, and in December the Saudi 
Government followed the example set by Trans-Jordan some 
tme ago of allowing bona fide merchants and their servants 
tocross into Saudi Arabia without visas. 


Tribal Affairs. 


20. The Tribal Courts Law which was enacted in 1924 set 
up mixed courts of officials and tribal sheikhs to deal in first 


_ Instance and on appeal with the following matters :— 


(a) Cases of aggression and differences in regard to 
movable property and matters of “‘ blood ’’ and questions 
of compensation and guarantees relating thereto, ‘arising 
between nomadic tribes or their members or between 
groups of members of nomadic tribes and groups of 
members of non-nomadic tribes. 


(b) Cases of ‘‘ honour ’’ between nomadic tribes or 
their members. 


(c) Cases of horse partnerships provided that, if the 
agreement of partnership between the parties was in a 
as document, the case should be decided by the Civil 

ourts. 


_ (d) Cases of compensation for blood when the defendant 
ls a member of a nomadic tribe or a person who ordinarily 
follows the customs of nomadic tribes. 


21. This Law was never effectively operated, and in 1929 the 
Beduin Control Law was enacted. This set up a Beduin 
Control Board, with powers to hear actions within the juris- 
diction of the Tribal Courts and to withdraw and deal with 
any action pending in a Tribal Court, and also powers— 

(7) to determine the places in which nomads shall camp, 
an 


(2) to investigate any raids or other breaches of the 
peace in which nomads were concerned whether occurring 
before or after the passing of the Law and wherever the 
same might have taken place. 


22. In 1931, the desert areas of Trans-Jordan were placed 
under the effective administrative control of an officer of the 
Arab Legion, and by the Tribal Offences (Settlement) Law, 
1933, the Beduin Control Board, of which this officer was a 
member, delegated to him the authority granted to the Board 
under (1) and (2) above, with powers of punishment not 
*xceeding three months imprisonment or £P.5 fine. 


320 


The President of the Beduin Control Board was His Highness 
the Amir Shaker, a man of outstanding personality and great 
knowledge of tribal law and custom. 


23. The Beduin Control Board did a great deal of useful 
work and the Amir Shaker’s reputation was such that many 
cases in which he had no jurisdiction were brought to him for 
settlement. On his death in December, 1934, it proved impos- 
sible adequately to replace him, and a new set of Tribal Laws 
was drawn up and enacted in February, 1936, in the form of— 


The Tnbal Courts Law, 1936. 
The Inbal Court of Appeal Law, 1936. 
The Beduin Control Law, 1936. 


24. The first of these three Laws constituted a Tnbal Court 
in each of the four administrative districts and in the desert 
area as well. A Tribal Court is composed of one or three 
judges selected by the parties to the case from a panel of 

heikhs drawn up by the Administrative Officer in charge of © 
the District (the Mutessarrif) and approved by His Highness 
the Amir. 

Tribal Courts have jurisdiction :— 

(a) in all cases of whatever nature between members of | 
the nomadic tribes with the exception of :— 

(rz) cases relating to the ownership and possession 

of immovable property ; 

(2) cases which, in the opinion of the Mutessarnf, | 

should be referred to the Civil Courts; 


(b) all cases of compensation for blood, honour, and 
horse partnerships, except where the agreement has been 
reduced to writing, in circumstances where the Mutessarmif — 
is of opinion that the parties by ancient custom follow — 
tribal procedure, if such cases occur between members of | 
nomadic and non-nomadic tribes or between members of © 
non-nomadic tribes. ; 


25. The judgment of the Court must be sent to the 
Mutessarrif who may order its execution by the Arab Legion, 
or refer the matter back to the Court for further examination, 
or appeal to the Tribal Court of Appeal, or in a criminal case 
order the guilty party to be punished with a fine not exceeding 
£P.20 or imprisonment for a year. In cases where the value 
of the subject matter is more than £P.50, or the sentence 
imprisonment for more than three months or a fine of £P.10, 
the parties have the right to appeal to the Tribal Court of 
Appeal. 

It is believed that under this system, whereby the case is tried 
and decided by a Court of Sheikhs, the truth is readily arrived 


321 


at and justice is done in a manner which could never be achieved 
by a Court of which a Government official is a member, ‘the 
reason being that tribal life is so free and open and so lacking 
mm privacy that everybody, except the Government official, 
knows everybody else’s concerns, and parties to a case will not 
usually even try to hide the truth from a sheikh, because they 
realize that he already knows too much about them. 


20. The jurisdiction of the Court is now more strictly limited 
than before in dealing with cases of compensation for blood, 
honour, amd horse partnerships, and this is important as it 
would be Improper, tor example, to allow a townsman who had 

ed a man to appeal before a Tribal Court and have the 
matter settled by the payment of blood money. a 


27. The Beduin Control Law allows the officer of the Arab 
‘ion In charge of the desert area to control the movements 
ot the nomads and to deal summarily with cases of raiding, 
whether they occur in Trans-Jordan or elsewhere, and to arrest 
and impound the movable property of nomads suspected of 
Preparing for a raid. 3 
28. The terms of the Moslem Family Law of 1927, which 
ao Provision regarding the marriage, divorce, and separa- 
‘A of Moslems, were not being observed by the nomads, who 
en iNability to pay the necessary fees, and in view of the 
‘stability of curing this neglect, a Law was enacted in 
ecember, 1936, providing that the Kadi Sharia may in the 
‘ase of embers of the nomad tribes order the exemption from 
oe in part or in whole of the marriage licence fee and 
@ fee Of the marriage official. | 


Economic Affairs. 
ty During the examination of the Report for 1935, enquiry 
Co. made as to the membership of the Committee on Economic 
onditions which was formed by the Trans- Jordan Government. 
rena, <eomposition of the Committee which submitted its 
“Port in 1933 was as follows:— 
Ali Bey Tabbara—Director of Agriculture. 
Baz Bey Kawar—Postmaster-General and formerly Chief 
Accountant in Treasury. : 
Nuseir Eff. Nusseir—An engineer in the Department of | 
blic Works. | 
Said Bey el Mufti—Administrative Inspector and member 
of the Executive Council. | 
Qassim Bey El Hindawi—Member of the Executive 
Council appointed from the Legislative Council. | 
Saleh Pasha Auran—Member of the Legislative Council. 
The Committee was greatly assisted in its task by the Irri- 
ston Officer of the Palestine Government, who made two 


322 


tours in company with members of the Committee and sub- 
mitted reports to them containing his conclusions and 
recommendations. 


30. As will be noted from the details given in the sections of 
this report relating to Customs, Excise and Trade and to 
Agriculture, Forests and Veterinary, the agricultural season 
of 1935/36 was exceptionally bad and the postponement, with 
a view to subsequent remission, of a sum of £P.53,507 of the 
Land Tax out of a total assessment of £P.88,000 indicates the 
gravity of the crop failure. 

The virtual closure of the Palestine markets for six months 
of the year crippled the export trade of Trans-Jordan during 
that period. 

A further ill-effect of the disturbances in Palestine on the 
economic situation in Trans-Jordan was the inability of many 
of the cultivators, rendered idle and in want by the crop 
failure, to obtain employment in Palestine. 


31. To alleviate the consequent distress, the Government spent 
a sum of £P.19,000 on relief work and supplemented the 
£P.20,000 which was available for agricultural loans in the 
Agricultural Bank by a loan of £P.15,000 which the Government 
obtained from His Majesty’s Government. Of the persons who 
are in urgent need of agricultural loans, there are a number who 
cannot offer security sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the 
Agricultural Bank, and the Government has therefore guaranteed 
the repayment to the Bank of £P.8,000 which is to be issued 
in loans of this nature. 


32. The better keeping of statistics by the Customs Depart- 
ment has made it possible to show cause to the Palestine 
Government for the increase from £P.17,000 to £P.25,000 in 
the annual payment made by Palestine on account of foreign 
goods re-exported from Palestine to Trans-Jordan. A closer 
control by the Customs Department of the trade with Syna 
has also added considerably to the Department’s revenue. 
These additions, together with other small increases of revenue, 
and the exercise of economy in expenditure, except as regards 
public security, have made it possible to balance the budget 
for the current year. 

3. The desire of the Permanent Mandates Commission for 
fuller information as regards the economic position in Trans- 
Jordan has been met as far as is possible under the section of 
the report dealing with Customs, Excise and Trade. It is 
hoped that this information will be supplemented in subsequent 
years as the statistics available become more complete. 


34. A’ local company is endeavouring to exploit the large 
deposits of phosphates which lie in the vicinity of Amman. 
Considerable exploratory work has been accomplished, but the 


Ce ee ee 


323 
success or otherwise of the project depends on the cost of 
transporting the raw material to Europe. 


Agriculture and Land. 


35. Reference is made under the relevant sections of the 
report to the measures which continue to be taken to improve 
the methods of farming in its various branches, but the adverse 
weather conditions which were experienced during 1936 must 
inevitably weigh to a considerable extent against the activities 
of the Government in this respect. 


36. The formation of the Department of Development, to 
which reference was made on page 208 of the Report for 
1935, was not completed during the year under review. A 
suitable candidate for the post of Director has, however, been 
selected and it is hoped that he will take up his duties during 
the summer of 1937. 


37. The information asked for relative to the area and 
categories of State Domain Lands is given in paragraph 14 of 
the section of this report regarding Lands. 


Official Language. 


38. Under the terms of Article 15 of the Organic Law, Arabic 
is the official language of Trans-Jordan. 


|.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


1. The Administration of Trans-Jordan is autonomous in its 


nature, vide paragraphs 12* et seq. of the Introductory section 
of this report. 


2. There are Municipal Councils at Irbid, Jerash, Ajlun, 
Amman, Salt, Madeba, Kerak, Tafileh, Ma‘an. 


These Councils are wholly elected, except in Amman, where 
the President is appointed by the Chief Minister, and operate 
in accordance with laws which are in course of revision. The 
largest item of municipal revenue is an octroi tax levied on all 
commodities imported from foreign countries, which is collected 
by the Amman Municipality and then distributed. 


A tax on inflammable liquids is collected by the Department 
of Customs on behalf of the municipalities; in 1936 the receipts 
amounted to £P.7,178.908 mils. Municipalities also receive 
50 per cent. of the licence fees collected under the Road Trans- 
port Law (£P.1,216 in 1936) and 20 per cent. of the tax col- 
lected within municipal areas under the House and Land Tax 
Law of 1926 (£P.1,165 in 1936). 


* Page 313. 


. 324 


Municipal estimates are subject to the approval of the Chief 
Minister, and municipal accounts are audited by the Govern- 
ment’s Audit Department. 

No grants are-made by Government to assist Municipal 
Councils, but Government occasionally guarantee loans to 
municipalities to finance approved schemes of improvement. 
No such guarantees were given during 19306. 

Scavenging in all municipalities is in charge of the Govern- 
ment medical officer, who controls the funds set aside for that 
purpose. 

The Chief Minister is assisted in the supervision of municipal 
affairs by the Municipal Advisory Board, which is composed 
of the Directors of Public Health and Public Works, the 
Administrative Inspector, and the Assistant Treasurer. 


i1.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1. The control of travel to and from Trans-Jordan is the 
duty of a special section of the Arab Legion. The following 
table indicates the work of this section for the years 1935 and 


1936. 


1935: 1936. 
Applications for Nationality Certificates bbe 792 675 
Nationality Certificates issued . sue 578 537 
Naturalisation Certificates issued oe ee rere) 117 
Passports issued ... ss ae sae ses 721 790 
Ordinary Visas issued ... sin aad ee 197 94 
Return Visas issued sah sats sea ses 47 47 
Emergency Visas issued ae see 181 346 
Registration of Foreign Passports ron or 1,987 2,041 
Endorsements and additions ... sss sds I2I 199 
Palestine Passports issued ea = oT: — 22 
Renewals of Trans- Jordan Passports bee 354 424 


2. The following list of foreigners in Trans-Jordan is given 
in answer to the request for information on this subject made 
during the examination of the report for 1935. As no census 
has been taken the figures are approximate. 


Nationality. Numbers. -  Nattonality. Numbers. 
Syrians sie w= 855 -  Tunisians i 8 
Lebanese sus oats 63 Indians 10 
Palestinians... wee «5S Sudanese 6 
Egyptians ac 76 Afghans 8 
British (excluding His Iraqis 6 

Majesty’s Forces) ... 56 Greeks 5 
Americans baie see 7 Hadhramautis 2 
Germans a shes 2 Albanians 3 
Turks ... sail re <1.) Abyssinians I 
Italians ~ sis: 15 Russians 8 
Hedjazis wes ws 142 Bukharians 2 
Yemenis ste se 23 Japanese I 
Algerians seis tag 4 ea 


I, 


oO 
Oo 
N 


| 


325 


3. Information has been requested as to the national status 
of Armenians resident in Trans-Jordan. 


gives the information :— 


The following table 





Trans- Jordanian 172 
Syrian 16 
Turkish ... 99 
Palestinian 22 
Lebanese I 
Italian 2 

312 





(11.—LANDS. 


1. Mr. G. F. Walpole, formerly of the Survey of Egypt, was 
appointed Assistant Director of Lands in place of Mr. W. S. 
Moffatt who returned to the Palestine Government after seven 
years of secondment to the Trans-Jordan Government. 


Land Settlement. 
2. The Land Settlement Law enacted in 1933 has now been 
applied to 52 villages covering an area of 1,033,000 dunums. 


The following is a comparative statement of the area (in du- 
nums) Gann and settled to date: — 











Masha‘a Mafruz Total. 
Land. Land. 
August to December, 193 3 17,540 18,363 35,903 
During 1934 155,070 39,139 194,209 
During 1935 268,954 31,006 299,960 
During 1936 269,809 48,352 318,161 
Total .. 711,373 136,860 848,233 











The work completed during the year includes a number of 
villages situated in the most populated and fertile part of the 
country. The number of properties settled during the year was 
7,109, aS compared with 4,405 in 1935. 


The cost of settlement amounts to 45 mils per dunum as 
compared with 29 mils in 1935. The increase is due to expendi- 
ture in training new staff appointed under the grant from the 
Colonial Development Fund referred to below. 


3. The following data have been compiled from records of 
work completed in 1936: — 


From 
Musha‘a = Mafruz Total. commencement 
Land. Land. of Settlement. 
Villages settled a 17 I 18 43 
Claims Recorded 4,653 2,428 7,081 24,022 
No. of Appeals seaee 230 24 254 559 


Appeals allowed eee 61 13 74 184 


326 
There are no appeals outstanding. 


The low number of appeals is largely due to the fact that 
Settlement Officers and the Settlement Court operate in the 
villages. The attendance of the Court in public at each village 
minimizes frivolous claims and facilitates their amicable settle- 
ment. During the year, the Land Settlement Court visited 
24 villages, and the sittings occupied a total of 47 days. 


4. A grant from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.30,000 
to be spread over six years for the acceleration of land par- 
tition and settlement was approved in January and the expan- 
sion of the Department was completed during the latter part 
of the year. The increased speed of settlement, due to the 
expansion, is not yet apparent in the comparative statement 
of the area settled during the year, as work in the villages 
allotted to the new settlement parties is still in progress. 


5. Registration and court fees arising out of settlement frum 
the commencement of operations in 1933 to the end of 
December, 1936, are as follows:—Payable, £P.7,885; Col- 
lected, £P.1,508; Outstanding, £P.6,377. 

Registration fees are only collected as and when certificates 
of registration are applied for by owners or when they desire 
to effect further transactions in the Land Registry. The large 
outstanding amount of fees is mainly in respect of the villages 
more recently completed. 

The following is a comparative statement of the fees in 
respect of Schedules of Rights and of Partition passed to the 
Land Registry and of collections thereof in each successive 
year : — 


Payable. Collected. 
£LP. £LP. Per cent. 
1933 421 139 33 
1934 2,573 701 27 
1935 2,845 437 15 
1936 1,900 85 2 


6. As the land registers are indexed on a territorial basis, 
it has been considered advisable to maintain an auxiliary 
register which records the total property of each landowner 
and has an alphabetical index of proprietors. Loose-leaf 
registers are used in order that subsequent transactions may be 
conveniently and promptly recorded. 

The following data have been compiled from the register of 
proprietors in 20 “‘ settled ’’ villages where the average holding 
is arrived at without inflation by any large holdings : — 

Average holding, 40 dunums.—In ten villages situated 
the high lands where crop failure is infrequent. 


327 
Average holding, 60 dunums.—In four villages situated 
at lower altitudes where the rainfall is unreliable. 


Average holding, 110 dunums.—In six villages bordering 
the desert where the crops succeed in years of exceptional 
rainfall. 


The preparation of the Schedule of Rights in the village 
affords a unique opportunity for Settlement Officers to compile 
a record of the land-owning population. A comparison between 
the results obtained and the register of proprietors indicates that, 
on an average, two members of each family appear as land- 
owners. The family holding in the three categories recorded 
above is therefore 80, 120, and 220 dunums respectively. ' 


The Law of Succession provides that a specified share of the 
immovable property of the deceased shall go to each of his 
heirs including the females, but the land-owners take what steps 
are possible to prevent land leaving the family with a girl on 
her marriage, and it is for this reason that a part of the property 
ls registered on settlement in the name of a son during the 
life-time of the father. The percentage of women figuring in the 
register is very small. 


7. Satisfactory progress has been made in securing land for 
State Forest Reserves during settlement operations. During 
the year, a further 6,000 dunums of forest were recorded as 
State Domain, making a total of 43,000 dunums since the 
Inception of land settlement. 


The limits of these State Forests have been clearly demarcated 
and mapped and two Forest Rangers, trained in survey, have 
vias stationed in the area to prevent encroachment and felling 
of trees. 


The number of prosecutions during the year was forty-one, 
as compared with sixty-two in 1935, although the area of Forest 
Reserves was increased by 6,000 dunums. 


Land Registry. 


8. Transactions passing through the Land Registry numbered 
8,090 and a sum af £P. 4,881 was collected in fees, as compared 
with 6,831 and £P.5,92I respectively in the previous year. 
Owing to an exceptionally poor harvest, there was a general 
decrease in revenue from Land Registry fees throughout the 
country, except in villages where land settlement has been com- 
pleted. In the Irbid District, where settlement is in progress, 
the increase in fees amounted to £P.417, although in other 
dist-icts the decrease was £P.1,457. | 


9. The fees collected in respect of transactions in “ settled ”’ 
vilag—=xes totalled £P.4,351; the average annual collection in these 


328 


villages prior to land settlement was £P.112. These figures 
indicate the increase in revenue which may be expected from 
Land Registry fees as land settlement progresses. 


10. Every facility is provided to assist the peasant land- 
owner in drawing up documents of sale, lease, etc., in order 
that he may avoid the fees of advocates or petition writers. No 
case of an unregistered disposition has come to notice in 
respect of property recorded in the new registers. 


11. A new Partition Law, applicable only to “* settled ’’ 
villages, has been enacted and provides for the partitioning of 
jointly-owned properties by Land Registry officials at the 
demand of one or more of the joint owners. In the event of 
disagreement as to the partition between the joint owners, par- 
titioning is carried out by the Director of Lands or by a person 
acting on his behalf. Any owner who fails to accept the par- 
tition must within a period of ten days apply for partitioning 
by the Courts under the terms of the Ottoman Law of Partition; 
otherwise the partition is final. The object of the Law is to 
provide an inexpensive and simple procedure so that there shall 
be no hindrance to the partitioning of properties when titles 
change on succession. 


Land Tax. 


12. [The Land Tax Law has been introduced throughout the 
country (454 villages), with the exception of 54 villages, where 
the variation between the amount of the old and new tax is 
small enough to allow postponement until the arrival of land 
settlement. The lands of these 54 villages are held in undivided 
ownership (masha‘a) and the method of distribution of the tax 
amongst individuals will not be affected by the new Law, so 
that postponement is not harmful to the owners concerned. 


The Land Tax Law limits the increase in taxation to 
£P.10,000. The gross assessment of the tax amounts to 
Z#,P.88,166. The gross assessment of the taxes it has replaced 
amounts to £P.78,641; a resulting increase of £P.9,525. 


13. Progressive improvement in assessment and distribution 
is secured by an addendum to the Land Tax Law which pro- 
vides for a more accurate valuation of properties during assess- 
ment operations than that made under the Land Demarcation, 
Survey and Valuation Law, and provides, in settled villages, 
for the distribution of the tax in accordance with the Land 
Registry records. 


The loose-leaf register of proprietors referred to in para- 
graph 6 above also shows the tax assessment on each landowner, 
and ensures an expeditious and economical compilation of the 
annual tax distribution lists in respect of each settled village. 


329 
The following data in regard to Land Tax have been compiled 


from the record of taxpayers in villages where land settlement 
has been completed : — 


Number. Per cent. 
Owners paying under f{P.1 ... si¢ 2,889 59 
Owners paying £P.1-2 = fo 1,213 25 
Owners paying £P.2-3 oe aS 414 8 
Owners paying over £P.5 396 8 


State Domain. 


14. The fiscal survey (see page 284 of the Report for 1935) 
was carried far enough into the desert to include all State 
Domain where patch cultivation might occur in years of excep- 
tional rainfall. The total area covered by the survey is shown 





below : — 

‘* Owned” Lands :— Dunums. Dunums. 

Cultivable 3,925,000 

Uncultivable 4,302,000 
—_—__— 8,227,000 
State Domain 1,781,000 
10,008,000 

The State Domain is classified as follows :— 

(a) Land in course of disposal, which has been in Dunums. 
possession of the cultivators for many years... ghee 378,000 

(6) Land bordering the desert, in general uncultivable 
owing to unreliable rainfall... site ae ie 400,000 
(c) Undeveloped land in the Jordan Valley 26,000 
(2) Forest reserves ... sek sieie Set shat diate 43,000 

(e) Uncultivable land (through lack of water or by its 
nature) soe — Sie ae wie acy 934,000 

Total 


1,781,000 


As land settlement proceeds, there will be an addition to the 
area of State Domain in categories (d) and (e) at the expense 


of the uncultivable area recorded above under 


lands. 


‘* owned ”’ 


The proceeds of the sale of State Domain since the com- 
pee of survey is £P.24,285, whereas the average annual rent 
rom the properties sold was £P.1,226. Asa result of disposal, 
the owners have improved the methods of cultivation, and in 
many instances the revenue from land tax exceeds the tithe 


and rental tithe collected prior to disposal. 


Survey. 


15. Six students trained during 1935 were appointed to classi- 
fied posts, and a further group of thirteen students are under 


training. 


330 
Survey in connection with settlement is carried out on the 
scale 1:2500. During the year, 425 cadastral plans were 


completed, details of which are as follows :— 
Average 














Number Number Area of Marks 
of of Parcel Erected. 

Blocks. Parcels. Dunums. 
Masha‘a Land 397 4,835 55 9,949 
Mafruz Land 44 2,274 15 6,341 
Total 441 7,109 70 16,290 














In “‘ mafruz ’’ villages the work of settlement and survey are 
carried out simultaneously. This procedure allows settlement 
officers to delegate the recording of undisputed claims to the 
survey party and in addition enables the surveyor to acquire 
experience in land settlement. 

A reduction of cadastral plans to the scale 1:10,000 is being 
carried out to serve as an index map in the Land Registry and | 
for sale to the public. Since the beginning of settlement 408 
plans have been reproduced. 

The people are rapidly learning the value of survey and 
demarcation, and it is not uncommon for landowners to apply 
for copies of cadastral plans in order to safeguard the limits 
of their properties and if necessary to institute proceedings in 
Court for encroachment. 

Publication is in progress of a I1:250,000 scale map in three 
sheets covering the whole country with the exception of the desert 
area east of longitude 36°31’ E. The first sheet is being printed 
and the second sheet is in course of preparation. 


IV.—NATIONALITY. 


1. Article 1 of the Trans-Jordan Nationality Law provided 
that all Ottoman subjects habitually resident in Trans-Jordan 
on the 6th August, 1924, were to be deemed to have acquired 
Trans-Jordan nationality. The term “‘ habitually resident in 
Trans-Jordan ’’ was deemed to include any person who had 
his usual place of residence in Trans-Jordan for the period of 
twelve months preceding the 6th day of August, 1924. 


2. Provision existed in the law permitting persons who had 
acquired Trans-Jordan nationality under Article 1 of the Law 
to opt for other nationality before the 6th day of August, 1926, 
but, in fact, no use was made of this permission. 


3. Naturalization is granted at the discretion of the Chief 
Minister to applicants who fulfil the following conditions :— 


(a) two years’ residence in Trans-Jordan immediately 
prior to the application for naturalization ; 


331 
(b) that the applicant is of good character; - 
(c) that the applicant intends to reside in Trans-Jordan; 
(d) that the applicant knows the Arabic language. 


In special circumstances the Chief Minister may, with the 
approval of H.H. the Amir, dispense with the condition of two 
years’ previous residence. 

In 1936 one hundred and seventeen persons acquired Trans- 
Jordan nationality by naturalization. This number included 
Syrians and Lebanese who had obtained the permission of the 
Syrian and Lebanese Governments to divest themselves of their 
former nationality. 


V.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Civil Courts. 

I. The Civil Courts consist of :— 

(a) Courts of First Instance.—The present organization of 
the Courts largely follows the Turkish model, which was in- 
herited from the former Ottoman system. The organization 
of the Ottoman Courts was based upon a District Court known 
as the Court of First Instance, having jurisdiction to try all 
criminal matters where the maximum punishment which could 
be awarded exceeded one year and the fine LT.go, and all civil 
cases, the value of which exceeded LT. 50. 


(b) Magistrates’ Courts.—Criminal cases where the maximum 

punishment which could be awarded was less than one year 
and the maximum fine less than LT.go and civil cases where 
the value of the subject matter of the action was less than 
LT.50 were triable by Courts known as Magistrates’ Courts 
or Courts of the Justice of the Peace. 
_ Courts of First Instance were established in any town of any 
Importance or size in the Ottoman Empire. Magistrates’ Courts 
were established in towns possessing Courts of First Instance 
and also in smaller towns where no Courts of First Instance 
existed. 

Appeal from Magistrates’ Courts lay to Courts of First 
Instance, and appeal from Courts of First Instance lay to 
regional Courts of Appeal. Appeal in certain cases lay from 
Tegional Courts of Appeal to the Court of Cassation in Con- 
stantinople. In addition to appeal, this Court had a jurisdiction 
by way of cassation from Courts below. These Courts were 
known generally as Civil Courts to distinguish them from 
Sharia and other Religious Courts. 


2. The principal modifications of this system in Trans- Jordan 
consist in the abolition of regional Courts of Appeal, since they 
are not necessary, and the abolition of the nght of appeal from 
Peace Courts to Courts of First Instance. Appeals from 


332 


Magistrates’ Courts now go direct to the Court of Appeal in 
Amman. Appeal by way of cassation has been abolished. 
The modifications of the Ottoman system are therefore little 
more than simplifications of a system which was suitable for 
a territory of the vast size of the former Ottoman Empire, but 
too complicated for a small country like Trans-Jordan. 


Sharia Courts. 


3. Sharia Courts were those Courts which had exclusive 
jurisdiction to deal with personal status cases of Moslems. This — 
jurisdiction was and still is in Trans- Jordan exercised in accord- 
ance with the provisions of the Ottoman Law of Procedure of 
the Moslem Religious Courts of the 25th of October, 1333 A.H. 
By personal status is meant matters concerning the personal 
and domestic relations of the parties, such as marriage, divorce, 
alimony, maintenance, guardianship, legitimisation and adop- 
tion of minors, interdiction, succession, wills and legacies. 
These Courts also have jurisdiction in cases of ‘‘ Diya ’’ (blood 
money), this being a cash payment to the relatives of any person © 
killed or injured as the result of the wrongful act of any other — 
person in addition to any penalty imposed under the terms of 
the Criminal Law by the Civil Courts. ‘“Diya ’’ is a part of © 
Mohammedan Law and as such is administered by the Sharia 
Courts. The Sharia Courts also had jurisdiction to deal with 
cases of waqf, established by and belonging to Moslems. By 
waqf is meant a pious foundation instituted by the founder, 
in most cases, from pious and religious motives. | 


Religious Community Council Courts. 


4. In addition to the Sharia Courts, there were certain Courts 
known as the Courts of the Religious Community Councils 
which exercised in respect of the various non-Moslem religious 
communities dwelling within the Ottoman Empire much the 
same jurisdiction as that exercised by the Sharia Courts. Each 
separate community had its own Council which had power to 
set up a Court with jurisdiction to hear personal status cases 
arising between members of the particular religious community 
concerned. The principal religious communities in Trans- 
Jordan are the Greek Orthodox community, the Greek Catholic 
community, the Armenian community and the Latin com- 
munity. The jurisdiction of the Courts of these communities 
is set forth in the non-Moslem Religious Community Councils 
Law, 1933. 

Courts at present established in Trans-Jordan. 

5. Civil Courts.—The Courts at present established in Trans- 

Jordan are as follows: — 


(1) A Court of Appeal at Amman having jurisdiction to 
hear appeals from all lower Courts in Trans-Jordan; 


333 


(2) Courts of First Instance having jurisdiction in 
criminal matters where the maximum punishment which 
can be awarded is imprisonment for more than three years 
or a fine, and in civil matters where the value of the subject 
matter of the action exceeds £P.50. 

These Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, and Kerak. 
Members of Courts of First Instance proceed to places where 
Magistrates’ Courts only are in existence in order, when 
necessary, to constitute Courts of First Instance in those places, 
thereby saving litigants and others concerned the trouble and 
expenses of coming to the headquarters of a Court of First 
Instance. 

(3) Magistrates’ Courts having jurisdiction in criminal 
cases where the maximum punishment which can be 
awarded is imprisonment up to three years or a fine, and 
in civil cases where the value of the subject matter of the 
action is not more than £P.50, although if the parties agree 
in writing, the Court has jurisdiction up to any amount... 

Magistrates’ Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, Kerak, 

salt, Jerash, Ajlun, Madeba, Tafileh, and Ma‘an. 


Sharia Courts.—Sharia Courts having jurisdiction to hear 
personal status cases of Moslems, cases relating to waqfs (pious 
foundations) and diya (blood money) are established in Amman, 
Kerak, Irbid, Salt, Ajlun, Tafileh, Jerash, and Ma‘an. 


Inbal Courts.—Trbal Courts are at present established in 
Amman, Irbid, Kerak, Ma‘an, and the Desert Area. 
Religious Community Council Courts.—Religious Commu- 
nity Council Courts are established in the following places :— 


Place Community 
Amman Greek Orthodox and Greek Catholic. 
El Husn Greek Orthodox and Greek Catholic. 
Salt Greek Orthodox only. 


_ Special Courts.—The only Special Court at present working 
in Trans-Jordan is the Land Settlement Court, which is a 
travelling Court and is set up in districts which are declared to 
be land settlement areas under the terms of the Land Settlement 


Law, 1933. 
Nature of the Law in force in Trans-Jordan. 


6. Article 58 of the Organic Law provides that Ottoman 
aws promulgated before the Ist November, 1914, and laws 
Promulgated after that date and declared by public notice to be 
in force in Trans-Jordan shall remain in force until repealed 
or amended. Ottoman law consequently constitutes the bulk 
of the corpus juris of Trans-Jordan, the only amendments and 
repeals of any importance being those affecting the Organic 

aw itself, which replaces the Ottoman Constitution. 


334 


Ottoman law consisted of several elements which have - 


necessarily been taken over by Trans- Jordan under the terms of 


Article 58 of the Organic Law. These elements are Mohammedan — 
Law, French Law, Turkish Law, and Personal Status Law of - 


non-Moslem Religious Communities. 


(1) Mohammedan Law.—Mohammedan Law is. the law | 


which had its origin in the precepts of the Koran as applied by 


the Prophet Mohammed himself and was later developed into | 


a formal legal system by Moslem jurists. Mohammedan Law, 


as taken over by Trans-Jordan, now consists of three main — 


divisions : — 
(a) Civil Law; 
(6) Personal Status Law of Moslems; 


(c) Miscellaneous Laws affected by Islam, such as waqf | 
(pious foundations), and portions of the Land Law, etc. © 
The Civil Law referred to in (a) above is contained ina - 
compilation known as the “‘ Mejelle ’’. This is a codification © 
by a Committee of Moslem jurists, specially appointed for that © 


purpose, of those portions of Mohammedan Law dealing with 


the principal contracts such as sale, hire (including employment), . 


pledge, guarantee, gift, etc. It also covers civil injuries an 
the law of procedure and evidence, the part dealing with pro- 
cedure being supplemented by the Ottoman Code of Civil 
Procedure. 


The Personal Status Law of Moslems is administered by the — 


Sharia Courts. 


(2) French Law.—The Ottoman Government borrowed , 


several of their codes of law from France. They are often 
virtually little more than Turkish translations from the French. 
The principal of these Codes are: — 


(a) The Criminal Code; 
(6) The Criminal Procedure Code; 
(c) The Civil Procedure Code; 
(d) The Commercial Code. 
The Criminal Law of Trans-Jordan, both as regards sub- 


stantive law and procedure, consequently bears many of the | 


characteristics of French criminal law. The office of Examin- 


ing Magistrate (juge d’instruction) has been abolished in i 
interest of economy, the duties being performed by the Public 
Prosecutors. 


(3) Turkish Law.—Pure Turkish law consists of laws passed 
by the Turks for their own local requirements and not borrow 
from elsewhere. These are principally administrative laws, 
such as the Ottoman Wilayet Administration Law. 


335 


(4) Personal Status Law of the Non-Moslem Commumnities.— 
This is the law in matters of personal relations followed by 
the non-Moslem communities of the former Ottoman Empire, 
which is based upon Christian religious precepts. This law is 
administered by the Special Courts of the Communities. 


The Diwan Khas for the Interpretation of Laws and Regulations. 


7. The Diwan Khas is a body established under the terms of 
an addendum to the Organic Law dated the 4th March, 1930. 
The object of the creation of this body was to provide a means 
whereby any points of doubt or difficulty to administrative 
authorities, which have not been the subject of any final 
decision by the Courts, could be made the subject of investiga- 
ton, the decision taken by the Diwan Khas being considered 
to have the force of law. 

The Diwan is convoked by the Chief Minister at the request 
of the Head of any Department. It is composed of two senior 
Administrative officials and two senior officials of the Ministry 
guste. The Diwan is presided over by the Minister of 

ustice. 

No interpretation of the Diwan Khas of any of the provisions 
_ of the Organic Law is operative until confirmed by the Amir. 


Ministry of Justice. 

8. The general control and supervision of the Law Courts 
and Judicial Departments is vested in the Ministry of Justice, 
presided over by a Minister who is a member of the Executive 
Council and ex-officio member of the Legislative Council. 
Attached to the Ministry is a British Judicial Adviser, who is 
@ member of the Senior Judicial Council established for the 
éppointment, transfer and removal of judicial officials, subject 
to the concurrence of the Amir. He is also a member of the 

Iwan Khas for the interpretation of Laws and Regulations. 

lese are the only executive functions of the Judicial Adviser. 
‘is duties include the drafting of new laws and _ regula- 
lions, advising the Government on points of law, and attend- 
“nce at the meetings of the Executive and Legislative Councils. 

& attends the meetings of the Legislative Council with a view 
© Xeeping in touch with opinion in the Legislative Council 
with regard to draft legislation submitted to it for discussion. 

€ has no right either of taking part in debates or of voting. 

€ is not a member of either Council. In addition, he joins 
Nae the Minister in conducting the day-to-day routine work of 
© Ministry and examines petitions containing complaints with 
"gard to specific cases, or in which the Amir is asked to 
*xercise his prerogative of pardon. This work is also carried 
Cut in close collaboration with the Minister. 
€ present Minister of Justice, Ibrahim Pasha Hashim, 
Combines that post with the post of Chief Minister. 


330 
g. Full statistics showing the activities of the Courts and the 
fines, fees and costs received by them are shown below. 


10. It is a matter of satisfaction that in spite of the dis- 
turbances in Palestine there has been no increase of serious 
crime in Trans-Jordan. On the contrary, the decrease, which 
has been a feature of recent years, is very marked. Leaving 
aside petty offences, new cases of serious crimes throughout 
the country numbered only 113, being ten less than in 1935; 
and new cases of crimes of the second category numbered 478 
as compared with 678 in 1935. 

The number of new civil cases was about the same as in 
previous years. 


11. Throughout the year, illness interfered with the proper 
discharge of his duties by Taufiq Bey Sinnu, the President of 
the Court of Appeal. In consequence the fourth member of 
the Court, who should also perform the duties of Inspector of 
Courts, was largely occupied with his judicial functions and 
had little time to devote to inspection. 

The regular inspection of Courts throughout the country 1s 
most necessary in order to maintain efficiency, and it is hoped 
that it will be possible to carry out the inspection regularly 
during 1937, after the Inspector for whom provision has been 
made in the 1937-38 Estimates has been appointed. 


12. Few laws of importance were passed during the year, 
legislation being for the most part of an amending nature. 
The principal new laws not referred to elsewhere were : — 

The Revenue Stamp Duty Law replacing an Ottoman 
Law on the same matter; 

The Telegraph and Telephone Wires (Protection) Law 
giving to the Government larger powers for protecting 
telegraphic and telephonic communications; 

The Carriage by Air Law making provision for the 
application of the Convention for the Unification of the 
Rules relating to International Carriage by Air. 


13. His Highness the Amir in six cases remitted sentences 
imposed by the Courts: two of these remissions were granted 
on account of the ill-health of the prisoner. 


14. Two death sentences were carried out during the year. 
The conditions of convicted prisoners in the jails are satis- 
factory. A control is constantly kept on accused persons who 
are detained awaiting trial, in order to ensure that they come 
before the Courts without undue delay. _ 

15. Only three companies and partnerships were registered 
at the Ministry of Justice, and none of these was of importance. 
The absence of cases of a commercial nature in the Courts of 
Trans-Jordan is very noticeable. | 











1£6 | 926‘ | [e}OL 

Cor €zI GzP g Chz GI C66 bl Ogz CI | oSS eqeyy » ue, ey 
099 Lg1 og/ Il ogZ gI oLP 96 ooS z€ | OST YsTyeLl 
126 oO1f og$ gz CLP zt 096 Fol — QI 9£6 eqope 
Cog bbz CEI of — gt ol Lei 00S II oot ‘+ useiof 
CoS Cfz obZ CI GZ QI oSo bor oSz oo oSg unojly jeqof 
cfg gZg Cre gol oS6 IZI oLZ gSt oof bS1 oLz “""3eS ST 


—S}1INOZ) S,d} eIZSIZL IW] 


eee sent | ce | ar | AAA SE | EES | ARR PSC | 





QRZ boz'9| ogt 1¢Z CzI gor o61 Lez‘z| €¢¢ L6S‘1| ov6 on ore co [e}O]L 
Cer Lb C69 of C96 gov oof QzI — He1Iy 
Cfo €v1 oof cZ OzI obS €£o Lzl oSz "*  piqiy 
o12 09S oLo ze Col gte'r| oze 1bZ 069 UPUULY 


—PdUIQWIOD FINO’) S,97B.SIBeN 
“pus souejsuy Isa jo qn0) 






— — — — ob€ €Cr — — — Teeddy jo zinoD 
‘SN | ‘d? | ‘SIN | ‘dv | ‘SIN | ‘av | ‘SIN | ‘ad? | ‘SIT 
| 
"UO’UNIIN T "SU01j9 
"Saa.J I2qQnd uO SII] uO Sda.q "SIULT | yano7y fo amvny 
"]2j0 T AaojoN | | ene ee oe ates, 
4auy [OUD 





ft 


*9£61 ‘SLUNOD TIAID AO ANNHARY 


co 
a2) 
oo) 





bEg‘Ez 


R96 

689 

COz'I 
boz‘1 
ELL‘ 
PIE‘€ 
Cob z 
169‘S 
Cg6‘S 


jouruets 


1PIOL 


€z1‘zI 


Z1€ 
LLE 
19S 
z99 
gto 
1zZ‘t 
662 - 
1St'¢ 
L6z‘€ 


‘9f61 





I1S‘rr 


1S9 
ZI 
PEL 
zog 
cfg 
€6S ‘1 
9S9‘1 
obr‘z 
889‘z 


12019 








oL6‘zz | Zrb‘rr | €SS‘11 
¥66 6€F ccs 
106 bzS LLE 
grr‘ zeP g1Z 
66F'1 gol €6L 
ggg‘'I | of gSg 
6g0‘E 60£'T og‘ 
QIg‘z QRO'! o£ZL‘I 
Crg‘b Z0Q‘Z €rr‘z 
g1o‘9 Lez‘e 1¢L‘z 
‘J0I0T vu), "j1atD 
"CLOI 


LEL‘bz 


gol 

gzZ 

bSb'r 
QII‘I 
gto'z 
vor‘€ 
CQE‘E 
EzE'C 
€EL‘g 


‘1910 





ooo'€r | ZeZ‘rxr | rZz‘1z | zS€‘6 616'11 
got zSb QzQ €6z cee 
1ob Gz¢e 009 06z ore 
6Sb C66 1v€'1 vib L£z6 
bz9g z6b EQb‘'r z7Ql 102 
L60‘I 156 1£6'1 gSZ CLI‘I 
ELb'r 1zL‘t £9S‘z CzZO'r QeS‘r 
LO‘ Qgg‘I Igi‘€ ZZ1‘I 6£0'z 
zbob'e IQQ‘I Loi‘v oFo'z Lz1'z 
10Z‘€ zeo'€ LOE‘S | otg'z Lol‘z 

[DUtmIde)) "1408D) ‘7O70L ovr | 18089) 
"PEOI "‘EfOr 


“ T2301 


+ gargey, 
sits URE 


aoe coe ysesof 
*  unorly taqaf 
S- Sap ype ee 
a a ea 


pial 
sah - uRUIUY 


"yanoy 
fo ann 





"gf6r puv CE6r ‘FL6I ‘EOI savadk Anof ayz ut padaqua Sasv2 fo SAvINIIBAD 


‘SLUNOD S,ALVULSIOVI 


339 


CRIMINAL LINWVESTIGATION MADE BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTORS 



























a ee a ae eee ae ee YE eS eT ere 
, | %® . ) 
| | Particulars of cases Decided. | 
= > ? 3 | 
BE | 
'& n 3 | 
S S 7 Cases sent 
A 8 3 for trial. ices Cases Filed. 
do © . Qo 
3 i. oie fo, ey 3| os 
S| ¢g | S 18 =| gles la). ei) 28 
asi] 8s S fe S| #£/8s8 192] S$] 8 
A re an = 2 | 89 3 
. oe O ~ é sil a2c!| SVSlar 3 8 Sr 
, » led! $). S| 88/82/8831 $8) 53 
8 8S 3 et) %o ~ »>LlLSS] BSI oS] VS "eR 
Ss | 3so| 8 @ |8al 8 |) 28) 88) Fa] A) ssl ss 
Vm 1S Z2 | 9 |S Els ri s7jz [s SS. 8S 
bn | ee (ed (cea ee ee a) xX | 
ae 144 | 2,587 | 2,502 |*229 | 158 | 612 | 316 
229 | 2,262 | 2,42 66 | 156 9 286 
igag ©) 68 425 | T 50 | 597 
1936 46 


* 20 cases amalgamated. 
+ 29 cases amalgamated. 
t 11 cases amalgamated. 
§ 14 cases amalgamated. 


41526 





Appeals from Courts of First 


340 


Crvit ACTIONS, 1936. 


leet Cases Pending 
Decided. | 31/12/36. 





Instance... ean ie 20 
Appeals from Magistrates 
Courts woh a — 30 
Total... 50 
Court of First Instance— 
Amman _... as = 55 
Irbid 5 
Kerak 19 
Total 79 
Magistrate’s Court— 
Amman : as 37 
Irbid 37 
Kerak gI 
Salt... ee 16 
Jebel Ajloun 13 
Jerash aie 15 
Madeba ‘ oo 46 - 
Ma‘an and Akaba 9 
Tafileh ... ied 651 II 
Total 11,308 11,392 402 





TOTAL REVENUE OF CIVIL COURTS FOR THE FOUR YEARS 1933, 1934, 


Year. 


1933 
1934 
1935 


.++ 11,255 | 609 [1,557 | 566 |3,883 | 094] 727| 359] 972) 319 |8,09.) 947 
wee 12,463 | 251 |1,673 | 921 |3,354|950| 668| 455 |1,031 1835 (9.19 | 424 
. [2,052 | 064 |1,408 | 525 13,522 | 250 |1I,303 | 410 1,142] 025 |9,42' 


1935 and 1936. 










Criminal, Civil. 
tal. 
Fees ae 
Fines. Costs. on 
Actions. | Execution. 


————— | ee | 


£P. |Mils.| £P. |Mils.| £P. |Mils.| £P. [Mils| £P. |Mils| £P: 


274 
559 





383 |1,372 | 936 [3,435 | 345| 713/450| 952] 445 /8,33' 





IQUVAISIUIUD PY 
"quauapn [ 


“PADMAO LT Patsad’) ° 


guirad 


"8490 





QzI 


M2 








gbL‘b| ogz | zgb‘b| coz 














o] 9] Ble] .2 : Eig 
Es le=/ LS ee) eS = Ses | 
ea ler | eT se 1s =. ao 
= {8 |° els f° S “| 
2 12 | {2 S Bie |, ee 
S S = | 
‘fo pasodsiq sasv9) ‘saspy) MaN “PAUMAO.T 14dnosA_, 





‘9f61 ‘SNOILNOAXYA—AOLNIASOUg JITAENgG 


41526 


‘pousmysg 


"YDAI ST 








‘QEOI pun 





‘pourmy 





SE6r ‘bEGr ‘EE6r savak anof ays ut pasaqua sasvD fo savjnayavg 


“HONVISN] LSulqPso s1un0y 





343 


CRIMINAL CASES, 1936. 


Pending NewCases Cases Pending 


I.1.36. Entered. Decided. 31.12.36. 
_ Appeals from Courts of First 




















Instance : — 189 173 16 
er from Magistrate's | 
5 767 694 78 
Petes of First Instance : — . 
Amman 32 327 340 19 
Irbid ... we oad 4 14 199 I9I 22 
Kerak noe ss bees 8 65 62 II 
Total... ae ay 54 591 593 52 
Magistrate’s Courts :— | 
Amman eee ue sae 141 2,970 3,002 109 
Irbid ... ise Jee oe 69 3,252 3,196 125 
Kerak sels aa a 50 734 747 37 
Es Salt ; “te aoe 20 -+1,721 1,716 25 
Jebel Ajloun .. ae oe 22 938 - gI6 44 
Jerash Bas Bee his 9 662 660 II 
Madeba ais Pee ee 7 —. 56r 523 ‘45 
Tafileh oe see oe II 317 320 8 
.Ma‘an &: sae sue ge 10 377 374 13 
Total... ae ws 339 11,532 11,454 . 417 








ie 


Tota, NUMBER OF ACTIONS IN CIVIL COURTS, INCLUDING COURT OF APPEAL, 


Pending at New Pending at 
Year. beginning actions Actions end of 
of year. entered. decided. year. 
1933 971 23,949 23,305 1,555 
1934 15555 26,585 20,947 1,193 
1935 1,193 25,802 25,995 1,000 
1936 1,000 25,420* 25,326* 1,094 
_ plaeing 62 execution cases under the Execution Law (Amendment) 


WwW, 1936. 


CouRT OF APPEAL. 
Particulars of Appeal entered in the four years 1933, 1934, 1935, and 1936. 
LTE ee 





Ciusl Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
Total. 
From Courts From From Courts From 
of First Magistrate's of First Magistrate’s 
Instance. Courts. Instance. Courts. 


1233 45 1,624 
934 44 1,848 
1935 30 1,825 
1936 49 1,724 





a a ee a ee ee ey 
In addition, 62 execution cases appealed under the Execution Law 
(Amendment) } Law, 1936. 


41526 M 3 


344 


ViI.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


1. The posts, telegraph, and telephones and the roads of 
Trans- Jordan are in public ownership and are administered by 
the Trans-Jordan Government. 


The water-supplies are administered, in all cases, by the 
municipal councils concerned. 


The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 


2. Articles 67 and 68 of the Organic Law provide that all © 
rights in, or in relation to, any public lands and in all mines and ~ 
minerals shall vest in and may be exercised by His Highness 
the Amir in trust for the Trans- Jordan Government. 


Grants or leases for the exploitation of the mineral resources _ 
of Irans-Jordan are made under a Mining Law, 1926, the 
terms of which follow generally those of the Palestine Mining 7 
Ordinance, 1925. 


3. Article XVII of the Agreement between His Majes bas 
King and His Highness the Amir provides that His High 
shall be guided by the advice of His Britannic Majesty in ‘al 
matters concerning the granting of concessions, the exploitation 
of natural resources, the construction and operation of railways 
and the raising of loans. 


4. There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime 
nor in the Customs laws of the Trans-Jordan Government. 
The special privileges in respect of import duty. State and 
municipal taxation and tithes which were enjoyed by certain 
foreign charitable, religious, and educational institutions under 
the Ottoman regime are maintained, but no new pare of this 
type have been granted. 

Moreover, Trans-Jordanians are liable to the same taxation, 
State or municipal, as are foreign nationals. 


Vil._FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


1. There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious 
observance throughout Trans- Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows :— 


‘' Article 10. Islam shall be the religion of the State and there 
shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete freedom of 
belief and freedom to practice forms of worship in accordance with 
their customs unless detrimental to public safety or order or con- 
trary to morals.’’ 

‘* Article 14. The various communities shall have the mnght to 
establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their members 
in their own language provided that mays conform to the general 
requirements prescribed by law.’ 





345 


_ 3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law, three of the 
sixteen elected representatives are Christians. The Law relating 
to the selection of members of the Administrative Councils 
provides that Heads of religious communities shall be members 
of the selection committees, and that where the Christian male 
population is 500 souls there shall be one, and where it is 1,000 
there shall be two, Christians in the Council. The present 
Municipal Law does not provide for the representation of minor- 
ities, but in the new Law, which is now drafted and under 
consideration, Councils are to be composed of Circassians, 
Christian Arabs, and Moslem Arabs in proportion to the number 
of males over twenty years of age in these communities. If this 
would not give the minorities representation, they will be given 
a oanen if their numbers are ten per cent. or more of the 
whole. : 


4. Personal status cases of non-Moslem religious communities 
are within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious Com- 
munity Councils according to the provisions of the Religious 
(non-Moslem) Community Councils Law, 1933. 


_ 5. Community and private schools may only be opened after 
obtaining a licence from the Department of Education. Before 
_ Such a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy 
the Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be 
used, and to submit details of the qualifications of the teachers 
to be appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After 
_ a school has been licensed and opened, the Department of 
Education has the right of inspection. Of recent years there 
have been no difficulties in regard to licensing or inspection, 
though this latter right is seldom exercised. 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the 
Overnment services and hold some of the highest posts. 


7. At the examination of the report for 1935, the Permanent 
Mandates Commission asked to be informed of missions 
operating in Trans-Jordan. The following list shows the names 
of missions working in Trans-Jordan; it does not include 
recognized religious communities, an account of which is given 
i paragraph 4 of Section V of this report. 7 

(1) The Christian Missionary Trust Association, Ltd. 

(2) Jerusalem and the East Mission Trust, Ltd. 

(3) Custodian of the Terra Santa. | 

(4) Societé Nazionali di Missionari Italiana. 

(5) Christian Missionary Alliance (Palestine) and 
Arabian Border Missions. 

(6) Bible Evangelistic Mission. 


(7) Seventh Day Adventists. 
41526 M4 


346 
The institutions named under (1) and (2) are controlled by 
the Church of England, those under (3) and (4) by the Roman 
Catholic Church, and those under (5), (6) and (7) oy various 
American Churches. 


Vill.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1. Avab Legion Duties and Responsibilities —The Arab 
Legion is the Police Force of Trans-Jordan. It is responsible 
to the Government of Trans-Jordan for public security, the 
maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, immi- 
gration and passport control, and the licencing of vehicles. 


2. Strength and Composition.—The Arab Legion consists of 
39 officers (seven of whom are British and 32 Trans-Jor- 
danians), three cadet officers, and 1,007 non-commissioned 
officers and men, who are composed as follows : — 


Officers. Other ranks. 

Dismounted ....” ... sa re 25 420 
Mounted... aed eae oe slog II 299 
Desert Police ...- ... ves we 2. 106 
Prison Staff — Bay Bes sees — 98 
Clerical Staff... bbs sek oat — 23 

. | 39 946 
Paid for by the ‘Iraq Petroleum 

Company... bi ins ore — 61 





39 1,007 


3. Organization and Command.—tThe territory of Trans- 
Jordan is divided into five Districts, namely, Ajlun, Belqa, 
Kerak, Ma‘an, and the Desert Area. These divisions are 
for administrative and police purposes. 


The Arab Legion is organized as follows in accordance with © 
these Administrative Districts : — 


In Amman the Capital of Trans-Jordan. 
Arab Legion Headquarters. 
Amman City Police. 
Arab Legion Depot for recruiting and training purposes. 
Arab Legion motor transport garage. 
The Central Jail. 
Ajlun District. 
Headquarters and 13 Police Stations. 
Belqa Distnet. 
Headquarters and 19 Police Stations. 





347 
Kerak District. 
Headquarters and 10 Police Stations. 
Ma‘an District. 
Headquarters and 9g Police Stations. 
Desert Area. 
Headquarters and 10 Police Stations. 


Wireless.—The Arab Legion operates ten wireless stations, 
of which nine are fixed and one is a mobile set mounted in a 
Ford tender. 


Motor Transport.—The Arab Legion possesses 22 motor 
vehicles, distributed as follows: — 


Vehicles. 
Desert Area ... ae re e es . 13 
Amman Police = = a ee 3 
District Cars ... as oo = ae 6 
Total... sis was 722 


Each of the four Districts—Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, and Ma‘an— 
possesses one district car, the remaining two vehicles of this 
type being maintained in reserve. 

The vehicles are repaired in the Arab Legion workshops in 
Amman; all vehicles are of Ford make. 


Mechanics are sent for training to the Ford Motor Works in 
Alexandria, Egypt. 


4. Courses of Instruction.—Members of the Legion attended 
the following courses of instruction during the year: — 


Number of 
Subject. Place. persons 
: attending. 
Car driving and Maintenance Arab Legion Depot, Amman ... 2 Officers, 
9 Men. 
Motor Mechanics ... ... Ford Company, Alexandria ... 2 Men. 
Law and its application ... Arab Legion Depot, Amman ... 47 Men. 
Equitation Instruction ...  Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, 1 Officer, 
. Zerka. 1 Man. 
Veterinary Dressers .... Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, 1 Man. 
Zerka. 
Musketry Instruction ... Arab Legion Depot, Amman ... 9 Men. 
First Aid and Medical ... Zerka and Amman ... ... 6 Men. 


The promotion of non-commissioned officers is now based on 
the results of an annual examination. _ 


348 
Ninety-six non-commissioned officers attended promotion — 
examinations during 19306. 


5. Formation of Reserve.—Sanction was received on the 
4th June, 1936, to form a Reserve of 115 men to the Arab 
Legion, and to embody them forthwith, in view of the political © 
situation resulting from the Palestine disturbances. On the 
12th September, 1936, a further 200 Supplementary Police were 
enlisted. In December, 1936, the 200 Supplementary Police — 
were disbanded, and the 115 Reservists left the colours. These — 
Reservists will be paid a retaining fee of £P.1 a month while 
engaged in their normal occupations, on condition that they are — 
liable to be called up to serve when required; they will be called — 
up annually for one month’s training and for that month will © 


be paid £P.5. 


6. Cnme.—It 1s remarkable that, while half the year was | 
passed in a State of acute political tension, the statistics of | 
ordinary crime showed no perceptible increase on those of the 
previous year. 

This is particularly noticeable in regard to highway robbery; 
in 1933 there were fifty cases, in 1934 there were forty-three, 
in 1935 there were thirteen, whilst in 1936 there were seven 
convictions and five further cases which are still under trial. 

This fact seems to prove the efficiency of the Police who, in — 
spite of greatly increased work caused by acute political agita~ _ 
tion, were able to maintain their hold on crime. 

The following is a list of the principal crimes reported in 1934, 
1935, and 1936 respectively :— 


Nature of Crime. 1934. 1935. 1936. 
Murder aes wae 47 19 29 
Wounding ner sors 444 346 308 
Abduction pe abe 45 43 29 
Thett. <4 sais at 1,646 715 882 
Car Accident ae 118 III . 12 
Smuggling wae sae 37 7 13 
Drunkenness ... ok 70 60 55 


7. Law and Order on the Frontiers.—Relations with the 
frontier officers of the Saudi Arab Government continued to be 
very friendly. Two formal meetings took place during: the 
year, one between the Officer Commanding the Desert Area, 
Trans-Jordan, and the Saudi Amir of Kaf, and another 
between the same officer and the Amir of Tebuk. The two 
Governments co-operated efficiently in the prevention of crime, 
and law and order in the desert was excellent. Beduin raiding 
has, for the present at least, become a memory of the past. 


Relations with the Syrian and the Jebel Druze Governments 
were no less amicable. 


349 
8. Beduin Education.—The Desert Area, which forms four- 


_ fifths of the area of Trans-Jordan, does not possess the adminis- 
_ trative machinery in existence in the settled area. 


| 


Certain administrative duties, including the welfare of the 


_ desert tribes, are therefore carried out by the Officer Com- 
_ manding the Desert Area, who is an officer of the Arab Legion. 


Unfortunately the failure of the harvest in 1936, due to the 


lack of rain, caused a severe set-back to schemes for the 


encouragement of Beduin cultivation. Many Nomads had 


- cultivated for the first time that year, and the loss of their crops 


discouraged them so much that they returned to the desert. 
The two schools erected on desert wells in 1934 for the sons 


- of Beduin Sheikhs, continue to prosper. So intelligent are these 


Beduin boys that it is proposed to commence training a class 
of them as wireless operators. Others have already classified 
as petrol engine mechanics. The problem of the employment 
of sons of Beduin Sheikhs remains a difficult one, as they are 
unwilling to engage in manual work, and are unemployed and 
discontented in the tribes. These men were formerly the leaders 
of is raids, and have found no occupation since raiding 
ceased. 


9. Prisons.—Prison and police lock-ups exist in Trans- 
ordan in Amman and at each of the District Headquarters, 
excluding the Desert Area. 


Any prisoner sentenced to more than three months’ imprison- 
ment is transferred to the Central Jail, Amman. The average 
Population of the Central Jail throughout 1936 was 271 
prisoners. , 


The prison industries were further extended during the year. 
The following men who had no skilled trades when they entered 
pnson, were taught the trades shown below: — 


Stone quarrying ... Sad er 5. 85 
Stone cutting and trimming ... ... 28 
Masons oe ae wha -_ jee, LO 
Carpenters ... sks eg ee sak. EL 
Blacksmiths ae ou — we «oO 
Laundry and ironing a oe = § 
Carpet making ... aa. dea sue. 22 
Mattress making ox . 5 
Gardening and poultry rearing ... . «TS 
Cooks a 6 
Painting ee ae 4 
Telephone exchange operators 6 


350 


IX.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 
AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the name of Trans-Jordan. 
(i) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Country. 
Syria and 


the Lebanon. 


Palestine 


Great Britain 
Nejd 


Syria and the 
Lebanon 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Syria and the 
Jebel Druze. 


‘Iraq 

Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Saudi Arabia 


Great Britain 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Tttle of Instrument. 
Customs Agreement 


Transit Agreement 


Date and place of Signature. 
10.5.1923 Amman. 


26.9.1928 Jerusalem. 
Amended 18.12.1928. 
Amended 27.12.1928. 
Amended 23.7.1934. 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Agreement 


Hadda Agreement i 

Provisional Agreement in regard 
to the Transmission of Judicial 
Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syma and the 
Lebanon. 

Agreement for the taking of 
Evidence on Commission for 
the purposes of any Commer- 
cial or Civil matter. 


Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the con- 
veyance of corpses from 
Palestine for burial in Trans- 
Jordan and from _ Trans- 
Jordan for burial in Palestine. 

Agreement as to the circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement concerning the settle- 
ment of disputes between 
Beduins of Trans-Jordan and 
Beduins of Syria and the 
Jebel Druze as well as between 
Beduins and non-Beduins of 
the same States. 

Treaty of Friendship ... 

Agreement establishing tele- 
graphic communication. 

Agreement for the reciprocal 
grant of gratis visas. 

Treaty of Friendship and Bon 
Voisinage. 

Supplementary Agreement 


Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to regulate the ser- 
vice of judicial documents 
between Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


20.2.1928 Jerusalem. 

Ratified 31.10.1929, Amman. 
2.11.1925 Bahra Camp. 
15.2.1928 Amman. 


25.2.1929 Jerusalem. 
6.3.1929 Amman. 


6.3.1929 Amman. 


I.10.1929 


14.10.1929 Jerusalem. 


2.2.1930 Amman. 
29.12.1929 Beirut. 


26.3.1931 Amman. 
Effect from 1st April, 1930. 


20.8.1932 Jerusalem. 
5.9.1932 Beirut. 
27.7.1933 at Jerusalem. 
Ratified 23.12.1933 at Cairo. 
2.6.1934 Jerusalem. 
Ratified at Ablin on 22.6.1935: 
9.7.1934 Jerusalem ; and 
23.7.1934 Amman. 
Amended 1.9.1935. 
23.11.1934 Amman and Jerusalez 


351 


‘(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. 


Declaration recognising the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of 
Navigable Waterways of International Con- 
cern. . 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- 
national Concern. 

International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of: Literary and Artistic Works. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copy- 
right Convention signed at Berlin on 
13.11.1908. 

International Opium Convention and subse- 
quent relative papers. 

International Convention relating to the 
Simplification of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Railways, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocols of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electrical Power and Protocols of 
Signature. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

International Agreement as to Contagious 
Diseases of Animals. 

International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

Internationa] Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 

International Sanitary Convention 


International Convention relative to Motor 
Traffic. 
Universal Postal Convention 


Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial 


Navigation. 


International Convention relating to Inter- 


national Exhibitions. 


International Convention for the Unification of 


Certain Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Date of Date of 

Signature. Accession. 

20.4.192I,  9.10.1922 
Barcelona. (Ratification). 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 

13.11.1908, 21.3.1924. 
Berlin. 

20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Berne. 

23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 
The Hague. 

3.11.1923, 27.11.1924 
Geneva. (effective date). 

99.12.1923, 27.11.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

24.9.1923, 8.5.1926. 
Geneva. 

12.9.1923, 23.5.1927. 
Geneva. 

25.1.1924, 13.7.1927. 
Paris. 

25.9.1926, 18.6.1927. 
Geneva. 

19.22.1925, 25.9.1928 
Geneva. (effective date). 

21.6.1926, 9.10.1928. 
Paris. 

24.4.1926, 24.10.1929. 
Paris. 

20.3.1934, 1.1.1925. 
Cairo. 

13.10.1919. I1.7.1922. 

22.11.1928, 17.12.1930. 
Paris. 

25.8.1924, 2.6.1931 
Brussels. (effective 


352 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—cont. 


Title of Instrument. 


International Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Conditions of the Wounded and Sick 
in Armies in the Fields. 

International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works. 

Internation Convention for the Suppression of 
the Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the White Slave Traffic. 

Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 
relating to International Carriage by Air. 

Convention concerning Forced or Compulsory 
Labour. 

International Convention for Mutual Protec- 
tion against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for the Sanitary 
Control of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
27.7.1929, 23.6.1931 
Geneva, (Ratification), 
(effective date). 
2.6.1928, I.10.1931. 
Rome. 
_30.9.192I, 2.11.1931. 
31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 
18.5.1904,  6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 
4.5.1I910, 6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 
12.10.1929, 14.4.1932. 
Warsaw. 
June, 1930, 3.6.1932. 
Geneva. 
25-7-1934, 3-5-1935. 
Athens. 
12.4.1933, 1.9.1935. 
The Hague. 
9.12.1932, 24.5.1935. 
Madrid. 


For position as regards International Labour Conventions see Labour 


Chapter (page 357). 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 


Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
A pplication 
Between United pane and : 
Albania 22.7.1926 ‘is oe 11.7.1927. 
Austria 3.12.1873/26.6.1901 ... 18.3.1932. 
Belgium ; 29.10.IQ0I_... ai 1.4.1932. 
Belgian Congo 5.3.1907/3.3.1911 1.4.1932. 
Ruanda Urandi 28.6.1928/2.7.1928 1.4.1932. 
Bolivia 22.2.1892 ‘ie 3.3.1932. 
Chile 26.1.1897 whe ‘ 18.3.1932. 
Colombia 27.10.1888/2.12. 1929. 5.12.1930. 
Cuba ... , 3.10.1904/17.4.1930 ... . 12,12,1931. 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.1924, Protocol a 6. 1926 15.7.1927. 
Denmark 31.3.1873 , . 29.3.1932. 
Estonia 18.11.1925 10.3.1927. 
Finland 30.5.1924 25.11.1926. 
Greece 24.9.191O0 uae 22.4.1932. 
Guatemala 4.7.1885/30.5.1914 30. 3.1932. 
Hayti ; 12.1874 ‘ es 24.2.1932. 
Hungary 3.12.1873/26.6. 1901 ss 30.6.1932. 
‘Iraq 2.5.1932 2.5.1932. 
Latvia 16.7.1924 7.6.1926 
Lithuania 18.5.1926 wes 11.6.1927. 
Monaco bie ae oe 5.7.1931. 
Netherlands ... 26.9.1898 5-4.1932. 
Nicaragua 19.4.1905 ies ws 6.4.1932. 
Norway 26.6.1873/18.2.1907 ... 20.9.1932. 


353 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan—cont. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
A pplication. 
‘Panama ae ve wes -25.8.1906 wi 7 we. =4.6.1932. 
Peru... “ig a .-. 26.1.1904 ais di wes 2.3.1932 
Poland ws mae ves =LI.1.1932 ae cue wes = 12.3.1934. 
Portugal ales ie .6. 17.10.1892/20.1.1932 ws = 23.6.1934 
Roumania .... ae .-» 9/21.3.1893... ee ws 3.3.1932. 
Salvador oe a .-- 23.6.1881 Ss skis ... 18.10.1932. 
Siam oe eae wes 4.3.1QII ve bh wee 764.1932. 
Spain ae ae ... 4.6.1878/19.2.1889  ... wee 23.3-1932. 
Switzerland ... ee ... 26,11.1880/29.6.1904 wes 9.5.1932. 
United States of America ... 22.12.1931... ei «1. 24.6.1935. 
Yugoslavia... eis 23.11.1900/6.12.1900 wee 30.8.1932. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list the Trans- Jordan 
Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. Italy. Tunis. 
Ecuador. Liberia. Uruguay. 
France. Paraguay. 

*Germany. San Marino. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition 
between Trans- Jordan and Germany on a basis of reciprocity. The arrange- 
ment came into force on 28th February, 1933. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
ee Countries which have been applied to Trans- 
ordan. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
A pplication, 
Lithuania ... Agreement respecting Commercial 24.4.1923. 
Relations, 6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 
Latvia .-- lreaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 
Poland ... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 ae 6.6.1925. 
Finland ... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 
Austria ... --. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.1926. 
22.5.1924, London. 
Germany --- Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926. 
2.12.1924, London. 
Greece... ..» Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3:1927. 
16.7.1926. 
Hungary... --- Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 26.7.1927. 
23.7.1926, London. 
Austria ... .-- Notes on Trade Marks ded oe 2.12.1927. 
13.4.1928. 
Yugoslavia --» Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.1928, 
I2.5.1927. 
Spain... --» Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, I,12.1928. 


31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 
31.5.1928. | 


354 
(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom 
and Foreign Countries which have been applied to 


Trans-Jordan—cont. 


merce, 27.2.35, London. 


Date of 
Country. Title of Instrument. — Application. 
Bulgaria Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
12.11.1925. - 
Lithuania Notes Modifying the Agreement of 10.12.1929. 
_—6.5.1922. 
_ Japan Treaty of Commerce and Navigation 1.6.1930. 
and Supplementary Convention of 
— 30.7.1925. 
Egypt Commercial Modus-Vivendi, 5/7.6.1930, 21.8.1930. 
| Cairo. Prolongation until 16.2.1934 
by Notes of 16/19.2.1933. 
_Spain Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.1931. 
Companies, 27.6.1924, Madrid. 
Panama... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.9.1932. 
25.9.1928. 
Poland Agreement regarding Trade and Com- 24.7.1935. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


mercial Matters, 11.8:1933. 


Date of 
County. Title of Instrument, Application. 
France Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 21.3.1923. 
mercial Matters, 2.2.1922. 
Belgium .. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com-  13.3.1925. 
mercial Matters, 21.6.1922. 
Czechoslovakia ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com-  17.2.1927. 
mercial Matters, 11.11.1924, London. 
Greece Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 21.6.1929. 
of Origin, 21.6.1929. 9.7.1929 
| (effective). 
Germany Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 25.11.1929. 
mercial Matters, 20.3.1928. 
Netherlands Extension to Overseas Territories of the 1.12.1929 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, (applicable to 
1.12.1929. British subjects 
only). 
Spain Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 23.2.1931. 
mercial Matters, 27.6.1929. 
Italy Notes respecting documents of Identity 13.4.193I. 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.1931. 
Poland Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com-_ 17.10.1932. 
mercial Matters, 26.8.1931. 
Estonia ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com-_ 11.11.1932 
mercial Matters, 22.12.1931. (effective). 
Portugal Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 30.4.1933. 
mercial Matters, 9.7.1931. 
Denmark Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 25.7.1934. 
mercial matters, 29.11.1932. 
Netherlands Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 22.9.1934. 
5 mercial Matters, 31.5.1932. 
Belgium ... Supplementary Convention to Facilitate 27.6.1935. 
the Conduct of Legal Proceedings, 
4.11.1932. 
Finland ... ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 4.6.1935. 


355 


X.—ANTIQUITIES. 


Inspections. 


Inspections have been carried out as usual, and during the 
course of the year most parts of the country have been visited. 
The amount of encroachment and damage to antiquity sites 
is now very small, and the promptness of officials in taking 
action whenever a case is reported has greatly discouraged the 
inhabitants from interference. 


Recent Discoveries. 


2. [he most interesting discovery of the year is that of a 
small Nabataean Temple on an isolated hill, known as Khirbet 
Tanur, in the Tafileh Sub-District. The building itself is a 
small one, but some fine pieces of sculpture have been recovered, 
and there is every reason to hope that further pieces may still be 
buried. Ihe American School of Oriental Research, in con- 
junction with the Department of Antiquities, will excavate the 
site in the near future, as five pieces of sculpture were removed 
about 18 months ago and are now in possession of a dealer in 
Amman, and it is feared that further robbery may take place. 
The site is a remote and isolated one. In the course of inspec- 
tions, evidence of the existence of many neolithic and paleolithic 
sites has been observed, though the sites themselves have not 
as yet been found. There is much of great interest of this 
period in the country, and a close examination of the areas 
round any permanent water reveal the existence of many of 
these pre-historic settlements, and open up a new field of 
archaeological investigation. 


Archaeological Survey. 


3. The second volume has now been published by Dr. Glueck 
as the Annual of the American School of Oriental Research 
Vol. XV. 1934-35. Dr. Glueck intends to continue the survey 
in the northern districts during the course of the next two years, 
and when finished it will represent the most complete archaeo- 
logical survey yet made of any country in the Near East. 


Excavations. 


4. Petra.—A sum of money privately given enabled the 
Department to undertake further clearance of the Royal Tombs, 
the Tomb of the Roman Governor, and to complete the exca- 
vation of the oldest high place. A royal inscription, lost for 30 
years, was rediscovered and many loose pieces of sculpture were 
brought together and buried for protection. The Department 
of Antiquities, Palestine, kindly allowed the Museum photo- 
gtapher to accompany the expedition and he made a complete 
photographic record of the site. 


356 


Tell el-Ghassul.—The Pontifical Biblical Institute, Jerusalem, 
conducted a short campaign during the spring, under the 
direction of Pére Robert Koppel, and hope to resume work in 
the coming year. The importance of this site is being realised 
more and more as work proceeds, and it is gratifying to know 
that it is being carefully and scientifically treated. 


Other sites—The American Schools of Oriental Research, 
directed by Dr. N. Glueck, have been granted a permit to 
excavate Tell el-Kheliefeh, near Aqaba, and have already made 
soundings there. They intend to make a complete clearance in 
the new year. The site covers the period from late bronze age, 
about 1200 B.C., to late iron age, about 600 B.C. These Schools 
‘are also undertaking, in conjunction with the Department of 
Antiquities, the excavation of the Nabataean Temple at Khirbet 
Tanur, near Tafileh. 


Tourists. 


5. Fees collected from tourists visiting Petra totalled £P.648, 
as compared with £P.818 in 1935. During 1936, 947 foreign 
visitors and 396 Trans-Jordanians visited Jerash, as compared 
with 1,355 and 254 respectively in 1935. The decrease in 
numbers is chiefly due to the unsettled condition of Palestine 
since last Apnl. It is hoped that the coming spring may bring 
increased numbers of visitors to both places. 


New Antiquity Law. 


6. The new law was duly promulgated and has been in 
operation during the past year. It is still difficult to persuade 
the people to report all finds of antiquities, as they believe the 
Government will take everything from them without recom- 
pense. The Department has endeavoured to impress upon 
them whenever possible that this is not the case: the Law 
provides that if any antiquity is accidentally discovered and 
duly reported to the authorities, the Government will pay full 
compensation for the object should it wish to acquire it. If 
it is not required by the Government, the object becomes the 
property of the finder, to be disposed of as he pleases. If, 
however, a find is made and not reported, and the matter 
subsequently comes to light, the Government has the right to 
seize all the objects without compensation, and the finder is 
lable to prosecution. It is most desirable that this should be 
understood by everyone, as otherwise casual finds will be 
concealed and much important evidence may thus be lost. 


General. 


7. The Sakhra Hoard of Gold Coins has now been examined 
by the honorary Curator of Coins, who has prepared a report 
on them. They consist of Ottoman and Venetian coins ranging 
in period from 1343 A.D. to 1585 A.D., with three earlier Arab 


357 


coins. The question of their disposal is under discussion. A 
type set only is required by the Museum and the rest can be 
disposed of in some way to be agreed upon. This is a case 
where, had a finder reported the matter, he would have received 
back more than go per cent. of his find. 


A card index with map references and photographs of all 


' sites in the country is being prepared, and will be of great value 
' to anyone wishing to know the archaeological potentialities, or 


detailed history, of the country. It will be based largely on 
Dr. Glueck’s survey, and will contain information as to what 
periods are represented, whether inscriptions have been found 
there, and a bibliography of the published material on each site. 

The Amman Museum.—In view of the fact that 11 antiquities 


_ have now been transferred on loan to the museum in Jerusalem, 


it is proposed to rearrange the Amman museum and make it 
more of a centre of information about the antiquities of the 
country, with maps and photographs of the principal sites, and 
a few selected objects which will be changed from time to time 
on exhibition. 


X!.—LABOUR. 


I. During the examination of the 1935 report, enquiry was 
made as to the reason for the omission of the International 
Labour Conventions from the list of International Agreements, 
— and Treaties which have been applied in Trans- 
ordan. 

With the exception of the Convention concerning Forced or 
Compulsory Labour the International Labour Conventions have 
not been formally declared to be applicable to Trans-Jordan 
and the necessary legislation to enforce in Trans-Jordan the 
Provisions of such Conventions has not been enacted, except 
legislation relating to forced or compulsory labour which 
enables the Trans-Jordan Government to give full effect to the 
terms of the Convention dealing with those matters. At the same 
time care has been taken to ensure that local legislation is in 
ho way contradictory or repugnant to the terms of the Inter- 
national Labour Conventions and, where necessary, the existing 
laws have been amended accordingly. 

It has been deemed advisable to follow this policy because 
Trans-Jordan is in the main a primitive pastoral and agricul- 
tural country where society is still conducted on patriarchal lines. 
Industries are practically non-existent and it is improbable 
that conditions will permit industrial development in the future. 
The need for the greater part of the provisions of the Labour 
Conventions has not yet arisen and the purpose of many would 

beyond the comprehension of the local legislature and, 
moreover, even if it was possible to secure the enactment of the 
legislation necessary to give full effect to the Conventions, the 


358 


machinery for its execution could not at the moment for 
practical reasons be brought into being. 

In the circumstances, it is preferable to ensure generally that 
local legislation is not repugnant to the terms of the Conventions 
and to adopt from time to time those provisions of the Conven- 
tions the application of which is rendered desirable by the 
development of Trans-Jordan. 


2. In paragraph 3 of Section VIII (Labour) of the Report 
for 1935 it was stated that certain undertakings had been given 
by the factory owners in regard to the employment of children. 
These undertakings, with one exception, conformed to the draft 
Conventions and recommendations adopted by the International 
Labour Conference. The exception related to the age for the 
employment of children and an order has now been issued that 
no person under 14 years of age shall be employed in any factory. 


X1I1.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 
Arms. 
1. The law provides that: — 

(a) The manufacture, import or transport of -gunpowder 
or other explosives and the import of State or military 
weapons or revolvers of which the barrels are more than 
15 centimetres in length or of ammunition for the same 
except with the permission of the Government is prohibited. 

(b) Firearms may not be carried without permission 
within towns in which there resides a Government 
representative. 

(c) The sale of arms and ammunition within a town is 
only permitted under licence and in a specially appointed 
place. 

(d) The transport of arms for export is prohibited. 


2. Before 1933, certain persons in Amman were licensed to 
deal in arms and ammunition and these people were required 
to keep registers of receipts and issues. But in December, 1933, 
a closer control was taken and the Chief Minister ordered that no 
licences were to be granted to any person to import arms. 


3. During 1936, the only permit given to import arms covered 
two shot guns for members of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 
There are no licensed dealers in arms in the country. Arms and 
ammunition are not manufactured in Trans-Jordan and it was 
only during the recent disturbances in Palestine that licences 
were given to manufacture blasting powder under Government 
supervision and control. Only a very small number of arms has 
been seized in course of importation from Trans-Jordan into 
Palestine, and there is nothing to show that there is any con- 
siderable traffic in arms in or through the country. 


| " 


4. Drugs. 


Lim . law was enacted on the 28th December, 1936, to give 
Nat tytn Trans-Jordan to the International Convention for 
WS the Manufacture and Regulating the Distribution of 
Ine X Drugs. This law makes persons guilty of an offence 
e law liable to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
a or to a fine not exceeding £P.500, or both such 
penalties. 

5. At the examination of the report for 1935, the Permanent 
Mandates Commission asked for particulars of penalties imposed 
for offences against dangerous drugs legislation. 

The seizures of dangerous drugs and the penalties imposed 
in 1936 were as follows :— 





Grs. Centgs. Penalty. 
1 Hashish sue — 10 2 months’ imprisonment. 
2 Hashish cs — 25 Pending trial. 
3 Hashish /{ 2 50 ' 
Opium i 3 pe Pending trial. 


_6. The number of import certificates granted during 1936 
In respect of narcotic drugs was nine. 


The actual imports were :— 


Grammes. 
Medicinal opium ... i ae aid 80 
- Opium preparations _... me sg ... 62.30 
Morphine and preparations _... ee 37.04 
| Cocaine and preparations st ae ia 135 
os Diacetylmorphine ae te " wit 45 


Liquors. 


7. There are three distilleries in Trans-Jordan which manu- 
factured the following quantities of liquors during the year 1936: 
cognac, 3,480 litres; araq, 13,550 litres; wine, 7,200 litres. 


Xttt.—EDUCATION. 


General. 


I. The Department of Education is responsible for two 
main branches of work :— 


(a) the direction, supervision and inspection of all 
Government schools. 


(b) the supervision and inspection of non-Government 
schools. 


Headquarters Staff. 


2. The Headquarters Staff consists of a Director, a First 
Inspector, a Second Inspector, a Chief Clerk, and Accountant, 
a Storekeeper and two Clerks. | | 


360 


Types of Schools. 

3. The following types of schools are maintained by the 
Department :— 

(a) Secondary Schools.—To these are usually attached 
all the classes of an elementary school. There are four such 
schools, three of which have two secondary classes only, 
while the fourth has four such classes. All secondary schools 
are for boys. 

(6) Complete Primary Schools.—These schools, situated 
usually in big rural centres and in the larger towns, have 
six elementary classes apart from the lowest preparatory 
class. There are seven complete primary schools for boys 
and three for girls. 

(c) Incomplete Primary Schools.—These schools, situ- 
ated in the smaller towns and rural centres, follow the same 
syllabus as the complete primary schools. The number of 
classes, however, varies from five and a preparatory in some 
of the schools, to three and a preparatory in others. There 
a six incomplete elementary schools for boys and six for 

S. 

(ad) Village Schools.—There are 38 village schools. Some 
of these have gardens attached to them, and in some cases 
poultry runs. This type of school has a maximum of four 
classes, of which the highest is equivalent to the third 
elementary class; but many of them, owing either to the 
small number of pupils in the third class, or because they 
are newly started, do not attain to the standard of the third 
elementary. 

(e) Schools for Beduin.—Two such schools were recently 
started as an experiment and serve the double purpose of 
teaching recruits for the Desert Patrol as well as boys 
from the Beduin tribes. They are accommodated in 
buildings attached to the desert forts at Azraq and Jafar. 
There is every reason to believe that the experiment has 
proved a success, and it is hoped to open more schools of 
this type in the future. 

4. The distribution of Government schools and the teachers 
and ‘pupils thereof are shown in the table at the end of this 
section. 

Kindergarten. 

5. The Kindergarten school is situated in Amman and of its 
pupils 175 are girls and only four are boys; the children are 
admitted when they have completed thew fifth year and on 
completing their sixth year may be admitted to the preparatory 
class of the elementary schools. 

Numbers educated. 

6. Of the total number of children receiving education in 

Government schools almost exactly 25 per cent. are girls. This 


301 


is satisfactory from the point of view that the girls may be able 
in turn to give some education to their children. Among the 
38 village schools there are fourteen having 60 pupils or more, 
and two having more than 100 pupils. There are at present 
more candidates for admission to schools than can be accepted 
and attempts to ameliorate the situation by making students 
in the secondary schools pay for their education have not.so 
far proved successful. In the new Municipal Law, which is under 
consideration, provision is made for the levy of an educational 
rate within municipal areas and an improvement in educational 
facilities should thus become possible. 


7. Enquiry was made during the examination of the Report 
for ,I935 as to how many candidates had had to be refused 
admission to Government schools in 1935. This information is, 
unfortunately, not available because the teachers responsible 
for registering the names of applicants have only entered in their 
registers the same number of names as the number of children 
already in the school. The Department of Education will, how- 
ever, ensure in future that the names of all children who have 
reached school age by September in any year shall be registered. 


8. There is some wastage in the village schools since a number 
of boys who start in the lowest class do not go on till they have 
passed through the highest class existing in the school. The 
totals of the 38 village schools are as follows:— 


Preparatory Classes aa oe os ...  Q16 
First Classes aad st “a ek = 553 
Second Classes... “ae a oe ... 463 
Third Classes aa Bie ... 289 


Arts and Crafts Schools. 
9. The teaching of upholstery was introduced in October and 
two students are under instruction. The full course of training 
at the school is now as follows : — 


years 
Blacksmith work ... = se sad 4 
Carpentry ... ste me 4 
Cane chair making 2 ae me 3 
Upholstery ... 


Thirteen students completed their course of training in July 
and received certificates of proficiency; seven others who entered 
for the examination failed. 


Matriculation. 
10. In July, ten candidates sat for the Matriculation Exami- 
nation and six of them were successful. 
Scholarships. 


ir. Of the scholars maintained by the Government two 
qualified during the year from Beirut University, two from ‘the 


362 

Acre Agricultural Station whither they had gone from the 
Palestine Kadoorie Agricultural School, and two from the 
Kadoorie School, and all have been absorbed in the Department 
of Education. A future programme has been agreed upon, 
though the financial situation will not permit of its being carried 
out in full in 1937, whereby the following scholars will be 
maintained :— 
2 girls at the Jerusalem Government College. 

I girl at the English Girls’ College in Jerusalem. 

6 boys at the Kadoorie Agricultural School. 

3 boys at the Government Arab Training College in 

Jerusalem. 
2 boys at Beirut University. 
2 students at Universities in England. 


The execution of this programme will turn out a sufficiency 
of trained teachers for the schools and a few adequately 
educated officials for other branches of the Administration. 


Other Education outside Trans-Jordan. 


12. An attempt was made last year to ascertain the number 
of students who were obtaining their education at schools 
outside Trans-Jordan at other than Government expense and 
the following approximate figures were obtained :— 

Terra Santa, Jerusalem ... mi: - a 28 

St. George’s School, Jerusalem ... 
Friends’ School, Ramallah 
Rawdat el Maaref, Jerusalem 
American University, Beirut 
Bishop Gobat School, Jerusalem ... 


- NRW COO 
|S | 


Non-Government Schools. 


13. The table attached hereto gives particulars of the non- 
Government schools. Amongst those newly opened is the school 
in Amman established by the Anglican Bishop in Jerusalem, 
whilst the Church Missionary Society Girls’ School in Amman 
has been re-organized and has taken over its. new quarters. 
The Bishop’s school has been started in a small way, but it 1s 
hoped that eventually it may develop into a full secondary 
school on the same lines as the Bishop Gobat school in 
Jerusalem. 


General. 

14. The Department of Health has continued its care of the 
health of school children, and the policy of running agricultur 
gardens (though no new ones have been opened) has. been 
maintained. 


co 


zf1 


28 ze ZZ1 Lil g6L‘¢ Llo + C1S‘g| or€'r | Soz‘s 


a een ee nn ee el eel 


Sud] 
“St4y) 


"SULa{SO JAZ 


L — ZL €1 5 6 — oF — | oF 
y + — CI ¥gI gi + 6L1 CLI F 

z = z = 99 z+ | 99 — | 99 
6f — 6¢ 62 zHi‘z 61z + 1zz‘z|o — 1zz‘z 

Qz Qz — 102 Lads) CzI + Cer‘r] S€r‘1}; — 
6S — 6S 6S gSE'z LSz + GC1Z‘z#} Cr1Z‘z 

CI — CI oS €or Zo +. C1 — C1 

“Avak 
. "sunt snotnaad 
"1010 | "namomy| “ual -st4y |'smajsojy uo "1040 [ | *Sj4t4y) | ‘shog | *syooyas 
asvas7ap fo 
40 AIQUNN 
"S494 IDI I. “uoldyay ISDIAIUT "squapnys 


"LEGI-O£61I ‘SIOOHOS INAWNUAAO‘) NI SUAHOVAT GNV SINAGNLS AO NOILnaUisiq 





es TeIOT, 
STOOYIS 

s}ely pure sy 
STOOYIS 


"** — gjooyos Pesaq 


"**  SfOOYSS eSeTIIA_ 


_ S[OOYIS StH 
sjooyos AieJUIUII[q 
***sjTooyas Alepuosas 


J0049S 


Ud}PIESIIPUTS] | 


MAA EAS | 





~ 





304 


v 
Zz 
I 
Zz 


OWA + 





Te ae ea 


"* TEIOL 


“© SIONS “SWE ‘II 
me s[OOoyoS UeRIUSULIY ‘OI 
_ “"* SfOOqS requ 
sjooyos UeLIE}yeEqqes 
UspIVZIopury qeiy 
sjooyos weosuy 
S[OOYOS UPOLIOUIY ° 
***S[OOYIS STOYFED Yoe1y) ° 
S[OOYIG XOpOgyIQ YsIeIH ° 
ot S[OOqIS Une] ° 
“+ sqeqqnyy 


NO PIO NOOK 


“SJ0049S 


‘mordyay 


“LE6I-QEGI ‘STOOHDG INAWNUYHAOS-NON NI SUAHOVAL ANV S1ldNg dO NOJLNAIULSIG 


365 


XiV.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


Personnel. 


_1. The establishment of the Department of Health has been 
increased by four clerks for District Health Offices, one attendant 
for the Amman Government Hospital, one Medical Officer for 
the Mobile Desert Medical Unit, and four medical orderlies 
for the Mobile Desert Medical Unit. 


_ The number of Medical Officers and District Inspectorate staff 
is as follows: 13 Medical Officers, one Sanitary Sub-Inspector, 
9 Anti-Malaria Sub-Inspectors and 4 medical orderlies. 


Finance. 


2. The following is the estimated revenue and expenditure 
for the Department for the financial year 1936/37, compared 
with that for the year 1935/36:— 








1936/37. 1935/36. 

| £P. £P. 

(1) Revenue oe ee — 580 640 
(2) Expenditure— 

Personal Emoluments ... 9,805 | 9,377 

Other Charges... eee 5,071 4,573 

Extraordinary ... sists — . 530 

£P.15,476 £P.14,480 








| Vital Statistics. 


3- No census of the population of Trans-Jordan has been 
taken and the Department continues to take the figure 300,000 
aS a Tough estimate of the population, including the nomadic and 
s¢mi-nomadic tribes. “3 


- The number of births notified during the year under review 
. 12,234 (40 per thousand inhabitants) compared with 11,284 
1935 (37-6 per thousand). 


The infantile mortality rate was 201 per thousand live births, 
pared with 211 for 1935 and 242 for 1934. 


_ The following table shows the birth-rates and death-rates 


nace 1926, that is to sa izati 
, S , since the organization of the 
€partment : —_ y 64 


CO 


366 
Number of Births Number of Deaths Total Increase 


Year. registered. registered. of Births 
| over Deaths. 
1926... 0. 3,483 (11-4) 2,939 (9°6) 544 
1927 ... sets 5,800 (19-0) 3,968 (13-0) 1,832 
1928 ... eu: 8,400 (27°4) 5,009 (16-3) 3,391 
1929... «.-. 9,845 (32°2) 6,573 (21°5) 3,272 
1930 ... ... + 10,340 (33°8) 6,661 (21°7) 3,679 
1931... °... . 10,697 (35:0) 5,684 (18:4) 5,049 
1932... ae 10,871 (35°5) 6,152 (20-0) 4,719 
1933... ++» ~~: 10,900 (36-3) 7354 (24°5) 3,546 
1934 ... aah 10,742 (35°8) 7,925 (26-4) 2,817 
1935... Se 11,284 (37-6) 6,832 (22-7) 4,452 
1936 ... ce 12,234 (40-0) 6,652 (22-0) 5,582 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 
The figures for the first three or four years cannot be taken 
as accurate as numbers of deaths and births were not notified. 
The notifications at present are fairly satisfactory except from 
those Beduin who spend most of the year in the desert and in 
adjacent foreign territories. 


infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases notified during the year was 
7,329,. with 330 deaths, as compared with 8,535 cases, with 
306 deaths, in 1935. 

The following list shows cases of and deaths from infectious 
and communicable diseases notified in 1936, compared with 
1935 -— 


oe 1936. 1935. 
Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
Anthrax ... “ae oa ite Jae 7 I 2 — 
Chicken-pox sii sat es ifs 64 — 29 — 
Diphtheria fais er ls “a 10 I 8 3 
Dysentery ... she ae ee an 303 4 185 5 
Erysipelus ... aus uot ide ai 37 3 42 3 
Influenza ... ah ae er wee 1,365 46 254 8 
Measles... ee ous —_ ...  I,102 133 1,208 169 
German measles ... ee tas ct I —- — _ 
Mumps eee ee ate Kas ei 112 — 12 — 
Cerebro-spinal meningitis me age 29 10 22 7 
Pneumonia... er se as me 17I 48 IoI 27 
Puerperal fever... ou vis es 9 +22 8 I 
Relapsing fever... ay oes se 6 I 8 — 


Scarlet fever bbs Was bis seid — — 4 — 


= ee ee 


ee ee oe ee 


367 


936. 1935. 

Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
Smallpox... 00 eee tee a 
Typhoid... ae ae sak ” 102. Lo 165 16 
Para-typhoid __ ... ie es - 26 + I-27. I 
Typhus__... bat Bas ae sax “3 35 oo; re." 4 
Whooping-cough ... ae Sad er 96 2 157 oe 
Acute polyarticular rheumatism aa 45. I... 31 I 
Malaria... ie ae ait ws 2,791 17 5,450 8 
Schistosomiasis... ... sas Weed 2 ae I — 
Leishmaniasis Hh ae bas sae 6 —_ 6° — 
Leprosy - — — — 
Tetanus - ae st su I _ I I 
Pulmonary and non-pulmonary tuber- 

Culosis_... Bag oe hte its 595 40 532 46 
Venereal Diseases... de a oe All 3 226 2 
Encephalitis lethargica ... ae oe I I I 
Hydrophobia es ie wis a I I — — 


It will be seen that cases of typhus have decreased. Influenza 
cases have been more numerous and the epidemic itself was 
more severe than in 1935. Measles continued but with no greater 
severity. The numbers of typhoid cases and of deaths from 
typhoid were considerably less than in 1935. The Department 
undertook the required measures for the treatment and isolation 
of patients suffering from infectious diseases. The special serum 
was used free of charge in all cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis. 
5,311 contracts of typhoid and para-typhoid were inoculated 
free of charge with T.A.B. vaccine. 


-5. The Department continued to maintain eight-bedded epi- 
demic posts at Amman, Irbid, Kerak, and Ma‘an, and four- 
bedded posts at Jerash, Tafileh and Aqaba. The mobile 
epidemic equipment of forty beds was also maintained and 
occasionally used amongst nomadic tribes. 2 


The total number of disinfections performed was 101,986 
articles and 798 houses, as compared with 98,590 articles and 
1,489 houses in 1935. 


Vaccination against Smallpox. 


6. Vaccination against smallpox is che Sa! by law and is 
carried out by the Department free of charge. The total number 
of vaccinations performed during the year was 23,945, the total 
during the past five years being 233,400. 


368 


Malaria and anti-Malaria Measures. 


7. During 1936, 2,791 new cases of malaria, with 17 deaths, 
were reported, as compared with 5,435 cases with 8 deaths in 
1935. During the autumn months of 1936 the Medical Officers of 
Health examined 9,929 children below ten years of age in 179 
different localities with the object of determining the spleen rate. 
Of those examined 1,070 children were found to be suffering 
from enlarged spleen, a ratio of Io per cent., compared with 
I5 per cent. for the year 1935. Out of 7, 008 school-children 
examined, only 351 (5 per cent.) were found with enlarged 
spleen. The largest number of cases of malaria occurred in the 
Ajlun and Jerash Districts. 


Routine anti-malaria measures were continued in municipal 
areas and vilages on the same lines as in previous years. 
extra sum of £P.500 from relief funds was spent on anti-malaria 
measures in Tafileh and Ma‘an Districts. 


Antirabic Measures. 


8. The Department maintained the centres of prophylactic 
treatment and continued to use the vaccine prepared at the 
Palestine Government Central Laboratories. 


_ Twenty-two persons, bitten by animals suspected to be suffer- 
ing from rabies, received treatment. One case of human © 
are a occurred at Irbid during the year, and proved — 
atal. 


Government Hospitals. 


9. The numbers of admissions to, and deaths in, Govern- 
ment Hospitals, compared with the figures for 1935, are as 
follows :— 


Total admissions. Total Deaths. 
1936. 1935. 1936. 1935. 
954 750 46 53 


Government Clinics. 


10. The total attendances at the Public Health Department 
clinics during the year again showed an increase, being 192, 958, 
as compared with 177,104 in 1935, 154,545 in 1934, 132,160 in 
1933, 135,426 in 1932, I10,92I in 1931, and 97,786 in 1930. 


New cases at these clinics (excluding school clinics) for 1936 
were 41,951, classified as follows :—Malaria Hae eye diseases 
9,652, other diseases 30,581. 


309 


Voluntary Hospitals. 


‘I. The admission to voluntary hospitals during the year 
were as follows :— 


Number of Deaths in 


a a 








Admissions. Hospitals. 
The English Hospital, Amman oe 80 4 
The Church Missionary Society 
Hospital, Es-Salt... ae see 473 32 
The Italian Hospital, Amman aa 782 33 
The Italian Hospital, Kerak wae 334 13 
Total ... ae 1,669 82 








Voluntary Clinics. 


12, The number of attendances at voluntary clinics was 
25,117, compared with 28,294 for 1935. 


The distribution was as follows:— 


The English Hospital Clinic, Es-Salt ae 500 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Amman ee 16,572 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Kerak es 4,045 

25,117 


The number of new cases for 1936 was 13,639 classified as 
follows: —Malaria, 1,073, eye diseases 1,605, other diseases 


10,961. 


Licensing of Medical Practitioners, Dentists, Pharmacists 
and Midwives. 


13. During the year, licences were issued to six medical 
practitioners, one dentist, and three midwives. 


The number and distribution of private medical practitioners, 


dentists, pharmacists, and midwives at the end of 1936 was as 
follows: — 


Medical Pharma- Mid- 
Practitioners Dentists. cists. wives. 
Amman ... a is 10 4 3 4 
Es-Salt ... — ee I I I 2 
Xerak ... ae sie 4 — —- I 
Irbid sate ave re 2 — — — 
Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion, Jisr E] Majemie ... I — — — 
‘Iraq Petroleum Company, 
Jisr El] Majemie wes I 


lu l | 
la || 
la] | 


370 
Government Laboratory. 


14. The number of specimens examined during the year w: 
5,819, compared with 6,498 in 1935, 5,491 in 1934, 4,325 
1933, 3,595 in 1932, and 2,849 in 193. 


School Medical Service. 


| 

15. The routine medical inspection of school children ar: 
school buildings was carried out by the Medical Officers ¢ 
Health on the same lines as in previous years. 

7,008 school children were examined, and of these 1,538 wer 
found to be suffering from trachoma (21-9 per cent., comparel 
with 22-6 per cent. for 1935.) 

The number vaccinated or re-vaccinated against smallpo! 
was I,345, compared with 1,083 in the preceding year. 

The total number of attendances at the school ophthalm: 
clinics was 308,090, compared with 307,204 in 1935. 


Maternity and Infant Welfare. 


16. The Amman Infant Welfare Centre remained the only 
one in the country. 

The total cases registered during the year were 96, compared 
with 131 in 1935. 

The number of attendances was 7,860, compared with 11,7098 
in 1935. The number of visits to the houses of children made by 
the nurse was 2,360, compared with 2,356 for 1935. 

Arrangements have been made to train a few women in mid- 
wifery at the Palestine Government midwifery centre, at the 
expense of the municipality wherein later they will be appointed. 
One has been trained and has been appointed to Es-Salt, a second 
is under training for Madeba. 


Other Medical Services. 


17. The Department continued to be responsible for the 
medical treatment of the Arab Legion, including the Desert 
Patrol, of prisoners and of railway employees, and for the 
control of all public health matters connected with those services. 


Medico-Legal Examinations. 


18. Practically all medico-legal examinations are carried oul 
by the Medical Officers of Health. During the year they per 
formed 3,934 examinations, as compared with 3,274 in 1935: 
Out of this number 97 were post-mortem examinations, com- 
pared with 95 in 1935.. sae 


371 


Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments. 


‘yer, 19- The licensing and control of all unhealthy trades and 
",dublic establishments is carried out by the Department of 
‘'ublic Health. 


The total number of licences issued or renewed during the year 
aS 1,240 within municipal areas and 881 outside municipal 


: reas, aS compared with 1,206 and 837 respectively for 1935. 
drer. 3 


maces Water Supplies. 


20. By the end of the financial year a sum of £P.1,500 will 
yoave been collected by the Es-Salt Municipality for the water 
wmupply scheme in that town, and arrangements for the necessary 

‘survey have been put in hand. 


si.’ Under the supervision of the Public Health Department 

, improvements have been made to the water supplies in four 

Villages, and a new engine and pump have been bought for 

he Kerak Municipality. In addition to these works a sum of 
£P.1,500 was spent during the year by way of relief work in 
Cleaning springs and cisterns in the Ma‘an and Tafileh Districts: 
this work has done much good. 


* 
1 


the 
XV.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 
i Revenue and Expenditure—1924-25 to 1935-36. 
ed: The following statement sets out the annual totals of revenue 
' (including all grants from His Majesty’s Government) and 


‘expenditure (including that covered by specific grants) from 
_ the rst April, 1924, the date of the institution of financial control, 
to the 31st March, 1936:— 








Financial Year. Revenue. Expenditure. 

i). £P. 

Surplus balance at 31st March, 1924 23,958 — 
1924/25... aes 8 es 280,673 274,868 
1925/26... ae sais = 282,459 274,573 
1926/27... ree eas is 302,520 274,920 
1927/28... sh oe ua 282,073 318,260 
: 1928/29... hea ses 7 307,555 318,950 
if 1929/30... ae sé, oes 316,147 338,461 
: 1930/31... a aw a 367,516 350,532 
1931/32... ve ir ack 338,046 344,983 
1932/33... mee as Les 354,888 340,883 
1933/34... i sat ait 381,412 374,769 
1934/35... see vee ve 377,517 369,395 
1935/36... a en ease 395,630 381,300 
Surplus balance at 31st March, 1936... 48,500 








Summaries of revenue and expenditure under Heads during the 
last four years (with notes explaining the principal variations) 
are given in the following tables :— 

41526 N 


372 


SUMMARY OF REVENUE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1932-33 


TO 1935-36 (a) 





Head of Revenue. 1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 
. LP: £P. £P. £P. 
Customs and Excise ... 82,397 103,530(b) 98,627 104,567 
Licences and Taxes se: ET7,159 IOI,61I(C) 113,057 140,637(c) 
Court Fees and Office receipts 29,804 30,220 32,812 37,026(d) 
Posts and Telegraph Dept. 14,416(e) 12,622 12,982 13,798 
Revenue from Government | 
Property ve 3.495 2,972 3,198 7,184 
Interest sae re ae 863 609 1,523 827 
Miscellancous ... 4,794 8,906 11,935 7,198(f) 
Sale of State Domains. ae 821 1,037 2,124 2,610 
Total Local Revenue £P.253,749 261,507 276,258 313,847 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force et ... 29,139 30,899 31,959 31,611 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan | 
Government.. .+. 72,000 65,000 60,000 42,000(g) 
Grants from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund . 24,006 9,300 8,172 
Total Grants £P.101,139 119,905 101,259 81,783 
Total Revenue... £P.354,888 381,412 377,517 395,630 
Notes. 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
page 173 of the Annual Report for 1931*; those for the financial years 
1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on page 329 of the Annual Report for 1935. 

(6) The improvement in the revenues of the Department of Customs and 
Excise in 1933-34 was due to the revision of the Customs Agreement with 
Palestine whereby, with effect from 1st October, 1932, Trans-Jordan was 
allowed to retain duties on all imports arriving in transit via Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan’s share in import duties collected in Palestine was reduced. 

(c) The decrease in revenue from Licences and Taxes in 1933-34 and the 
increase in 1935-36 were the natural result of fluctuation in climatic 
conditions. In the former year considerable remissions of taxation were 
necessitated by bad harvests, and lack of pasture caused heavy losses of 
livestock ; in the latter year favourable conditions in the more productive 
areas enabled a high percentage of current taxation to be collected and 
greatly facilitated the collection of arrears. 

(qd) The improvement in revenue from Fees of Court or Office in 1935-36 
reflected to a large extent the improved economic conditions resulting from 
satisfactory harvests. The increase occurred principally in enhanced 
collections of Court fees, Land Settlement and Land Registry fees and 
Veterinary and Animal Quarantine fees. 

(c) Revenues of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs in 1932-33 were 
inflated by sales to collectors from a pictorial issue of stamps which was 
put into circulation early in 1933. 

(f) The increase of revenue which accrued in 1933-34 and 1934-35, largely 
as the result of a revision of the basis of computation of Trans- Jordan's 
ex-gratia share of the profits of the Palestine Currency Board and of increases 
in the contributions paid by the Board to the revenues of Palestine, was not 
maintained in 1935-36 owing mainly to an abnormal rise in the amount of 
currency in Palestine with a consequential fall in the proportion which the 
estimated quantity in circulation in Trans-Jordan bore to the whole. 

(g) The Grant-in-Aid of the Trans-Jordan Government in 1935-36, which 
had been approved by His Majesty’s Government at the figure of £P.60,000, 
was short issued by the sum of £P.18,000 in consideration of the improvement 
in the financial situation of the Administration. 





* Colonial No. 75. 


373 
3. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 
1932-33 TO 1935-36 (a). 


Head of Expenditure. 1932-33. I933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 
_,.. Ordinary. £P. £P. £P. £LP. 
Civil List sss she diate 14,481 14,560 14,534 15,329 
Public Debt and Loan 
harges ... 590 1,775 1,340 1,148 
Legislature on ao 3,871 3,733 1,986 (b) 3,699 
Pensions and Gratuities 5,430 7,154 9,479 11,064 (c) 
ais Minister and Interior 3,745 3,944 3,753 3,899 
Ha Administration 6,913 10,001 (d) 10,035 g,667 
hake! of Justice 15,676 16,238 15,827 16,047 
heria Courts sf 3,726 3,877 3,869 3,901 
Ministry of Finance 14,696 11,420 (€) 11,032 11,256 
ue and Excise oP 7,409 7,831 7,543 7,509 
ublic Health Department I1I,g60 12,118 12,762 13,763 
ucation Department 22,388 23,028 23,324 24,207 
Agriculture, Forests and 
eterinary - 5,479 5,361 7,151 7.411 
Antiquities Department 2,630 2,642 2,500 2,558 
blic Works Department 4,487 4,544 4,534 4,637 
: blic Works, Recurrent... 16,868 17,977 18,918 23,308 (f) 
osts and Telegraphs Dept. 12,887 _. 12,637 13,903 13,061 
P nds Department sist 13,400 12,668 13,509 15,617 (g) 
olice ‘and Prisons Depart- _ 
ment :— 
(2) Police 98,124 99,639 99,721 101,998 (A) 
MI (0) Prisons 12,401 11,930 11,549 II,004 
‘liscellaneous 8,561 8,528 9,500 9,682 
British Resident... 6,472 6,616 (i) — — 
Audit Department ... 3,295 3,385 3,253 3,672 
Tribal Control Board . 968 I,0gI 766 181 
ans-Jordan Frontier Force 28,284 28,720 27,527 28,531 
Total Ordinary 
Expenditure £P324,741 331,917 328,425 343,809 





(2) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
Pages 174 and 175 of the Annual Report for 1931* : those for the financial 
Years 1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on pages 330 and 331 of the Annual 
Report for 1935. | 

(6) The decrease in expenditure on the Legislature in 1934-35 was princi- 
Pally due to a seven months’ hiatus that preceded the election of the Legislative 

uncil, during which no commitments were incurred in respect of the salaries 
of members, 

(c) The gradual increase in expenditure on Pensions and Gratuities arises 
om increased commitments under the pensions laws in force. 

: (42) and (e) The increase in expenditure under the District Administration 
Vote and the decrease in expenditure under the Finance Ministry Vote result 

0m the transfer from the latter to the former of emoluments and expenses 
of the tax collecting staff. 

(f) The increase in expenditure on Public Works Recurrent was due to 
he heavy cost of repairs of damage to roads caused by floods during the 
Months of February and March, 1935. 

(g) The increase in expenditure on the Lands Department was due to 
€xpansion of the service in connexion with land settlement, and to savings 
eHected during the preceding two years in order to meet a programme of 
€conomy imposed by Government with the object of offsetting a shortfall in 
Tevenue. 

_ (A) The increase in expenditure on Police resulted from a slight expansion 
In establishment and from the economies referred to in the preceding note (g). 

(t) The cost of the British Resident and his establishment was charged to 

Imperial funds with effect from the 1st April, 1934. 


* Colonial No. 75. 
41526 


374 


Head of Expenditure. 1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35 1935-36. 
£P. eae LP. LP. 
Extraordinary. . 
Public Works Department 11,241 9,590° 8,567 19,796 (J) 
Ministry of Finance “4 — 236 1,987 453 
Posts and Telegraph Dept. 867 1,692 4,432 6,906 (A) 
Public Health Department — 357 252 225 
Police and Prisons Dept. ... 2,198 2,934 — 2,571 
Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary = g81 214 289 — 
His Highness the Amir — — 2,957 (2) — 
Relief Measures _ — — 14,824 (m) “150 
Colonial Development Fund — 23,822 4,844 4,311 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force 855 2,179 2,818 3,079 
Write-off of Public moneys —— 863 — — 
Expenses, Syria - Trans - 
Jordan Boundary Com- 
mission... were eee — 965 — — 
Total Extraordinary 
Expenditure 16,142 42,852 40,970 37,491 
Total Expenditure £P340,883 374,709 369,395 381,300 


(j) Includes £P8,500 chargeable to the Colonial Development Fund. 
(*) 


k) Includes an abnormal item of £P6,131 being Trans-Jordan’s share of 
the cost of the Haifa-Bagdad telephone circuit. 
(J 


) This represents a special allotment to the Amir to meet the expenses 
of His Highness’s visit to the United Kingdom, and of the marriage of His 
Highness the Amir Talal. 


(m) Relief measures were necessitated by the distress caused by crop 
failures and losses of livestock in 1934-35. 


Public Debt. 


4. At the 31st December, 1936, the Public Debt of Trans- 
Jordan stood at the figure of £P.4,816, representing the balance 
of the Earthquake Relief Loan of £P.20,000 obtained from His 
Majesty’s Government in 1927-28. 


375 
5. Comparative Figures of Revenue and Expenditure for 
1935-30 and 1936-37. 


Forecast at 


Actuals, Estimates, 31.12.1936 
1935-36. 1936-37. for 1936-37. 
LP. £P. LP. 
A.—REVENUE. 
Local ae a ae 313,847 277,370 285,530 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans- Jordan oe 42,000 55,000 55,000 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force is oe Mare ait 31,611 33,840 33,838 
Grants from the Colonial Development 
Fund ... ar sie xe _ 8,172 22,130 20,550 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan (Otto- 
man Public Debt) : ae — 32,000 31,072 
Total ... ... £P.395,630 420,340 425,990 
B.—EXPENDITURE. 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Ordinary 315,278 341,269 333,920 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force, Ordinary 28,531 30,513 30,510 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Extra- | 
ordinary das asd sie te 30,101 40,723 40,802 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, Extra- 3,079 3,327 3,328 
ordinary se = sing ws 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants os =e 4,311 17,630 16,050 
Expenditure from Grants (Ottoman 
Public Debt) ... : wee — 32,000 31,072 
Total ... £P.381,300 465,462 455,082 
C—EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, 
AGRICULTURE, PUBLIC HEALTH, 
PuBLic Works, RELIEF MEAS- 
URES AND DEVELOPMENT. 
Education, Ordinary 24,207 24,770 23,850 
Agriculture, Ordinary 7,411 9,470 8,000 
Public Health, Ordinary , 13,763 15,476 15,000 
Public Health, Extraordinary 225 250 — 
Public Works, Ordinary 4,637 4,893 4,890 
Public Works, Recurrent 23,308 24,203 24,200 
Public Works, Extraordinary 19,796 15,808* 15,892 
Relief Measures ai ie ve 150 19,255 19,250 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants— 
(a2) Improvement of Water Supplies 47 475 475 
(0) Reconstruction of the Es Salt— 
Allenby Bridge road ... cis — — — 
(c) Sinking Artesian bores in th 
Desert bie bit eis 1,606 1,794 1,794 
(2) Seed Propagation So ce 607 1,432 1,432 
(e) Land Settlement, Acceleration of 66 5,934 5,934 
(f) Agricultural Experimental Station 325 6,415 6,415 
(g) Development ... ie — - 1,580 — 






































* Expenditure on Public Works Extraordinary in the year 1936-37 includes 
-4,500 chargeable to the Colonial Development Fund as against £P.8,500 
charged to that Fund in the preceding year. 


376 


Comments on the Principal Variations in Revenue. 


6. Local revenue for 1936-37 is expected to fall short of the 
1935-36 figure by £P.28,317. The following table shows how 
this anticipated short-fall is made up:—. 


























Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Revenue. 1935-36. 1936-37. Increase. Decrease. 
LP. £P. £P. LP. 
I.—Customs and Excise... 104,567 124,180 19,613(a) — 
II.—Licences and Taxes ... 140,637 92,330 — 48,307(c) 
IIlI.—Fees of Court or Office, 
etc. : ad 37,026 35,660 — 1,366(da) 
IV.—Posts and Telegraph .. 
Department : 13,798 13,720 — 78 
V.—Revenue from Govern- 
ment Property 7,184 1,400 —_— 5,784(e) 
VI.—Interest 827 370 — 457(f) 
VII.—Miscellaneous bis 7,198 15,700 8,502(b) — 
VIII.—Sale of State Domains 2,610 2,170 — 440(g) 
313,847 285,530 28,115 56,432 
Net Decrease oe — 28,317 28,317 — 
313,847 313,847 56,432 56,432 














(a) Includes the sum of £P.8,o00 representing the estimated increase in 
Trans-Jordan’s share in the import duties of Palestine, which it is anticipated 
will be received before the 31st March, 1937.. The balance is accounted for 
by an increase in trade with Palestine. 


(b) Results principally from the receipt in the present financial year of 
£P.1,958 and the anticipated receipt of a further sum of approximately 
£P.2,740 on account of Trans-Jordan’s ex gratia share in the profits of the 
Palestine Currency in respect of the year 1935-36 which, normally, would 
have been received in that year. 


(c), (a), (e) and (g) Reflect the effects of an unusually bad agricultural 
season and of the Arab strike in Palestine. 


(f) Results from the payment in 1935-36 of the balance of the Loan of 
£P.21,000 issued to the Agricultural Bank in 1933-34. 


Comments on the Principal Variations in Expenditure. 


7. It will be observed from paragraph 5 (B) that the forecast 
of ordinary expenditure of the Trans-Jordan Administration for 
1930-37 shows an increase of £P.18,642 over the actual ordinary 
expenditure during 1935-36. The details of this anticipated 
increase are as follows:— 


377 























: Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Expenditure. 1935/36. 1936/37. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P: £P. rae 
— I.—Civil List aut es 15,329 15,700 371 ra 
II.—Public Debt and Loan 
Charges... sai 1,148 240 — 908 (f) 
IV.—Pensions and Gratuities 11,064 11,400 330 — 
VII.—Ministry of Justice 16,047 15,500 = 547(!) 
X.—Customs, Trade and 
Industry 7,569 8,250 681(a) — 
XI.—Public Health 13,763 15,000 1,237(8) — 
XII.—Education .. 24,207. ~~: 23,850 —_ 357(™) 
XIII.—Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary Department 7,411 8,000 589(c) — 
XV A.—Public Works Recurrent 23,308 24,200 892(d) — 
| XVI.—Posts and Telegraph 
| Department oe 13,661 16,250 2,589(e) — 
XVII.—Lands _° wee 15,617 16,400 783(f) — 
XVIII.—Police and Prisons— 
(a) Police 101,998 108,500  6,502(g) = 
(6) Prisons ies 11,004 11,700 696(h) — 
(c) Supplementary 
Reserve Force — 4,700 4,700(2) — 
XIX .—Miscellaneous se 9,682 8,920 — 762(n) 
XXI.—Tribal Court of Appeal ... 181 860 679(J) — 
Other Services ne 43,289 44,450 1,360 199 
315,278 333,920 21,395 2,753 
Net Increase 18,642 — — 18,642 
Total LP.333,920 333,920 21,395 21,395 














(a), (b), (c) and (f) These increases are largely due to expansion in the relevant 
Services. 


(2) Is accounted for by increased expenditure principally on the mainten- 
ance of roads. 

(e) Results mainly from the necessity to carry over to the present financial 
year commitments incurred in 1935-36. 

(g), (hk) and (t) Are the outcome of increased expenditure, mainly of a 
temporary nature, occasioned by disturbances in Palestine. 

(7) Is due to the vacancy of the post of President of the Tribal Control 

ard, which has since been reconstituted as the Tribal Court of Appeal, 
throughout the greater part of the financial year 1935-36. 

(k) Represents savings on interest charges due to the settlement in 193 5-36 
of the Government’s liability in connection with loans obtained from the 
Palestine Treasury. 

(!) Is principally due to the savings resulting from the vacancy of the post 
of Judicial Adviser during a part of the present financial year. 
ar Results from vacancies and savings which are partly of a temporary 

ure. 

(n) Is due to abnormal expenditure in the financial year 1935-36 and to 
Savings in the present financial year in connexion with pension contributions 


Payable to the Palestine Government in respect of the services of certain 
seconded officers. 


378 
8. The anticipated increase of £P.10,7or in the extra- 


ordinary expenditure of the Trans- Jordan Administration and of 
£P.11,739 in the expenditure on schemes financed by the 


Colonial Development Fund are produced by the variations 


shown in the following table: — 














Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Expenditure. 1935-36. 1936-37. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £LP. 8 oe LE. 
XXIITI.—Public Works Extra- 
ordinary 19,796 15,892 — 3,904 
XXIV, —Police and Prisons Extra- 
ordinary 2,571 5,660 3,089 — 
AXVI.—Public Health Extra- 
ordinary ‘ 225 — — 225 
XXVII.—Ministry of Panes: 
Extraordinary 453 —~ — 453 
XXVITI.—Posts and Telegraph 
Extraordinary 6,906 — — 6,906 
AX XITI.—Relief Measures 150 ‘19,250 19,100 — 
30,101 40,802 22,189 11,488 
Net Increase 10,701 — — 10,701 
£P.40,802 40,802 22,189 22,189 
Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Expenditure. 1935-36. 1936-37. Increase. Decrease. 
, LP. £P. £P. £P. 
XXXI.—Expenditure out of 
Colonial Development 
Fund Grants— 
(a) Haifa-Bagdad Rail- | 
way Survey 1,661 — — 1,661 
(6) Improvement of 
Water Supplies ... 47 475 428 — 
(c) Es-Salt — Allenby 
Bridge Road* _... — — — — 
(dZ) Sinking Artesian 
Bores in the Desert 1,606 1,794 188 — 
(e) Seed Propagation .. 607 1,432 825 — 
(f) Land Settlement 66 5,934 5,868 — 
(g) Agricultural Experi- 
mental Station 324 6,415 6,091 — 
4,311 16,050 13,400 1,661 
Net Increase 11,739 — — 11,739 
Total... £P.16,050 16,050 13,400 ° 13,400 
























































* A 50 per cent. share of the expenditure on this scheme is chargeable 
to the Colonial Development Fund but is brought to account under "Head 
XXIII, Public Works Extraordinary, together with the other 50 per cent. 


share borne by the Trans- Jordan Government. 


379 


9. FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE TRANS-JORDAN GOVERNMENT 
AT THE 31ST MARCH, 1930. 








Liabilities. Assets. 

£P. £P. . 
Deposits... v 5 11,457. Advances... we Ge 26 s22 
Loans ne oe aiais 4,816 Imprests” ... “23 ee 5.429 
Excess of Assets over Lia- Remittances oa 58 413 
bilities (Surplus balance) 48,500 Joint Colonial Fund wes 23,000 
; Cash and Bank balances ... 19,409 
£P.64,773 £P.64,773 








Revenue Collection. 


10. Collection of current taxation from the rst January to the 
31st December, 1936, amounted to £P.81,352. Relative 
collections during previous calendar years were as follows :— 


LP. 
1931 ... - ve an o 99,961 
1932 ... i A a ue IOI ,073 
1933 ... aes - a as 84,611 
1934 ... vine ie fe “ee 89,872 
1935 . : 121,985 


The system of annual inspection of standing crops hitherto 
carried out solely by the Assistant British Resident and the 
Financial Adviser, which was described on page 336 of the 
Annual Report for the year 1935 was amplified in the year 
under review in a manner to provide for preliminary exami- 
nations and reports to be made by District Administrative 
_ Officers assisted by Agricultural Inspectors, The Assistant 
_ British Resident and the Financial Adviser also performed their 
mdependent inspections and their joint recommendations to the 
Government for the remission of current taxation under Article 
I6 (b) of the Land Tax Law 1933 were framed after considera- 
tion of the preliminary reports from the District Governors. 

is procedure was designed to provide instruction of the District 
authorities in an administrative function that properly belongs 
to them, and had the satisfactory effect of ensuring a more 
detailed inspection of crops than had previously been possible. 


Current taxation remitted on account of failure of crops during 
Tecent years was as follows:— 


| | AP. . 
Ww31 ... ‘a oe ‘ah ee 12,46 
1932 ... aie we ses ee 8,397 
1933... om oa aa 7 14,726 
1934 ... ee si ee 19,155 


1935 ... ee, . Pelee ae _ 13,808 
1936 ... wae as Sou eS 53,507 
(Recommended) 


380 


Arrears of Taxes. 


11. Collections of arreas of taxes from ‘the Ist January to 
the 31st December, 1936, amounted to £P.2,730. _—__ Relative 
collections during previous calendar years were as follows :— 


LP. 
I93I_... oe es he eg 3,841 
1932... m3 33 sas wes 5,230 
1933... bas 6g oe - 4,021 
1934... ed oy ° ate tee 3,757 
1935 ee i — ane es 9,071 


The deterioration apparent during 1936 in regard to collect- 
igns both of current taxation and arreas was due principally 
to the disastrous outcome of the agricultural season. 


The amount of arrears authorized or recommended to be 
written off in accordance with the procedure outlined on 
page 337 of the Annual Report for 1935 were as follows :— 


Year of first assessment 


1924-25 to 1930-31... ... - 63,428 
1931-32 nh sa ais - 7,789 
1932-33 ee if a oe 13,5600 
1933-34 - ae a ost’. 2 345227 
1934-35 os ssa 


“i 8,952 

(Under consideration). 
Recommendations for the write-off of arreas in respect of the 

financial year 1935-36 will not be made until the results of the 


harvest of 1937 are known, the prospects of which, at the time 
of the submission of this Report, are favourable. 


Revenue Reform. | 


12. On page 338 of the Annual Report for the year 1935 
reference was made to the new draft Stamp Duty Law, designed 
to replace the then existing Turkish legislation. This has since 
been enacted. The new Law came into force on the 2nd June, 


7936. 
XV1I.—CUSTOMS, EXERCISE AND TRADE. 
Customs. 


I. IMPORTS. — 


The total value of commercial imports cleared tor home con- 
sumption during the year was £P.794,956. 


381 


Direct importations by parties enjoying exemption from 
customs duties, and which were not included above, were as 


follow a 


— £P. 
Concesstonanes. | 
‘Iraq Petroleum Company: 
(x) From Palestine ... se ss 67 ,Q90 
(2) From ‘Iraq ay! as sai 15,979 


Privileged persons. 
His Highness the Amir ... - 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force ... - 
Government Departments, etc. jad 47,792 
Commercial Aircraft 
Palestine Railways vs - 
Items on Free List ae i “a 4,361 





136,122 





Principal Imports.—The recorded values of the principal 
commodities imported for home consumption are shown in 
Table ‘‘ A ’’.* 


_ Specte.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 
imported during the year was £P.8,847, comprising silver coin 
(Abyssinian) £P.4,847, and currency notes £P.4,000. 


Cereals.—The import of cereals was prohibited in August, 
1935. Owing to the crop failure of 1936, it was found necessary 
to enact legislation which would enable importers to obtain 
foreign supplies for local consumption and seed sowing. 

The Director of Customs, Trade and Industry was authorised 
to issue permits for quantities not exceeding 4,500 tons wheat, 
3,000 tons barley and 450 tons maize. 

Up to the 31st December, 1936, the quantities imported under 
permit were 1,376 tons wheat, 1,165 tons barley, 95 tons flour 
and 30 tons durra. 


2. EXPORTS AND RE-EXPORTS. 


The values of known exports and re-exports, not including 
goods passing through Trans-Jordan in transit, were:—exports 
£P.227,996, re-exports £P.3,242. 

These were made up as follows: — 


LP. 
Exports to Palestine ... a ... 198,215 
Exports to Syria... oot .. 29,781 
Re-exports to Palestine... a 2,078 
Re-exports to Syria ... cs oe 504 








* For Tables see P-P. 389-394. 


382 


Specie.—The value, in Palestine Pounds of declared specie 
exported during the year was £P.210,475 comprising silver coin 
#£P.45,800, other metal coins £P.4,320, currency notes 


£P.160,355. 


3. PRINCIPAL ARTICLES EXPORTED. 


The recorded value and quantities of the principal com- 
modities exported from Trans-Jordan during the year were:— 


Quantity. Value. 
Item. Nos. £P. 
¢t Sheep Baie see oe eas 32,747 32,322 
+ Goats ask ae a sas 11,188 8,175 
+ Cattle Si ies oe ea 701 2,729 
Kilogrammes. 

Sammeh ... nis Seg oe 103,129 8,775 
Fresh vegetables... eek a 1,644,363 10,995 
Ixersenneh and peas wii at 1,401,070 12,054 
Fresh fruit ... es See oe 482,846 4,754 
Raisins ie ue sass bed 294,638 2,436 

tT Wheat oh es oe Jai 12,270,050 108,623 
Barley ee ae ee ats 1,465,977 4,679 
Durra so ves Seis — 427,501 1,964 
Dyed goods sae sg Ses 16,328 3,194 
Wool e 2 wes Sag 67,750 2,750 
Men’s outer garments aad ee 35,832 6,127 


+ The actual exports are considerably greater. 


4. 1936 was not a good year for the export trade of Trans- 
Jordan. The conditions prevailing from the political strike in 
Syria during January and February, and in Palestine from 
April to September, deprived Trans-Jordan of the full benefit 
of her export market during 8 months of the year under review. 


The summer crops of grapes, tomatoes, bananas, melons, and 
vegetables were left on the growers’ hands. 


Drought conditions during the winter months of 1935-36 and 
the shrivelling winds of April accounted for many cereal crop 
failures especially in the southern areas. 


The regulations regarding the import of poultry which were 
adopted in Palestine in January, 1936, stopped the Trans- 
Jordan export trade to that country from February onwards, 
as Trans-Jordan merchants have been made to comply with the 
new requirements. 


383 





The » 5. [TRANSIT TRADE. 
es tp ves of goods removed through Trans-Jordan in transit 


Stars W © calendar year under review and the three previous 
fre as follows: — 
1936. 1935. 1934. 
| £P. £P. £P. 
4) From ‘Iraq to Palestine ... sas 243,123 407,262 35,950 
From Palestine to ‘Iraq _ ... ‘ie 193,886 280,728 — 
) From Nejd to Syria pee sie 
From Syria to Nejd nouns 


(c) Via Air routes by Imperial Airways, No official landings. 
K.L.M., Misr Airworks. 


(4) Via ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s 1,922,498 English tons of crude oil. 
Pipeline ‘ Iraq to Palestine. At an arbitrary valuation of 
16 shillings a ton the value of 

this quantity would be 


£P.1,537,998. 


No transit due is levied on transit trade passing through 

_ | Trans-Jordan. 
_! “The principal goods carried by road in transit through Trans- 
_\ Jordan are:—From ‘Iraq to Palestine, carpets, lambskins, 
_! dates, casings, gums. (for Europe and America), poultry, ghee, 
fish, eggs, (for Palestine); from Palestine to ‘Iraq, cased goods 
of foreign manufacture including hardware, wearing apparel, 
medicines. 

The Bagdad firm of Haim Nathaniel operated a bi-weekly 
goocis service between Jerusalem—Haifa and Bagdad and vice 
versa during the year. Mails were also carried by this firm. 
Comfortable rest-houses are being provided for use of travellers 
at Mafrak and at the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s desert stations 
H.5 and H.4. 


6. CusToMS REVENUE. 


Receipts from customs for 1936, as compared with the two 
Previous years, were as follow:— 


1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. LP. 
104,434 95,132 86,406 


In addition the following amounts were collected on behalf 
of the following Departments : — 


1936. 1935. 1934. 

£P. mils. £P. mils. £P. mils. 
Mun & Cipalities ... deat ws -7,178.908 7,289.094 5,410.771 
Vete mcinary gia sud ue 569.591 292.730 288.351 
Pass ort aie a ag 211.950 136.260 156.780 


4152 O 


384 
7, CONTRABAND. 


The number of offences against the Customs Law adjudicated 
during the calendar year under report was 258, as compared with 
179 iN 1935 and 204 in 1934. 

The receipts from penalties imposed, and from the sale of 
confiscated goods amounted to £P.283-271 mils and £P.79-053 
mils respectively. 


8. FOREIGN TRADE. 


The main trade channels and the distribution of trade during 
1936 together with a comparative statement are given in Table 


Trade between Palestine and Trans-Jordan which was 
flourishing throughout 1935, has been considerably reduced. 
Trade and transport by road completely stopped during the 
April—September period and the figures for the last quarter 
(October—December) indicate that the boycott of Palestine 
locally manufactured goods (Jewish) is being carried out by 
Trans-Jordan merchants. 

Palestine’s loss was Syria’s gain and the Syrian traders are 

consolidating new business and making a great effort to retain 
newly won connexions. The devaluation of the franc in Septem- 
ber at the end of the Palestine strike influenced Trans-Jordan | 
merchants to continue purchases from Syria. During 1936, 
transactions under the Syria—Trans-Jordan Trade Agreement 
were; imports from Syna #£P.176,827, exports to Syna 
£P.30,345. 
_ The Syrian Railways, as a result of reduced freight rates and 
other measures, now carry half the foreign imports into Trans- 
Jordan, whereas in 1933-34 the Palestine Railways carried 
gg per cent. of this trade. 


Customs control on the ‘Iraq Trans-Jordan frontier was con- 
siderably tightened by the opening of a customs post at the 
‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s station H.4. in June, 1936. 

The trade with Nejd is very difficult to assess, but is larger 
than the statistical figures indicate; wheat, barley, coffee, spices, 
cotton piece-goods and benzine are the principal exports to Nejd. 


BALANCE OF TRADE. 


It is not possible to assess the balance of trade with any 
degree of certainty. The number of customs posts in the central 
and southern area is insufficient to enable any reliable statis- 
tical data to be obtained but it is known that cereals from those 
areas are freely exported to Nejd and to Palestine. 


385 
Q. TARIFF CHANGES. 


The Customs Tariff was issued in new form with effect fro 
| the axst November, 1936. | 


| The Import Schedule is based on the League of Nation 
| standardized nomenclature and consists of 305 items. | 


The objects of the new tariff are to simplify the classification 
of goods imported and to provide a basis for the correct recording 
of statistical information. 


The tariff, generally speaking, remains on a 12% per cent. 
ad valorem basis but there are a few items at specific rates. 


Exports continue to be free of duty or dues. 


' An examination fee of one-half per cent. on the c.i.f. value of 
goods imported continues to be chargeable, in addition to the 
customs duties, on goods which are not free of duty or otherwise 
exempted therefrom. 


Excise. 


1o. Liguor. 


The excise duties on spirits and wine manufactured in the 
country during the year, as compared with the two previous 
years, were as follows:— 











1936. 1935. 1934. 

£P. - £P. £P. 

Cognac ... ev san ee 195 201 Igo 
Araq_... she oe at 759 737 809 
Wine... ve ee ve 72 69 67 
Methylated spirit _... ie 19 — ome 
Alcohol ae ea: ree 3 — T= 
Total... est 1,048 1,007 1,066 











RATE OF EXcIsE DUTY. 


The rates of excise duty remained unchanged, being :— 
Cognac 
Araq ~ 56 mils per litre. 
Wine 10 mils per litre, provided that the wine does not 


contain more than 25 per cent. of alcohol. 
ptvlated Spirit ... 10 mils per litre. 
Spirit ... 50 mils per litre. 
41526 O02 


386 


rr. LICENCE FEES 


The licence fees collected in respect of liquor licences issued 
under authority of the Law to Regulate the Sale of Intoxicating 
Liquor, 1928, as compared with the two previous years, were 
as follows: — 


1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. 
309 253 313 


Table ‘‘B’”’ to this report contains particulars of the 
quantities of liquors, wine and spirit imported into Trans-Jordan 
during the year with comparative figures for the two preceding 


years. 


12. ExcIsE DUTIES. 


The Excise Duties on tobacco continue to be as follows:— 


Cigarettes oe mee See es ... 300 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco ... ate sah dais ... 250 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco where the retail price for 
40 grammes does not exceed 10 mils .-- 120 mils per kilogramme 
REVENUE. 


The revenue from these excise duties, and the quantities of 
tobacco so taxed, are shown in Table ‘‘ C ’’ with the correspond- 
ing figures for 1935 and 1934. 


Revenue from licences to sell tobacco amounted to £P.610, as 
compared with £P.588 in 1935 and £P. 569 in 1934. 

Tombac locally grown and hisheh tobacco continued to be 
exempt from excise duties during the year. 


Table ‘‘ D ’’ contains comparative figures for the past three 
years of foreign leaf tobacco imported by the two factories 
in Trans-Jordan. 


12. Table ‘‘ E’’ contains a comparative statement of the 
revenue derived from import duty on foreign manufactured 
tobacco imported into Trans-Jordan during the past three years. 


The increase in the production of manufactured tobacco during 
1936 is explained by the facts that the hisheh tobacco crop was 4 
partial failure, and that in order to compete against the use 
of hisheh by the fellahin the tobacco factories marketed their 
cheapest variety of tobacco in 50 gramme packets for the 
standard price of 10 mils formerly charged for 40 grammes. 


387 


I3. SALT. 


Excise duty on salt was abolished in 1929. The salt deposits 
of Trans-Jordan are at Azraq. There are no statistical data 
indicating quantities extracted for use. 


Near Azraq there are salt deposits at Qarriyat el-Milh in Saudi 
Arabia and owing to the fact that this salt is similar to that of 
Azraq it is difficult to determine the origin of any salt found 
being transported to village markets. 


I4. EXcISE OFFENCES. 


The number of excise cases dealt with during the calendar year 
ier 112 compared with 147 in 1935 and 135 in 1934. They were 
as follows :— 











1936. T935:- 1934. 

Unlicensed sale of tobacco ie 65 65 72 
Unlicensed sale of alcohol ae II 4 6 
Unlicensed sale of matches “dy 36 47 42 
Undeclared cultivation of tobacco — 21 8 
Unlicensed manufacture of alcohol — 10 7 
112 147 135 











15. EXCISE REVENUE. 











1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P: £LP. £LP. 
Liquors. 
Excise on Liquors ae st 1,026 1,009 1,068 
Licence Fees _... seh ae 309 253 313 
Tobacco. 
Excise on Tobacco as sist 12,576 9,963 11,064 
Licence Fees... sa “i 609 588 569 
Methylated Spirit... siti on 19 — — 
Alcohol ... a si fee 3 — —_ 
14,542 11,813 13,014 











In Table ‘‘ F ’’ will be found a classification of excise revenue 
or the year compared with the totals for the two previous years. 


16. CUSTOMS AND EXcISE REVENUE. 


q A graph illustrating the trend of customs and exercise revenue 
ons the past twelve years (1925-1936) is annexed as Table 


41526 0 3 


388 


17. Trade and Industry. 


GRAINS. 


_ The approximate production in, and export from Trans- Jordan 
in 1936 were as follows :— 


Production Exports 

Tons. Tons. 
Wheat ae Ses eee ae 40,000 12,000 
Barley a ae is see 16,000 1,400 
Lentils wise Set a6 Ske 3,000 600 
Kersanneh ... = : ee 4,000 650 


On account of drought conditions during the winter and severe 
easterly winds in the spring the cereal crops were a partial or 
complete failure in most parts of the country. Good prices for 
wheat prevailed in Palestine and exporters received from 


Z£P.10 to £P.12 per ton: 


GRAPES. 


The crops in Es-Salt and Ajlun were fair, but it was impossible 
owing to the strike to market them in Palestine. Towards the end 
of the grape season camel caravans from the Jebel Druze took 
quantities direct from the Ajlun vineyard at very low prices. 


SAMNEH. 


Drought and lack of grazing are conditions adverse to the 
ean of samneh, and 103 tons only were exported to 
estine. 


RAISINS. 


The grape crop was not as good as that of 1935 and the fruit 
was smaller in size. 


A few contracts for supply of raisins to distilleries in Palestine 
were obtained but marketing was affected by the political 
situation. 


The packing of raisins for retail supply made progress, and 
small markets were obtained in Egypt, Palestine and Syria. 


A stoning and grading machine for raisins has just arrived 
and, giving undisturbed trading conditions, better production 
and quality should be obtained during 1937. 


WOOL. 


The quantity exported remained unchanged, being 66,000 
kilogrammes as compared with 65,934 in 1935. Prices rose 
towards the end of 1936 following the general trend throughout 
the world. As usual the wool was exported to Syria, but the final 
destination is thought to be Marseilles. 


389 


SUMACH LEAVES. 

Sumach leaves are collected in the Es-Salt areas and sent to 
Palestine for final export to Italy, where, after treatment, the 
product obtained is used in the tanning industry. The quantities 
obtained during the past 4 years are reported to be:—1933, 86 
tons; 1934, 76 tons; 1935, 69 tons; 1936, 52 tons. At an approxi- 
ay: iE obs of £P.3-300 mile a ton the respective values would 

£P.284, £P.251, £P.228 and £P.172. 


CONFECTIONERY. 

A factory was opened at Remtha in July, 1936. During the 
period from August to December, 1936, 344 tons of confec- 
tionery valued at £P.480 were exported to Syria. 

MADE-UP CLOTHING. 


This industry, which commenced in 1935, is still actively 
engaged in producing articles of meee ne clothing for local use 
and export. 


Exports during 1936 totalled 31,113 kilogrammes valued at 
£P.5,135. 


18. Currency. 


The high cost of living is in part due to the fact that, although 
the Palestine pound is divided into 1,000 mils, the lowest spend- 


ing unit is in reality the 5 mil piece. This evil has remained from 


the time when Egyptian money was legal tender before the 
Palestine currency was introduced, and in fact the ro mil piece 
and the 5 mil piece are still referred to by the Egyptian words 
girsh and tarifa for 10 milliemes and 5 milliemes respectively. 
Tables. 
TABLE A. 


PRINCIPAL IMPORTS. 


£P. £P. 
Cotton Piece-goods 94,926 Headwear ... 13,857 
Cotton White Shirting 14,359 Confectionery 11,554 
Cotton Figured 12,937. Articles made of Base Metals 10,488 
Cotton Calico 2 --» 9,579 Boots and Shoes ... 10,467 
Artificial Silk agua ota 73,045 Tea ... 9,550 
Benzine ' ..» 46,881 Flour 8,410 
Sugar 45,597. Olive Oil 8,172 
Kerosene 21,700 Woollen Piece- -goods 7,971 
Coffee 16,640 Articles made of Iron 7,047 
Articles made of Wool 15,647. Wares made of Paper .. 6,216 
Timber ads 14,964 Articles made of Cotton ... 6,145 
Underwear ... 13,999 Soap - 5,144 
Samneh 13,700 
41526 O4 


390 


*(aInzaI OSTIOXTY 99s) Q£61 ul 


poinzorynueu ATTes0[ sexzI] gZ ‘ToyooTy ong ‘ (wInzeI astoxy gas) Q€6r Ul poinzoeynueur Aledo] saxzT] OF6‘'I ‘yids pozelAqay— aon 


1LS°LG9‘1 


zgo'69F'1 
COp zl‘ 


"StI At 


"994991109 
saynp 


SM0{SND) 


(atqernp) | 


: 61 
10+‘z (2033) 
g6g 
09g‘F ce 
669‘¥ LS 
"SOMLT "SO44t'T 
“guards =| “Joyony 
pani hyi1a Ay g4nd 
"0 “x04 
yviipoyg | yvkipovg 
Sy1use OF Sqtue OZ 
sug snq 
sytms SZ $]1ué OOL 
9444] a ed | 


aag ing, | 4a¢ Aynq 


‘UTM 


sqtms OF 
941] 
4ad hing 


grv‘r 


19z 
LSE 
"SOMLT 


"ygnowssd A 


‘UN 





sjtme O£T 
944tf 
sag And 


6S 


zQ 
LL 
"SOT 


‘ausog 
“MDYD) 


Sqtus OQT 
a443t 
4g hing 


| 


4 


1S9‘E 


1z6'Z 
gt6‘z 
“SOASUT 


‘sananhtT 


Aysty M 
‘20U307) 
‘uty 
‘busy 


S]1U4 OMT 
aAftf 
aad Aynq 


"SOALT 


*S19A40q 
us 
499g 


sqrme OT 
aft] 
4ag kind 










got‘g bzg‘Lb "** gf€6r 
z19 19h ‘of "s+ C61 
Cbvo‘g gi Les ""* E61 
"SON "SON 
"$39940q "$91940Q 
1]0US BdADT 
499g Ada 
$414 OI sqtms ST 
"911109 aad hing 





"NVGUO[-SNVU] NI NOILAWNSNO’) YOA AALUNOMW] SLIUIdG ANV SANIAA ‘SUONGIT AO SAILILNVAC) 


‘a ATaAVL 


391 


ozeLoL‘€ 
obo‘ 169'I 
02S °69g‘1 
‘sjiu ‘qF 


IIE‘1€ 

z60'FI 

gbZL‘S1 
‘SIMUDATO] 


a ne 


"And 7yd19Y 


“IUUADATOILY 
Aad Syst OZI Ajnp asvax_] 
"099004 {nD 


6g1'bgz‘z 9S0‘6 

oSo'Lfo‘'z gbi‘g 

ogz'€zz'z z769‘Q 

‘sjtur ‘qf "SIUMULDASOII SY 

‘Ang | 145194 

"‘IUUADATOILY 

sag sqius oSzZ Ajnp astaxy 
"0990q04 IND 


C6L¥SS ‘9 
Ech bEz‘g 


6bg‘1z 

zgl‘oz 

oL1'€z 
"SIULMMDATOILY 


"IUAUDAGOILY 








oS b‘fge‘gz "* Q€61 
00z‘bz9‘Lz on ** Cf6r1 
0Z1‘999‘0£ ees eee +l61 
‘ON 
"A09.X 


sag Stu OO€ Ajnp astax 7 


"SayjaADaLy 





‘SHIMOLOVY AM AIVS AOA GANSST GNV GAANLOVANNVIW SALLAAVDID GNV OOOVEO]L ‘NO GaLOATIOD SAILNG ANV ‘40 SAILILNVND 


‘O WIEAVL 


392 


TABLE D. 


QUANTITIES OF FOREIGN ToBACccO LEAF ISSUED FROM BOND AND AMOUNT 
OF DuTIES COLLECTED THEREON. 


Rate of Duty : 300 mtls per Kilo. 
Factory. 











Year. Tobacco leaf issued. Import duty collected. 
Kilos. £P. mils. 
1934 8,272 2,481.690 
1935 7,566 2,269.845 





7,205 2,179.695 






Note.—The above-mentioned quantities were issued from bond into 
factories for local manufacture, except a quantity of 226 kilos which were 
re-exported from Trans-Jordan to Palestine by the Jordan factory in 
November, 1936, under claim of drawback. 


TABLE E. 


IMporRT DuTy COLLECTED ON ALL KINDS OF IMPORTED TOBACCO. 


Cigarettes 
Foreign . and Cut 
Leaf. Tobacco. Tombac. Total. 
LP. LP. £P. £P. 

1934 2,481 1,141 1,608 5,230 
1935 2,269 1,211 1,566 5,047 
1936 2,179 1,285 2,732 6,197 

TABLE F. 


EXcISE REVENUE. 








Spirits. 
Year. Tobacco. Total. 
Methylated. Pure. 
£P. £P £P. £P 
1934... 11,064 — = 12,131 
1935... 9,962 = — 10,97! 
1930 _ ... 12,576 19 3 13,625 





393 


TABLE G, 


ain CHANNELS AND VALUES OF IMPORTS AND EXPORTS FOR CALENDAR YEARS 
1936, 1935, 1934, 1933. 


Imports. 
1936. 1935. 1934. 1933. 
LP. £P. £P. £P. 

1) In transit through Palestine ws 236,008 200,119 212,415 217,412 
In transit through Syria ... ... 199,013 82,611 30,745 9,903 
In transit via Post.Office ... sate 4,945 (Statistics not kept.) 

2}|Goods entering Trans- Jordan— 

From Iraq diate ae siete 9,508 (Statistics not kept.) 
From Nejd see bie ae I1,11I5 7,550 2,730 6,821 


(3) Trade Agreements. 


Palestine— 

(a) Foreign goods, duty paid in 
Palestine, subsequently 
consumed in Trans- Jordan 

(6) Palestine locally manufac- 
tured goods = 

Syria— 

(a2) Foreign goods re-exported to 

Trans- Jordan ee | 
(6) Syrian locally memenasiod 


121,453 (Statistics not kept.) 


36,088 (Statistics not kept.) 


22,863 12,320 13,627 12,718 


goods om 153,963 81,043 79,425 68,532 
Exports. 
(4) Goods exported from ieee 
To Palestine se .. 198,215 (Statistics not kept.) 
Re-exported to Palestine. ies 2,678 (Statistics not kept.) 
To Syria wae sale 29,781 21,487 9,220 8,731 
Re- exported to Syria — ase 564 (Statistics not kept.) 
To Nejd ... sa oie (Statistics not kept.) 
Re-exported to Nejd iy sfc 1,873 (Statistics not kept.) 
To Iraq ... sine dee 380 (Statistics not kept.) 


Re-exported to Iraq — sad Nil Nil Nil Nil 


394 


00006 


OO000 1 


00001 1 


O0O00%L 


6SB82t 


. 

oce 

sete 
. 


SG6L 


6Z8vE 


9S6L 


vOLEG 


LE6L 


©6628 


e 
. 
° 


SZ6L 


SvySSGZ 


eta? 
C4 

eee 
. 


6261 





o8Sso SSve9 


PS . 
. 
. 
. . 
ote 
. . 
ate 
. - 
ate 
. ° 
#%e 
ote . 
. . 
ote 
. 
bara] 
ore . 
. 
. 
oe . 
ates : 
sees 
ote . 
aeee *. 
ste . 
ate . 
are . 
ere . 
gees 3 
ote 
eees se 
ote . 
Sete *3 
oeee es 
ate ° 
sete .* 
. . 
. . 
ore . 
a se? id 
sess e 
o°e* . 
ofee by 
otee *. 
Sete oses 
aoe? e 
. 
asee . 
. 
ots sd 
ere 
. 
ba 
are 
re 
te 
6 
ote 
ate 
. 
o*e 
ote 
ate 
. 
. 


Oc6L LS6L 


"H ATAVL 


StZ29 


Sc6L 


8926 


. 
° 
eu 
ote? 


Seé6 lL 


0%¥66 


ves 


Ssé690L 


eres 
ote? 


e 
*2%e 
. 

. 


Se6l 





‘9EGL-SG6L WONS SHVSBA GL ONIYNG GANIVLEO ANNSAASY JSIOxXSa B® SWOLSNO 





6S08 Lt ‘d'4 


. 
ole 


9E6L YVSA 


395 
XVil.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


Financial. 
I. Revenue for the financial year 1935-36 was as follows :— 
: £P. 
Sale of Postage Stamps ... oe io it 3,145 
Commission on Money Orders _.... bas ae 266 
Telephones (Rentals and Trunk Calls) ... ea 8,171 
Telegrams ... 7 or mee ae sige 1,015 
Foreign Parcels... ‘tie sate le sae 1,029 
Miscellaneous es er ae wees bee 172 
—— 13,798 
Charges for services rendered to Government 
Departments not included in above figures :— 
Inland Telephones and Telegrams to Civil List ... 410 
Police Post Telephones, the rentals of which are 
not charged on kilometric basis ee see 700 
Inland Postage on Correspondence for Government 
Departments... as aes ae sis 1,750 
Five per cent. Commission on sale of Revenue 
Stamps—amount £{P.7,170 _... oe Sa 358 3,218 
Total Revenue from all services ... ae 17,016 
Expenditure for the year was :— 
£P. £P. 
Ordinary Expenditure ... sae ais oe 13,661 
Expenditure incurred by other Departments on 
behalf of this Administration :— 
Rents of Buildings te — ane 608 
Furniture sa bu sass eis “ae 24 
Printing and Stationery se f = 280 
Total Expenses from all services ... sae £P.14,573 


Extraordinary expenditure during the same year was as 
follows :— 








£E. 
Building telephone link Kerak-Tafileh af be 581 
re a » Sukhneh-Zerka eat oe 194 
Telephone link between ‘Iraq and Palestine... a 6,131 
Total ... nee £P.6,906 
Posts. 


2. The mail services during the year functioned with regu- 
larity and with the exception of the last few days of December, 
when roads were blocked by heavy rains and snow, there were 
ho interruptions. 

In March, stamp vending machines were introduced at the 

mman post office. 

In May, the international statistics for the determination of 

nsit charges on mails exchanged with foreign countries were 
Collected in respect of mails to Creat Britain and Egypt. 


300 

Mails to other countries are sent a4 decouvert via Palestire, 
Syria and ‘Iraq, and in accordance with the Cairo Convention, 
1934, no transit charges are paid in respect of such 
correspondence. . 

The contract for the transport of mails by road between 
Amman and Ma‘an was changed as from August so that the 
mail cars should pass through Kerak and Tafileh and obviate 
the use of special transport between Katrani-Kerak and between 
Jerouf-Tafileh. This arrangement was made possible by the 
improvement and widening of the road between Kerak and 
Tafileh. 

The appended table of statistics for the years 1935 and 1936 
shows marked progress in nearly all the services rendered by 
this Department. 

The number of items dealt with in the Returned Letter Office 
amounted to 5,080 of which 68 items were registered; 776 items 
were returned to offices of origin in foreign countries, 612 items 
were returned to senders in Trans-Jordan, 2,901 printed papers 
were destroyed and 791 were kept until claimed by senders. 
_ The money order and postal order services show a marked 
increase. 


TRAFFIC STATISTICS 1936. 


A pproxemate 
Increase or 
Ordinary Mails :— 1935. 1936. Decrease. 
Letters, postcards, Bova le a Per cent. 
etc. ws» 440,404 498,281 13 Increase 
Parcels, inland su sar 3,639 3,979 I a 
Parcels, foreign, despatched ee 175 503 —-:1187 . 
Parcels, foreign, received . ee 1,923 3,063 59 ‘6 
Telegrams, inland __... 7,511 5,955 21 Decrease 
Telegrams, foreign, despatched 3,765 4,270 13 Increase 
Telegrams, foreign, received digs 3,854 4,301 12 “a 
Telephone subscribers, number se 517 577 12 
Telephone call offices sae se 44 47 7 i 
Telephone trunk lines. Kilometres 1,405 1,500 7 5 
Telephone trunk calls... 101,748 107,885 6 3 
Money orders, inland eis ahs 2,298 2,141 7 Decrease 
Money orders, inland. Value {P. 33,700 34,673 3 Increase 
Money orders, foreign, issued 997 1,143 15 a 
Money orders, foreign, issued. Value £P. 3,914 4,453 14 ve 
Money orders, foreign, paid .. 222 482 117 ‘i 
Money orders, foreign, aoe. ‘Value £P. 1,606 2,916 82 Fs 
Postal orders, inland . 10,171 13,661 34 . 
‘Postal orders, inland. Value £P. 7,871 10,615 35 ‘ 
‘Postal orders, imperial, issued : 1,998 2,159 8 - 
Postal orders, imperial issued. Value £P. 1,352 1,355 — 
Postal orders, imperial, paid... 215 274 27 Increase 
Postal orders, imperial, paid. Value £P. 116 173 49 ‘ 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid... 4,188 5,374 28 y 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid. Value £P. 3,696 4,742 29 ~ 
Air Mail :— 
Number of items... e, 3,125 4,831 55 Increase 
Weight in kilogrammes _... sae 42 63 50 re 





397 
Telegraphs. 


3. The decline in the inland telegraph service is still believed 
to be due to the expansion of the telephone service; the increase 
in the foreign service is mostly due to the fact that during the 


} disturbances in Palestine the telephone service for the public with 
} that country was suspended. | 


Telephones. 
_4. The telephone service shows a further noteworthy increase 
in the number of subscribers and trunk calls, but the number of 
the latter would have been even greater had it not proved neces- 
sary during the disturbances to suspend the service with Palestine 
for fear of the dissemination of false news. 


Engineering. 
5. It was not possible during 1936 to accept the offer of a loan 


of £P.4,000 from the Colonial Development Fund for the pur- 


chase of a new Central Battery Exchange as no suitable building 
at a reasonable rent could be secured. Consequently, pending 
the provision of such a building, it was found necessary to pur- 


chase an exchange for 300 subscribers’ lines and 20 trunk lines 


from the Egyptian State Telegraph and Telephone Service, in 
order to replace the old exchange at Amman which was no 
onger adequate. 

The demands of new telephone subscribers made it necessary 
to purchase a large stock of poles, cables and similar equipment 
so as to replace the entire system of line distribution in Amman; 
work was started in August and a large part of it has now been 
completed. 

In March the line between Kerak and Tafileh, 70 kilometres in 
length, was completed, and on the same poles a telephone line 
25 oe in length was erected to serve the police post at 

a Dan. 

During the Palestine disturbances a telephone line across the 
Jordan three kilometres in length was constructed to link the 
Trans-Jordan police post at Damieh with the Palestine police 
post at Jiftlik. This was paid for by the Palestine Government. 


General. 


6. During the year, 33 cases of damage to telephone and tele- 
graph routes were reported and action taken against the persons 
and villages concerned. 

A new law for the protection of telegraph and telephone lines 
was promulgated. _ 

Ch The Palestine Postal Administration, which is always most 
elpful, has undertaken the training of six men in cable jointing. 
The total number of officers on the classified establishment at 

: € end of 1936 was 52. The unclassified employees comprised 
7 linemen, 12 postmen, 3 apprentices and 2 orderlies. 


398 


XVili.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND VETERINARY. 


Agriculture. 


1. The results of the agricultural season of 1936 were uni- 
formly bad and were a great disappointment to the cultivators, 
who had hoped that the satisfactory rainfall of 1935 marked the 
end of the cycle of drought years from which Trans- Jordan nas 
been suffering. 

In 1936 the winter crops failed in the greater part of the 
country owing to the inadequacy and the adverse distribution of 
the rainfall. The resultant lack of moisture in the soil pre- 
cluded the sowing of summer crops to any great extent, and the 
return from the few areas which were so sown was poor. 


The yields of the olive groves and vineyards were far below 
normal in all but a few localities. 

Because of the over-production of tobacco in 1935, the crop 
of Turkish tobacco was restricted in 1936 and only produced 
4,850 kilogrammes of leaf. The local factories still carry heavy 
stocks of native leaf and the development of an export trade in 
this commodity will not be possible unless the quality 1s 
improved considerably. 

Apart from minor visitations of field mice, which were dealt 
with without difficulty, no outbreaks of pests or plant diseases 
occurred which are worthy of mention. 

The seed propagation scheme, which was financed by means 
of a grant from the Colonial Development Fund, distributed 
132 tons of selected seed to farmers. In addition to this quantity, 
28 tons of various seeds were issued from the surplus of crops 
raised for demonstration purposes in school gardens. 


This scheme suffered a set back as a result of the bad harvest; 
owing to the failure of their crops many of the farmers were 
unable to pay back the seed with which they had been issued 
and, in other instances, the seed repaid was so poor as to be 
unsuitable for re-issue the next season. 

Fourteen demonstration plots with an aggregate area of 325 
dunums were selected in various parts of the country and sown 
with selected types of seeds which the Department of Agricul- 
ture desires to introduce into general use. 

The number of school gardens remained unchanged. Un- 
irrigated vegetable cultivation over an area of two dunums has 
been introduced in each of these gardens and replaces the fallow 
in the three year rotation which is followed. 

This new feature will be maintained in future years. The 
school garden poultry houses produced 13,100 eggs for hatching 
or for issue to villagers. 

The site for the projected Experimental and Demonstration 
Station near Amman was expropriated, and the fencing of the 





399 


area, the erection of buildings and the planting of the portions 
earmarked for afforestation were begun. The capital cost of 
this Station is being provided by a grant from the Colonial 
Development Fund. 

The carob plantation at Mejdal suffered severely from the 
drought conditions of 1936 and almost all the seedlings died. 
Preparations for re-sowing have been completed. 

The palm nursery at Azraq was closed as the imported palm 
suckers failed to survive local conditions: at Bagoora in the 
Jordan Valley 82 palms have established themselves and are 
producing suckers which will be transplanted in due course. 

No change was made in the location of tree nurseries, but a 
number of improvements and enlargements were introduced. 
During the year, 25,106 grafted fruit trees, 4,200 ungrafted fruit 
trees and 23,800 forest trees were issued from Government 
nurseries. 

The banana plantations in the Jordan Valley were enlarged 
by 78,000 new trees and it is estimated that some 80,000 new 
olive trees were planted throughout the country. Most of the 
newly planted olive trees were wild olive suckers cut from 
forest areas and subsequently ee by the cultivators. The 
area of vineyards is reported to have increased by about 
4,500 dunums. 


Forests. 


2. The total area of State Domain forest reserves was in- 
creased by a further 6,000 dunums in the process of settlement 
operations during 1936. 

During the year, 436 prosecutions for offences under the 
Forestry Laws were initiated as compared with 389 during the 
previous year. The increase is largely due to the lack of grazing 
which led to shepherds lopping off green boughs in order to 
feed their flocks. 

Three small areas of land unsuitable for tilling were fenced 
in and planted with forest trees: in one instance, at Kerak, the 
plot of land was privately owned, but the work was carried out 
at Government expense with a view to encouraging private 
afforestation in a practically treeless district. 

Preparations are being made for the initiation of re-afforesta- 
tion schemes on a larger scale next year. 


Veterinary. 


3. Lack of grazing compelled a number of flock masters to 
send their animals to the Jordan Valley with the result that 
numerous instances of infection by strongylosis and coccidiosis 
occurred. Arrangements were made administratively for flocks 
from the southern districts, where grazing was practically non- 
existent, to be allowed to feed in the Jebel Ajlun forest areas. 


400 


Haemorrhagic septiceamia accounted for 475 cases of animal 
disease and there were in addition 3,727 cases of sheep-pox, I19 
of contagious pneumonia, 13 of anthrax, 220 of mange, 27 of 
strongylosis and I of glanders. Fowl diphtheria was prevalent 
in certain districts. 

As a precaution against rabies, 1,587 animals were destroyed. 

Exports of livestock and animal products were considerably 
below normal in quantity. 


X1X.—PUBLIC WORKS. 


Relief. 


1. In addition to the sums normally provided for road work 
the Department controlled the expenditure of some £P.16,000 
in relief work. This relief money was spent in the areas where 
the people had suffered most severely from crop failures, and 
enabled much improvement to be made in the road from Kerak 
to Tafileh and from Shobek to Wady Musa. These sections are 
part of the main road through the cultivable land which will 
eventually run from Amman to Ma‘an through Madeba, Kerak, 
Tafileh and Shobek, but which is still broken by the uncom- 
pleted section of the Wady Mojib (the Arnon) of which 7-5 kilo- 
metres were completed during the year from the relief funds. 
In the Ma‘an District a new section was opened providing a more 
direct line of communication from Aqaba with the north, whilst 
in the Ajlun District access was provided from the Kura District 
to Palestine by continuing the road from Deir Abu Said to Jisr 
El-Sheikh Hussein. 

Municipalities. 

2. The new Municipal Law, which is now before the Legis- 
lative Council, places the responsibility for municipal engineer- 
ing works on the shoulders of the Department, and these duties 
have already been taken over. 


Roads. 


3. During the year, 885 kilometres of road have been con- 
stantly maintained and 485 kilometres partially so. 

Considerable damage has been done by cloud bursts and this 
is particularly the case in the Wady Shaib, which 1s a deep valley 
with steeply sloping sides, down which runs the main road from 
Amman and Es Salt to Jericho and Jerusalem. 

A subsidiary motor road has now been opened from the main 
Amman-Jerusalem road which takes off at Shunet in the Jordan 
Valley and leads, via the antiquity site at Siyaga, to Madeba and 
to the mineral baths at Zerka-Ma‘yin. 


The programme for consolidating and asphalting the main 
road from the Allenby-Bridge (over the River Jordan) to 


401 


Es-Salt, which is being assisted by a grant from the Colonial 
Development Fund and is spread over a period of six years, 
continues according to plan. : 

The consolidation of the main road from Jisr Mejamie to El 
Husn through Irbid, the initial expenditure for which was pro- 
vided by the Palestine Government, is proceeding within the 
limits of the funds which can be made available. 


Buildings. 

4. Maintenance work has been carried out in 76 Government 
occupied buildings. Amongst major works the reconstruction 
of the Governorate at Es-Salt, which was destroyed by fire, has 
been completed and the plans for the headquarters of the 
Department of Lands have been completed in anticipation of 
the approval of the Estimates. The five-year programme for 
repairing the Government school building and the ten-year plan 
for repairing and renewing the Governorate at Kerak are 
proceeding. 

Water Supply. 

5. The boring rig has sunk a shaft in the desert area near 
Katraneh wherein water was found at 386 ft. and is now sinking 
another shaft in the desert near Black Rock, which lies some 
60 miles to the east of the railway line; at the end of the year a 
depth of 108 ft. has been reached without signs of water. Two 
wells were successfully sunk by hand in the Ma‘an area and one 
in the Ghor el Kibid in the Jordan Valley. In addition, town 
and village water supplies have been attended to in collaboration 
with the Department of Public Health: this work is described 
in the Section of this Report which deals with that Department. 


Other Works. 

6. The Department is responsible for the works and buildings 
of the Trans- Jordan Frontier Force at Zerka and Ma‘an and also 
undertakes ail hirings of offices and other accommodation for the 
Government, and arranges for the provision of furniture therein. 


XX.—CiViL AVIATION. 


I. The air services maintained by the Imperial Airways and 
the Royal Dutch Line between Europe and the Far East pass 
over T'rans-Jordan territory but only make emergency landings 
in that Country. 

_2. No customs aerodromes exist in Trans-Jordan but permis- 

sion 1S Occasionally given for commercial machines to land on 
Royal Air Force aerodromes and in such instances special 
arrangements are made in the matters of customs and passport 
control, 

3. The need for a special department to administer civil 
aviation in Trans-Jordan has not arisen. 


402 


APPENDIX I (i). 


THE PALESTINE ELECTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED 
(Incorporated in Palestine). 


THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT AND BALANCE SHEET, 31ST DECEMBER, 1935. 
REPORT OF DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 1935. 


To be submitted to the Ordinary General Meeting of the Corporation to be 
held at 2, Grosvenor Gardens, London, S.W.1, on the 15th day of 
September, 1936, at 12 noon. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounts 
for the year ending 31st December, 1935. 

Since the last Report, the Corporation has sustained a great loss in the 
death of its eminent Chairman, the late Lord Reading. As Chairman 
of the Corporation since 1926, the late Lord Reading has, by his unceasing 
efforts on behalf of the Corporation, greatly contributed to its present 
success. His death is deeply mourned by his colleagues on the Board and 
by the Staff and Workers of the Corporation. 

The Rt. Hon. Sir Herbert Samuel, P.C., G.C.B., G.B.E., has been co- 
opted to the Board and has been elected Chairman of the Corporation. 

All the Power Houses of the Corporation have operated efficiently 
and a satisfactory service has been maintained during the year throughout 
the operating area of the Corporation. 

Further considerable reductions in rates of electrical energy were intro- 
duced during the year. At the same time the gross Revenue has increased 
from {P.363,900,787 in 1934 to {P.488,442,838 in 1935. The total number 
of Consumers has increased from 35,397 at the end of 1934 to 53,246 at 
the end of 1935, 1.e., by 50°4 per cent. 

The following table indicates the progress made during the past ten 
years :-— 


Units used 
No. of Units at Units Gross 

Year. Consumers Generated Corporation's Sold. Revenue. 
Connected. (12 RWh). Works. (in RWh.). in £.P. 

(in RWh.). 
1926 6,550 3,048,442 182,851 2,343,764 66,791 
1927 7477 3»143,442 183,045 2,527,126 71,315 
1928 8,582 3,890,622 413,664 2,973,701 79,900 
1929 9,303 4,930,960 747,113 3,634,838 90, 847 
1930 10,620 7,199,317 852,162 6,168,198 125,582 
1931 12,029 11,530,198 845,432 8,707,917 139,673 
1932 15,113 16,629,054 499,714 11,590,350 145,512 
1933 21,934 20,120,155 756,719 20,136,839 221,128 
1934 35,397 47 485,770 888,072 34,385,515 363,900 
1935 53,246 71,885,097 3,151,352 50,362,193 488,443 


The construction of the new Haifa Steam Turbine Power House, was 
commenced in May, 1934. This Power House began to supply power i 
May, 1935, and was completed during the year. Considerable extensions, 
however, have had to be carried out in order to meet the growth of the 


0 awk = 


403 
demand for electrical energy. The erection of an additional 12,000 kW 
Turbo-Generator Set with the corresponding equipment is now being com- 
pleted, making the total present capacity of the Haifa Power House 
30,000 RW. Further extension of the Haifa Power House is now in 
oFOgTESS. 

In view of the considerable growth of consumption in the South a 
sandby steam Power House similar to that of Haifa will be built during 
the next year. This Power House will be connected with the Haifa 
Power House through the existing High Tension Transmission Line and 
with the Jordan Power House through a new High Tension 66,000 Volt 
ine now under construction. 

One hundred and eleven Transformers with a total capacity of 11,855 RVA 
were put into commission in Consumer’s Premises during 1935, bringing the 
total up to 561 transformers with a capacity of 45,815 kVA. The trans- 
mission and distribution network of the Corporation was increased during 
the year by 365 kilometres, making a total on 31st December, 1935, of 
953 kilometres of high tension transmission lines and 805 kilometres of 
low tension distribution lines. 

A new 66,000 volt transmission line from the Jordan Power House to 
Tel-Aviv is in the course of erection. This line will complete the High 
Tension Ring. 

An issue of 200,000 ‘‘ A ’’ ordinary shares of {1 each was made in January 
last to the holders of ordinary shares and ‘‘ A’’ ordinary shares, at the 
price of 45s. per share. 


re. P; 
The Gross Profit for the year 1935 was es . soles: 
After deducting the following appropriations and 
payments :— 
(a) Depreciation Reserve ... 65,770.000 
(6) Sinking Fund in respect of Preference Shares .. 12,000.000 
(¢) Interest on Debentures and Debenture Stock... 11,069.513 
————-_ 88, 839.513 
there was a net profit of 218,914.491 
Deducting the appropriations made during the 
year of :— 
Dividend on Preference Shares _... 21,479.662 
Interim Dividend of 24 per cent. free of British 
Income Tax on Ordinary and “ A”’ Ordinary 
Shares paid on December 3oth, 1935 ... «+» 38,440.625 
—_———-_ 59, 920.287 
158,994.204 
and adding the balance brought forward from the 
previous year, viz.:—  ... 34,239.802 


there is an available balance CMP IE to British 
Income Tax) of ... sth site 193,234.006 
Out of this the Directors recommend :— 
(1) The Transfer to Reserve for Income Tax and 
contingencies... ee -+. 40,000,000 
(2) The Transfer to General Reserve re 50,000.000 
(3) The payment of a final Dividend on the 
937,625 Ordinary Shares and 600,000 “‘ A ”’ 
Ordinary Shares of 5 per cent. Free of British 
Income Tax, absorbing sot = ... 76,881.250 
166,881.250 


leaving a Balance to be carried forward of =P 26, 352.750 


404 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Dr. Adolph Harry Railing, 
Mr. James A. de Rothschild, M.P., and the Rt. Hon. Sir Herbert Samuel, 
P.C., G.C.B., G.B.E., retire from the Board, and being eligible offer 
themselves for re-election. 


The Auditors of the Corporation, Messrs. Russell & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, retire, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, 


HERBERT SAMUEL, 
Chairman. 


PINHAS RUTENBERG, 
Managing Director. 


23rd July, 1936. 


405 


"‘S4ONpRY ‘stuvqunoooy pesreryD 
°O1F) 9 TIESSNY 


“Aueduio’) oq} Jo 
VOYVULIOFUT INO jo 7S9q 9} 07 Suppsoooe sureye s,AuEduIO) 947 JO 9}E3S OY} JO MOTA 3901100 PUT ONT} e MOGs 07 Se OS dn UMLIP 


"9f6r ‘Ainf q3S ‘eyrepy 


5y00g 7 4£q uaogs SB pte sn 0} UeAra suoneuedxs oy} pue 
[todo 


SI J20YS oUETeEg 9AOge 94} UOTUIdO IMO UY 
*‘parmber sAey 9M Gora suoHeueldxs pue 


VONVULIOJUI 9q} [Te potrezqo sae pue ‘47103 yas oAOgE se SEI ‘FequIDDed 4qsx& oy} payep “pr] ‘WoHesods0D oVOVTq eUNseyed 9} JO yeqS Qourleg 94} pozipne saeg 9M 
“SUNGIOHZAVHS AHL OL LUOdTY ,SYOLIGNY 


ueeq Sey aloyorey} wolsIAoId ON 


orS'og‘r61‘1E GF 


1$€+19S‘16z 
099°S16'1S 


€S6°h19‘r 
gfl'gSz'12e1 


LLL 1LL‘ot 
gf£o'gSo‘og 


€xrE-zzs'v 
elrZev‘or 


giZgrrofS'z 


‘SIN “dFe 


“090M Fussvuypy ‘OUAANALNY SVANIG 


ogg ’S16'rt 


000'000'02 


LEg°61S‘1z 


10$°9£4'66 


0S$S:000'6 


69£:091'S 
L06'bz0'z9S 


000°! 


26°E 1‘ 


69+ 31 F9‘e 
Ezg'vgo'rry 


gLP-oot‘ogt'r 


‘uomnnYyD) “IZQKVS Luxauzy 


"6761 ‘aouRUIpPIQ seTUeduIO.) 94} JO 


punr us pun syuvg qv ysnD 


yunoody 30917 
zSOo 3e }UsUI}SeAT. 
—: py] S}uauIySeAUy sopsor 
—: funduo) Asvipssqns 
4900 38 ‘squsmesaauy Aspuns 


sjyunoooy Aripuns 


‘“syunoooy ,SINTINSUO?) 
—! samuviVvg jigaq] puv s40199(T 
oo os "" 99uDApY Ut ganpipuagx zy 
so spenyo s,Auvdiwoy og} Aq peyrteo se 
‘uppsof puy ap-77r ‘wfivyy jm puvjyy “WO S740IS 
oes ane oes amr bes uoneeidec 
ssoy ys0o «ye 999 ‘aanprusny 72IJQ  “Sgoysy4OA 


*** 4900 38 ‘alap-jay puv vfipy ut puvT 


“"* saspys aoussafasg fo anssy uo Aynq fonda pu 
pondv) fo asvasru] YM UOtZIIUNOD M5 S20 4087D4jS899N 
“py ‘0D onyoalq egel jo sasuadxq TOs 

rt as "039 ‘mia4shg ZuTNGIASIC ‘s}UeId 
Surje19uay ‘s2utpymg ‘puey] : UoljETTe su] ALA Y-PAL 
vee ae ae UOIsssU0.) 9G} JO VON TSMboy 
—! ajep 03 ainjipuadxg jezides 
—: wotssz9u0D viny 
oe worssa0u07) uepl0f 24} 4} WoT}D9UOD UI 
sosuedxq [ereuer) Zurpnyjour ‘sasuedxq Areurmpaig 
one nes oe s}s07) Aaamms uepsof reddy 
ae “+ gsnoyy JaMOg BjsrepY MON 
see eee eee "939 su393sAS uonnquysiq 
we uopsspusuery ‘ArauTpOR ‘SHIOAA OFMeIPAH 
s2urpimg ‘puey ‘sesnopyy Jamo selreqiy pue 
Byey ‘oshoy] Jamo ojoe[q-orpAH Ueprof ySIL 
eee eos eee wOysseou07) 243 jo uontsmboy 
—: 3938p 0} aunzIpuadxy jezide 
—: “01Ss92u0.) “UYpso 
"SLASSY 


‘puopunozop fosyo/y ‘NvNaTag “[ 
“s0;00Gq Jussouvpy ‘OUMANALNY SVHNIG 
‘“pueseYyD) “ISNAVS LuaaUTH 


—ssopan fo pavog 741 fo froysq “uO 


-Kueduio’) AreIpIsqns 943 JO Sasso] IO s}gOIg 10; syUNODDY BAOge 9G} Ul speUl 
“CE6r ‘saquisoog ysIE 03 poled 94} 10} SyYOIg paerepIep jou sey pue 


ozS‘ogr‘611 ‘fg F 


goo'rtz‘t61 
000°000‘Z 1 
6££'FQ9°g6 
gr6-zZg‘oF 
000°000'00I 
ozo'zgh' F6z 


ggg°r19‘Zgr 


rzS‘91Z‘vS 


000°Szg9‘LEr‘z 


"SIN ‘ds 


‘S€6x ‘ounf aouls SuHeredo ueeq seq Aueduioy Arerpisqns eq] 


LOI *daS 03 yUeNSINd ‘ANVdNOD AUVIGISENS OL SV LNAMALVIG 


gtS-flg‘elx 


zQr°ggS‘ogr 


099°164‘0z 


£S6°Erg‘11 
690°900‘SSI 


000°000‘009 


000°000‘009 
000°$z9‘Z£6 


000°000‘00S ‘z 


000°000‘00£ 
000°000‘009 


000°000‘009 


000°000‘000‘r 


"SIN ‘de 


"CEGI ‘Iaquis0aq, ISIE 7 se yooqS soULTeg 





CounsoTe,7 ul pozevIr0d109uT) 


OO 228 eS O22 8 os 2 ote sciaey guise sai? 





Z2WV.E MSL 


"‘Buyjqais rf = 1 ‘dF e 


an oe ia quno2Ip ssoT puv nfosg 
+ puny Iuryuss sasvys aruassfasq 91qvusepay 
a oes oa JUNOIIP MNIMIDsSY SIsDYS 
Sarquadusjuoy 404j0 pun xv ausoruy sof ansosay 
is ‘st ong Sse “ gasosay p049ua5) 


UONE][EISU] ATAY-[9], 9G} JO UoNepaidac] 10}; aA rasay 
eo ae ee = ax “+ YOISsadT07) 
ueplof y}IA soUeps0NR Ut UOMEMaIdaq] JOJ sATOSOY 


“me soouvleg i1pey 
*** syisodeq ,Sreulnsuos 
eee ees SJO}Ipely Arpuns 
: —! Saouvpog tNpas) pun $40}pa47) 
ala ioe a — im “+ YOISsa007) 
uepjof 9043 jo g& gsne[d 471M s0UEpIOIIe UT 
—passafag sasenq susojsng 


qoes 17 Jo Sareys souarajol 
SAHENUIND s[qeMlsepay 3090 ad th 000‘009 
/ yous IF Jo soreys AreUrpiO ,, V 5, 000'009 
-  qova 1F Jo sareys Areurpso $z9‘LE6 
—: panss] 


yore Suy1a3S 17 Jo sareqs ooo‘oot 
“+ yowa IF Jo SaregS souelajalg 


“SHILITIEVY'] 


406 


APPENDIX I (ii) 


JERUSALEM ELECTRIC AND PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION, 
LIMITED 


(Incorporated under the Palestine Companies Ordinances, 1921 to 1925). 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
to be 


Submitted to the Members at the Ordinary General Meeting to be held in 
Hall 23, Winchester House, Old Broad Street, London, E.C.2, on 


Wednesday, 29th July, 1936, at 3.30 p.m. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
31st March, 1936. 


The profit for the year, including the balance £P. £P. 
(£P.3,488.842) brought forward from the 
previous year is ... 58,415.187 


Out of which the following payments and appro- 
priations have been made :— 


Provision for Income Tax ... Ae Avs ... 9,875.000 
Transfer to General Reserve... ae ...  5,000.000 
Capital Amortisation Fund 6 ue ...  5,476.924 
Plant Renewal Account . . 15,400.000 

Dividend on 225,000 Preference Shares for year 
to 31st March, 1936, less tax . — ... 12,206.250 


47,958.174 


leaving a balance of _... 10,457-013 
which the Directors propose to deal with as ‘follows : 
In payment of a Dividend on 200,000 Ordinary 


Shares, of 5 per cent. less tax, amounting to ... 7,625.000 
leaving to be carried forward to next year’s Account £P.2,832.013 





The business of the Company has progressed satisfactorily during the 
year and additional plant is now on order to enable the Company to deal 
with the increasing demand and to replace certain machinery installed at the 
commencement of operation. 

In terms of the Company’s Concession a sum of {£P.5,476,924 has been 
applied out of the year’s profits in an initial payment to the Capital 
Amortisation Fund. 

In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr. William Shearer and 
Mr. Louis Le Bouvier retire, but being eligible offer themselves for re- 
election. 

The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., Jerusalem, retire and offer them- 


selves for re-election. 
By Order of the Board, 


D. C. Brook, 
London Secretary. 


21st July, 1936. 


407 


“stunjunosoy possvy 
“oy % TIESSAY 


*9f6r ‘Ayn qr c 


*Aueduio, oq3 jo syoog oq} Aq uUMOTS SB pUE sh DIAS suOHeUEdxe og) pues TON eUMIO;T 


INO JO 4Ss0q 94} 0} Zurpz00oe sipeye s,Adedulo*) 043 JO 33e}S 94} JO AOIA 3991109 puB ON3} © IIQIyxe 07 se Os dn umeIp Aplodoid are yuNODDY sso] pue 3ygOIg pue jaeqS souRTeg ons 
uotuldo mo uy ‘poimber aAeq om suoneurtdxe pue uoNeMosU! ay} [Te paurez;qo oAey pue 43I0j Jes QAOGE Se yUNODDY sso] pue YOIg puke yoo aoURTeEg 90} pazIpNe aAeg 9M 


‘ UNOTIUANNVY 


60z'1£9‘g0S-qF 


16S°z2£9‘bz 
000'0S2‘I 
gzreZe‘zr 
zOrSLe‘oLy 
POE FL For 
goo'z¥g 
760°6S0'f6£ ——_—— 
pro Sg6‘Er 
gro hlo‘Ore 


000°000‘09 eee eee eee 
"SIN ‘d7 ‘SII “dF 


LZerSr tgs gF 


Shl'9z6'FS 
Zoe ggHwe 
000°002‘9g 
z¥g°9g9‘'6 
SIM “dF SIN “dF 
gtS*Lo1'09' dF 
gfS°ZLbr‘09 eee aes een 
SIN ‘dF 
AD 





“GaLINIT NOLLVUOdHO) BOATS OIIGNdG DM dALlosaiy nNalvsnust 40 SUAGNAW AHL OL SHOLIGNY AHL 40 LUOdAY 


6o0e'1£g‘g0S' GF 





€r10°ZS vor oer ed ae one yUNODSY sso’yy pue Zgo1g 
ooo'o0¥'ST “ee a ad ad ZUNODIY [emauay yULIg 
000%000'Sz —_—_—__—— 
000'000'S see oss eee eee yeak suump peppy 
000°000‘0z eee eee eee woe ore JUNODY ISP] 19d 
—dAlasay [t190a*) 
ave bate puepy ul pue siayueg 3e Yse% tz6'gZt'S re sii ms “puny WoIestJOULY jeqidrs) 
= met }UIUISIAU] PUN. UoTZeEsTVIOUIY [ezides zlz'Lot'‘le a skid "0799 ‘sadieyod pansso0e ‘si0zIpaig AIpPUNS 
es ‘O39 ‘MOUeApPe Ul SyUaUTAed ‘s10}qQoq AIpUNnS 000°000'SZF —_——_———- 
bi res SULYLJIIpuUN UO papuedxs juNoWY 000°000‘002 Pred Aymny yore I "df Jo sareq q§ AIeuIpIO 000‘00z 
000°000‘'S2z ‘pred Ayqny yowo rgF 
ie ar wee BAIBSOY S$97 yrsue3} jO SaleyS V0UdIIJaIq BANUINUIND 954 Ooo'Szz 
Ul pue ‘roSeueyy ou} Aq poy!yia9 se ‘puey uo $aI0JS SIN «6 ‘dF > panss] 
ney as won efoardap —_——_—__——. 
ssaq ‘4800 ze “939 ‘aInyTUM ‘sajoIqaA IOVOP_ ‘s[ooy 000°000‘00S' 4 F 
eee “ae acs zeof ay} Zuunp suonippy 000°000‘00z me “ ane ms yoes 1° F jo sareys Areurpig 000‘00z2 
ee ‘ss BATaSaY SUTEPY ssa7 UNODDY 3svl 10g 000°000‘00£ var oo yors r° av Jo saleys aduasajalg aaupnwMny 92 o00‘o0o0£ 
O39 ‘sIajap ‘SuIVyY ‘Arauryoe Ww pur yueylg ‘ssurpyin > pastsounp 
‘spuv] gurpnyour "3809 ye ainyipuadxq =seyidey —_ wndr5 a404S 
_ = ae < UOISSIIUOY JO 7SOD ‘SEN ‘dF “SHILITIGVIT 
“SLASSV 
(“Buyza3S 1F srenba 1°47) 
*9f6r ‘qorepy SIE ye Se yoaqS souLTeg 
Lersr'gs'aF 
€Cr10°LS For eee eee eee see eos ee 3790qS oourleg 0} souerrrg iti 
8 mee — UMOPp }43NoI]q soURTeg “ OSz-go0z'zr ioe oe cia x aes xe} SS ‘sead 10} puapiaig aualajoig “ 
ooo’oor'sSr eon eee ewe sae eee eee yUNODY [eMouay yur a 
eee eee eee ene coe x0} ssa bz6-gLP's ece eee eee see eon eee pong uOonesI0My [eqidey ee 
*SE-€- 1 “trvak Joy puoplaiq Areump19 ss: gonpaqr 000°000‘S = oes * zee ie ee “"*) BAIVSAY ferouesy * 
aes “* yunoooy sv] WO souejeg Ag | 000°Slg‘6 me “es sy se nee ae XB] OUIODU] 10} UOTSTAOIg OF 
“SIN. “dF 
gfS°Lvr1‘09'qF 
CHE-gz6' FS see one woe oon eee wee vee umMOp ‘peLrres aourreg ee 
000°00S‘T a ee ae or ay $39,J ,S10}DaI1IG] Joy UOTSIAOIg ‘ 
** sydtaoayq Axpuns pue Zuneredo uo sniding Ag pol age = ne sosuadxy jereuey pue uoNnessluyuIpy uopuoy OL 
“SIN *d. 


"Id 


(‘Burg rF srenba 1°47) 
*gf6r ‘qorey ysIf papus zeagx aq} JOJ yUNODDY SSsOT pues jyOIg 


($z61 03 Tz6r sa0uRFUIpPIO sotuBdUICD aUuIZSa[B,yT AY} Japun pazes10dsz03uz) 
2k VEE PS OID, FSOLAMGI SS | tA ACR ee eee! oe Bet | Na Ne 


“28 18.8.8 ow 8” 


408 
APPENDIX I (iii). 


PALESTINE POTASH, LIMITED. 


REPORT OF DIRECTORS. 


To be presented to the Sixth Ordinary General Meeting of the Members on 
the 23rd day of October, 1936. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report together with the duly 
audited Balance Sheet of the Company dated 31st December, 1935, and the 
Profit and Loss Account for the year 1935. 

Potash sales for the year under review have considerably increased but 
prices remained low and only by the end of the year did they show a 
gradual improvement. 

The severe competition between the German-French potash producers 
on the one hand, and the Spanish producers on the other, which started 
in 1934 and reached its full development by the middle of 1935, affected 
the trade in all the markets of the world and caused a heavy fall in 
prices. 

The efforts at co-ordination and consolidation of the European potash 
trade finally met with success, and an improvement in prices, as a result 
of this consolidation, could be noticed by the end of the year under review. 
This improvement has made further progress in the current year. 


Bromine sales were a little less than in 1934 and prices were maintained. 


Potash was delivered to consumers in most of the world markets but 
the British Empire continued to absorb over half the potash and about 
three-quarters of the bromine produced by the Company. 


Work on the first section of the extension at the Southern End of the 
Dead Sea, which was referred to in the Company’s Prospectus of 
18th February, 1935, is progressing satisfactorily. Several improvements 
made in the Northern Factory, will, it is hoped, result in increased produc- 
tion in the coming years as compared with the year under review. 

The Company is still in the development stage and no provision has 
been made this year for amortization and depreciation. 

The guarantee of the Anglo-Palestine Bank, Limited, to which reference 
was made in the Company’s Prospectus of February, 1935, came into 
operation and the Bank accordingly provided the sum of £15,055, which has 
been paid to the Preference Shareholders in lieu of Preference dividend. 


Directorate.—To the great regret of his colleagues, Colonel David Lyell, 
C.M.G., C.B.E., D.S.O., has resigned owing to pressure of other work, 
and your Board wishes to thank him for his valuable services to the 
Company since its inception. 

In accordance with Article 108 of the Company’s Articles of Association, 
Mr. Israel B. Brodie, Lord Glenconner, Mr. Harry Sacher and Mr. Robert 
Szold retire, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Auditors.—Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co., retire, and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


LYTTON, 
Chairman. 
E. W. D. TENNANT, 
Director. 


22nd September, 1936. 


syuvjunosoy pesrsryD 
ssonpny | OF) IVAIOUEG ‘SUNZ[L FOranvy_ 


-Aueduio’) 043 Jo syoog oq} 4q wos se pure ‘sn 07 UaALT sUOHeUEdxe oq} pue ‘uoR eULIO;U} MO 
pue ony & 3IqIyxe 03 se os dn umerp A[rodoid st yo0qS soURTeEg qons ‘uormjdo mo uw ‘oye70q} pofqns ‘uo 


aepard 


"9E6x ‘ssquessdas y9gt 
{popucy 


94} 0} Zupproooe siyeye s Auedul0>) 943 JO 9387S 943 JO MOTA 3001100 
9p Jo UONeSsHIOUTE 10} OpeuI us0q OU sey UOTsJAOIg ‘parmber 


@Aeq OM SUOHEULTdYS pue UONEWIOsUI Og} [Te peuTezqo oavY puE ‘aAogs G70} 308 Se ‘SE6r ‘aquisoeq ysrf payep ““pz’] ‘qsejog oUT|SeTeq JO 3004S soURLEg 04} PoITPNE oAeT OMA 
“SUZGNAP BHL OL SAOLIGNY AHL AO LUOETY 





G €x rr6'zeF 
§ $x oS¥‘o1 
Oo gt PF 
Oo € grt‘zz 
‘p *§ F 
1x1 £ oo€‘r10gF 
4 11 €96S%e ——_——_____- 
$¢ vx ofP‘or 
&@ “Lr zxS‘Sr 
6 £ of6‘grr 
9 11 60Z‘zr 
£ 2x gir‘gt 
vy 61 vSPzEe 
g 6 tzo'z 
g 6 of*‘or 
= OI Sr r€r‘'v¢ —_— 
a 1 gi Lo6‘g 
Ir gr €zz‘gr 
g o: Sf£g'64E ———————— 
rr €x 266'1S$ *: 
ZL gt vrg’Z6z * 
o F fez‘z9g 
€ 6 gb6%z 
6 tr vzZ‘6S 
Xr Ir rzg‘s 
6 € xrx‘€6 
= p=. F 


#97YS 9OUYIDE Of PasssvD 409 X 2y3 sof SSO] ™ 
Saaq sajsuvsy “* 


junozIp Juspysy pun Zussnjzovfnuvpy uo sos ssosy Ag 


La) 


or ZgS‘€ 


t _ Spit 


Be 


Cx 116‘etF 


spusmeoviday puv susvdoy * 

sadavyD yung puv sosoquy * 

uotwpsounMay $,s0of2asq “ 
juss Pun UOpuoT us Sasusdz7] OL 


"$61 ‘requis00q 3SIE pepus re3h on JOjJ FUNODOYW SSO] pue iJOIg 


Bed 
“3020S souRrle”d 38e[ SV 


zea oq} ‘Supp am jrpusdx gy KYUNY >: ppp 
$£6x ‘1aquriadeg 4SIf 38 SY 
— ‘po ‘sor 2Z€‘61F ‘uorsstar 
“m0 SunuMsspuy Surpnyput ‘feydey jo uones 
OdY pUe JO SaNssy qIIM UONIeUIOD Uy sasusdry “ 


reek oq} Supmp am; ipuedx 7 JUIN 3: ppp 
vEGX ‘JaquIaDag] YSIE ye SY 
—: ‘939 ‘seams pue jiuemdopaeq ureq}NoS 
9q} UO aInzyIpuedxq jyuenbasqns qyyM 30q}0303 
‘x€6x ‘zaquisdogq 443srf 03. dn am zipuedxe 
eourjeq pejzeooreun oq} (Supq ,‘wunozy suswdorons cy ‘ 


qeod 03 Supp omyrpusdxy IoqUIN. : ppp 

** $€6r ‘roquis0ag ysIf ye sy 

—? ToRoaJe 0} poynqize 

sasuedxa pe2q3aAO Jo uonsodaid Zurpnput ‘3s04 78 
‘uoudsnby Aspuns puv snwwsvddy Asousyooyy ‘yung ‘ 


os qeak ou} guump aimj(puedx A JaqIMY : ppp 
eS ** €6r ‘raquis0ag 4sIt 38 sy 
—! TOTDeI0 07 peynqiy3e sesuedxe peoyzreao 

jo uonsodord Surpnput 3809 ye ‘siuspring pjoysesy ‘“ 
“ yE6r Raat ae ysit je sy 

— 3909 38 ‘puvy] pjoysasy “ 
"** 61 ‘zaquiscaq] ySIE 38 SY 


\ 


Ir £ oo€‘r0gF 


rr Zr br1PZe 
© Oo 016 


o § 9g9f€L‘g 
oO § 626'SbZ 
"Pp ‘s Fz 


“SEER wequsened 2016 “sa0qg eouetra 


= oly 


‘$4077947 ‘INVNNG] ‘CG “A A 


‘NOLLA'T 
*s10]UBIENS) oq} Aq poprAoi:d 
sAsu0m jo yno Aueduios) 94} Aq pred useq sey 


PUSPIAIG Bualso1g 0} saeyeainbs qunowe uy 


s10;1pery Aspuns “ 
*** gyunoooy uBo’y “ 
Tainoooe tanjwerg ereyqs “ 


yeolry Ul SyeD : ssvT 
oSt'gtZ 


o $zgiZe °° "goes 1F Jo sereys Areurplo ,, V ,, Szg‘Z£z 
o LES6VE * = ** yore 17 yo sareys Areuypig LEL‘6vE 
Oo oSV6HE °° v qove 17 Jo sareys a0ual7a 
Zuyjedpnreg sqemeopey oagemuny) % FS oS P6rt 
o gt€g‘6x °° qova 17 Jo sozeys souasaseid “303. at £ gtg*6r 
—: Ef pate puv penss] ronded “ 
© 000‘00gF 
o SzgtlZe °° “+ qowe 17 jo sareys Areuiplo ,, V,, Szg*se 
o Zet*est - as “** qowe 17 Jo soreqs Areurpio LEE ‘est 
0 ooo’0oF °° qoes rf Jo sareys 30 
dupedpnsea g[qemMsopey oAnEuUND 4 $ ooo%oor 
o gf9'6r "+ gowe 1F Jo sareys eouarajeid % i fi 61 : 
99 0 
sf 9 OL 
"aq 


410 
APPENDIX I (iv). 


STATEMENT OF THE HULEH CONCESSION ACCOUNT. 
AS AT THE 31ST DECEMBER, 1936. 


As shown in the books of the Palestine Land Development Co., Ltd. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 


Price of Concession oe s+» 191,795.000 
Add—46 per cent. interest oun the sat October, 
1934 to the rst October, 1939 ... wie 24,643.290 216,438.290 
Payment to previous Concessionnaires on 
account of Drainage Works iol 9,000,000 
Survey and Experts’ Investigation, Commission, 
Advocates’ Fees, be a Administration, 
Interest, etc. ... 32,890.715 
Technical eee Cars, Sundry Equip- , 
ment, etc. 1,363.336 
Buildings and paeesioation in Road euieae. 2,793-844 
Total sae sas £P.262,486. 185 


Of the Purchase Price, the previous Concessionnaires have now received 
£P. 125,475.316 mils in cash, and the balance including interest thereon, 
is covered by promissory notes to the value of £P.90,962.974 mils, which 
mature during the years 1937-39. Certain of these promissory notes to the 
amount of {P.31,287.658 mils maturing on the rst October, 1939, have 
been deposited with the Company as Security for the amount due to 
Government by the previous Concessionnaires, and until final settlement 
has been made with them in respect of the exact extent of the area 
acquired. 

Note.—A sum of {P.83,212.558 mils has been received by the Company 
from prospective participants in the development of the Concession. 


The Palestine Land Development Company, Limited. 
(Signed) (Signed) 
MANAGING DIRECTORS. 


We have examined the above statement with the Books of the Palestine 
Land Development Co., Ltd., and certify the same to be in accordance 
therewith. 


RUSSELL & Co. 
Chartered Accountants. 


Jerusalem, 14th February, 1937. 


| 


4II 


APPENDIX I (v). 


LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 


Statement of Light Dues Collected by the Administration Generales 
Des Phares for the year 1936. 


Other Ports 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside Total. 
Palestine. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
January en 2,112.431 1,162.761 0.289 3.275.481 
February pee 1,906.350 941.424 0.0 2,847.774 
March var 2,423.802 I,195.947 2,166 3,621.915 
April... st 3,124.005 675.060 4.079 3,803.144 
May... ‘ies 2,459.184 20.042 1.552 2,480.778 
June... me 1,968.327 21.325 1.420 1,991I.072 
July... ion 1,965.431 67.743 5.515 2.038.689 
August ... ahs 1,887.571 24.253 5.548 1,917.372 
September... 1,897.150 65.050 1.817 1,964.017 
October oe 1,924.813 281.573 0.686 2,207.072 
November ans 2,030.468 513.127 0.654 2,544.249 
December so 2,161.325 546.097 0.699 2,708.121 
Grand Total ...  25,860.857 5,514.402 24.425 31,399.684 


APPENDIX. II 


HOLY DAYS. 


A complete list of the days which are recognised as holy days by the 
various communities in Palestine is set out hereunder. 


MosSLEM FESTIVALS 


New Year i Le oe sa ee ... I Muharram. 
Yom ‘Ashura (date of Noah leaving the Ark, and of ro Muharram. 
the death of Husein at Kerbela). 


Mawled al Nabi (Mohammed’s birthday) ... ... 12th Rabi’ al-Awal. 
Lailat al-Raghaib (night of Mohammed’s con- Eve of first Friday in 
ception). Rajab. 


Lailat al-Mi‘raj (night of Mohammed’s miraculous 27th Rajab. 
Journey). 
Lailat al-Baraat (‘‘ Night of Decrees,’’ when the 15th Sha‘ban. 
guardian angels received from the Almighty 
tablets recording the fate of their charges in the 
coming year). 
madhan_... ead nig ibs io. ... I-30 Ramadhan. 
Lailat al-Qadr (‘‘ Night of Power,” on which the 27th Ramadhan. 
requests of all worshippers are believed to be 
_, ranted). 
Id al-Fitr (Shaker Bairam, 3 days) ... ae ... I-3 Shawal. 
Id al-Adha (Qurban Bairam, 3 days) fen ... Io-12 Dhu al-Hijja. 
Descent of Holy Banner (Sanjaq al-Sherif) from Friday before Orthodox 
Jerusalem to Nebi Musa. Good Friday. 
Return of Banner from Nebi Musa es ... Orthodox Maundy 
Thursday. 


412 


CHRISTIAN FESTIVALS. 


Orthodox Festivals. 

Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Epiphany or Thephania, Purification, 
Annunciation, Palm Sunday, Good Friday, Easter Day, St. George, 
Ascension, SS. Constantine and Helen, Whit-Sunday, SS. Peter and Paul, 
Transfiguration, Assumption, Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Exalta- 
tion of the Holy Cross, St. James, St. Nicholas. 


Roman Catholic and Western Churches. 


New Year’s Day, Epiphany, Good Friday, Faster Monday, Ascension 
Day, Whit-Monday, Christmas Day. 


i JEWISH FESTIVALS. 


The Jewish festivals are divided into three categories:—(a) days of rest, 
(b) festivals on which work is permissible, (c) fasts. 


Date. Category (a). Category (b). Category (c). 
Tishri 1-2 Rosh ha-Shana — — 
(New Year). 
Tishri 10 Yom Kippur — — 
(Day of Atone- 
ment). 
Tishri 15 Ist Day Tabernacles — — 
(Sukkoth). 
Tishri 16-12... — znd-7th Day — 
Sukkoth. 
Tishri 22 8th Day Sukkoth — — 
(Simhat Torah). | 
Kislev 25 to — Hanukka — 
Tevet 2 (Maccabeans). 
Tevat Io — — ‘Asara be-Tevet 
(Siege of 
Jerusalem). 
Shevat 15 — Tu be-Shavat (Tree — 
New Year). 
Adar 13 — — Ta‘anit Esther 
(Fast of Esther). 
Adar 14 — Purim — 
Adar 15 — Purim (in Jerusalem — 
only). 
Nisan 15 Ist Day Passover — — 
Nisan 16-20 — 2znd—6th Day — 
Passover. 
Nisan 21 7th Day Passover — = 
Iyar 18 — Lag Baomer (Out- — 
door Day). 
Sivan 6 Shavu‘oth — — 
(Pentecost). 


Tammuz 17 


Abg 


Shiv‘a ‘Asar be 
Tammuz (Capitu- 
lation of Jerusa- 
lem). 
(Destruction of the: 
Temple). 


Concession. 









rad Sea ss au is 
inage of Lake Huleh and 

adjacent marshes. 

verias Hot Baths 


Hammeh Mineral Springs .. 
Aula Irrigation 

Tanai of Mineral Oils through 
Palestine. 


413 


APPENDIX III 


LIST OF CONCESSIONS. 


Holder of Concession. 


Palestine Potash Company. 
Palestine Land Development Company. 


Leased by Hamei Tiberia Co., Ltd. (negotia- 
tions for a long-term lease proceeding). 
Administration Générale des Phares de 

Palestine. 

Palestine Electric Corporation and Jeru- 
salem Electric and Public Service Corpora- 
tion. 

Suleiman Bey Nassif. 

Auja Irrigation Company. 

‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 


41326-—49 We. 3828—3808 1375 5/37. P. St. G. 377 


ITY O 


ii 


DOO 


2 hy 
VWI 
| \| | 

am: 


IVE 
| 
WY 


\ 


: 
19 


a —— 


| 


2 
| 
| 
| 





