This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 










Issued by the Colonial Office 


REPORT 


by His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and Trans-Jordan 


For the Year 1933 


(For Reports for 1931 and 1932 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 75, 1932, and Colonial No. 82, 1933: 
price 8s. od. and Qs. 6d. ves pectively) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATION 
M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresse» 
120, George Street, Edinburgh 2 
Manchester 1; 1, St- Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff 
8, Chichester Street, Belfast 
or through any Bookseller 


ERY OFFICE 
To be purchased directly from H. 


Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 
York Street, 


1934 
Price 11s. 6d Net. 


olonial No. 94 
8-94 


< 





> 
AG 
2 
S 
—] 
3 
ais 
-— 


cass O56.9 


GT9Rr 


BOOK 





* Digitized by Google 


cp Beit 
Issued by the {Colonial Office 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and ‘Trans-Jordan 


For the Year 1933 


(For Reports for 1931 and 1932 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 75, 1932, and Colonial No. 82, 1933; 
price 8s. od. and 9s. 6d. respectively) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





: LONDON 
RINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be ed directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses 
dastra] House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120, George Street, Edinburgh 2 
York Street, Manchester 1; 1, St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff 
Go, Chichester Street, Belfast 
or through any Bookseller 


1934 


Coloni al No. - Price 11s. 6d. Net 


38-94 


ae | aa a Feed a 
aba ke sie c PG ae Se eRe Ve |e eX Aas 


ll 


CONTENTS 
Page 
Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission bc6 iv 
index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations of 

the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Third Session 
in June, 1933 °" ea ch eat we x 
Note regarding arrangement of the Report eee Ban F ee xii 

PALESTINE. 
Introductory _... =o8 ek ae sas a x 1 
1. Jewish National Home de “ae sais aa site a 26 
11. Autonomous Administration es Aa ioe ite ae 30 
lil. Jewish Agency wie ae eas sad bee sae 31 
IV. Immigration and Emigration or es a Sus aus 34 
V. Land Regime se aly bas ike seh aa 45 
Vi. Nationality ... Aas be ad a as a ‘she 55 
Vil. Judicial System... oe ieee ~~ oot ae ous 56 
Vill. Economic Equality ee ba oa sia ‘8 .. 40 
1X. Holy Places . ins ee es Mas ee es a 73 
X. Freedom of Conscience ae 5h es ag cae aa 74 
Xi. Military Clauses _... see 76 
Xil. International Agreements, ‘Conventions, and “Treaties oe 85 
Xtil. Antiquities ee sm uke sae ve = oe 91 
XIV. Official Languages ... 5a: os am ase ved ie 92 
XV. Holy Days ... sig “et sae ang fo aad ae 93 
XVI. Trans-Jordan has aa ee oe ate se va 93 
XVil. Labour ve ve: 93 
XVItl. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs, Arms, and 1 Liquors ae =: 709 
XIX. Education... as re . ; ibe ... =o 47 
XX. Public Health = ai ee 6% es weg eee «= 188 
XX. Public Finance sok uf gue es ene ee ... 149 
XXil. Demographic Statistics... Bae see 3 ae ... 180 
XXII. Customs, Excise, and Trade sae des ee sate fae 181 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones sl na i ... 209 
XXV. Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries ae xen = .. 214 
XXVI. Public Works, meoeay and eee ae sue va . 224 
XXVIII. Railways... Su ve dale ... 209 
TRANS-JORDAN. 

!. Introductory... oe ue Se er bats baa ... 242 
li. Finance : isi a on aoe .. 249 
tf. Customs, Excise, and Trade ime ae nee nae ... 256 
IV. Legal and Judicial aa8 aos ae eds sae sive ... 258 
V. Education bie ae sits ee sak Ss te .. 265 
Vi. Health. _ ss ie ... 266 
Vil. Posts, Telegraphs, and d Telephones... shia ies sats ne Y 
Vill. Agriculture... a wee ies wees. «tener ~ade 
IX. Lands ... aoe aide wee nae oe we .-. 276 
X. Public Works . aed “tt sl ais she oa ... 278 
X1. Antiquities... an ee ne a6 ee we .. 279 
Xi. The Arab Legion ie ve -. 281 
Xiltl. International Agreements, Conventions, and Treaties shes --- 283 


ili 


APPENDICES 


. Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 


(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 


(ii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corssralion 
Limited a ae sis ak Mee 


(iii) Palestine Potash Limited 

(iv) Syreo-Ottoman Agricultural company Limited 

(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues collected in 1932 
ana 1933 


Modifications in the Provisional Extradition Agreement with 
Syria : : ‘ 


Anglo-Persian Oil Company Convention for the transit of oil 
through Palestine iis 


Order by the Elected Assembly of the Jewish ailalaies under 
the Jewish Community Regulations, 1927 ... 


Statement by the Secretary of State for the Colonies in the 
House of Commons on the 14th July, 1933 . sae 


DIAGRAMS AND MAPs. 


l.and!iV. Progress of cadastral survey Sas a (facing) 

Il. Arrangement of new maps of Palestine on the scale of 1/100,000 

(facing) 

lll. Monthly variations of water-level in inland seas... (facing) 

Map. Progress of Settlement and fiscal survey ... i (facing) 
4 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 

= 23364 


13771380 


Page 
289 


294 
297 
299 


300 
300 
301 
311 


313 


52. 


54 
54 


51 


te 


1V 
Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to place the country | 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions a8 ; 
will secure the establishment of the national home of the Jewish | 
people? = 

What are the effects of these measures? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country _ 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the development of self-governing institutions? 

‘What are the effects of these measures? 


| ; 


38. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions a8 
will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants of 
Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 

‘What are the effects of these measures? 


II.—Autonomous Administration. 
Q@.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


III.—Jewish Agency. 


1. @.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency been 
officially recognized ? 


2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administration 
in the past year? 
If so, in what form and in what connexion? 


3. Y.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social, and other matters? 


4. Q@.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


5. Y.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of all 


Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the Jewish > 
National Home? 


IV.—Immigration and Emigration. 


1. @.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 


Vv 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the rights 
and position of other sections of the population? 


3. Y.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with the 
_ Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews on the 
land (give figures) ? 

4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures? 

Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, pro- 
fession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 

Same statistics for emigration. 7 


V.—Land Regime. 
1. Q.—How have State lands been defined and delimited? 
2. 9.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited ? 


3. @.—What measures have been taken for the registration of 
real property ? 


VI.—Nattonahity. 
1. Q.— What is the text of the Nationality law? 


2. Q.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as to 
facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judictal System. 
1, Q.—When did the new judicial organization begin to operate” 


2. Q.—What special features does it include with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee of 
their rights as laid down in Article 9? 


3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure respect 
for the personal status of the various peoples and communities and 
for their religious interests? 


4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs been 
assured ? 


5. Q.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate? 


VIII.—Economic Equaltty. 


1. Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the develop- 
ment of the country in respect of public ownership or control of 
any of the natural resources of the country or of the public works, 
services, and utilities? 


23364 A383 


V1 


2. @.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country— | 
and, if so, under what circumstances ? 


3. Y.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names and | 
nationalities of the concession holders. 


4. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings and 
the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such reports — 
and balance sheets are not available, give all information relating 
to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the uses made 
of profits. 


5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality a8 
regards :— 
(a) Concessions ? 
(b) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to pro- 
specting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 
6. Q.—What regulations has the Mandatory Power made for the 


application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of transit under equit- | 
able conditions ’’? 


7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? | 


If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken for the assumption by 
the Mandatory of responsibility in connexion with the Holy Places 
and religious buildings or sites, including the responsibility of pre- 
serving existing rights and of securing free access to the Holy 
Places, religious buildings and sites, and the free exercise of 
worship ? 


2. @.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the immv- 
nities of which are guaranteed ? 


X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. @.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom of 
conscience and religion? 


2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free exercise 
of any form of worship in the interest of the maintenance of public 
order and morals? 

What are the effects of such restrictions? 


vil 

¢ 3. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights of 
.. Communities to maintain their own schools for the education of 
cr their own members? 

What educational requirements of a general nature are imposed 
._ by the Administration? 

What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of such 
_ Supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all faiths or 
* nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance 
“: of public order and good government? 
Coe 


tet 


XI.—Mulitary Clauses. 
..  . Q.—What is the form of military organization and training ? 


im 
2. Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory ? 
What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 
¢ Racial and religious composition of these two forces. 


3. Q.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
Palestine to contribute to the cost of the maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 

‘ If so, to what extent? 


-¢ 4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its right to use the roads, 
_Yailways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed forces 

_ and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 

If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged? 


X1II.—Internattonal Conventions. 
1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration? 


« 2. Q.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
f+ operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against disease, 
i; Including diseases of plants and animals? 


— 


‘ae. ey 


XIII.—Antiquities. 


Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities according to 
.; the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


XLV .—Official Languages. 


1. Q.—Have the three official languages been used simultaneously 
and on an equal footing in legislative and administrative documents 
and in the Courts? 

If not, what languages are used? 

2. Q.—To what observations does the application of this system 
give rise? 

2336 | A4 


vill 
XV.—Holy Days. 
Q@.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various com- 
munities ? 
XVI.—Trans-Jordan. 


1. Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally - 
delimited and organized ? - 

2. Q.—In what way does the political and administrative regime ~ 
established in this territory differ from the regulations laid down for 
Palestine? | 


XVII.—Labour. 

1. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accordance 
with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the consideration o 
conventions or recommendations of International Labour Confer- 
ences ? 

2. @.—Are these conventions or recommendations being carried 
into effect ? 

3. Q.—What other regulations are in force in regard to labour’ 

4. Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling labour 
contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both on the part cf. 
employer and employed, and what powers does it possess to pee ! 
any abuses in this respect? 

5. @.—What is the competent authority in regard to it 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 


of such legislation ? | 
XVIII.—Trade tn and Manufacture of Drugs. | 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or the 
control of the importation, of the production, and the consumption 
of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX.—Education. 


1. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 

Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it free? 

2. Y.—What measures have been taken for higher education ; for 
example, medical, veterinary, and technical education ? 


3. @.—In what languages is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 
XX.—Public Health. 


1. @.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health and 
sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases? 


1X 
2. Q.—What is the regime for medical assistance? 


3. Y.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution and 
what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XXJI.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of the 
teritory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature and 
the assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statisttcs. 


-Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, emigra- 
tion, and immigration. 


x 


Index of Replies in the Report to special and other observations of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Third Session in June, 1933. 


A. SprctaL OBSERVATIONS. 
Page 190. Detailed information about construction of Haifa See page 


Page 190. 


Harbour by a Government Department. 
(Section X XVI, paragraph 15.) 


Progress made in putting into effect Development 
Scheme. 
(Introductory, paragraphs 19 et segq.) 


B. OTHER OBSERVATIONS. 


Page 97. 


Pages 97 
and 98. 


Page 104. 


Page 105. 


Page 105. 


Page 105. 


Page 106. 


Page 107. 


Page 107. 


Pages 109 
and 110 


Page 111. 


Page 112. 


The Trans-Jordan Section to be more detailed, in 
particular in respect of the Legislative Council 
—its work and the general political situation 
(Introductory chapter in Trans-Jordan Section. ). 


Prohibition of admission into Panama of Pales- 
tinians whose mother-tongue was not Spanish. 
Result of any representations to Government 
of Panama. 

(Section IV, paragraph 12.) 


Did the Government intend to adopt the Five- 
Feddan law of Egypt ? 
(Introductory, paragraph 27.) 


What was the reason for the withdrawal of the 
Public Notaries Bill ?—Gazette of 22.9.32. 
(Section VII, paragraph 8a.) 


Further information on the Probation Officer’s 
work. 
(Section VII, paragraph 25.) 


Explanation of scheduling of 206 villages to the 
Collective Punishments Ordinance in Gazette 
of 4.5.33. 

(Introductory, paragraph 12.) 


Child marriage i 
(Section VII, paragraph 32. ) 


To what was due the considerable movement in 
the export and import of specie ? 
(Section XXIII, paragraph 4.) 


Fall in imports from Syria 
(Section XXIII, paragraph 17. a 


Internal taxation of Jewish religious community 
(Section I, paragraph 9.) 


Failure to submit to Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission agreement in respect of delimitation of 
western section of Palestine-Syria Frontier. 
(Introductory, paragraph 1.) 


Discrepancy between the definition of unemploy- 
ment and the commentary in the 1932 Report. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 3.) 


See page 


See page 


See page 


See page 
See page 
See page 
See page 
See page 
See page 


See page 
See page 


See page 


See page 


95 


Xi 


Page 112. Copy of Labour Legislation Committee’s reports See page 
to go to Commission ; and further information 
generally. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 12 et seqq.) 


Page 12. Further information on the subject of the pro- See page 
posed increase in the number of factory inspec- 
tors. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 20.) 


Page 112, Further information about labour conditions See page 
along the pipeline. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 23.) 


Page 115. Further information about resumption of tuber- See page 
culosis survey ; and manner of calculation of 
birth rate figures (1932 Report, page 118.) 
(Section XX, paragraphs 1 and 2.) 


Page 115. Further information as to grants-in-aid to Jewish See page 
Health Services. 
(Section XX, paragraph 74.) 


Pages 116 Single tax proposed in Dowson Report of 1928: See page 
and 117 Report of Palestine Committee on this subject. 
(Section V, paragraph 19a) 


Page 118. Further information regarding private schools in See page 
Trans-Jordan. 


(Education chapter in Trans-Jordan Section.) 


101 


103 


104 


134 


143 
51 


266 


X11 


NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the Sec- 
tions of this Report might be arranged in the order of subjects 


adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, that is, 


in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the Palestine 
Mandate, namely :— 
I. Jewish National Home. 
II. Autonomous Administration. 
III. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIIL. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. “Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 


2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and placed — 


at the end of the Report. 


An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, 


and Railways are also included in the Palestine portion of the 


Report. ‘There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


| 


: 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United 
Kingdom of Great Britainand Northern Ireland 
to the Council of the League of Nations on the 
Administration of Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
for the year 1933 


PALESTINE. 
INTRODUCTORY. 
Position, etc. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia be- 
tween latitude 30° N. and 33° N., longitude 34°30’ E. and 35°30’ E. 

On the south it is bounded by Egyptian and Saudi Arabian 
territory, on the east by Trans-Jordan, on the north by the French 
Mandated Territories of Syria and the Lebanon and on the west 
by the Mediterranean. 


The boundaries are described as follows :— 


South.—From a point west of Rafa on the Mediterranean 
to a point two miles west of Aqaba in the Gulf of Aqaba. 


East.—From a point two miles west of Aqaba in the Gulf 
of Aqaba up the centre of the Wadi Araba, the Dead Sea, 
and the River Jordan, to the junction of the latter with the 
River Yarmuk, thence up the centre of the River Yarmuk to 
the Syrian frontier. 


North.—The northern boundary was laid down by the Anglo- 
French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, and its 
delimitation was ratified in 1923. Stated briefly the boundary 
runs from Ras el Naqura on the Mediterranean eastwards to 
Metulla and across the upper Jordan Valley to Banias, thence 
to Jisr Banat Yaqub, thence along the Jordan to tHe Lake 
of Tiberias on to El] Hamme station on the Samakh-Deraa rail- 
way line. 

West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


The Permanent Mandates Commission has asked what action 
has been taken on the declarations by the representatives of France 
and the United Kingdom ut the meeting of the Council of the 
League of Nations held on 30th June, 1932, regarding the western 
section of the frontier between Syria and Palestine. 

A letter from His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom 
was addressed to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations 
on the 15th February, 1934, simultaneously with a similar letter 
from the French Government, communicating for the approval 
of the Council of the League a copy of the agreement concluded 
on the 7th March, 1933, between the French Government and 
His Majesty’s Government. 


2 


Area and Climate. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north 1s 
about 160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less 
than 70 miles, the total area being approximately 10,100 square 
miles inclusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead Sea, 
the Lake of Tiberias, and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore 
comparable to Wales or Belgium. 

3. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring deserts 
of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate zones, is 
characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not excessively het 
summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical rainfalls accom- 
panied by high cold winds; frost is rare. But the typical climate 
is varied by the diverse topography of the country. In the south 
and south-west, there are wide expanses of sand dunes and desert. 
The remainder of the country falls naturally into three longitudinal 
strips, the maritime plain, the mountainous regions (or Central 
Highlands), and the Jordan Valley. Each of these strips, which 
are more closely described below, is climatically distinct. 

The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the heat 
of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by the westerly 
winds from the Mediterranean. In the central highlands there is 
a greater range of temperature both daily and seasonal, and the 
maximum temperature is a few degrees lower than in the coastal 
plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in Jerusalem and Hebron, 
and the winter storms are accompanied by penetrating winds 
which necessitate the use of clothing suitable for a cold English 
climate. 

The Jordan Valley is tropical. The high-air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 

The maritime plain and the central highlands are both healthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity, is relaxing in its 
effects, while the other, through sudden changes of temperature, 
predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 

4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones :— 


Maritime Central Jordan 
Plain Highlands Valley 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberias. 
Mean temperature ... Summer 77°F. 70°F. 83°F. 
Winter 60°F. 52°F. 62°F. 
Mean daily maximum Summer — 83°F. 95°F. 
temperature. Winter — 60°F. 72°F. 
Mean daily minimum... Summer — 60°F. 71°F. 
Winter = 44°F. 54°F, 
Absolute maximum Summer 104°F. 102°F. 114°F. 
tem perature. 
Absolute minimum Winter 35°F. 21°F. 34°F. 
temperature. 
Relative humidity ... Summer 69 percent. 55 percent. 51 per cent. 


Winter 70 percent. 68 percent. 64 per cent. 


3 
5. Rainfall is of supreme importance in Palestine and any reduc- 
tion in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agriculture 
and water conservation generally. The mean. volume of annual 
rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east of 
England. 


There are two well-marked periods of precipitation; the former 
rain in October and November is not usually large; during 
December, January, and February, the rainfall steadily increases, 
in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended in April. 
The characteristic winds are the moist west and south-west of 
winter and the dry north and north-west of summer. Desert heat 
is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the south or east 
generally in April and May and occasionally in September and 
October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the south this plain 
has an average width of about 20 miles, but it gradually narrows 
to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the hills approach 
to within a few hundred yards of the sea. Beyond Carmel the plain 
widens again, but in this area it is marshy and malarial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the Plain of Esdraelon. To the north of that 
Plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the Syrian 
frontier and rising at Jebel Jermak to a height of 3,934 feet above 
sea-level; to the south are the mountains of Samaria and Judea 
which in places reach heights little less than those of Galilee. Most 
of this second strip of country is desolate and stony, but at irregular 
intervals there occur stretches of fertile land capable of deep 
tillage. 

The Plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in_ shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture than 
that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile and is 
especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan Valley, a 
natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the extreme 
north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 1,300 feet below 
that level at the Dead Sea about 100 miles to the south. 


7. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, sited in the midst of the 
hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, with its modern 
harbour in the north at the entrance to the Plain of Esdraelon; 
Jaffa, a second port which lies some 40 miles west-north-west of 
Jerusalem ; Tel-Aviv, which is contiguous to Jaffa; and Nablus, the 
ancient Sichem, in the hills of Samaria. Jerusalem has a majority 
of Jewish inhabitants ; in Haifa the people are predominantly Arab 
though there is a large Jewish element; Tel-Aviv is an entirely 


4 


Jewish township of 85,000 inhabitants. In Jaffa a large majority 
of the people are Arabs, and in Nablus, apart from a small com- 
munity of Samaritans, all the people are Arabs. 


Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem, 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee, and Safad, a 
remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north of 
Palestine. 


Changes in personnel, 1933. 


8. Mr. M. A. Young, €.M.G., vacated the office of Chief Secre- 
tary to Government on appointment as Governor and Commander- 
in-Chief of Barbados. In his place Mr. J. Hathorn Hall, D.8.O., 
O.B.E., M.C., a Principal in the Colonial Office, assumed the 
duties of Chief Secretary in August. 

Mr. M. T. Dawe, O.B.E., Director of Agriculture, Cyprus, was 
appointed to be Director of Agriculture and Forests in Palestine, 
succeeding Mr. E. R. Sawer, O.B.E. 

Mr. C. E. de Biden, Deputy Auditor, Gold Coast, took up the 
office of Colonial Auditor in May. 

Air Commodore W. R. Freeman, C.B., D.S.O., M.C., was trans- 
ferred from the command of the Royal Air Force in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan, in September, and has been succeeded by Air Com- 
modore R. HE. C. Peirse, D.S.O., A.F.C. 

Lieutenant-Colonel C. A. Shute, C.M.G., C.B.E., Indian Army, 
completed his period of command of the Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force, and was succeeded by Major (local Lieutenant-Colonel) 
C. H. Miller, 13/18th Hussars. 7 

Mr. L. Andrews, O.B.E., Assistant District Commissioner, has 
been appointed Development Officer with charge of the Department 
of Development. 

Mr. C. G. Eastwood, Private Secretary to the High Commis- 
sioner, returned to duty at the Colonial Office in December, and has 
been replaced by Mr. M. Foster. 

Lieutenant R. Stockley, Northumberland Fusiliers, was suc- 
ceeded by Lieutenant D. Lennox-Boyd, Scots Guards, as Aide-de- 
Camp to the High Commissioner. 


Public Security. 


9. Arab discontent on account of Jewish immigration and the 
sale of lands to Jews, which has been a permanent feature of 
political opinion in Palestine for the past ten years, began to show 
signs of renewed activity from the beginning of 1933, developing 
in intensity until it reached a climax in the riots of October and 
November. Actually in the first eight months of 1933, 16,000 
Jewish immigrants entered with permission, compared with 10,000 
in twelve months of 1932 and 4,070 in 1931. This increase found 


a Uea Sloe 


aaa 


od 


\ + 


5 


its origin mainly in the favourable economic conditions of the 
country, due to a large extent to influx of Jewish capital and to 
consequent creation of new openings for employment. 

A campaign against Jewish immigration began in the Arab Press 
about the end of August, and rapidly developed in intensity. The 
general purport was that the Government was flooding the country 
with Jews regardless of its absorptive capacity with the object of 
displacing the Arabs from the land and depriving them of their 
employment. It was also alleged that a mass immigration of 
Jews was being allowed and encouraged by Government so that 
when the Legislative Council was introduced the Jews would be 
in @ majority. 

At the beginning of September, the President of the Arab Execu- 
tive Committee delivered a speech on the subject at the Moslem 
festival of Nebi Rubin and telegraphed to the High Commissioner 
demanding the immediate stoppage of immigration. After the 
festival, the agitation was fostered by means of the Press and 
public meetings, organized by the Independence Party, by the 
Moslem Young Men’s Association, and by the Moslem Christian 
Association. Arab spokesmen found material to hand in Press 
reports of arrivals of Jewish immigrants at the ports: the Jewish 
Press displayed no reticence in the publication of this kind of news, 
and at the Zionist Congress at Prague immigration was discussed 
in such terms as to inspire alarm in the minds of the Arab popula- 
tion. 

The hostile feeling against Jewish immigration was intensified 
by knowledge of the recent settlement in Palestine of a large 
number of Jews, estimated at some 10,000, without permission. 
The Arabs argued that these circumstances revealed the inability 
of Government to control immigration, and consequently 
exaggerated the number of those arriving; and they further con- 
tended that, even if they accepted selected immigration under 
Government authorization, which they should not, the entry of 
10,000 unselected and unsuitable, or perhaps undesirable, persons 
was altogether more than could be borne. 

Wherever opportunity offered, the Government made it clear that 
there had been and would be no change in the policy by which 
immigration into Palestine is regulated in accordance with the 
economic capacity of the country to absorb new arrivals. 


The Arab Executive, however, bitterly attacked during the cam- 
paign in the Arab Press for apathy and inertia, adopted a resolu- 
tion to declare a general strike on Friday, the 13th October, and 
on the same day to demonstrate in procession in Jerusalem from 
the Haram esh Sharif to Government Offices against Government's 
policy in the matter of immigration. Government made it clear 
to the responsible leaders personally and to the public by proclama- 
tions and through the Press that no procession, which would be 
likely to endanger the peace, would be allowed. In defiance of 


6 


Government’s prohibition a procession was held on the appointed 
day and the Police were obliged to disperse an unruly crowd by 
baton charge. Towards the end of October and in November, a 
train of similar causes led to serious rioting in various towns of 
Palestine, and it was necessary for the Police to use their firearms 
to restore order. Troops, however, were not required to inter- 
vene. A detailed account of the disturbances and the events imme- 
diately preceding them and of the precise nature and sequence of 
those events is given in the Report of the Special Commission of 
Enquiry which was appointed for the purpose and which sat in 
Palestine during December under the Chairmanship of Sir William 
Murison, K.C., formerly Chief Justice in the Straits Settlements. 
Printed copies of the Report have been sent to the members of 
the Permanent Mandates Commission. 


A strike of Arab shopkeepers was almost generally observed 
throughout Palestine between the 27th October and the 3rd 
November, while the state of disorder and tension lasted. In view 
of the false or exciting reports which were published after the out- 
break at Jaffa on the 27th October, a censorship of the Press was 
imposed under the Defence Order-in-Council, 1931, which had been 
proclaimed some days earlier as a precaution in case of an un- 
favourable development of the situation. The censorship 
was maintained for five days. The Arab Press went on 
strike as a protest against the imposition of this censorship and 
for six days no Arabic newspapers appeared. The Palestine Govern- 
ment for that period distributed an official bulletin containing a 
report of the events of the day and other items of general interest 
concerning governmental activities. 

In Jerusalem, on the 13th October, the collision of Arab demon- 
strators with the Police resulted in five constables and eleven civi- 
hans being slightly injured. The total casualties in the subsequent 
rioting in Jaffa, Jerusalem, Haifa and Nablus were one constable 
and twenty-four civilians killed or died of wounds, twenty-eight 
constables and two hundred and four civilians wounded. 


10. There was some echo of these troubles in Trans-Jordan and 
minor demonstrations of sympathy took place; but thanks to the 
helpful influence of His Highness the Amir, the Trans-Jordan 
(Jovernment by their firm attitude prevented any repercussions 
which might have proved embarrassing to the Palestine Government. 


11. While Palestinian Arabs were impelled to demonstrate 
against the policy of the Palestine Government in regard to Jewish 
immigration, as being unduly generous and inconsiderate of Arab 
interests, dissatisfaction with that policy by Jews on the ground 
of its niggardliness and severity to themselves was equally ex- 
pressed, at least on one occasion, in the form of an illegal pro- 
cession. This happened at Tel Aviv on Saturday, the 11th 
December, following a protest meeting arranged by the Revisionist 


7 


Organization ; in the resulting clash with the Police, who were 
compelled to make baton charges against a shower of stones, eleven 
police officers and eight civilians were injured. 


12. The Permanent Mandates Commission enquired as to the 
reason for the scheduling of 206 villages in the Northern District 
to the Collective Punishments Ordinance. 


The explanation is that these villages comprise the Tulkarm 
Sub-District in which, as previous Reports have indicated, the 
crime of tree-cutting is prevalent. 


The District Commissioner was satisfied that nothing short of 
scheduling all the villages in the Sub-District would provide the 
means to deal promptly and effectively with this form of destruc- 
tion of property. 

The scheduling of a village to the Ordinance makes it possible 
for fines to be imposed upon it, if it offends, after due enquiry and 
after confirmation of sentence by the High Commissioner. 


The results of the special action taken in the Sub-District are 
already visible in a sensible diminution of the incidence of agrarian 
crime. 

_ On the whole, agrarian crime was less prevalent than in 1932; 
indeed the reduction is in the neighbourhood of 50 per cent. 


Disputes over pasturage, squatting or boundary rights between 
Jews and Arabs were also less frequent. In case of necessity 
possessory orders were made by the District Commissioners under 
the Land Disputes (Possession) Ordinance (see 1932 Report, page 
4, paragraph 11) so as to remove the source of friction pending 
Judgment of the Courts. 


13. Abu Jilda, an outlaw of the Nablus sub-district, earned an 
unenviable notoriety during the year by the murder of two police- 
men and several acts of brigandage. In August, special police 
measures were taken against him with the result that, although 
he himself managed to escape, his activities were checked. 


14. One crime calls for special mention, the murder of Dr. Chaim 
Arlosoroff, political member of the Palestine Executive of the 
Jewish Agency, at Tel Aviv, on the 16th June. Two young Jews 
were arrested on suspicion in this case and were under examination 
by a British magistrate at the close of the year. The loss of Dr. 
Arlosoroff was very deeply felt not only by the Jews for whom he 
had laboured with such devotion and success, but also by the High 
Commissioner and the officers of the Administration with whom he 
had established mutually helpful relations of trust and esteem as 
the spokesman of the Jewish Agency. 


15. The improvement in the Intelligence Service of the Depart- 
ment of Police and Prisons noted in the 1932 Report (see page 4, 
paragraph 13) has been maintained, and the Branch is thus in- 
creasingly helpful to the Police in the prevention and detection of 


8 


crime. As for the Police themselves, their behaviour in most try- 
Ing circumstances during the rioting in Jerusalem, Jaffa and else- 
where was admirable in its patience and restraint as well as resolute- 
ness. 


Policy. 

16. In accordance with his statement at Geneva in November, 
1932, the stages leading up to self-government in Palestine were 
once more declared by the High Commissioner, in interviews with 
members of the Arab Executive and with Arab Mayors in October 
and November, to be: first the introduction of unofficial members 
to administrative committees, next the holding of elections for 
municipal councils under the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 
and then the establishment of a Legislative Council. The first 
stage was in being; the second had not yet been reached because 
opposition on the part of those consulted in regard to certain clauses 
of the Municipal Corporations Bill had involved delay but it would 
be reached in the near future. The Secretary of State took the 
opportunity of his radio-telephonic speech from London at the open- 
ing of the Haifa Harbour to restate the policy of the Mandatory. 
The following is a passage from his speech: 


‘““ Thirteen years ago Great Britain accepted the Mandate 
of Palestine. The Mandate carries with it a clear duty to 
Arabs and to Jews. That duty will be discharged fully and 
fairly without fear or favour. There is under the Mandate 
the obligation to facilitate the establishment of a National 
Home for the Jewish people in Palestine, but at the same 
time there is an equally definite obligation to safeguard the 
rights of all the inhabitants of Palestine. Both obligations 
will be most carefully observed. It will be a constant aim of 
British policy to foster and help on the well-being of all 
Palestinians.”’ 

17. The Municipal Corporations (formerly entitled the Local 
Government) Bill is to be enacted in January, 1934; and 
copies of it have been supplied to the members of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. 

18. Specific references are contained elsewhere in this Report 
to the questions of policy affecting Jewish immigration into Pales- 
tine and the claim of Jewish labour to a share of employment on 
works which fall to be financed out of public funds. So far as 
concerns immigration, the Palestine Government is anxious to 
establish a closer relation between the number of new arrivals and 
the true economic absorptive capacity of the country on the long 
view; and to put a stop to illegal settlement which vitiates all 
attempts to determine that capacity with precision. 


Development. 


19. In 1930, the Parliament of the United Kingdom was informed 
of the intention of His Majesty's Government to guarantee a loan 
for land development in Palestine, and to provide as a grant-in-aid 


9 


the interest on that loan for a period of years. In consultation with 
the High Commissioner, His Majesty’s Government have reviewed 
the position in the light of financial conditions both in the United 
Kingdom and in Palestine, and have decided that in present finan- 
cial circumstances it is impossible for the British Government to 
make a contribution to land development in Palestine such as was 
envisaged in 1930. ‘The financial position in Palestine is, however, 
suficiently satisfactory to enable it to finance its own requirements, 
and the Government of Palestine has recently initiated an exten- 
sive programme of public works and other measures which have 
the full approval of His Majesty's Government, and which they are 
satisfied are of substantial value, will produce considerable revenue, 
and are necessary in the general interest of the country. 

It 1s proposed that these works and the resettlement of displaced 
Arabs shall be to a large extent financed by means of a loan of 
£P.2,000,000. It is proposed that as in the case of the £44 million 
loan which was raised by Palestine in 1927 this loan should receive 
the formal guarantee of His Majesty’s Government, and legislation 
will im due course be introduced for this purpose. 


20. The provisional loan programme, which is designed to meet 
the essential economic interests of the country and to benefit all 
sections of the population, includes new water supply and drainage 
schemes for Jerusalem and Haifa, and a water supply for Hebron; 
a survey of underground water resources and provision for the 
improvement of village water supplies; a new post office and tele- 
phone exchange for Jerusalem ; provision for the capital cost of 
school buildings and for the construction of an oil export dock in 
Haifa Harbour. Provision will also be included for the participa- 
tion of the Government of Palestine in a scheme for increasing 
facilities for long-term agricultural credit, Arab and Jewish, with a 
special appropriation for loans to Arab cultivators in hill districts. 
The cost of urgently needed improvements at the port of Jaffa will 
in part at least be defrayed out of the balance of Palestine’s 
existing loan of £44 million. 


21. The Reports drdwn up by Mr. Lewis French, C.I.E., 
C.B.E., formerly Director of Development, in December, 1931, 
were published by His Majesty’s Government in June of this year; 
and the Permanent Mandates Commission is in possession of copies. 
His Majesty’s Government approved the recommendations of the 
High Commissioner thereon made after review of the comments 
of the Arab Executive and the Jewish Agency to whom the reports 
were communicated. A full statement was made by the Secretary 
of State for the Colonies in the House of Commons on the 14th 
July, 1933; this statement is reprinted as Appendix V. 


22. The tribunal which was appointed to investigate claims 
decided to admit as entitled to resettlement Arabs who have been 
displaced from the land which they occupied in consequence of 


10 


those lands having passed into Jewish hands, and who have failed 
to obtain other holdings on which to establish themselves or equally 
satisfactory occupation, subject to the following exceptions :— 


(1) Persons who have themselves sold their land, that 1s, 
owners who of their own free will have sold their lands; 

(2) Persons who own land elsewhere ; 

(3) Persons who have found and are now cultivating as 
tenants land other than that from which they were displaced ; 

(4) Persons who obtdined land after the sale of the land 
from which they were displaced, but have since ceased to 
cultivate it on account of poverty or other reasons ; 

(5) Persons who were not cultivators at the time of the sale, 
for example, ploughmen and labourers. 


His Majesty’s Government concurred in this decision, and the 
High Commissioner has been authorized to proceed with the re- 
settlement of displaced Arab tenants in accordance with the findings 
of the tribunal. 

Of the proposed new Palestine Government Guaranteed Loan of 
£P.2 million, £P.250,000 will be allocated for the resettlement 
of landless Arabs; and expenditure is already being incurred on 
this account, from the surplus balances of the Palestine Govern- 
ment, in the interval until the Loan is raised. 


23. Up to the 3lst December, 1933, the Development Officer 
had received 3,225 applications for admission to the register of 
landless Arabs. . 

So far, 652 Arab heads of families have been admitted to the 
register. There were 2,541 claims disallowed, and 532 claims were 
still under examination at the end of the year; the Jewish Agency 
was allowed to examine each claim with reference to its own records 
of the purchases of lands. The difference between 652 (admitted) 
and 821 (estimated) represents future claims from Arabs at present 
still cultivating lands which have passed into Jewish ownership 
but who will in the course of the next few years be obliged to 
leave those lands as the Jewish owners undertake their settlement. 


24. Considerable addition was made in 1933 to the area of land 
acquired by Government for the purpose of resettling landless Arabs 
(see 19382 Report, page 6, paragraph 20); and at the end of the 
year it had reached a total of 14,869 metric dunums, in the Baisan 
and Jenin sub-districts, costing £P.64,000. 


25. The Development Officer issued an invitation to all registered 
Arabs to take up holdings upon Government estates in Baisan and 
Jenin sub-districts. ‘The Wadi Hawareth Arabs rejected the invita- 
tion ; of the remainder only 146 declared their readiness to accept. 

To deal with this modified situation, an experimental scheme has 
been formulated for the settlement of a group of fifty landless 
families, as far as possible of homogeneous local origin, upon a 


ll 


portion of the estate which was purchased for the Wadi Hawareth 
Arabs. If the scheme should succeed, further parties will, it is 
hoped, be settled in the same way on other parts of the estate. 


26. It had been hoped, at the outset, that in some cases landless 
Arabs might be absorbed into existing villages or given permanent 
occupation, and eventually holdings, by large Arab landowners. A 
detailed survey of these possibilities made by the Development 
Officer disclosed a dearth of accommodation for newcomers in 
the villages, and a disinclination on the part of landed proprietors 
to enter into the proposed contracts of service or tenancy. 


27. The Permanent” Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Third 
Session in June, 1933, asked if the Government of Palestine in- 
tended to adopt the Five Feddan Law of Egypt. This law which 
deals with mortgage and not with purchase is not appropriate to 
Palestine conditions. The rights of tenants-cultivators in this 
country are now adequately safeguarded by a law which was enacted 
in August, 1933, extending the protection given to certain cultivators 
by the Protection of Cultivators Ordinance, 1929, and its subsequent 
amendments. The new enactment creates a class of statutory 
tenants and provides that any such tenant who has occupied and 
cultivated a holding for a period of not less than one year shall 
not be ejected therefrom except in given circumstances. The 
principal change is that if the tenant has paid his rent and has not 
grossly neglected his holding no order for his eviction can be made 
unless he has been provided with a subsistence area approved by 
the High Commissioner. The Ordinance defines ‘* subsistence 
area ’’ as such land as will enable the statutory tenant to maintain 
his customary means of livelihood in any occupation with which he 
18 familiar; the land must, as nearly as circumstances permit, be 
in the vicinity of the holding from which the tenant is ejected. 
Expeditious means have been devised for deciding disputes between 
landlord and tenant; and it is laid down that in proper cases the 
landlord may resume possession of the land for purposes of develop- 
ment. It is believed that the Ordinance will prevent the creation of 
forther landless Arabs by the eviction of agricultural tenants with- 
out adequate provision in land for their subsistence, while at the same 
time it places no obstacle in the way of the buying and selling of 


land where the transfer of ownership will not adversely affect the 
tenant. 


28. ‘he number of observation stations established in the coastal 
plain between Ras el Naqura and Rafa on private and municipal 
wells (see 1932 Report, page 9, paragraph 29) has been increased to 
thirty-four. These stations, which are yielding important informa- 
tion as to the seasonal fluctuation of the level of the underground 
water table, are so placed that a check can be kept on subterranean 
conditions in their relation to annual increase in the area under citrus 
culture. Regular readings have also been taken of the discharges 
of the Jordan, Auja and Rubin Rivers. Gauges have been erected 


12 


on several springs in the Acre sub-district and the lower Jordan 
Valley. An experiment is being carried out in the conservation of 
flood water in the Beersheba District by means of a dam across a 
wadi : if this experiment in the Negeb proves successful, it may be 
the forerunner of a series of undertakings which will bring vast 
stretches of waste land under cultivation. 


29. A water resources survey has been instituted for the examina- 
tion of the available water resources of the country. This survey 
will co-ordinate and complete the various disconnected studies of 
available water supplies which have been pursued in the last few 
years. Moreover, an Irrigation Ordinance .has been drafted with 
the object of securing the economical and beneficial use of available 
surface waters at present largely dissipated owing to an abuse of 
water rights incompatible with the progress of modern intensive 
irrigation. 

30. Reference is made elsewhere to the improvements which are 
being effected to the domestic water supplies of villages and settle- 
ments: at the same time, deep boring plant is being employed for 
the discovery of new sources that might be harnessed to irrigation 
purposes. 


31. Mr. C. F. Strickland, C.I.E., who had reported on the 
co-operative movement in Palestine in 1931 (see the 1980 Report, 
page 15, paragraph 39), was invited by the Government to pay a 
second visit early in 1933 to advise as to the first practical steps to 
be taken for the formation of Arab societies and the improvement 
and promotion of the extensive Jewish co-operative movement 
already in existence. Largely on the basis of his recommendations, 
a comprehensive new Co-operative Societies Ordinance was enacted 
in December, which, it is hoped, will answer the needs equally of 
Arab as well as Jewish farmers. Special legislation had previously 
been enacted providing exceptional facilities for the registration of 
Arab credit and thrift societies in villages before the sowing season 
began ; and of these facilities due advantage was taken. 


32. The Registrar of Co-operative Societies undertook a tour of 
the principal centres of the co-operative movement in Kurope and 
in Egypt before entering upon his duties; and is to travel through 
Ceylon and India at the beginning of 1934 for the same purpose. 

A vigorous and extensive campaign has been conducted in Arab 
villiges and town centres to bring home to the population the 
advantages of co-operation and to explain the process of forming 
credit and thrift societies as well as other societies for economic and 
social purposes. One hundred and thirty meetings were held; and 
lectures were delivered at conferences of teachers, to units of the 
British and Palestine Police, to District Officers attending monthly 
conferences and to students and teachers at the Tulkarm Agricul- 
tural School. The campaign in rural areas was restricted to seventy- 
four carefully chosen villages but many meetings were attended by 
representatives from neighbouring villages. District Officers 


13 


invariably accompanied the Registrar on his tours and were given 
an opportunity to become familiar with the principles of co-opera- 
tion. The response of the rural population to the ideas of co-opera- 
tive organization was most satisfactory. The Arab Press also 
welcomed this activity and with few exceptions lent ready assist- 
ance to the campaign by giving the lectures and tours considerable 
publicity. 

33. As a result of these preparatory steps, within the brief work- 
ing period of the year under review, fourteen credit and thrift 
societies were formed in the three Districts, starting with a member- 
ship of 264 all told, who subscribed to a share capital of £P.1,330, 
£P.266 being paid up at the date of formation. Arrangements were 
made with Barclays Bank to supply the requirements of these 
societies in additional funds and a sum of £P.3,369 was accordingly 
obtained by them in the form of short term loans bearing interest 
at the rate of 7 per cent. 


34. Government is arranging to utilize the sum of £P.20,000, 
representing the funds of the Ottoman Agricultural Bank in 
liquidation which are held on deposit, for the purpose of making 
advances to co-operative societies through the Registrar of Co- 
operative Societies, at a minimum rate of interest of 5 per cent. 
per annum, with a view to the societies, in their turn, making 
loans to their members. 


The Government is satisfied that this source of credit, judiciously 
distributed, will assist in establishing on a sound basis many of 
the Arab co-operative societies now being registered under the 
new Co-operative Societies Ordinance. In no case will advances 
be made by the Registrar of Co-operative Societies where he is 
satisfied that a society can be otherwise financed by a commercial 
bank. The maximum term of the loan will be three years and 


the maximum amount of the loan not ordinarily in excess of 
£P.500. 


This method of utilizing the funds of the Ottoman Agricultural 
Bank 1s in accordance with the principal purpose for which the 
Bank was originally founded, namely, to lend money to cultivators 
against mortgage or goods guarantee. The proclamation by the 
High Commissioner in March, 1921, directing the liquidation of 
the Bank, provides that the assets resulting from the liquidation 
shall be disposed of as the High Commissioner shall direct, regard 
being had to the purposes for which the Bank was founded. 


35. The preliminary activities of the newly-formed societies 
are closely superintended; the Arab inspector attends their first 
meetings, supervises the issue of loans to members and instructs 
the committees in the methods of accounting in books and forms 
especially printed for them by the Registrar. 


36. In the towns, eight Arab transport societies were registered 
and a society of master lightermen was formed at Jaffa. 


14 


37. Efforts were made to organize co-operative societies among 
Arab orange growers in the Southern District, banana growers 
at Baisan, weavers at Majdal and tanners at Jaffa as well as fruit 
fumigation societies at Acre, and while for a variety of causes 
no definite progresy can be reported in these cases it is felt that 
the advantages of co-operative organization have been brought 
home and results may be expected in the coming years. In one 
case, at Athlit, Arabs and Jews have formed a co-operative society 
together. 

38. The Jewish movement has been making steady progress and 
one hundred and nine new societies were registered in the year. 
The Registrar gave ready agsistance to the organizers in formulat- 
ing rules and in pointing out possible dangers or errors. 

39. Much time has been given to the review of cases of Jewish 
societies which seldom or never submitted a balance sheet and 
which are seldom or never audited; and at the end of the year 
balance sheets had been submitted by 215 societies out of a total 
of 304 societies from which returns were due. 

40. The Registrar was instrumental in setting up an informal 
advisory council of the leadergy of the Jewish co-operatives: all 
important questions relating to Jewish societies are discussed by 
him and his officers with this council and its advice and assistance 
have been most valuable. The members of the council were also 
consulted throughout in connection with the revision of the Co- 
operative Societies Ordinance, Regulations and Model Rules. 

41. Classification of societies, number of their members and 
capital (approximate figures) at the 3lst December, 1933 :— 

Total number of societies : 534. 


Jewish. Arab. German. 
504 26 4 
Membership—95 ,000. 
Capital—Z£P.650,000. 


Classification. 
I. Credit and Thrift Soctettes. 
(a) Urban Gus : ee an san oe 35 
(6b) Rural nah ae sa ar a am 64 
II, Agricultural Socteties. 
(a) Settlement ae ate tae sg ... 100 
(b) Marketing ... bins ee ve Ai oh 53 
(c) Irrigation... Bag one sg is a 25 
(d) Cattle insurance ... tae a Bee Ges 4 
(e) Miscellaneous af 133 ae se see 10 
III. Diverse Societies. 
(a) Industrial produce and service societies .. 108 
(b) Garden cities and communal housing societies 105 
(c) Consumers societies ... he aie tas = 26 
(d) Mutual insurance societies ee aa ae 3 


(e) Audit unions de ae ie he sae 1 


15 


41a. During the year, negotiations went forward for the establish- 
ment of an Agricultural Mortgage Company in Palestine and all 
preliminary arrangements have now been completed. The capital 
of the Company will be £P.400,000 subscribed by Barclays Bank, 
the Anglo-Palestine Bank, the Ottoman Bank, the Palestine 
Economic Corporation, the Palestine Corporation of America and 
: the Prudential and Guardian Insurance Companies of Great 
ntain. | 


Steps are now being taken with the object of including the Arab 
Bank of Palestine among the participants and provision has been 
made also for the subscription of some share capital by the Jewish 
Farmers Federation of Palestine. 


Government assistance of the Company is to take the form 
of an advance made to the Company (from funds set aside for 
the purpose in the proposed new Government Guaranteed Loan of 
£P.2,000,000) for the establishment of a guarantee fund to secure 
debenture issues. 


Jewish immigration into Palestine. 


42. Illegal settlement in Palestine, mostly of Jews, has caused 
the Palestine Government much concern, and was one of the 
subjects upon which the High Commissioner made a public state- 
ment in February, .1938. The High Commissioner said, ‘‘ I am 
distressed that many immigrants have entered Palestine without 
the permission of Government. I can assure you that I am anxious 
to stop in the future this immigration without permits. Palestine 
has long frontiers and it is obviously not very easy for Govern- 
ment to stop illegal immigration altogether. None the less the 
measures that Government are now taking have already greatly 
diminished the number of persons entering without permits and 
I shall endeavour to see that every month this number further 
diminishes.”’ : 

43. In 1931 special facilities were granted to persons in the 
country without permission to regularize their presence, and some 
six thousand in all were registered. Many more, however, have 
since been added to the population, largely travellers remaining 
after the validity of their visas had expired, but also not a few who 
had evaded the frontier controls originally. It was estimated that 
the number of these unauthorized settlers had reached a total of 
22,400 in the last two years. Apart from the consideration that 
the Government cannot allow the law to be thus set at naught, 
the welfare of Palestine as a whole requires that immigration 
shall be adjusted to economic needs in respect of quality as well 
as of numbers, but these illegal settlers were unselected in both 
respects so that their coming might involve disproportion and 
overcrowding in professions and callings, and did in fact upset 


16 


the calculations upon which is based the periodical assessment of 
the number of openings for working men and women under the 
labour schedule. 

44. Measures were accordingly taken in November to check this 
undesirable practice. Save in exceptional cases, persons who over- 
stay their leave as tourists, having failed to apply for or having on 
application been refused prolongation or permission to remain 
permanently, are deported, as are all those who enter the country 
illegally without a visa. Travellers, other than those in the first 
class, must each deposit £P.60 as guarantee that they will not 
without authority remain in Palestine beyond the period which their 
visas permit ; the deposit being forfeited in case of default. Visas 
are not granted as a rule to holders of temporary travel documents. 
All applicants for visas are now handed a printed warning of the 
consequences of illegal settlement in Falestine. In addition to 
these measures designed against individual offenders, the High Com- 
missioner will, if necessary, deduct from any labour schedule 
which he may decide to grant, a number representing the illegal 
settlement adjudged likely to take place during the period of the 
schedule, having regard to the figures of such settlement in the 
preceding periods. A system has been devised of checking arrivals 
and departures of travellers, to provide the statistics whereon this 
deduction may be calculated. 

45. To relieve the plight of German Jews, the Palestine Govern- 
ment, without infringing the principle of economic absorptive 
capacity, granted a number of administrative concessions : it issued 
three thousand Immigration Certificates in 1933, in advance of 
publication of labour schedules, for distribution in Germany, and 
applications from settlers in Palestine for the admission of their 
near relatives were treated with special consideration. In addition, 
immigration of capitalists and skilled artizans from Germany was 
facilitated. 

46. The Palestine Government has under consideration for the 
future the formation of a statistical office and the taking of measures 
to establish a closer relation between unnueration and the absorptive 
capacity of the country. 

47. In the Immigration Ordinance, 1933, the opportunity was 
taken to render more effective certain provisions of administration 
and control, particularly in order to regulate entries from Russia. 
Otherwise, the Ordinance does not introduce any change in the 
policy by which immigration into Palestine is administered, but 
merely serves, as a matter of administrative convenience, to con- 
solidate, with minor amendments, all pre-existing legislation on 
the subject. The policy remains unchanged. 


Arab Affairs. 


48. The disturbances of October and November, and the Arab 
strikes of that period are illustrative of the Arab attitude towards 
the Government. The Arab Press lost nothing of its virulence in 


17 


inveighing against the Mandate and its chief manifestations, immi- 
gration and the transfer of land to Jews; and several warnings had 
to be administered to newspapers under the Press Ordinance, 1933, 
for publications of which the continuance appeared likely to disturb 
the public peace. 


49. The Arab leaders have been more outspoken and less com- 
promising in their hostility ; their attitude appears to have crystal- 
lized in the concept that the so-called pro-Jewish policy of the 
Mandatory is but a screen for oppressive imperialism and an excuse 
for withholding from the people of Palestine their elementary right 
of independence. 


50. In March a meeting of Arabs was held at Jaffa, when a 
resolution of non-cooperation was passed. Generally speaking this 
resolution has been carried out, but Arab leaders have continued to 
make representations, oral and in writing, to the Government and 
to seek audience of the High Commissioner; and with rare excep- 
tions Arab members of Government Boards have not faltered in 
their attendance. 


51. Haj Amin al Husseini, President of the Supreme Moslem 
Council, undertook an extensive tour through Iraq and India with 
the object of raising funds for the construction of a Moslem Univer- 
sity in Jerusalem. The measure of success which attended his 
mission is not yet known. 


52. The Arab Fair (see 1982 Report, page 13, paragraph 57) 
was well attended and sales at the various exhibits of local, Syrian 


and Egyptian products were extensive: Jewish participation was 
discouraged. 


Jewish Affairs. 


d3. There have been indications of a rapprochement between 
the official Jewish Community and the Central Agudath Israel. 
The claims of the Agudah for immigration certificates on behalf of 
its adherents in Europe are being satisfied to some extent by the 
Jewish Agency’s Offices from the Agency’s quota under the labour 
schedules, and further accommodation may be expected in this 
direction. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish 
Community in Palestine has made overtures to the Agudah with a 
view to arranging provision for the stricter requirements of Agudist 
Jews in matters, for example, of personal status and female 
franchise. Given good will on both sides, of which there is now 
evidence, it should be possible to establish a separate system of 
tabbinical courts within the community for the Agudists so that 
they may not be compelled to resort either to a civil court or to 
a Jewish Rabbi unacceptable to them; and to secure representa- 
tion of the Agudah upon the councils of the community without 
extending the franchise to its womenfolk. 


18 


54. At the instance of the Vaad Leumi, the Government has 


recommended the amendment of Jewish Community Regulations, 
1927, so as 


(a) to extend in proper cases the term of office of a local 
communal committee from one to three years ; 

(b) to vest the Executive Committee of the Vaad Leumi 
with juristic personality. 


55. The Religious Communities Organization Ordinance of 1926 
is being amended in order that the Vaad Leumi may be empowered 
to raise loans: and, by the good offices of Government, the Vaad 
Leumi will then receive an advance of £P.26,000 under these 
powers from Barclays Bank. This sum is to be applied to liquidat- 
ing the debts outstanding in respect of Jewish educational services 
for the period from October, 1932, to March, 1934, mainly as 
arrears of salaries to teachers. 

56. The arrest and examination of two young Revisionists on 
suspicion of being concerned in the murder of Dr. Arlosoroff has 
embittered the feelings of Zionists generally and of Jewish Labour 
in particular against the Revisionist party. Rightly or wrongly the 
crime is ascribed to Revisionist preachings against what that party 
is said to regard as the timorous methods of the Jewish Agency ; 
by its method of terrorism and direct action, Revisionism is charged 
with betraying the Jewish cause. From acrimonious polemics in 
the Press, this bitterness passed to the streets and fields, where 
Jewish labourers and Revisionist sympathizers have on occasion 
come to blows. 

57. In the orange-picking season, trouble again developed owing 
to the insistence of the Jewish Labour Organization upon the 
exclusion of non-Jewish and non-Union workmen. The bounds of 
peaceful picketing were sometimes overstepped and overt intimida- 
tion took place. The Government proposes to amend the law so 
as to allow peaceful picketing only where the issue arises from 
causes unconnected with the race, religion or language of employees. 

58. Tension between Revisionists and General Zionists, accen- 
tuated by the charges and countercharges arising out of the murder 
of Dr. Arlosoroff, dominated the proceedings of the Highteenth 
Zionist Congress which was held in Frague during August. 

As a result of the deliberations of the Congress a new Executive 
of the Jewish Agency was elected comprising representatives of 
Zionist parties and of non-Zionists, in the following distribution :— 


Palestine Executive. 
Dr. Arthur Ruppin, General Zionist. 
Dr. I. B. Berkson, Non-Zionist. 
Dr. Werner Senator, Non-Zionist. 
Dr. Maurice B. Hexter, Non-Zionist. 
Mr. Yits-haq Grunbaum, General Zionist. 
Mr. David Ben Gurion, Labour. 
Mr. Moshe Shertok, Labour. 
Mr. Eliezer Kaplan, Labour. 


19 


London Executive. 
President: 
Dr. Nahum Sokolov. 


Members: 
Professor Selig Brodetsky, Genera] Zionist. 
Mr. Berl Locker, Labour. 
Dr. Victor Jacobson, General Zionist. 


New York. 
Mr. Louis Lipsky, General Zionist. 


59. Two members of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
Jewish Community were co-opted temporarily on the Executive 
after the death of Dr. Arlosoroff, pending the new election by 
Congress. 


Economic Affairs. 


60. If evidence is wanted of the continued economic prosperity 
of Palestine it may be found in surplus balances which, it is esti- 
mated, will amount to almost two and a-half million pounds at the 
dlst March, 1934. Generally speaking, the favourable situation 
may be ascribed to the arrival of capitalist settlers, and other 
immigrants whose needs in food, clothing and accommodation must 
be supplied; to a consequential increase in the import of foreign 
commodities and consumption of local produce; to trade facilities 
resulting from availability of cheap credit in the shape of unem- 
ployed capital lying in the banks; to the incessant extension of 
agriculture; and to sustained activity in the building trades. 
Cereal importations, including rice, were swollen also by the failure 
of the local harvests. 

There is no question that Palestine at present offers an attractive 
market for investment, not necessarily exclusively Jewish; and 
there are signs of the awakening of a livelier interest on the part of 
British and Continental investors and exporters. This interest 
is strengthened by the opening of the new harbour at Haifa, and 
by the completion of the pipeline from Mosul to Haifa. Trans- 
actions in land during the year were principally in respect of 
building sites and orange-groves; and the intensity of demand has 
brought about a measure of speculation which is disquieting. 


61. Generally, indeed, it is unsafe to regard the present situation 
as enduring, or large accumulations of bank deposits as a per- 
manent insurance against depression : a variation in economic con- 
ditions in Europe, a stricter control of immigration, may eliminate 
what may be called the unstable or inconstant factors and abnormal 
influences of the present prosperity. Building must in time out- 
strip immigration and there is a limit to the plantation of citrus 
fruits. That is not to say, however, that anything in the nature 
of an economic or financial crisis is apprehended, or that the fixed 


20 


element in Government revenue, calculated on the basis of past 
experience and reasonable anticipation, is not such as to justify 
& certain confidence in the situation. 


62. The influx of capital and immigrants has been the cause of 
a great increase in the amount of currency in circulation: it has 
grown from £P.2,878,776 on the 31st December, 1932, to 
£P.3,579,664 at the 3lst December, 1933, and it is anticipated 
that at the 3lst March, 1934, the amount of currency in circula- 
tion will not be far short of £P.4,000,000. The share of the 
Palestine Government in the profits of the Currency Board have 
correspondingly increased to £P.90,000 in the financial year 1932-33. 


63. Rates of interest on bank advances, have naturally fallen in 
ratio to the availability of credit. 


64. Although progress towards the establishment of stable indus- 
tries in Palestine must be slow, the undertakings already in exist- 
ence give no indication of weakness that would deter newcomers 
from embarking upon similar enterprises. On the contrary, exist- 
ing factories maintain their stability and are able to find markets. , 
at home and abroad, for their larger output; in some cases, con- 
tinuous shifts are being worked to keep up with demands or addi- 
tional hands taken on, as witness the silicate and textile factories, 
the modern oil mill at Haifa, and the cement works. 


A number of new factories have been set up during the year, 
many of them by experienced Jewish industrialists from Germany ; 
the settlement of Ramath Gan, near Tel-Aviv, is being gradually 
transformed into a factory zone. Among manufactures recently 
introduced may be mentioned silk-spinning, aluminium ware, 
cutlery and silver-smithing, wire and nails, razor-blades, electric 
fittings, metal goods and chocolate. 


65. Acting on the advice of the Standing Committee for Com- 
merce and Industry the Government has granted facilities for this 
industrial expansion by way of protective tariffs or exemption from 
import duty in respect, among other things, of material for making 
up fumigation tents; containers, cans, exhausters, etc. for canning 
fruit and vegetables; preheaters, refiners, tanks, and other articles 
for potash and bromine manufacture; silica for making artificial 
teeth ; metal fasteners; salt. 


66. In November, after consultation between Government and 
the citrus trade represented in the Citrus Fruit Committee of the 
General Agricultural Council, an ordinance was enacted providing 
for the imposition of a fee on all citrus fruits exported from Pales- 
tine for sale with a view to the establishment of a fund wherewith 
to finance advertising campaigns. It is apparent, in a world of 
eager and growing competition between orange-exporting countries, 
that Palestine must embark upon a wide publicity if it is to ensure 
the profitable disposal of its increasing crop in foreign markets. 


21 


The fee is 1°5 mils per case of fruit; and on the basis of an 


-- export of some six or seven million cases in the 1933-34 season, 


— £P.7,500 has been made available for advertisements on the Con- 


ite 


tment and in the United Kingdom. An appropriate legend is 


~ stamped, as well, on all correspondence posted in Palestine. 


67. Palestine is still for all practical purposes excluded from the 


” large Egyptian market by a prohibitive Customs tariff; and the 
.. %0ap-boilers of Nablus are very severely hit in consequence. The 
High Commissioner has viewed with increasing anxiety the decline 
- i the prosperity of the long-established and important Palestinian 
. Industry of the manufacture of olive. oil soap. The importance of 


this industry, famous for the production of an article at one time 
= commanding the highest favour among the Moslem inhabitants 


of surrounding countries because of its purity, and formerly the 


. cond principal source of Palestine’s income from export trade, 
~ 1s further enhanced by the fact of its close dependence upon the 
_ cultivation of olives, which is the staple fruit crop of the fellahin. 


ar ~4 yor 
oe vee re 


That the situation has been brought about partly by the heavy 
increase in the Customs tariff of Egypt, hitherto the largest buyer 


of Palestine olive-oil soap, is évident : the Government has already 
: made several efforts to obtain a relaxation of the tariff in the interest 
~ of local manufacturers, but without success. It is possible, how- 
” ever, that other factors are present, which prevent the restoration 


of the local industry to its former state of prosperity, and the High 


- Commissioner therefore decided to cause a thorough enquiry to be 
- made into the position of the industry, the cause of its present 
_ depression, and the remedies to be applied such as advertisement, 
" protective import duties, certification of trade marks, developmen: 
‘ of new markets, improvement of manufacturing methods. 


This enquiry was entrusted to a Committee of official and non- 
official members, presided over by the Director of Agriculture and 


- Porests, and the leading manufacturers of Nablus and Jaffa have 


been called to give their views and make their recommendations 


- before the Committee. 


It is anticipated that the Committee will report at an early date. 


68. Endeavours are meanwhile being pursued in the hope of 
obtaining concessions in favour of Palestine products in Egypt on 
a basis of admissible trade reciprocity ; in deference to a promise 
siven by the Prime Minister of Egypt to the High Commissioner 
in 1932, the duty on oranges from Palestine was reduced from £P.5 
to £P.2 per ton on the Ist April of this year; and hope is enter- 
tained of a tariff which will assist Palestinian wines. 


69. Largely on the representations of a delegation of Jewish 
shippers who visited Ottawa for the purpose in the summer of 1932, 
the Canadian Government agreed to admit Jaffa oranges into the 
Dominion free of import duty between the Ist April and the Ist 
“etober. Palestinian merchants have shown themselves appreciative 
of this concession by placing substantial orders in Canada for wood 

23364 3 


22 


for orange boxes. Vigorous canvassing was successful also in 
securing a reduction of 1s. 6d. per case in the Roumanian duty; 
and efforts are being made to obtain some degree of preference from 
Poland and Russia. 


70. The Mandatory Government has declared that the interests 
of the Palestine citrus trade are continually borne in mind in con- 


nection with commercial negotiations between the United Kingdom © 


and foreign countries. 
71. The volume of trade in the port of Jaffa, largely by reason of 


imports of building material and timber, and séasonal shipment of — 


oranges, has led to severe congestion. In the interest, therefore, 


of that section of the mercantile community which must continue | 


to consign to Jaffa port although the new harbour at Haifa is open. 
the Government has decided to effect substantial improvements, 
on the advice of an eminent Consulting Engineer who visited the 


port. His report, which is still under consideration, envisages a 


haven for lighters, and additional reclamation and storage; the 
approved works will be financed from the unexpended balance of 
the 1926 Loan of £44 millions and from surplus balances. 

Apart from this project, steps were taken immediately to improve 
matters by acquiring adjoining areas as timber yards; by purchase 


of thirteen municipal stores within the Customs enclosure and — 


demolishing one of those stores which obstructed the busiest point 
on the quay ; by constructing a shelter for goods on the roof of the 
existing Customs warehouse, and by other small modifications in 
the layout of the area designed to ease traffic. The access roads are 
to be widened and properly surfaced, the Municipality meeting the 
cost of the necessary expropriation of properties ; and extra Customs 
staff is working at the Port. 


72. A Committee has been set up, under the Chairmanship of 


the Treasurer, and with official and non-official members, to study 
the question of road and rail competition in Palestine. The follow- 
ing are the terms of reference of the Committee : 

To survey the potentialities of the railway and motor 
transport systems of Palestine in relation to present and prospec- 
tive traffic requirements ; and to make recommendations for the 
co-ordination of the railway system and motor transport system 
s0 as to secure: 


(a) the financial interests of Government in view of 
expenditure already incurred and to be incurred ; 


(b) the efficient working of both systems in the interests 
of the public; and 


(c) the elimination of wasteful competition. 


73. A Tourist Development Association (representing the inter-— 


ests of Trans-Jordan also) has been formed in Palestine and is 
participating in the work of the Committee which the Government 
has appointed to make recommendations for the better advertising 


23 


abroad of Palestine’s attractions as a tourist resort. Special supple- 
ments, issued by the ‘‘ Manchester Guardian ’’ and the ‘‘ Financial 
News’ have contributed to publicity of the kind during the year. 
The Anglo-Palestine Exhibition arranged in London in May was 
a further stimulus, and the enhanced amenities at the Hot Springs 
of Tiberias and El Hamme, and the “‘ plage’’ recently opened on 
the Dead Sea, have added to the material attractions of Palestine. 


783A. The entire length of the pipeline of the Iraq Petroleum 
Company has now been laid in Palestine and Trans-Jordan, the 
storage tanks are in process of erection at the Haifa terminal, pump- 
ing stations along the desert route are being constructed, communi- 
cations are complete, and a site for the refineries has been selected. 
An oil dock is about to be constructed within the new harbour to 
serve the special needs of the Company, and of any other concern 
that may engage in exporting petroleum products through Palestine ; 
and further reclamation is proceeding outside the lee breakwater 
of land on which the balancing tanks will be set up. 

The Iraq Petroleum Company has constructed a metalled road 
_ for one hundred miles through the difficult lava region of the Trans- 
Jordan desert: this undertaking has considerably simplified the 
crossing by the southern route from Baghdad. 


Agriculture and Land. 


74. No better fortune than in the previous year attended the 
Palestinian agriculturist during the seasons of 1933. 


15. It was already evident in January that a proportion of the 
first sowings had been severely damaged by drought, and that 
germination had failed in large areas particularly in the sub-districts 
of Beersheba and Gaza. The Government therefore made available 
a sum of £P.30,000 from surplus balances for distribution in small 
loans to cultivators for the purchase of further supplies of seed for 
the winter’s sowings. In addition, a sum of £P.6,000 was set aside 
for granting forage loans to enable the owners of flocks in the sub- 
district of Beersheba to buy fodder for hand-feeding their animals 
Which were suffering from lack of grazing. Taken together with 
the amount of £P.35,000 distributed in loans for seed, forage, 
plough oxen and other necessities (see 1932 Report, page 7, para- 
graph 25), this meant relief to the agricultural population in the 
winter of 1982-33 to the extent of £P.72,000. 


16. This, however, was not the sum-total of relief granted. The 
cumulative effect of successive crop failures, and of ravages by 
locusts and field mice, was to impoverish the small cultivator in 
many parts of Palestine. The policy of remitting arrears of loans 
and taxation (see 1932 Report, page 7, paragraph 25) was again 
applied in cases of proved inability to pay and £P.90,049 written 
off in this way, 
ree Remissions of the tithe were again inevitable; in respect of 


© Winter payment, £P.58,745 out of £P.81,000 was waived in 
a B 2 


24 


the Northern District, in the Southern District £P.29,716 out of 
£P.51,680 and in the Jerusalem District £P.16,689 out of 
£P.24 725. 


78. Villagers in distress owing to failure of the winter harvest 
or lack of grazing were assisted by the inception, where relief was 
most needed, and outside the approved budgetary programme, of 
works of public utility in the nature of road construction and 
improvement in the north, and the construction of a water- 
impounding system in the south at a total cost of £P.17,600. 
While the first consideration was to provide employment for the 
destitute, works of permanent value were selected which would in 
any event be undertaken in the normal course within the next few 
years. 


79. The summer crops, too, having failed, very many farmers 
were unable to provide seed themselves for the following winter. 
To the £P.35,000 distributed earlier in the year was therefore 
added an allocation of £P.55,000 for issue as seed loans, both in 
cash and where suitable, as in Beersheba and Nablus, in kind; 
the advantage of the system of issue in kind, which it is proposed 
to extend on future occasions, is that it ensures a supply of selected 


seed of good quality. So far as possible that assurance was also — 


afforded where issues were made in cash by importation through 


the Government Department of Agriculture on the requisition of — 


committees of mer:hants. 


Finally, authority was given for the entire remission of the tithe 
payable in respect of the summer crops (excluding citrus), special 
regard being had to the depreciation of cereal prices. The effect 
of this remission was to relieve the cultivators of the payment of 
taxation amounting to £F.88,500. In the aggregate, during 1933, 
the waiver of tithes reached the figure of £P.193,500 out of an 
assessment of £P.245,000, or 80 per cent. 


80. In November, £P.15,000 were placed at the disposal of Dis- 
trict Commissioners for the grant of fodder loans to needy culti- 
vators, in order to enable them to obtain the necessary supplies 
for feeding the animals which they required to work their land for 
the winter sowing. 


81. Agricultural distress reacted in certain local market towns 
to cause acute poverty among some of the inhabitants and the 
Municipal Councils in Nablus, Hebron and Baisan were obliged 
to distribute free flour for bread. To assist in this urgent relief, 
the Government gave additional grants to the Councils equivalent 


_ ee 


to the import duty paid on the flour. This meant, in the three 


towns, a total grant of £P.930. 


82. An arrangement has been made by Government with 


Barclays Bank, for a period of three years in the first instance, 
for the issue of short term (annual) crop loans by the Bank to 


25 


groups or individuals wherever there is adequate security in the 
form of immovable property, crops, or joint personal surety, or 
credit is otherwise justified. 

Interest on such loans will be charged at the rate of 8 per cent. 
per annum, without any additional percentage for commission ; 
and where the borrower is a co-operative society the rate will be 
at least 1 per cent. less. 

The Palestine Government, in return, extend a yearly grant of 
£P.500 to each branch of the Bank engaging in this business. 

As security for the loans, it is proposed that the Bank shall be 
enabled to take the first charge after : 


(a) any claim of the Government in respect of taxes or 
money recoverable as such or of a landlord in respect of rent 


or money recoverable as rent; or : 
(b) the rights of any bona fide purchaser for value without 
notice, or 


(c) the rights of any prior mortgagee or encumbrancer. 


These are, in fact, the facilities granted in respect of co-opera- 
tive societies in analogous circumstances by the Co-operative 
Societies Ordinance, 1933. 

The Palestine Government reserves the right to issue short term 
loans to individuals in times of serious drought or other agricultural 
distress, in cases or areas in which Barclays Bank finds itself unable 
fully to meet what Government considers to be required in the 
way Of such credit. 


83. The Government Department of Agriculture and Forests 
has recently devoted special attention to bee-keeping; it advises 
farmers as to the correct methods and equipment of beekeeping ; 
sells bees of good stock, arranges courses of instruction at the 
Government apiary at Acre, and inspects hives throughout the 
country. Poultry keeping is likewise encouraged by the produc- 
tion and sale of suitable breeds and selected eggs. The Govern- 
ment Stock Farm continues its work of developing suitable strains 
of livestock and the service of its pedigree animals is much used 
by villagers. 


Miscellaneous. 


84. The new harbour at Haifa was formally opened on the 
8lst October by the High Commissioner’s entry on board the 
8.S. Lancastrian Prince, which had been placed at the disposal of 
Government for the occasion by the courtesy of the Prince Line. 

The harbour comprises 300 acres of sheltered water, 440 yards 
of deep water quay, and modern facilities ashore for unloading and 
storage ; and it has a mooring space only a little less than that of 
the great port of Marseilles. 

or four years from one to two thousand workmen, both Arabs 
and Jews, laboured upon its construction; and some 70 per cent. 


of the cost has been spent in Palestine itself. 
23364 B 3 


26 


85. During the opening ceremony messages were exchanged by 
wireless telephone between the High Commissioner and the 
Secretary of State; and a description of the proceedings was 
successfully broadcast. 


86. The use of the wireless telephone in Palestine is spreading 
rapidly, and communications are now not uncommon with London, 
New York, Paris and Berlin. The service indeed extends to 
Australia, inaugurated by a conversation between the editors of a 
Sydney newspaper and a local English daily, and to India as well. 


87. On Christmas Eve, 1933, with the consent of the Religious 
Heads concerned, the pealing of bells from the Church of the 
Nativity in Bethlehem was transmitted by radio-telephone and 
broadcast with the utmost clarity by the British Broadcasting 
Corporation. Landline communication with Beirut was inaugurated 
on the Ist June; and locally the telephone service has to be con- 
stantly enlarged to accommodate new subscribers. 


88. The body of the late King Feisal, after His Majesty’s sudden 
death in Switzerland in September, was landed from a British war- 
ship at Haifa on its way to Baghdad by Royal Air Force aeroplanes 
for burial; and homage was paid by vast crowds which lined the 
streets between the harbour and aerodrome. In the presence of 
the High Commissioner, royal honours were accorded to the mortal 
remains by the Navy and the British battalion stationed in Haifa 
and by a detachment of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


89. The death took place unexpectedly in Jerusalem on the 
lith October of Monseigneur Riccardo Bartoloni, Apostolic 
Delegate. Monsignor Torquato Dini has been appointed by the 
Holy See in succession. 


I—JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


In 1920, the Jewish population of Palestine was 66,574, of whom 
about 51,000 were settled in the towns and 15,000 in farms and 
settlements. 

At the end of 1933, the urban population had increased to 175,000 
and the raral population was 65,000 in no less than 126 agricultural 
centres. 

In 1926, the Jewish school population was 12,830 and their needs 
were met. by 137 schools including three secondary schools and three 
training colleges. 

To-day, the Jewish school population has reached a total of 
38,337 and its needs entail the maintenance of 141 elementary 
schools, ten trade and agricultural schools, thirteen secondary 
schools, four training colleges ; in addition, the Hebrew University 
has come into being with a professorial and lecturing staff of sixty- 
eight and a roll of 188 students. There is a library with a quarter 
of a million volumes and there are faculties of humanities and 
science. Forty-one students have already graduated. 


27 

Before the War, there were 1,235 industrial undertakings in 
Palestine, most of them Arab. There are now approximately 5,290, 
of which nearly 3,000 are Jewish with an invested capital of 
£P.4,500,000, an annual output valued at £P.4,100,000 and employ- 
ing sixteen thousand hands. 

The range of manufactures set up by Jewish immigrants since 
the Occupation comprises an astonishing variety of products from 
cement and silverware to fruit-juice and barbed wire. 

The area of land in Jewish possession has increased from 450,000 
dunums in 1920 to 1,110,000 dunums in 1938. On this additional 
land 83 agricultural settlements have been founded and orange 
groves planted extending over 125,000 dunums. 

The crop of Jewish citrus plantations is now something exceed- 
ing fifty per cent. of the whole and its packing and shipment are 
to a large extent controlled under a system of co-operation. 


There is a widespread system of Jewish hospitals, clinics and 
dispensaries among which must be specially mentioned the institu- 
tions maintained by the Sick Fund of the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour. That Federation, with a membership over 40,000, 
exerts influence in many spheres. It has its own cultural services, 
its village and night schools, its own training workshops, its own 
contracting and planning offices, its own newspaper. 

The spread of the Hebrew language in Palestine is evidenced 
by returns of mother tongue in the Census of 1931. Out 
of a total Jewish population of 175,000 no less than 165,500 gave 
Hebrew as their daily medium of speech. 

There are three daily and thirty-five periodical newspapers 
printed in Hebrew in Palestine, including a number of trade, art 
and professional journals. There is a large output of current 
literature in translation, and of original Hebrew authorship and 
educational text-books from well-equipped publishing firms in Tel- 
Aviv and Jerusalem. 


Jewish painters and sculptors are beginning to attract something 
more than local notice; the certainty of large and appreciative 
Jewish audiences now draws to Palestine the most prominent 
figures of the musical world; the Habimah troupe of Jewish actors 
in drama, a second company in burlesque and the amateur players 
belonging to the Labour. Federation are always sure of large 
attendances for their frequent performances. 


Tel-Aviv itself is a microcosm of a Jewish National Home, as a 
self-contained and self-dependent Jewish civic entity, expanding 
almost visibly each day in every direction, numerical, social and 
economic. On a smaller scale, the Jewish suburbs of Haifa, 
Tiberias and Jerusalem represent the concentration of Jewish 
effort and interest, just as in the rural areas the close aggregation 
of Jewish farms and groves along the coastal plain from Gedera 
to Hedera and in the valleys of Jezreel and Esdraelon constitutes 
the nucleus of a homogeneous Jewish settlement. What is more 

23364 B4 


28 


significant is the beginning of change from a diversity of new 
arrivals to the gradual appearance in the rising generation of a 
uniform Palestinian type. 


2. The first paragraph of the Section on the Jewish National 
Home in the Report for 1932 contained certain errors. It should 
have read as follows: 


‘* 5,823 Jewish immigrants were admitted to Palestine in 
1932 (not counting wives and children) of whom 2,157 were 
working men and women authorized under labour schedules 
and 500 were persons of independent means each possessing 
a capital of at least £P.1,000. 

‘In addition, some 3,730 already in the country as travellers 
or otherwise, were granted registration as settlers having 
shown that they were qualified as such under one or other 
category.’’ 7 


Reference has been made in the Introductory Section to the 
facilities extended by the Palestine Government for the immigra- 
tion of German Jews, capitalists, dependants and manual workers. 
These immigrants, comprising many members of the learned pro- 
fessions, important industrialists, and skilled technicians, should 
prove an asset to Palestine as a whole. 


3. The Palestine Government arranged to amend the Religious 
Communities Organization Ordinance, 1926, so as to give the right 
to the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish Community to 
raise loans ; and acted as intermediary between the General Council 
and Barclays Bank in the negotiation of a loan of £P.26,000 where- 
with the General Council is to discharge all the liabilities incurred 
by it. in respect of Jewish educational services between March, 
1932, and April, 1934. 


4. Arrangements are being made by the Palestine Government, 
which is extending all necessary facilities and advice in the matter, 
to obtain a loan of £350,000 from the Prudential Assurance Com- 
pany for the Municipal Corporation of Tel-Aviv, at a low rate of 
interest and on generous terms of repayment, to enable the execution 
of urgent services, including drainage and the provision of additional 
school buildings. Private financing concerns are showing interest 
in housing schemes for Tel-Aviv, which remains the centre of 
Jewish urban settlement in Palestine, and to which a large per- 
centage of newcomers regularly find their way. 


5. Further steps were taken during the year to strengthen the 
organization of the Jewish community by amending the governing 
regulations so as to provide that the term of office of elected local 
committees shall be prolonged up to a maximum of three years if 
the High Commissioner approves; and so also as to validate the 
existence and powers of the executive committee which has for 
several years effectively discharged the duties and preferred the 
representations of the somewhat unwieldy General Council. The 


29 


lengthening of the term of local committees should go far towards 
establishing continuity of policy and facilitating the advancement 
of essential services. 


6. The Palestine Government continues to contribute towards 
the expenditure of the Jewish community upon various services 
of a public character. The grant towards the Jewish educational 
system which is at present £P.25,000 is being increased next year 
to £P.28,000, in proportion to the increase of the Jewish school 
population and the larger expenditure by Government upon Arab 
education. This year’s grants to the Jewish hospital at Safad and 
to the Infant Welfare and Social Hygiene Services of the Jewish 
Agency are to be continued with slight proportional increases on 
a population basis; a grant in the neighbourhood of £P.5,000 
is to be given to the Municipal Hospital at Tel-Aviv compared 
with £P.2,500 this year, and a grant of £P.150 to the Hebrew 
University as a contribution towards its work on malarial research. 
Grants for Jewish agricultural purposes in the coming year in- 
clude £P.3,000 for citrus research, £P.300 for intensive farming 
and £P.300 for hillside horticulture as this year; and in addition 
£P.1,850 for field experiments in horticulture, animal nutrition, 
dairying and mycology The Hebrew University is also to receive 
£P.350 for investigation of the means to destroy field-mice and 
for an enquiry into poultry diseases. 


7. It was a matter of satisfaction for the Government Veterinary 
Service to have been able completely to eradicate an epidemic 
of contagious bovine abortion which had for years inflicted serious 
losses on the dairy industry of Beth Alpha, a Jewish settlement 
11 the Emek. 


&. Twenty-three Jewish students attended a short course in practi- 
cal bee-keeping at the Acre Agricultural Station and, having 
acquired a knowledge of handling and management of bees, en- 
gaged in apiculture on their farms. 


9. The Permanent Mandates Commission enquired as to the 
internal taxation of the Jewish Community. The system of this 
taxation is expressed in an Order made by the Elected Assembly 
of the Community under the Jewish Community Regulations, 1927, 
with the approval of the High Commissioner. The text of the 
Order is printed in Appendix IV to this Report: the principle of 
taxation is a rate on rental value of 1 per cent. to cover the central 
administration expenses of the Community, and a rate of the same 
character not exceeding 5 per cent. to defray local communal 
expenses on social, charitable, and religious services. The Order 
also provides for a fee for the ritual slaughter of each head of animal, 
for licences to bake and sell unleavened bread for the Passover, 
and for the grant or authentication of certificates by Local Com- 
mittees. 


30 


10. The number of Jews in the Police Force is now twenty-seven 
officers and 300 men, representing 17°6 per cent. and 12 per cent. 
respectively ; and in the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force three officers 
and 39 men, representing 5°7 per cent. and 4°7 per cent. respectively. 


11. There are 916 Jews in the service of the Palestine Govern- 
ment, sixty-three of them in the First Division and the remainder 
in the Second Division, out of totals of 350 and 3,650 respectively. 


II.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


The duty is laid upon the Government under Article 3 of the 
Mandate for Palestine to encourage local autonomy as far as 
circumstances permit, and since his arrival in Palestine the present 
High Commissioner has given personal consideration to this 1m- 
portant question with the object of securing the early enactment of 
the necessary legislation. 


Draft legislation to regulate the affairs of municipalities as a 
first step in the direction of local autonomy (see 1932 Report, 
page 5, paragraph 15) was accordingly prepared and was com- 
municated to the Arab Executive, the Jewish Agency and to 
various local authorities in October, 1932, for comment and criticism. 
Numerous and valuable observations were made in consequence 
and these were fully considered by a special committee constituted 
for the purpose. As a result of its study, the Bill was entirely recast 
in the lhght of the observations presented and a revised Bill was 
made public in September. The principal objection which was 
taken to the first draft was that it provided to an undue extent for 
the limitation of independence of municipal corporations by official 
intervention. The text was therefore altered to meet that objection 
so far as practicable, and the freedom of action of municipal 
councils will now be subject only to that measure of control which 
is at present regarded as essential for the due discharge of munici- 
pal responsibilities. It is confidently anticipated that as the elected 
councils gain experience dnd public confidence, a progressive re- 
laxation of Government control will prove possible ; and the Govern- 
ment will be ready in due course to consider the suggestions of 
councils to that end. 


2. The abstracts of Revenue and Expenditure of Municipal and 
Local Councils are published in the Palestine Gazette. 


3. An Ordinance was enacted validating certain acts and decisions 
of the Jaffa Municipal Council; the reason for this Ordinance being 
that certain members of the Council had ceased to be qualified 
to act in that capacity, no longer having a place of residence within 
the Jaffa municipal area. 

An Ordinance was enacted to validate the collection of certain 


rates, taxes, fees and other charges levied by a Municipal Council 
under the Ottoman Municipal Tax Law of 1330 A.H.; the Ottoman 


31 


law had come into force after the lst November, 1914, but was not 
declared to be in force by Public Notice in accordance with Article 46 
of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922. 


The Tel-Aviv Local Council (Validation) Ordinance was enacted, 
providing for the validity of the collection of rates by the Tel-Aviv 
Local Council over a period of years (see 1932 Report, page 19, 


paragraph 7). | 
Ill.—JEWISH AGENCY. 


The Jewish Agency made representations to Government in con- 
nection with the drafts of the Municipal Corporation Ordinance, 
the Land Law (Amendment) Ordinance, and the Protection of 
Cultivators Ordinance. Among the suggestions of the Agency for 
the amendment of the Municipal Corporation Ordinance which the 
Government accepted, after a series of conferences between repre- 
sentatives of the Agency and other Jewish authorities and the 
Attorney-General, were one to allow a measure of autonomy for 
town quarters within the municipality by establishing urban 
districts; and a second to differentiate in the law in regard to Tel- 
Aviv as far as the system of election and voting qualifications were 
concerned. 


2. At the instance of the Agency the Government agreed to re- 
view favourably applications for permission to settle in Palestine 
by artisans and skilled craftsmen. 


In special cases, the Government agreed to accept, in lieu of 
2 deposit of £P.60 by travellers under the new arrangements, a 
guarantee by a member of the Executive of the Jewish Agency ; 
and to enlarge the list of banks allowed to certify possession of the 
capital necessary for immigrants of independent means. 


The introduction of experienced Jewish dock labourers by the 
Agency from Salonica for work in the new harbour at Haifa has 
given satisfactory results. 


The Agency submitted proposals in April and October for labour 
schedules of 12,750 and 24,490 respectively. 


After due consultation with the representatives of the Agency 
the High Commissioner decided, on each occasion, to authorize a 
quota of 5,500. 


3. An investigation conducted by the Jewish Agency among 
persons of independent means who settled in Palestine during the 
period January, 1926—August, 1932, traced the whereabouts of 
nearly two-thirds of them and revealed that the majority of them 
had given up their previous occupations in their country of origin, 
usually commerce—and had engaged in agriculture (46 per cent.) 
and industry (10 per cent.). Their capital investments amount to 
about £P.2 500,000. 


32 


Agricultural Settlement. 


4. The land purchases of the Jewish National Fund during the 
Jewish year 5693 (October, 1932—September, 1933) amounted to 
32,351 dunums, of which 18,519 belonged originally to the American 
Zion Commonwealth. 

The location of the Jewish National Fund land is as follows :— 


Acquired during 








5693. Total 
Dunums. Dunums. 
Emek Jezreel ... be ~ 11,505 197 ,251 
Haifa Bay ve 2 ta 18,519 30,653 
Judea... oe Be ae 849 39,215 
Sharon and Samaria ... ee 715 43 ,663 
Galilee... ee eer 763 16,928 
Urban Land _... Lge sie 20 1,661 
32,371 329 ,371 


The Jewish Agency spent during 1933 £P.93,000 on agricultural 
settlement, including the erection of farm buildings and the pur- 
chase of live and dead stock (this figure includes expenditure on 
account of the year 5694, as the budget for 5693 was only 
£P.44,000). 

Plans were elaborated for diversifying husbandry in the Kishon 
and Affule blocks by the introduction of irrigation. For this pur- 
pose borings were carried out tentatively and the result was 40 
to 65 cubic metres per hour. The estimated outlay is about 
£P.30,000 and the benefits expected will affect fifteen settlements. 

Colonization at Emek Hefer (Wadi Hawareth) proceeds satis- 
factorily. Over 1,500 dunums were brought under citrus planta- 
tion, and there are already thirteen settlements in that area. 

The Women’s International Zionist Organization increased its 
activities in the direction of agricultural and domestic training and 
welfare work. In its agricultural school and five training farms, 
it gave instruction to 204 pupils. Spacious buildings were erected 
at the Nahalal Training Centre and farm branches were extended. 

A special bureau was set up to arrange for the settlement of 
German Jews on the land as well as their training in agricultural, 
industrial and other productive pursuits. It works in co-opera- 
tion with various Jewish bodies and institutions and offers every 
assistance to the immigrants. It has at its disposal a fund of 
£P.120,000, half of which was provided by the Central British 
Fund, and the other half from South Africa, United States of 
America, Italy, Czechoslovakia, and other countries. 

5. The General Mortgage Bank for Palestine, established with 
the funds of the Jewish Foundation Fund, granted £P.147,000 in 
mortgage loans during the year. 








33 


_ Health. 


6. The expenditure of the Hadassah Medical Organization for 
the year 1933-34 is estimated at £P.65,207. The Organization 
has opened a Radium and X-Ray Department at the Rothschild 
Hospital in Jerusalem under the management of an eminent German 
Jewish specialist. 

The Nathan and Lina Straus Health Centres in Jerusalem and 
Tel-Aviv have increased their activities. An exhibition of oral 
hygiene was organized during the year, and public lectures on 
various aspects of hygiene were a regular feature. 


The Voluntary Workers’ Sick Fund has now a membership 
of 28,000 persons. Its activities include medical assistance, con- 
valescent facilities, sick and maternity benefits, health, education. 
The expenditure in 1982-33 was £P.72,385. 87 per cent. of the 
costs is borne by the insured workers themselves. 


A Rural Sick Benefit Fund, founded two years ago, now counts 
14,000 members, mostly of middle-class elements in the settle- 
ments, including Yemenite Jews. Its expenditure in 1933 was 
£P.5 ,876. 


Finance. 


7. The receipts of the Jewish Foundation Fund which are based 
on voluntary contributions collected from the Jews throughout 
the world have fallen again owing to the crisis in America and 
Kurope, and on account of various restrictions, especially in remit- 
tances from abroad. The Fund has collected £P.172,236 this year, 
the principal contributing countries being South Africa—£P.31,000 ; 
the United Kingdom—£P.22,000; United States of America— 
£P.39,000. 

The expenditure of the Jewish Agency, out of monies collected 
by the Keren Hayesod (Jewish Foundation Fund) , was as under :— 


£P. 
Agriculture ... ss ae bes bee re 44,123 
Education ... ies ian Los se ee 33,101 
Immigration es a ae on we 16,730 
Labour fe ar eee a site aes 1,167 
Health sae ie, tee oe ts eo 1,960 
Urban colonization — ne eee ia 4,132 
National organizations ... sie si a 13,889 
Investments aa aa wae ie ie 20 ,243 
Religious institutions oes bis oe3 3,319 
Administration (Palestine Executive) ... a, 17,149 
Miscellaneous oe ge crass dos Sis 12 ,099 


=e 





£P.167 912 


84 


The expenditure of the Zionist institutions amounted in the 
year 5693 to £P.454,000, as follows :— 


£P. 
Keren Hayesod (Jewish Agency) ... se 168 ,000 
Keren Kayemeth Leisrael _... a ge 151,000 
Hadassah Medical Organization 25. oe 75,000 
Women’s International Zionist Organization... 20 ,000 
£P.414,000 
Hebrew University . — Ge ee 35 ,000 
Hebrew Technical Institute ae dea re 5 ,000 
£P.454,000 


IV.—_IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


Forty-three thousand eight hundred and ninety-one individuals 
were added to the population of Palestine by migration during the 
course of the year. Of these, 29,101 were registered as immi- 
grants on arrival and 13,029 entered as travellers. On balance 260 
more residents left during the year than returned from abroad. 

Of the immigrants, 27,862 were Jews and 1,239 others; of the 
‘* travellers ’’ who remained, 10,376 were Jews and 2,653 others; 
as to residents, 408 former Jewish settlers returned, while 668 
others emigrated. The net increase of the Jewish population 
by migration is estimated at approximately 39,000. 


2. Of the recorded Jewish immigrants, 18,125 were Poles, 5,392 
Germans, 1,411 Roumanians, 1,287 Yemenites and Adenese, 1,256 
Greeks, 1,169 citizens of the United States of America, 1,099 
Lithuanians and 287 British. 1,827 were without nationality. 


3. 2,876 persons who had entered Palestine as travellers or 
without permission were registered as immigrants, comprising 
2,465 Jews, 344 Christians, 63 Moslems and four others. Thev 
included 935 Jews and 15 others registered under the special regu- 
lation made in 1931 (see 1931 Report, Section IV, paragraph 2). 


4. Thus the total number of persons registered as immigrants 
during the year was 31,977 (30,327 Jews, 1,650 others). 3,250 
Jews, excluding dependants, were persons of independent means 
with capital of at least £P.1,000. In 1931 and 1932, the number 
of Jews registered in this category was 233 and 727 respectively. 

11,165 Jews (8,527 men and 2,638 women) and 303 non-Jews 
were registered as persons coming to definite employment, almost 
all under the labour immigration schedules. 

426 Christians and 185 Moslems were exempted from the pro- 
visions of the Immigration Ordinance as being Government officials, 
consular officers and their staffs and members of their families. 


35 

). 17,494 Jewish immigrants were between the ages of 18 and 
35, and 6,737 were below 18 years of age. 1,685 gave as their 
former occupation agriculture, 3,002 described themselves as un- 
skilled labourers, 1,814 as merchants, dealers, financiers, etc., 5,033 
as members of skilled urban trades, 1,430 as members of liberal 
professions (including 516 surgeons, physicians and dentists and 
280 architects and engineers) and 586 as students. 


6. Two labour immigration schedules were approved during the 
year. That of the period April-September, 1933, authorized the 
immigration of 4,500 men and 1,000 women, apart from depend- 
ants, and that of October, 19383-March, 1934, 4,250 men and 1,250 
women apart from dependants. These men and women were with 
few exceptions under 35 years of age. 


Some of the labour immigrants who entered had been authorized 
under the second schedule of the previous year. 


In the previous year, 1,641 labour immigrants brought with 
them 1,437 dependants. This year, there were 8,527 men with 
7,788 dependants. 


7. 1,505 prospective immigrants, of whom 1,269 were Jews, 
were refused admission to Palestine. 


8. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers have 
standing instructions to facilitate the return to Palestine of any 
Turkish citizen of Palestinian birth who wishes to come back 
to this country. Among the facilities given are the grant of visas 
for Palestine, without reference, to these persons, and to their 
wives and minor unmarried children, and of affidavits in the place 
of the passports ordinarily required, if these latter are not avail- 
able. In short, these persons and their dependants are not obliged 
to carry out the formalities and to satisfy the conditions normally 
imposed upon foreign travellers or immigrants to Palestine, or ta 
pay immigration fees. : 

9. There was a considerable increase of illicit immigration, 
mostly of Jews entering as transit travellers or tourists and settling 
in the country without permission after the period of their visas 
had expired, but including some who had made their way into 
the country by evading the Passport Control at posts on the 
northern and eastern frontiers; very many were persons unable 
to fulfil the conditions required for the grant of Immigration Cer- 
tificates. 

Exaggerated reports concerning illicit immigration found their 
way into the Arab Press, and unguarded statements by representa- _ 
tive Zionists, to say mothing of irresponsible prophecies of 
individual Jews in newspapers and on the platform, did little to 
dissipate these reports. 


It is unnecessary to traverse in detail the allegations which have 
been made in Arab circles that the aim of the Mandatory in its 


36 


immigration policy is to destroy or undermine the position of the 
Arabs of Palestine, to deprive them of their means of livelihood 
and replace them by Jews. 


_ The policy of His Majesty’s Government in regard to the regula- 

tion of Jewish immigration into Palestine is that the admission of 
new immgrants shall be dependent on the economic absorptive 
capacity of the country. One of the factors taken into account 
is unemployment in Palestine, and care is being exercised, in 
ascertaining the economic absorptive capacity of the country, to 
make allowance for any demands for labour which may be regarded 
as of a purely ephemeral character. 


The facts in respect of immigration to Palestine during the year 
ended the 30th September, 1933, that is over the period to which 
the Arab protests preceding the 1933 disturbances more specifically 
related, are as follow :— 


The entry of a maximum of 12,000 labour immigrants was autho- 
rized by the High Commissioner who was satisfied that there 
existed a definite prospect of their employment in Palestine. 
Labour immigrants are permitted to bring their dependants with 
them. The number of 12,000 included 2,000 certificates authorized 
and granted in advance in respect of the half-yearly period October 
1933 to March 1934, which were subsequently subtracted from the 
Schedule of 5,500 granted by the High Commissioner in respect 
of that half-year. 


The total number of Jewish immigrants registered during the 
year ended the 30th September, 1933, was 23,582. This includes 
6,611 persons (with their dependants) falling in the categories of 
persons of independent means, 2,372 persons who were dependants 
of persons already settled in the country, and 14,599 immigrants of 
the labour class including their wives and children. 


There was, however, an unexpectedly large number of ilegal 
Jewish settlers as well. This unauthorized settlement upsets the 
calculation of the absorptive capacity of the country upon the basis 
of which the High Commissioner determines the _half-yearly 
labour schedule; it is not selective, so that there is no guarantee 
that the type of immigrants whom the country needs is entering ; 
and it constitutes an infringement of the law which the Palestine 
Government is determined in future to prevent. 


The following measures were instituted in November, 1933, to 
deal with the situation :— 
(i) Every applicant for a traveller’s visa abroad, and every 
traveller arriving in Palestine is given a printed notice stating 
that any person found in the country without permission is 


37 


liable to be prosecuted and deported. The notice is also dis- 
played at all British Consular Offices concerned. 


(ii) Deportation orders are issued, save in exceptional cases, 
in respect of every person who is found to be in the country 
illegally, either by overstaying the period of his authorized 
visit or by entering the country by evasion of the Port or 
Frontier Controls. 


(ii) Every person applying for a traveller's visa who cannot 
prove that he is travelling to and returning from Palestine in 
the first class, is required, unless special authority is granted, 
to deposit a sum of £P.60 in cash or in the form of a guarantee 
from a reputable bank or similar institution and a return ticket 
to Palestine, and also to produce evidence of means for his 
support in Palestine. The deposit will be confiscated in the 
event of the person concerned remaining in Palestine without 
permission after expiry of his traveller’s visa. 


(iv) In calculating each labour schedule, the High Commis- 
sioner now takes into consideration the numbers of Jews who 
have settled illegally in the country during the two preceding 
half-yearly periods, and on the basis of those figures, estimates 
the number of Jews who may be expected to settle in Palestine 

. illegally within the next schedule period and curtails the quota 
of the schedule accordingly. A special staff has been assigned, 
and a special system devised, for the purpose of ascertaining as 
closely as possible the extent of illicit settlement. 


10. The Palestine Government is indebted to the authorities in 
Syria for ready co-operation in putting a stop to the surreptitious 
entry of unauthorized persons through that territory into Palestine. 


ll. It has been suggested that there is an excessive migration of 
Arabs from Trans-Jordan to Palestine in search of work. There 
is little basis for this suggestion. In the summer, at the most 
about a thousand Arabs from Trans-Jordan entered Palestine in 
search of work, but most of them left before the end of the year. 
The number of Trans-Jordanians who have settled in Palestine 
without permission is not more than a few hundreds. 


‘12. In the 1930 Report, pages 36 and 37, a brief summary was 
given of the restrictions on the entry of Palestinian citizens into 
the states of Central and South America. These restrictions are 
still in force: in some cases they have been increased. Where 
immigration of a few small classes is allowed, certificates of good 
health and character are required. In San Salvador immigration is 
limited to the wives, parents and children of persons already settled 
there. In Honduras the regulations are unchanged. In Panama, 
since one of the conditions is that Spanish should be the mother 
tongue of the immigrant, Palestinian citizens are in effect excluded. 


38 


13. A new Immigration Ordinance and Regulations, mainly a 
consolidation of the existing law for purposes of administrative 
convenience, were enacted. The principal changes were— 


(a) the exclusion of persons who come to Palestine to take up 
employment from the definition of traveller, (b) the exemp- 
tion of the wives and minor unmarried children of Government 
officials, Navy, Army, and Air Force officers and Consuls de 
carniére from the provisions of the Ordinance, (c) the authoni- 
zation of deportation from Palestine of persons convicted and 
sentenced to imprisonment before their terms of imprisonment 
have expired, (d) the designation as offences of entry into and 
presence in Palestine without legal permission, (e) the exten- 
sion from six months to two vears of the period of prescription 
during which proceedings may be taken under the Ordinance. 


PALESTINE MIGRATION STATISTIOS FOR THE YEAR 19383. 
1. Arrivals and Departures. 


Total = Moslems 
Class. smbee: Jews. Christians. (1). 
(a) Immigrants arriving (2) 29,101 27,862 963 276 
(b) Travellers arriving (3) cad 79,833 26,002 40,215 13,616 
(c) Residents returning to Palestine | 32,523 10,236 10,908 11,379 
(d) Persons registered as immigrants 21 10 10 ] 
who had not been recorded on 
arrival. 
ToTaL ARRIVALS... . | 141,478 64,110 52,096 25,272 
(e) Travellers leaving (3) ... 66,804 15,626 38,432 12,746 
(f) Residents leaving (4) ... 32,783 9,828 11,493 11,462 
TotaL DEPARTURES 99,587 25,454 49,925 
Net INCREASE OF POPULATION DUE} 41,891 38,656 2,171 


TO RECORDED MIGRATION. 





(1) Including Druzes, Bahais, Hindoos and members of some other religions of 
the Orient. 

(2) The number of immigrants arriving does not include persons who having 
entered the country as travellers, were subsequently permitted to remain per- 
manently, nor persons specially registered under Regulation 1 (2) (b) of the 14th of 
September, 1932, but only persons who entered Palestine as immigrants. The total 
number of persons registered as immigrants during the year was 31,977. 

(3) Including tourists, pilgrims and travellers in transit. 

(4) Including emigrants. 


The classification of residents and travellers by religion is 
approximate. 





“ 


A meal eG Se i at 


| 





£9 HVE ‘4 OLS £96 Z98‘LZ 10162 
> £3 = L 9g IIL‘T SLL‘T 
S 6 = ol 08 €18‘e £06‘E 
‘4 or — oI 96 LIP‘D 839'F 
g | = 9 rel oo8‘E 366'E 
= 1 = ol SF 6368'S L8&‘S 
QT Ig =A ‘4 99 18e‘S 688°Z 
9 8I = ZI gp L60‘T PLT 
I Ig 3 ¥G OF c99'T FELT 
g ¥E = SIT 181 SZL‘T bL6I 
sI ras a Lg et €12'S 807'S 
SI 69 = 9 gg SFT 609‘T 
rd 19 = OI 69 192‘T oge'T 
euro RT | eunuetsyo pea ‘suapeo py |ounysssyy | amar =| -p1OL 
*hypobayts 40 esoqqoan.y sp susgeopyd pesozua Burarsen spunsBsusnesy 


poy oy srunsbrutus on posnerbas euoesog 





*nopelzyuMy yo somnsyy AMON = *S 


40 


3. Categories of Immigrants (including all persons registered as immigrants 
during the year). 





Categories. Sekira Jews. |Christians| Moslems. 
A (i) :—Persons with £P.1,000 and up- 
wards 3,267 3,250 | - 16 ] 
A (i) 2 :—Dependants of persons in cat. 
A (i) .. 3,360 3,350 10 — 
A (ii) : :—Members of liberal professions 
with a capital of not less than 
£P500 vies 2 2 — — 
A (ii) 2 :—Dependants of persons in cat. 
A (ii) 1 1 os = 
A (iii) :—Skilled artisans with | a capital 
of not less than £P250__—si=«w.... se 124 121 — 3 
A (iii) 2:—Dependants of ee in 
cat. A (iii) ... ws 206 206 — — 
A (iv) :—Persons of minimum income of 
£P4pm. ... 90 72 17 I 
A (v):—Persons with a » capital of not 
less than £P500_—_i... 29 28 1 — 
A (v) 2:—Dependants of persons in 
cat. A(v)  «.. 30 30 — — 
B (i) :—Orphans coming ‘to institutions l ane 1 sas 
B (ii) :—Persons of religious occupation 254 70 184 — 
B (ii) 2:—Dependants of ree in 
cat. B(ii) ... a 74 712 - 2 _— 
B (iii) : :—Students whose maintenance 
is assured ... 503 391 109 3 
C :—Persons coming to omployment:— — 
Men ... ss sis 8,713 8,527 141 45 
Women wae sie da 2,753 2,638 112 3 
Boys ... sae one is 1 — 1 _— 
Girls... 1 — I _ 
C 2 :—Dependants of persons in cat. C 7,852 7,788 51 13 
D :—Dependants of residents of Pales- 
tine ... 3,155 2,846 22] 88 
K :—Persons exempted ‘from the provi- 
sions of the Immigration Ordinance 611 — 426 185 
A (i) A :—Persons who are not qualified 
for inclusion in one of the above- 
mentioned categories but were per- 
mitted to remain in the country 
permanently under Regulation 1 (2) 
(b) of the 14th of September, 1932, 
under the Immigration Ordinances, 
1925-28 (applied for registration 
by the end of the year 1931) __... 497 488 8 1 
A (i) 2 :—Dependants of persons in cat. 
A(i)A she ae is age 453 447 6 ai 
a i ee ieee | 
Total ...  ... «| 31,977 | 30,327 | 1,807 343° 


be at te a a a a 


* Including six Druzes, Bahais and Hindoos. 


41 


4. Sex and Age of Immigrants. 
A.—Persons registered as immigrants by class, religion, sex and age. 














= 
Class. Religion. Total.| Men. en 


aoe | Geers | ene | eS 


963) 322] 338/ 4191 112 


ee eseesecs |) meee | eet | Aes | 





(2) Persons registered | Jews ... ... 10 3 5; — 2 
asimmigrants who | Christians... 10 4 2 3 l 
had not been re- | Moslems ee l l — — — 
corded on arrival. | Other Religions | — _ == = = 

Total... is 21 8 7 3 3 

(3) Persons registered | Jews ... ... | 2,455 1,225 | 788 | 236/ 206 
a8 immigrants who | Christians _... 334) 165 126 25 19 
had entered Pales- | Moslems see 62 29 16 9 8 
tine as travellers* | Other Religions 4 3 1 — — 

Total »» | 2,855 1,422 930 270 233 
ar al et Se a ee ee fees lhe Meee ge eS 

Total number of| Jews ...  ... | 30,327) 12,762 | 11,306 | 3,196 | 3,063 
persons registeredas | Christians ... | 1,307/ 491 465 219 132 
immigrants, Moslems ss 337 95 68 98 76 

Other Religions 6 3 — — l 


Grand Total | 31,977) 13,351 | 11,841 | 3,513 | 3,272 
TC oO O?Vmooo 
* Including persons registered under Regulation 1 (2) (5) of the 14th of September, 
1932 (Category A (i) A). 


B. Age Groups. 
Other 
Age and Sex. Total. Jews. |Christians| Moslems. religions. 
ee 
Under 18 Male 3,759 | 3,428 231 100 == 
years ---) Female | 3,544 | 3,309 157 77 1 
18 to 35 years Male 9,692 | 9,288 350 51 3 
Female 8,540 | 8,206 285 47 2 
36 to 45 le... | 1,726 1,605 87 34 = 
rr Female 1.457 | 1.368 75 14 i 
Over 45 ale... | 1,685 1,637 40 8 = 
he Female | 1,570 | 1,486 79 5 = 
Not stated Male ... 2 — 2 — — 
| Female 2 — ] 1 — 
Total SJ Male ... | 16,864 | 15,958 710 193 3 
Female | 15,113 | 14,369 597 144 3 
31,977 | 30,327 1,307 337 6 


a a es 


| 
! 


5. Provenance of Immigrants (According to Nationality). 
Christians. Moslems. 


Country of Origin. 


Asta— 
Afghanistan ... wee 
Hejaz ... ie ee 
India ... 


Persia ais niet 
Syria and Lebanon ... 
Turkey wes aie 
Yemen and Aden... 


Total ... 


A frica— 
Egypt... 
Morocco 


Sudan... ane we 
Union of South Africa 


Total ... 


42 


Total. 


.. 25,515 


a 


Jewa. 


328 
5 
129 
356 
32 


—" 
ope 


SoSERE! | leare 


bras 
© m= G9 Cr = CO GS m= 69 


—_ 


He 


(Seeclar. 
Qaw Qe tom 


een 


Pere Rueeanee ter eeeece amen 


lal istessti 


Country of Origin. Total. 
America— 
Canada 65 
- U.S.A. - 1,200 
Central and South America— 
Argentine 29 
Mexico . 28 
Other Countries of Latin America 69 
Total ... 2% — ... 1,425 
Australia 23 


Stateless and undefined 1,931 

Grand Total 31,977 
Summary. 

Countries of Origin. Total. 


British Empire (excluding Aden ... 759 
and India). 


Central Europe... a ie .-- 6,378 
Eastern Europe bas ie ... 16,523 
Balkan States... aes sais ..- 1,604 
Other European Countries... ... 387 
North Africa... 2 473 


Western Asia (including “Turkey, 2,559 


India, Iraq, Persia and 
Afghanistan). 
US-A.. 4s: i .-- 1,200 
Central and South America wa e 160 


Other Countries, stateless and 1,934 
undefined. 


Grand Total .»e 31,977 


Jews. 
287 


6,229 
16,504 
1,548 
209 

74 
2,355 


1,169 
123 
1,829 


30,327 


S o 


* Including six Druzes, Babais and Hindoos. 


Ohristians. Moslems. 


vo | 








44 


6. Occupation of Immigrants. 



































Jews. Christians. Moslems. 
Occupational groups. —_——— —— 
Men. |Women.| Men. |Women.| Men. |Women. 
Agriculture eee see 1,336 349 —_ = 
Mining, Quarrying, “M sneral 

Products... 7 — = = 

Manufacturing I ndustries and 
Construction (Artisans and 
workers) :— 

Textiles = ae ee 149 17 ] = 

Chemical works _... see 93 12 ms ae 

Leather works ac wes 30 — — <= 

Wood works a ese 746 5 — = 

Metal and mechanical works 1,006 4 — = 

Printing... wis Sue 151 2 — a 

Food products sive ts 218 4 3 — = 

Clothing and Millinery... 410 942 ] 2 = 

Boot and Shoe making... 213 l 2 — = 

Building... aes Sia 538 — 3 — = 

Other trades = 160 9 3 — = 
Transport and Communication 130 —_— 49 — aaa 
Other Industries a See 119 67 5 6 1 
General Labourers... es 2,434 568 l — = 
Domestic and Personal Service 39 178 8 84 2 
Commerce, etc. (Manufacturers, 

Merchants, Dealers) bse 1,772 42 5 — = 
Clerical and Commercial Service 621 170 51 11 = 
Public Officials, Police and 

Army Zi les 4 — 3 saa 
Professional :— 

Physicians, Surgeons, Den- 

tists a 458 58 l = 

Architects, Engineer wie 276 4 —_ = 

Education ... oe 134 161 17 == 

Arts . sae 43 9 2 ag 

Other liberal professions oP 262 25 3 = 

Religious occupations ses 134 — 75 —= 
Students (16 years and over)... 445 141 5 — 
Ill-defined Occupations se 74 4 — = 

Total oe ovo 11,902 2,772 210 3 
14,674 683 101 
Persons living on income, per- 

sons of no occupation or of 
-aunknown occupation, minors 

and‘dependants_.... - 15,653 624 242 

Grand Total... 30,327 1,307 343* 





* Including members of other religions as above. 








45 


V.—LAND REGIME. 


1. During the year two transactions took place affecting relatively 
large areas of agricultural land. In the village of Shatta, in the 
Northern District, Jewish interests acquired 7,906 dunums; and in 
the Beersheba District a block of 4,079 dunums. 

2. The number of small transactions, especially in urban and 
suburban building plots, was again substantially larger than in the 
previous year. This increase was mainly due to the low level of 
sterling and to the requirements of monied settlers. High prices 
ruled in Tel-Aviv and there were signs of activity and rising values 
in Haifa. Generally, a tendency was apparent for prices to advance 
in all parts of Palestine and notably in areas suitable for intensive 
cultivation. 

3. 28,293 transactions were registered, as against 18,392 for the 
previous year. 

36,991 dunums of land were purchased by Jews from non-Jews 
at a total cost of £P.854,796, the corresponding figures for 1932 
being 18,893 dunums at a total cost of £P.148,881. 

£P.206,124 was collected in fees, compared with £P.97,876 
during the preceding year. 

4. Kight applications were dealt with under the Correction of 
Land Registers Ordinance, 1926, and eighteen new applications 
were received. 

5. In addition to the original entries derived from the Schedules 
of Rights which were deposited by Settlement Officers, 8,221 trans- 
actions were recorded in the new registers based upon settlement. 
No case has been revealed of an unregistered disposition of property 
Tecorded in the new registers. 

6. The policy of assigning areas of economically uncultivable 
State Domain to the Department of Agriculture for afforestation 
has been continued. 

Demarcation, survey and registration of State Domain went 
forward during the year. Three hundred State Domain properties 
were leased and £P.4,421 was collected in rent. 


Land Settlement. 


7. Staff—The staff engaged in land settlement and in the office 
of the Commissioner of Lands consists of twenty-six administrative 
ra and forty-two officers in clerical grades and two Shari'a 

udges. 

8. Legislation.—The Land Settlement Amendment Ordinance 
altered the definition of ‘‘ village ’’ in order to enable part only 
of a village to be settled where circumstances necessitate an ex- 
peditious determination of titles to ownership in a piece of land. 

The drafts are under consideration of Ordinances— 

(i) declaring titles conferred at settlement to be possessory, 
in the sense that after settlement a person may institute an 
action in a Court to obtain a right which existed at settlement 


46 


but which had not been granted, but that no person may insti- | 
tute an action in respect of a right which had been acquired | 


after settlement unless such right had been registered ; 


(u) providing for the partition of undivided land by agree- — 


ment and for the registration of such partition ; and 


(iii) providing for the registration of the possessory titles - 
to be conferred in future at settlement and for the registration — 


of dispositions and transmissions both before and_ after 
settlement. 
9. To facilitate the work of registration when new villages are 


constituted in settled lands, registrations are being prepared to - 


provide for the numbering of registration blocks serially throughout - 


the country, for the constitution of villages by groups of contiguous © 
registration blocks, and for the requirements to be met by appli- — 
cants for the constitution of new villages in so far ag survey and © 


registration may necessitate. 

10. The sub-districts of Haifa and Tulkarm, and the area of the 
Lake Huleh Concession were declared to be settlement areas within 
the year. 

11. The fees payable upon the hearing of actions by Settlement 
Officers were assimilated to the Land Court scdle, and witness 


Ca 


fees and expenses must now be paid by claimants with the idea of . 
minimizing frivolous claims and small counter-claimg which might . 


easily be decided amicably between the parties. 


12. Notices of settlement have been published in forty-eight — 
villages, making a total of one hundred and thirty-seven villages — 


under settlement in six areas. 
The following is a summary of the work completed in 1933 :— 
Claims Recorded. 
In Mafruz In Masha’ 


land. land. 
Original... ae oe os ... 980,250 7 
Counterclaims ... : a = 1,390 ane 


Schedules of Claims Published. 
In In Built-on In Masha’ 


Mafruz. areas. localities. 
Number of _ registration 727 — — 
blocks. 
Number of parcels ... ... 82,417 — — 
Approximate area ... 2 478,195 — 1,000 
Total ... ae 479,195 m. dunums. 
Claims Settled. 
In Mafruz In Masha’ 
land. land. 
Undisputed _... ane = ... 95,687 164 


Disputed eae ain is se 6,120 86 


47 


There were 535 actions outstanding at the end of 1932, and 752 
new actions were added during 1933; of the total number 484 were 
decided in the year. 

In 43 cases appeals against the decision of the Settlement Officer 
were lodged in the Land Court. 


Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules published. 








Total No.of Including Covering 
Registration No. of Total Area. 
Blocks Parcels. 

Mafruz Land— Metric dunume. 
Schedules of Rights 664 28,428 304,538 
Schedules of Rights to Sites and 

Reputed Owners oe 5 361 103 

Masha’ Land— 

Schedules of Partition ... ae 47 959 29,498 
716 29,748 334,139 
Total aren ... 334,139 





That comparatively few schedules of partition of Masha’ land 
have been published is due to the fact that operations in Masha’ land 
are now being carried out by agreement among villagers under the 
guidance of Assistant Settlement Officers in advance of settlement. 
At settlement these lands are claimed as parcels in divided land. 

The following is a comparative statement of the area covered by 
settlement operations to date :— 


_Prelaminary Final 


Investigation. Investigation. 
Period. ; ; Settlement of claims 
Recording of claims and publication of 
and publication of | so nedules of Rights 
Schedules of Claims. and of Partition. 
Metric Dunums. Metric Dunums. 
June, 1928 to December, 1930 on 212,992 142,799 
During 1931 ... i aes oes 255,947 138,387 
During 1932 ... ons oe ve 358,303 163,293 
During 1933 ... ae is ate 479,195 334,139 





13. Satisfactory progress has been achieved both in the field and 
under final investigation of claims as compared with previous years. 

The effective strength of field parties has been ten administrative 
oficers with their clerks as compared with eight last year, no 
reserve having been provided for absence on sick or vacation leave 
which occupied 905 man-power days in the case of administrative 
oficers and 1,120 days of clerical officers. 


48 


The advance in final investigation of undisputed claims with the 
publication of Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules as com- 
pared with 1932 is attributable to facilities provided by the Land 
Settlement Amendment Ordinance, 1932, which enables Schedules 
of Rights for the undisputed claims in a registration block to be 
compiled without awaiting the hearing of actions on the disputed 
claims and by the amalgamation of the final examination and 
scheduling staff in a central office for the work of all settlement 
areas, 

14. The progress of the hearing of actions in disputed claims is 
less satisfactory, partly because, with the progress of land settle- 
ment, the operations extend to more distant villages and more time 
is occupied in travelling, and partly because of the larger number of 
field parties whose work must be inspected, and partly because of 
the length and complexity of certain actions. 

Whereas at one time the disputed claims were about ten per cent. 
of the total submitted to Settlement Officers, the rates have steadily 
increased and are now much higher, as a result, partly, of the 
increasing value of land. 

15. The total of registration, survey and Court fees arising out 
of settlement payable during the year was £P.9,358, of which 
£P.5,239 was collected. 

From the beginning of settlement operations, the amount payable 
was £P.38,721, of which, so far, £P.17,591 has been collected. 


Partition of Village Masha’ in advance of Land Settlement. 


16. Partition operations were entirely completed in seventy 
villages, where the resulting individual parcels have been demar- 
cated on the ground and the acceptance and parcellation agree- 
ments signed by villagers; in thirteen other villages demarcation is 
complete and parcellation schemes with croquis have been prepared ; 
in five more villages demarcation is either complete or in progress, 
and in sixteen villages preliminary operations are in progress. 

A reconnaissance is being made of each remaining Masha’ village, 
in order to gauge the extent of the remaining Masha’ tenure, to 
study the nature of the various systems of Masha’ and their 
periodical redistribution and.to prepare a programme of partition 
operations in advance of settlement. At settlement, then, such 
partitioned lands would be dealt with as ‘‘ divided ’’ parcels with 
considerable saving of time and expense. 


Operations under the Urban Property Tax Ordtnances, 1928-32. 


17. The rate of Urban Property Tax prescribed for the financial 
periods 1933-34, were :— 


Per cent 
On house property a aoe — Sag: .& i2a 124 
On land . ssc ae = bis 10 


On industrial undertakings an a ss 558 10 


49 


The tax has been applied to the villages of Shefa “Amr and 
Khan-Yunis; amd quinquennial re-valuation of all house property 
and land is in progress in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Gaza, Ramle, Lydda, 
Beisan and ‘Tulkarm. 


The assessments begun in 1932 in Rehovot, Petah-Tiqva, Rish- 
on-le-T'siyon and Majdal were completed and the tax was levied as 
from the Ist April, 1938. 


The operations of assessment and revaluation involved the 
survey and valuation of 14,221 parcels. 2,522 objections were 
lodged of which 927 were allowed, and there were 284 appeals of 
which 107 succeeded. 


The total estimated amount of Urban Tax payable in twenty- 
three areas during 1933-34, is £P.207,842, namely :— 


LP. 
House property ... a eas os ve 170,711 
Industrial undertakings on i _ 1,785 
Land Sak : hoe 35,346 


The corresponding estimate of revenue from wergo is £P.117,393. 


Operations under the Commutation of Tithes Ordinances, 1927-1928. 


18. A further extension of the commuted tithe system took place 
during the year, by its application to the Sarahin and Janabib 
tnbes in Beersheba Sub-District. 


The annual revision of the distribution of commuted tithe was 
carried out in 1,040 villages and 78 tribal areas. 

The following is a statement of assessment and collections of the 
1933-34 tithes (including Treasury, Waqf, and Rental Tithe shares) 
during the period April to December 1933 :— 





£P. 
Assessments: as at 1.4.33 (current and 
arrears) ak ae es 383 ,315 
Remissions Sad eli sae sbi ee 198 287 
Total payable ... i sad te 185 ,028 
Collections - sie ae - 33,017 
Balance outstanding as at 31.12.33... 152,011 


Division of village lands into blocks and valuation of lands for 
purpose of rural property tax. 

19. The valuation of village lands for the purpose of a Rural 
Property Tax and the division of these lands into fiscal blocks con- 
finues and has already been concluded in ten Sub-Districts out of 
seventeen. 

The area covered in 1983 was 3,904,500 dunums in 422 villages. 


50 


Progress is illustrated in the following table :— 


No. of 


: Area covered 
eee villages for 
Sub-District. which fiscal by fiscal Remarks. 
blocks formed. eUEVED® 
Acre... 57 812,894 | Whole Sub-District. 
Haifa... 73 1,010,881 Whole Sub-District. 
Jenin ... 66 863,007 | Whole Sub-District. 
Tulkarm 5l 761,068 Whole Sub-District. 
Nazareth 43 484,703 | Whole Sub-District. 
Beisan ... 37 339,555 | Whole Sub-District. 
Jaffa... 42 306,864 | Whole Sub-District. 
Ramle ... 90 833,062 | Whole Sub-District. 
Gaza... 91 1,077,376 | Whole Sub-District. 
Ramallah 60 617,659 | Whole Sub-District. 
Nablus ... 93 1,069,418 93 out of a total of 100 villages. 
Tiberias.. 27 336,460 | 27 out of a total of 44 villages. 
Safad... 17 607,512 | 77 out of a total of 93 villages. 
Jerusalem Bee 59 394,192 59 out of a total of 71 villages. 
Hebron ... ae 9 194,816 — 
Bethlehem aah 5 43,186 Pio 


880 | 9,752,653 





As to 6,136,500 metric dunums in 512 villages the Survey De- 
partment has prepared schedules indicating in detail the ares 
under each type of date of cultivation, plantation, etc., viz. :— 


(a) Cultivable land. 


Cereal and fodder. 
Irrigable Ses 
Non-irrigable 
Patch cultivation 


Plantations. 
Olives, Vines, Figs, 
etc. sat ae 
Bananas 
Citrus 


(b) Forests. 
Natural 
Planted 


(c) Uncultivable land. 
Sand dunes ... 
Built-on area sae 
Uncultivable: roads, 

railways, cemeteries, 
marshes, rocky, etc. 


Total 


Duns. 
67,300 
2, 527 ,200 
604,800 


510,000 
280 
40 200 


568 ,500 
15,600 


93,000 
36 ,500 


1,673,120 


Dune. 


3,199,300 


550,480 





3,749 ,780 


584,100 


1,802 ,620 
6,136,500 





PALESTINE 


35° & 
oe 



























\ 
! 
H 
i ‘AMMAN Ez 
RUSALEM A Jisr Banat Ya'qub 
x 
Q 
Re i “S322 Jeaeese Dzra' 
O i Sheikh Miskin i 
! sare 4 
/ ! 
; “2 
\ 
/ Petra a 
es ‘\ HET hos 
\ - Ma’‘an 
Je a 
ao \ | by 
a gue! 
‘ot 
Veal 
\ j eh 1 Majami 
\ ! . ue ajami 
ya ‘Aqaba 


'* 





ives covered by Land Valuation... : 





Field Investigation Complete. .-- : 








Towns Surveyed forAssessment Purposes tg 


Pf ops Ne 
O70) 


32 





enby Bridge 











Dead Sea Post j 


par ra 








‘ 
- 
a ‘ \\ 
et ee Ziza’ 
aa “Ss<-.£.6.5 
<= S- \ 


i 
i \\ 


Meidaba : 





Solomon's Pools 
° 
Et Ta‘amira 





Masara s 








=~ 
Te 
noe 
5 ; 
ae | 
~ 
Se 
_— = 
> ~ > 
— 
pe ES ee a ee ee ee 








“Ss / : 
S2=s2=s2.--~ iat ; ; { 4 xX 
2c=8Ras ez Zuweira \ a YM 
== nage oe os SF ‘ 
\ El Karak é-* N 
1 Ssy 
/ a 
i AN 
Se 
| ° 
j 1 
j 
/ 
/ 
bf, 
36° 
Copyright reserved Scale 1: 750,000 Compiled, drawn & printed by the 
eae HE ee oo Se A a ee = Survey of Palestine Jaffa 1933. 
3 10 20 30 40 50 Miles 


International Boundaries 


First class motor roads 
Principal antiquities of interest . . Aecalon 


Second class & seasonal motor roads 
. sero eee fe LS 


Railways Ancient sites 


District & Sub-District Boundaries Aerodromes........ : 





51 


19a. A map is appended showing the area covered by settlement 
and fiscal survey. 


A question was asked at the Twenty-third Session of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission in regard to the proposals for a 
single tax (pp. 116 and 117 of the Minutes). 


In the 1932 Report (page 10, paragraph 35), reference was 
inade to the consideration which was being given by the Palestine 
Government to the possibility of replacing the tithe and werko by 
a single tax on land. This proposal] has now reached the stage at 
which draft legislation has been prepared and is being considered : 
the draft provides for the substitution of the commuted tithe and 
werko by a tax on land, such tax being payable by the owner or re- 
puted owner, or, in case of lease for more than three years, by the 
lessee, and varying in accordance with its category, the category 
being determined by the character of the land, the crop or planta- 
tion upon it and the intensity of the cultivation; and provision is 
made for the total exemption from tax of categories of land of low 
productivity. 


It is also proposed that there should be power for the High 
Commissioner to grant remission where the aggregate value of the 


yield in any village falls by a third or more below the average by 
reason of failure of the harvest. 


Surveys. 


20. The number of classified officers in the Department of 
Surveys was increased by twenty-five, making the present dis- 
tribution as follows :— 


Office. Field. 


British Officers, lst Division 4 4 
Palestinian Officers, lst Division — 1 
British Officers, 2nd Division ... 6 1 
Palestinian Clerks and Storekeeper 6 — 
Palestinian Computers am 9 — 
Palestinian Draughtsmen 48 — 
Palestinian Surveyors 6 92 
Printers 2 — 

Total 81 98 


There were, on an average, forty-two students in training, who, 
when sufficiently advanced, were employed under close supervision 


on town surveys for urban assessment purposes in Jerusalem and 
Jaffa—Tel-Aviv. 


Twenty-three students trained during 1931-32 were appointed to 
classified posts and twenty-two remain under instruction. 


52 ] 


21. The 8rd order and topocadastral triangulation up to tt 
border of the cultivable lands of the Sub-Districts of Bethlehem and | 
Hebron was completed. The progress for the year is shewn in 
Table I. | 


4 



































TABLE I. 
8rd Order. Topocadastral.| 4th Order. Traverse. she Se 
| | | 
No. of | Area | No. of | Area | No. of | Area| No. of | Length No. of 
points.| Km?. | points.| Km?. | points.| Km?. | points. Km. | points. 
56 | 514 382 : 1,005 74 43 2,207 328 3,347 
| 


The 1/10,000 survey of the Sub-Districts of Nablus, Ramallah 
Jericho, Jerusalem, Bethlehem and Hebron was completed—r 
two latter towns being surveyed to the limits of the cultivable land: 1 
only. 


An area of 4,026,242 dunums was covered at a cost of 2°4 mils | 
per dunum. 


472 preliminary village maps were traced and 476 final plans, : 
with schedules of areas, were issued to the Commissioner of Lands. | 


No contouring on the 1/20,000 scale was undertaken this year. 


22. At the end of the year a party of six surveyors previously 
employed on topocadastral surveys, was engaged in completing an 
unsurveyed area round Jericho on the 1/10,000 scale. Thev 
will be trained in rapid topographical survey methods and employed 
in contouring and revision in connection with the preparation of 
a new series of maps of Palestine on the scale of 1/100,000. 


The arrangement of these 14 new sheets is shown in diagram II. 


23. During the year 717 blocks, of a total area of 424,600 dunums, 
were surveyed. Details are given in Table IT. 


The Settlement Department was supplied with 857 preliminary 
block plans together with schedules of claimants to 33,164 parcels of 
land comprising 554,906 dunums. 


682 final registration block plans were returned to the Settle- 
ment Department for approval. ‘These plans cover an area of 
313,767 dunums representing 26,547 parcels, on which survey fees 
amounting to £P.6,880 are chargeable on completion of registration. 


24. The progress of the cadastral survey is illustrated in diagrams 
I and IV. 


PALESTINE 1: 750,000 













Scale 1: 4,000,000 


1) 
Tibnin 





Miskin 





Tod | SSS SS SS | Sheik 


<== —= tn = ome " 
——_ Pes ow } 
. \ Ne ey 
Qeis ; \ i! 
——— = = etr=tae=FSy \ i" 
SSS SS > Ss222277 SS, : o ectttsse 
r¢ ; . ‘ ae sen Bias oh 
Se aes dro-Electric Yy \ Der'ayse** ~sSss 
io Sm Station % . Py atta — 


+s=-==2> 





Cadastral Survey.........0... 


Towns Surveyed forAssessment Purposes tag 


——-— —— a= os 
32, % SS = SS —— 


enby Bridge 








-_, -aet 
-_ ~ 









ae | “Taf'at ed Damm 
i Wad ——— 






Ss2----> 


-——=>= 


Meidaba ,--<+*=ss-... Ziza'g\ 





aN 2 ; di vy 
Beersheb nt ese _pgottstecccescengsee? Ras ez Zuweira \ 

\ Ss. --ss-sse=5===277 ass easy S. 

\, 

/ 

i 
H 
Sa, | 
— 
Kurnub? \ . 
\ | 
* | 
rh - 
Se ! 

é i 
¢ / 
Sy / 
\ ’ 
° . & 36° 
Sa a SF ES 0 I EE I SLSR 
COED ESEIE TED. Scale 1: 750,000 Compiled, drawn & printed e ai 
. Survey of Palestine Jaffa 1933. 
Kilometres 0) : 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Kilometres 
Miles 0 5 10 20 30 40 50 Miles 


First class motor roads 


Second class & seasonal motor roads 


Railways Ancient sites .... 


Y ict Boundaries . ACFOAPOINES. -.2258 IER o> Be Fe ee 
District é@ Sub-District Boundarte Digitized by Google 





I WVdd Vid 


CADASTRAL SURVEY 





No, of Blocks PROGRESS OF SURVEY FOR SETTLEMENT PURPOSES 1933. ribbed 
3200 3200 
eee ee | il he 
ee et ee 

oe > a es Oe ee est ey 

a 
“> 2a" eens Ps ke 

TE Sea a Da AG SR SI 1 RR IT 

Se ee ee ee 

1400 FEN and SALTS CEES, 

eee | Ld te ee ee 

' ec. 


Jan. Feb, Mar April May June July —- Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. 


cy 
Digitized by (4008 le 


53 
TABLE II. 


Details of surveyed blocks. 


—_— + ee. eee 























Average Cost of 
Average Survey per dun.* 
Category | No of |, | No. of | area per Total — 
of Land. | Blocks. |~"""™%:| Parcels. | parcel Mils. 
.m.dunums.| Field Office 
Mils. Mils. 
| 
Masha’at | 82 | 59,972 1,971 | 30-427 15-0 6-1 21:1 
Mafruz{ 547 | 343,022 | 18,750 | 18-294 27-1 11-4 38-5 
Built-on Area 5 305 383 0:796 | 475-0 | 727-2 | 1,202+2 
Hawakir$... 83 | 21,301 6,648 3-204 74:7 31-8 106-5 


nr | | eee Fema | RE |S | a 


* Includes all costa except overhead and reproduction charges. 
+ Lahd held in common ownership. 

{ Divided land. 

§ Vegetable gardens. 

25. The survey on the 1/625 scale of Shefa "Amr, and the 
quinquennial revision of Jaffa—Tel-Aviv, Tulkarm, Er Ramle and 
Gaza have been completed. In the two latter towns revision was 
necessary owing to the many improvements and alterations that had 
taken place. 

The quinquennial revision of Jerusalem is proceeding. 

484 block plans (of which 448 have been dealt with) were 
received for revision. | 


26. A survey of 8,600 dunums with contours at 4 and 2 metre 
intervals was carried out at Ashrafiya and Tel esh Shok, Beisan 
Sub-District, for the Department of Development. 


Survey of Water Resources. 


27. A survey of the water resources of Palestine has been put 1n 
hand under the administrative control of the Survey Department 
with the aim of collecting, over the whole cultivable area of 
Palestine, sufficient information to forfn estimates of the present 
and future resources of the country. This work, for which 
£P.6,000 has been allocated from loan funds, will be carried out in 
consultation with the Departments of Public Works and Develop- 
ment and is expected to take two years. 

Positions, and heights above sea level, of wells and springs will 
be determined and measurements will be made of discharge or flow, 
and information such as salinity and, in the case of wells, the 
depth, and height of water level will also be gathered. 

23364 C 


54 | 
A special temporary staff is being employed. 


The monthly variations in the level of the inland seas is sho" 
diagram III. 


28. The progress in the publication of the 1 /20,000 topogray 
maps is shown in diagram II. ‘Three sheets were issued durin 
year and twenty are in course of preparation. | 


It is not practicable to continue the publication of these § 
for the whole of Palestine and they will be issued for the 
highly developed areas only. The smaller scale of 1/10 
should suffice for most practical purposes and the 14 sheets a 
in diagram II will cost far less and will be much more ra 
produced than the 1/20,000 series which would take several jy 


A new 1/750,000 map of Palestine and Trans-Jordan was 
duced during the year and 1,000 copies, coloured and layered, 
printed for the new edition of the Handbook of Palestine. 


In November, a 1/500,000 coloured and layered motor mé 
Palestine was published, for which there hag been a considé 
demand. A second edition went to press at the end of the 
and editions in Arabic and Hebrew are in course of preparati¢ 


The following maps were specially printed :— 


53V copies of a map showing Arab and Jewish schools, 4 
prints of school graphs and 2,000 prints of an outline ms 
Palestine for school tests ; 

7,150 prints of the Haifa Harbour ; 

80 copies of a print of the Majdal Yaba—Ras el Ain * 
supply ; 

1,010 copies of the 1/50,000 scale Trans-Jordan Se 
5) colours, and 200 of the 1/10,000 scale were printed fot 
Trans-Jordan Government, Amman : 

1,120 maps for His Majesty’s Forces in Palestine ; 

43,042 zincographed prints, 8,346 ordoverax and 12,646. 
prints, of which 15,000 were issued to Government 
partments, were produced during the year ; 

Sales to the public realized £P.840. 

1,606 plans for registration purposes, covering an are 
120,290 dunums, were dealt with, including examination: 

‘checking of 1,184 plans (covering an area of 95,797 dunu 
prepared by private licensed surveyors. 

443 of these plans were mutations of parcels in areas 0 
pleted by the Settlement Department. This brings the ¢ 


number of such transactions up to 826 since the inceptiot 
Land Settlement. 


29. The total cost of the Land Registry survey, including surv 
connected with State Domain and other Land Registry work 
which no fees are collected, amounted to £P.3,014 and the ret 
in Survey Fees to £P.2,208. 


PALESTINE 


1: 750,000 











Scale 1: 4,000,000 





YOuny, HERMON, 











































“=sto7 
“ 
oe ess == o-s — 
3=ss5 Sr oe oe 
sata 
= -st= 
fe SS me 


REFERENCE 





4 \ 














\ Sheikh Miskin 
; Se eee iy ; 
| Nis ee va 
| ewe: SOE oS. eee ee Ne ae ae 
{ 





a 
ac 
-t 
ae 


. Pa A) 
4A \ 
Umm el Fahm\, : 
: Beisan "9 . 
Beth Shan, cae 
. 
















1:20,000 Sheets 
Published 
; 
| 


Proposed 1;100,000 ee 
| Contoured Sheets 


ae) 
fia 





°- — ’ - 
2 . ) 
\ 4 a<se 
14 v % 
19 b : : 










Jerusalem Sheet under Survey 2 SER ae ae Sses! 
w oe pigs El Mafraq *\\\ 
(==! Zavash i 
PY He 
if 4 
‘ N“ rr) 4 \ } 
Facch's Well \ i if “ 







NABLUS\, 





Re 
1 ¢ 
Ir 


- » 


1 Muzeiri'a 









Gy »\\; ; 












Beth Sbemesb ae °) ty. PAE : ; 
re a | .. 7 d out eat th het’s Comb Abe Men eters 7 : 
Bethlehem - fF ~~ GY Meidaba g----*s:..__ Zizay 
03's Pools ride 






=< 


-<—sS2=> 
S25 


~ 


te 
Sse. 


bn aD ad 


“s 












° KA 
eosttt FFttsze. oF 
i petad et =2 
L “Auja_s 
e " 
3 7 $< = 
€ | . 36° 


Copyright reserved 


Scale 1: 750,000 Compiled, drawn & printed by the 
Survey of Palestine Jaffa 1933. 


First class motor roads 


Second class & seasonal motor roads 


Aerodromes......... 





Digitized by Google 


VARIATIONS OF LAKE-LEVELS 


DIAGRAM 


Metres Below 


LAKE TIBERIAS 


M.S. L. 





| ST) 
== 
oO 
| +299 1 oO 
iti Oo 
2) 

| Ane o> | UO 
“rs 

cab) 

{ -udy = 
E 


oe v 
90 
7 
§ Aap 
| | hak 
Ajap 
anes ~s : 4 P 2s eh 
a e233) faa 
: Ane 
ate ne 
AEE * | : "399 
| : v1 | | Aynp 
a5 aa a SS : dy 
os, 


rons oe FETT HE 


1932 


PRCRETEH 
tatty ava 
PTE ESS Pee 
etary eae 
Rig cCRETEEES 
Laie Mg pelt 
CREE RGA 
aCe ee 
PN 
DEERE 
ae 
py 
GF 4 RERESOREL GY 4 
ERD EERE AS 
ue gaeron Obs 
Paeban ele pa 
PICHENEESY 
REGUNTLEPELE 
Ran eens 
Lye tui Sen at 
Keertere cnn 
ia eee 
REREEREGRSSE 
CieCeREREN GT 
DEAD SEA 


1929 1930 


1928 


125 434g 921caRe 


1927 


200 
201 
202 
203 
204 

205 

390 
391 
392 
393 
394 
395 


7 
: {1027)Ps 1189, 91° 


dd 


VI.—NATIONALITY. 


The texts of the Palestinian Citizenship Order in Council and of 
a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine amending 
Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the Report for 
1925* ; and the text of the amending Order in Council of 1931 was 
printed in Appendix II of the Reportt for that year. 


2. Article 5 of the Principal Order facilitates the acquisition of 
citizenship by Jews who opted therefor under Article 2 of the 
Palestine Legislative Council Election Order in Council, 1922. 
The qualifications for naturalization are: two years’ residence in 
Palestine out of the three years preceding application, good 
character, and the declared intention to settle in Palestine; know- 
ledge of Hebrew is accepted under the literacy qualification. In 
special cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant naturali- 
zation even if the period of residence has not been within the three 
years preceding application. 

3. The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. 


Special facilities have been granted to Jewish students resident 
abroad to obtain citizenship, if qualified, without being required to 
present themselves in person at Jerusalem. 


4. Reference is invited to paragraph 3 on page 40 of the Annual 
Report for 1931. 


0. 1,186 applications for naturalization were made during the 
Year, 1,182 under Article 7 and 4 under Article 9 (2). 1,146 cer- 
tificates were issued—17 under Article 5, 1,128 under Article 7 
and one under Article 9 (2). Twelve applications were refused— 
two under Article 5 and ten under Article 7. The approved applic- 
ants included 1,072 Jews (among them ‘being 370 Poles, 318 
Russians, 2 British and 105 stateless persons), with whom 909 
members of their families acquired Palestinian citizenship. Of 
the 74 non-Jews naturalized, 28 were Turkish citizens and 14 were 
Egyptian subjects. 

37 certificates of citizenship were annulled and 39 certificates of 
naturalization revoked in the course of the year, on the ground 

elther that the holders had been ordinarily resident out of Palestine 
for longer than three years and showed no disposition to return 
within the measurably near future or that they had shown them- 


selves disloyal and disaffected towards the Government of 
Palestine. 


4492 Palestine passports, 168 Identity and Travel documents, 
326 Documents of Identity, 1,617 endorsements on Palestine pass- 
ports and 6,789 visas (including 4,928 return visas) were granted 
during the year. 2,625 Palestine passports and 44 Identity and . 
‘Travel Documents were renewed at Jerusalem. 929 passports and 








* Colonial No. 20. t Colonial No. 75. 
23364 0 2 


56 


Documents of Identity were issued, renewed or endorsed on behalf 
of the British and ‘Iraqi Governments; and 211 changes of name 
were registered during the year. 


VII.—_JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 
Legislation. 


The most important Ordinances enacted during the year were 
the following :— 


Education Ordinance. 

Press Ordinance. 

Employment of Females Ordinance. 
Protection of Cultivators Ordinance. 
Immigration Ordinance. 

Citrus Fruits Advertisement Ordinance. 
Co-operative Societies Ordinance. 

2. The Education Ordinance makes provision for the registration 
and management of Public Schools and for the registration of 
teachers. : 

It provides that certain local authorities shall be education 
authorities, and gives them, as such, the power to impose an 
education rate. 

The High Commissioner may exempt certain institutions from 
the provisions of the Ordinance. 


3. The Press Ordinance provides that no newspaper shall be 
printed or published unless the proprietor obtains a permit from 
the District Commissioner, conditions being imposed upon the grant 
of permits. 

Permits may be cancelled in certain circumstances and the High 
Commissioner-in-Council 1s given power to suspend the publica- 
tion of a paper if any matter therein is, in his opinion, likely to 
endanger the public peace. He is also given power for a similar 
reason to exclude foreign newspapers from Palestine. 

The Ordinance also provides that copies of books published shall 
be deposited with Government and requires all persons keeping 
printing presses to obtain a permit. 


4. The Employment of Females Ordinance provides that no 
valid contract can be made whereby a female under the age of 
seventeen years is engaged in the performance of menial service 
for longer than a year, or whereby any payment in respect of 
the services rendered by a female under that age is to be made 
to any person other than the female. The object is to protect 
girls from the danger of their being employed for a number 
of years in consideration of a payment made to some other person. 

5. The Protection of Cultivators Ordinance replaces the various 
measures passed since 1929, with the object of giving protection 
to a tenant who has occupied and cultivated a holding for not 


57 


less than a year. Under it, such a tenant who has paid all rent 
due in respect of the holding cannot be evicted unless, inter alia, 
he has been provided with a subsistence area (meaning an area, 
if possible in the vicinity of the holding from which he is being 
ejected, which will enable him to maintain his customary means 
of livelihood in any occupation with which he is familiar), or he 
has other land sufficient to enable him to maintain his customary 
means of livelihood. 

The provisions of the earlier legislation as to the reference of 
certain matters to Boards, and as to compensation for disturbances 
and improvements, have been retained. 

The limitation on the increase of rent has also been continued, 
but it is now further provided that the sanction of the District 
Officer must be obtained before a rent can be increased. 


6. The Immigration Ordinance consolidates the existing law with- 
certain minor alterations which are detailed in Section IV, para- 
graph 138. 


7. The Citrus Fruits Advertisement Ordinance provides for a small 
fee to be charged on each case of citrus fruits exported from 
Palestine with the object of enabling the High Commissioner to 
make grants to a fund to be used for the purpose of advertising 
those fruits abroad. 


8. The Co-operative Societies Ordinance replaces the Co-opera- 
tive Societies Ordinances, 1921-1929. Its object is to assist the 
formation of Co-operative Societies primarily among the agri- 
cultural classes and generally to bring the law into line with modern 
conceptions of co-operation in Europe and elsewhere. 


8a. With reference to a question asked by the Permanent Man- 
dates Commission at its Twenty-Third Session, it should be ex- 
plained that the reason for the withdrawal of the Ordinance by 
which it was intended to amend the Notaries Public Ordinance, 
1921, was that local advocates of standing commented unfavourably 
upon the proposed amendment. They argued that it was un- 
Necessary and undesirable to enlarge the qualification required 
under the existing legislation in the case of persons desiring to 
be licensed as Notaries Public in Palestine. 

The High Commissioner was satisfied after considering these 
representations that the complaint was well founded and the 
Measure was therefore dropped. 


Advocates. 


9. One hundred and nineteen students were enrolled in the Law 
Classes for the session 1933-1934. 

Eighteen persons were admitted as advocates before the Civil 
Courts during the year; fifteen being graduates of the Government 
Law Classes and three being foreign advocates who had passed 
the special local examination. Nineteen advocates were reported 

23364 C3 


58 


to the Chief Justice for disgraceful, fraudulent or unprofessional 
conduct under Section 15 of the Advocates Ordinance, 1922. In 
three cases only were the charges sufficiently substantiated to 
justify the convening of a Court of Discipline. 


In the first the advocate was found guilty of disgraceful and 
unprofessional conduct in that, after having received £P.45 from 
the Execution Office on behalf of his chent by virtue of a power 
of attorney, he retained the money for his own use without the 
consent of his client although he was requested to refund the said 
amount. The Court of Discipline recommended and the Chief 
Justice confirmed that the advocate should be suspended from 
practice for six months and should not be re-admitted until the 
sum was repaid. 


In the second case the advocate was found guilty of unpro- 
fessional conduct in that, after having received a fee from a client 
with a view to either lodging an appeal or petitioning the Attorney- 
General to appeal against a judgment of the Magistrate’s Court 
whereby a claim made by the said client was dismissed, he failed, 
although he neither lodged an appeal nor petitioned the Attorney- 
General, to refund the fee paid, or part thereof, to his client 
without any lawful excuse, despite the fact that he was repeatedly 
asked to do so; and thereby compelled his client to bring a civil 
suit against him in the Magistrate’s Court. The Court of Discipline 
adjudged him to be reprimanded. The Chief Justice confirmed 
the finding, but varied the sentence, and decided that the advocate 
should be suspended from practice for three months. 


In the third case the advocate was found guilty of disgraceful 
and unprofessional conduct in that :— 

(a) he refused or neglected to obey the orders of the Land 
Court, in connection with a certain case, which was calculated 
to be a contempt of the said Court; 

(b) he made certain allegations, in writing, to the President 
of the District Court, Jerusalem, against the Senior Magistrate 
of Jerusalem, which allegations, after careful investigation, 
were found to be untrue to the knowledge of the advocate who 
made the complaint. 


The Court of Discipline recommended and the Chief Justice con- 
firmed that the advocate should be suspended from practice for a 
year. 


Companies. 


10. The total number of companies, foreign and local, registered 
in Palestine at the end of the year, was five hundred and four. 
During the year one hundred and forty-four new companies were 
formed, of which one hundred and eighteen were Palestinian. 


59 


The chief Palestinian registrations were :— 


The Palestine Lloyd Underwriters. 

The Palestine Baltic Bank, Limited. 

The Belgo Palestine Bank, Limited. 

The Arab Agricultural Bank, Limited. 

The Palestine Foundries and Metal Works, Limited. 


Among the foreign registrations above were :— 


The Switzerland General Insurance Company (Switzerland). 

The Consolidated Near East Company, Limited (England). 

The Standard Oil Company of New York, Incorporated 
(U.S.A.). 

The Polish Post Office Savings Bank, Limited (Poland). 

The Continental Steel Trading Company, Limited (England). 


Kighty-nine companies with a (total) capital of £P.540,000 were 
registered, and fifteen other companies increased their capital 
from £P.87,000 to £P.180,000. 


Seven companies and six co-operdtive societies were in process 
of being compulsorily wound up during the year; the winding up 
of four companies was completed; and orders for the compulsory 
Winding-up of four further companies and co-operative societies 
were made by the Courts. 


The Court of Appeal has ruled that the Courts when making an 
order for winding up a company have no authority to appoint any 
other person than the Official Receiver to act as liquidator or 
provisional liquidator and that the Official Receiver by virtue of 
his office becomes the Provisional Liquidator of the company 
ordered to be wound up. This judgment should eliminate irregu- 
larities in the administration and control of companies in 
liquidation. 

As a result of a public examination instituted by the Official Re- 
ceiver, the manager of a co-operative society in liquidation was 
sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment for fraudulent trans- 
actions. 


1l. Trade Marks.—244 applications, 150 from foreign and 94 
from local applicants, for the registration of marks were received 
during the year, bringing the total to 2,712. 

The Registrar heard fourteen cases; and the fees collected were 
approximately £P.1,000. 

The records of the Registry of Trade Marks to a certain extent 
typify commercial activity in progress, so that the following list 
of goods for which marks were registered in 1933 gives a fair con- 
ception of the main branches that are being established or further 
developed :-— 

Chemical substances used in manufactures, photography or 
philosophical research, and anti-corrosives. 
23364 | C4 


60 


Chemical substances used for agricultural, horticultural, 
veterinary and sanitary purposes. 

Chemical substances prepared for use in medicine and 
pharmacy. 

Raw, or partly srenarel vegetable, animal and mineral 
substances used in manufactures, not included in other Classes 

Unwrought and partly wrought metals used in manufacture. 

Machinery of all kinds, and parts of machinery, except 
agricultural and horticultural machines and their parts. 

Agricultural and horticultural machinery and parts of such 
machinery. 

Philosophical instruments, scientific instruments and 
apparatus for useful purposes; instruments and apparatus for 
teaching. 

Musical instruments. 

Instruments, apparatus and contrivances, not medicated, for 
surgical or curative purposes or in relation to the health of 
men or animals. 

Cutlery and edge tools. 

Metal goods not included in other Classes. 


Goods of precious metals, and jewellery, and imitations of ° 


such goods and jewellery. 

Glass. 

Manufactures from mineral and other substances for buid- 
ing or decoration. 

Engineering, architectural, and building contrivances. 

Arms, ammunition, and stores. 

Explosive substances. 

Carriages. 

Cotton yarn and sewing cotton. 

Cotton piece goods of all kinds. 

Cotton goods not included in other Classes. 

Linen and hemp yarn and thread. 

Linen and hemp goods. 

Silk, spun, thrown or sewing. 

Silk piece goods. 

Yarns of wool, worsted or hair. 

Cloths and stuffs of wool, worsted or hair. 

Leather, skins, unwrought and wrought, and articles made 
of leather, not included in other Classes. 

Articles of clothing. 

Paper (except paperhangings), stationery, and bookbinding. 

Goods manufactured from india-rubber and gutta-percha. 

Substances used as food or as ingredients in food. 

Fermented liquors and spirits. 


——— . 


61 


Mineral and aerated waters, natural and artificial, including 
ginger beer. | 

Tobacco, manufactured or unmanufactured. 

Candles, common soap, detergents; illuminating, heating or 
lubricating oils; matches; and starch, blue, and other pre- 
parations for laundry purposes. 

Perfumery (including toilet articles, preparations for the 
teeth and hair, and perfumed soap). 

Games of all kinds and sporting articles. 


Practical experience in the working of the Trade Marks Law has 
revealed the necessity for making several substantial amendments 
and a new Ordinance has been prepared for the purpose and is at 
present under consideration. 


Patents. 


12. Ninety patent applications, including fifty from Palestine 
and four for the registration of patents obtained in the 
United Kingdom, were received during the year, compared with 
sixty-three in 1932. 


Palestine acceded in September to the International Properties 
Convention and six applications have already been received under 
the Convention. 


Ten patents were granted, one was registered and £P.600 
were collected in fees. 


The inventions in respect of which patents were granted are: 
improved wire netting; improved sheet iron shutter; improved 
autobus body construction ; wall adherence system electric cooking 
set with interchangeable pots; improved process for the produc- 
tion of composite fertilizers; oil insulated vertical leading-in insu- 
lator; ice cream container; improved methods of an apparatus for 
casting cement and other pipes; improvements in and relating to 
shirts and collars; folding door for autobuses and motor cars ; 
cutting machine with rotating knife disc for cutting small boards. 


Nine persons were registered as Patent Agents. 


The practice of filing applications through registered Patent 
Agents is more generally followed ; local inventors are also guided 
by instructions to Applicants for Patents, which have been pub- 
lished in the Government Gazette. 


Judicial, 


_ 13. The one Ordinance which concerned the practice in the Courts 
is the Court Fees Ordinance, 1933, No. 39 of 1933, which serves 
o provide specially for the imposition of court fees in civil and in 

oslem religious courts. Authority in the former case in the past 
was based upon an intricate series of enactments, while doubts 
existed as to there being any clear authority for the imposition of 
such fees in the latter case. 


62 


The Chief Justice made Rules prescribing the form of certificate 
to be given by medical practitioners to accused persons, to parties 
to cases, to advocates or to witnesses, in order to ensure that 
failure to attend Court is not excused upon insufficient grounds; 
and at the request of Chambers of Commerce created facilities for 
the payment of instalments of judgment-debts by post, to prevent 


the necessity of constant attendance in the Execution Office by 
judgment creditors. 


14. Municipal Courts.—19,415 cases were entered, nearly 450 
more than in the previous year, and again mostly consisting of road 
trafic contraventions and offences against public health regula- 
tions, due to greater stringency of control. On the other hand, the 


Courts decided 19,416 cases, and only 219 were pending at the 
end of the year. 


15. Magistrates’ Courts.—In the Magistrates’ Courts 45,000 civil 
cases were entered and 44,000 decided. The drop in the number of 
civil cases decided (compared with 48,000 last year) ig due to the 
continued increase in the number of criminal cases decided in 
accordance with the settled policy of disposing of criminal cases as 
speedily as possible, dnd also owing to vacancies in the establish- 
ment of Magistrates of the Judicial Department. 


1,895 cases were pending at the end of the year. 


It is most eratisfactory to observe that, in spite of depleted 
staff, the number of criminal cases decided in 1933 has increased 
part passu with the number entered, reaching a total of 35,157. 


Six hundred and eleven cases were pending at the close of the 
year. This is no doubt, in considerable measure, due to the 
disturbances of October and November, which had an immediate 
effect on the criminal statistics, especially of the Magistrates’ 
Courts, partly owing to the added number of charges laid before 
the Courts and partly to the prolongation of trials of a political 
complexion. 


The statistics heretofore rendered for Magistrates’ Courts com- 
prised only cases capable of being summarily tried in those Courts 
and have not included the figures for cases in which Magistrates 
conduct a preliminary investigation with a view to committal for 
trial. 


Figures for cases of this nature for 1933 are available only in 
regard to prosecutions instituted by the Police. These are included 
in a new return printed at the end of this report. 


16. District Courts.—The following tables, which show the total 
number of civil and criminal cases entered in the District Courts 
in the last eleven years, indicate that the marked increase in 
their work during 1932 was almost entirely on the criminal side. 
This has in 1983 reverted to the average of the preceding four 


63 


years, while the civil work is slightly lower than the average 
of the preceding seven years :— 


Croil Criminal 
Year, Entered. Entered. Total. 
1923 a 1,809 1,534 3,343 
1924 1,750 1,580 3,330 
1995 1,716 1,471 3,187 
1926 2,246 1,556 3 ,802 
1927 2,241 1,870 4,111 
1928 2,225 2,305 4,530 
1929 2,206 2,359 4,565 
1930 2,501 2, 282 4,783 
1931 2,401 2,257 4,658 
1932 2,,490 2,825 5 3815 
1933 9,117 2,341 4,458 

Cases decided :— 

Civil Criminal 
Year. Decided. Entered. Total. 
1923 1,761 1,494 3,265 
1924 1,725 1,590 3,315 
1925 1,658 1,539 3,197 
1926 2,217 1 497 3,714 
1927 2,,129 1,863 3,992 
1928 9, 292 2,151 4,443 
1929 2,181 2 ,309 4,490 
1930 2,361 2,273 4 634 
1931 2,,289 2,390 4,679 
1932 2,454 2, ,868 5 322 
1933 2, 286 2,379 4,665 

Civil Criminal ) 
Year. Pending. Pending. Total. 
1923 193 144 337 
1924 218 134 352 
1925 276 66 342 
1926 305 125 430 
1927 417 132 549 
1928 350 226 636 
1929 375 336 711 
1930 515 345 860 
1931 627 912, 839 
1932 663 169 832 
1933 494 131 625 


Priority is given to criminal cases over civil cases as in the 
Magistrates’ Courts. 
li. Land Courts.—In the Land Courts, 610 cases were entered, 


600 were decided; but 729 were still outstanding at the end of 
the year. 


64 


18. Supreme Court.—281 civil appeals were entered, and 246 : 
decided in the Supreme Court. a 

The pending cases numbered 234, an increase over last year |. 
which is largely due to a vacancy in the Bench making it ditficult to ;. 
constitute two divisions of the Supreme Court sitting simultaneously. 

Only 163 criminal appeals were entered in 1933, the lowest 
number on record. 

In the event of unsuccessful appeals, sentences now date, unless . 
the Court otherwise directs, from the decision of the Appeal Court 
and not as formerly from the date of the decision of the Court of | 
First Instance; this knowledge deters frivolous appellants. 

One hundred and sixty-eight criminal appeals were decided, and 
at the end of the year only twenty were outstanding. 


19. Court of Criminal Assize.—Sixty-four persons were tried on 
charges involving the capital penalty. The number is definitely 
below the average of normal cases of this nature for the last five 
vears. 

Sixteen of these persons were condemned to death, fifteen were 
sentenced to imprisonment, two were detained during the High 
Commissioner’s pleasure, and thirty-one were acquitted. 

Of the death sentences, eleven were confirmed by the Court of 
Criminal Appeal, two were reduced to fifteen years imprisonment, 
one was reduced to twenty years imprisonment, and one death 
sentence was set aside and the accused acquitted. One is still under 
appeal. 

Of the eleven death sentences three were commuted by the High 
Commissioner in Executive Council to imprisonment for life and 
one was commuted to 15 years imprisonment. 

Thirty-five other cases were decided in the Court of Criminal 
Assize, and ten were undecided at the end of the year. 

20. High Court.—Ejighty-six petitions were entered in the High 
Court, sixty-one decided, and twenty-nine are pending. 

The petitions entered may be classified as follows :— 

(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus pro- 
ceedings under sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the 


Courts Ordinance, 1924 ... sank a ee 4 
(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) 1n Execution 
Matters 59 


(3) Other petitions under sub-section (2) for orders 
directed to public bodies or public officers 

(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for change of 
venue ... oom ves a2 x sae ie 

(5) Petitions under the Contempt’ of Court 
Ordinance ___... oe oe sae a ed 

(6) Not coming within the above heads 


—_ 
QO 0 


tie a 


3 


65 


21. Special Tribunal.—This tribunal which is constituted under 
Article 55 of the Palestine Order-in-Council, 1922, and Section 8 
of the Courts Ordinance, 1924, to decide whether or no a case is one 
of personal status within the exclusive jurisdiction of a religious 
Court, is constituted by two British Judges of the Supreme Court 
and the President, or a Judge nominated by such President, of the 
highest Court in Palestine of any religious Court which is alleged 
by any party to have exclusive jurisdiction in the matter. 

No cases were entered in this Tribunal in 1933; one case was 
pending at the close of the year. 


22. Personnel.—Judge A. H. Webb, M.C., President of the 
District Court, Nablus, was promoted to be Puisne Judge in Kenya 
Colony. 

Mr. W. C. Curry, M.C., formerly Administrator General, 
Tanganyika Territory, was appointed Chief Magistrate for Haifa. 


23. General.—The revenue of the Courts was just under 
£P.90,000 and the expenditure £P.75,000. 


24. Court Buildings.—Two additional rooms have been taken into 
occupation in the Jerusalem Court House, relieving the congestion 
in the Execution Office, and the whole of the building has been 
wired for electricity. Thirteen additional rooms for the Jerusalem 
Courts are being prepared in an adjoining building. 

Internal changes have been effected in the Courts at Hebron and 
Ramle, and in Jaffa the old Post Office has been adapted to serve 
as Magistrates’ Courts. 

The Court at Acre has been renovated and the precincts have 
been considerably improved by the Waqf Department. 


25. Probation of Young Offenders.—The appointment of a 
salaried Probation Officer charged with the duty of attending to 
juvenile delinquents has resulted in considerable extension of such 
care during the vear 1933. There are now Honorary Probation 
Officers in Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Hebron, Beersheba, Gaza, 
Majdal, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv, Petah-Tiqva, Haifa, Nazareth, Tiberias, 
Safad, Samakh, Baisan, Jenin, Nablus, Ramallah and Ramle who 
keep in touch with the salaried Probation Officer and are of great 
assistance to him in controlling cases. 

In mixed centres, there are both Arab and Jewish officers; each 
1s supplied with the necessary literature and instructions; most are 
“sited periodically by the Probation Officer for the discussion of 
cases. Their out-of-pocket travelling expenses are paid by the 
Government. 
_A grant-in-aid of £P.182 for assisting necessitous cases among 
Juvenile offenders was approved in 1933 and is to be allocated each 
year for this purpose. Parents, desirous of visiting their children 
In the Reformatory, are supplied with free railway tickets. 
oe different Chief Magistrates have summoned meetings of 
alestinian Magistrates and explained to them the functions of 


66 


Probation Officers and the approved modern methods of dealing 
with juvenile offenders. 

In almost all Courts, now, it has been established as the practice 
that cases in which young offenders are charged should be dealt 
with in Chambers and not in open Court. 

It is satisfactory to record that most of the boys placed on proba- 
tion have responded to treatment: in Jewish cases, the work of 
investigation and visiting is undertaken by trained workers of the 
Jewish Social Service Association. 

The establishment of a Remand House and a Boys’ Club is 
contemplated in connection with the Probation Service. 

During the year, 197 cases in all of juvenile offenders were 
referred to the Probation Officer, and eleven cases were dealt with 
by Magistrates. The 197 cases included 126 Moslems, 40 Jews and 
31 Christians. 

The treatment was the following :— 


Moslems. Christians. Jews. 


Flaced on probation ... ois 23 4 14 
Committed to reformatory ... 22 — 3 
Unofficial probation ae 3 11 20 
Caning we 3 5 24 3 _ o— 
Discharged ... sak ae 30 10 1 


The offences were the following :— 


Moslems. Christians. Jews. 

Petty theft... a sien 23 6 
Theft ... se a i 22 6 
Housebreaking sie — — 
Assault and stabbing sei 8 6 
Indecency ___.... ve 11 — 
Murder and attempted 

murder see bee 
Misdemeanour 
Stonethrowing — 8 3 
Gambling au ae 
Possession of stolen 

property nies 
Abuse of confidence ... 
Causing damage 
Breaking probation order 
Various si Bee ce df 


Religious Courts. 


26. Moslem Religious Courts.—7,304 cases were decided in the 
eourse of the year, including 208 appeals and 2,905 matters affect- 
ing confirmation of documents and administration of estates. In 
1,062 cases, decrees of divorce were pronounced. The revenue of 
the Courts from fees was £P.4,700. 


67 


27. Jewish Religious Courts.—Courts of the Jewish Community 
sat during the year at Jerusalem, Jaffa and Tel-Aviv, Haifa, Safad, 
Tiberias, Affuleh, Hedera, Petah Tiqva and Kfar Saba. 897 cases 
were heard in first instance or on appeal, apart from a considerable 
list of matters concerned with matrimonial and personal status, 
guardianship and endowments. 


28. Armenian Community.—Eleven cases in regiurd to 
inheritance, and one concerning disposal and reconstitution of 


waqf, were decided; and eleven cases affecting alimony and 
divorce. 


29. Greek Catholic Community.—Three cases for alimony, four 
cases of inheritance and one case of guardianship were heard. 


30. Maronite Community.—The Religious Courts of this Com- 
munity heard thirteen cases of inheritance, three of alimony and 
four cases concerning minors. 


dl. Latin Community.—In these Courts in the course of 1933 
twelve cases of matrimonial status were heard, sixty-six decrees of 
inheritance and guardianship issued and fourteen wills approved. 


32. Minimum age of marriage.—The Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission, at their Session in June, 1933, enquired as to the pro- 
gress made by Government in the introduction of a minimum age 
of marriage in Palestine. 


It is now possible to report that Government has decided to fix 
the minimum age of marriage for girls at fourteen years com- 
pleted, and that the Heads of the various Religious Communities 
in Palestine having been invited to express their concurrence in 
this decision have, without exception, signified their whole-hearted 
approval of it. 


The change will be embodied in the Criminal Code Ordinance 
which, it is anticipated, will be enacted in the course of 1934. 


The wording of the relevant Clause is under consideration. 





Cases Pending, Entered and Decided during 1933. 


Entered Decided 
Pending during during Pending 





1.1.33. year. year. 31.12.33. 

SUPREME CouRT— 
Civil ee 198 281 245 234 
Crimindl... o.oo. 25 163 168 20 
Total... = ww ws 2288 444 413 254 
Hier Covrr oe oa Sis 34 86 91 29 
Cover or CRIMINAL Asse... 12 33 35 10 


SrtomaL TRrBuNaL as 1 — — 1 


68 























Entered Decided 
Pending during during Pending 
1.1.33. year. year. 31.12.33. 
District CourRTs— 
Civil... oe oe a8 663 2,117 2,286 494 
Criminal wr ee tee 169 2,341 2,379 131 
Total ... sf oe 832 4,458 4,665 625 
Lanp Courts ‘a 719 610 600 729 
MAGISTRATES’ Cten=tns # Summarily Dealt With. 
Civil ses ae a 993 45,146 44,244 1,895 
Criminal... sig rr 364 35,384 35,137 611 
Total ... 43, eee 1,857 80,530 79,381 506 
MaqistTraTEs’ Courts—Cases Presented by Police for Preliminary Investigation, 
Total... ... as oS 109 2,737 2,749 97 
MounicrpaL Courts—__.. 220 =: 19,415 —s:19,416 219 


Cases siterka in the Year 1933. 
Including appeals in all Courts of Palestine other than Religious Courts. 








Courts. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
Supreme Court _... ree - 281 163 444 
High Court A ee 86 — 86 
Court of Criminal Resize. bee — 33 33 
Special Tribunal ... ee We — — — 
District Courts... a5 nae 2,117 2,341 4,458 
Land Courts is fs ie 610 — 610 
Magistrates’ Courts on a 45,146 35,384 80,530 
Municipal Courts es — 19,415 19,415 
Persons charged before Magis- — 18,627 18,627 
trates holding special warrants. 
Total ee dk me 48,275 75,930 124,203 
1932... eh Gat ve 50,916 74,061 124,977 
Increase ... his ae — 1,869 — 
Decrease ... — ae 2,641 — 774 











Cases entered in the Year 1932. 
Including appeals in all Courts of Palestine other than Religious Courts. 


Courts. Civil. 
Supreme Court... ee ase 274 


High Court ae wie otis 99 
Court of Criminal Assize .. fy = 
Special Tribunal 


District Courts... : = 2,490 
Land Courts sete Soe ee 651 
Magistrates’ Courts So ae 47,502 


Municipal Courts ... ie — 
Persons charged before Magis- — 
trates holding special warrants. 





Total ae -60,916 


Criminal. 


212 


44 














Total. 


124,977 


69 


Cases decided in the Year 1933. 
Including appeals in all Courts of Palestine other than Religlous Courts. 
Civil. 


Courts. 
Supreme Court 
High Court 
Court of Criminal “Assize.. 
Special Tribunal ... 
District Courts ... 
Land Courts : 
Magistrates’ Courts 
Municipal Courts . ee : 
Persons charged before “Magis- 
trates holding special warrants. 


Total 
1932 ... 


Increase .:. 
Decrease ... 


245 
91 





Criminal. 


168 
35 





Cases decided in the Year 19382. 
Including: appeals in all Courts of Palestine other than Religious Courts. 
Civil. | 


Courts. 
Supreme Court oe 
High Court as eM Tete 
Court of Criminal Assize.. 
Special Tribunal ... 
District Courts _ ... 
Land Courts i 
_ Magistrates’ Courts 
Municipal Courts... 
Persons charged before “Magis- 
trates holding special warrants. 


Total 


~“ 


236 
84 





51,210 





= 


Criminal. 


195 

44 
2,868 
$1,094 


15,771 
24,216 


74,188 


123,228 
125,398 





2,170 





Total. 
431 
84 
44 
5,322 
478 
79,052 
15,771 
24,216 





125,398 


Persons charged before District Officers holding Magisterial Warrants. 


All Palestine 


Revenue received in the Courts of District Officers holding 
Magisterial Warrants. 


£P. 


Costs ... 
Fines 


Total ... 


EP. 4,628-518 mils. 


1932. 
24216 


948-749 mils. 
£P. 3,679-769 mils. 


1933, 
18,627 


70 


Revenue of all Courts in Palestine other than Religious Courts, 1938. 


Supreme District Land Magistrates’ Municipal 
Month. Court. Courts. Courts. Courts. Courts. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 

January... 150-355 2,608- 395 118-635 3,034-026 353-015 
February ... 126:305 2,675°380 149-620 2,962°892 360-800 
March ee 161-305 3,038 - 085 180-550 3,317 - 464 461:385 
April ... 180-220 2,416-593 65-330 2,278-797 297-140 
May ... 146-250 3,717 -030 71-850 3,578-494 478-395 
June ... 154-690 3,495 °935 55-150 3,764°526 410-300 
July .. 107-420 = 3,391-765 98-875 3941-645 537-450 
August... 126°305 2,772-900 55°685 2,267-093 403-620 
September 42-690 2,494-765 85°065 3,127 - 686 271-010 
October... 108-308 3,029-740 28°895 3,578-142 272° 485 
November... 215-790 3,593°785 127-555 3,583-812 465-025 
December ... 216-435 3,237 -649 156-390 3,935:511 382° 720 

Total... 1,686°070 36,472-022 1,188-600 39,370-087 4,693: 335 
Advocates’ 38-400 479-350 35-000 3,818-000 — 

Procura- 

tion Fees. 








Grand Total 1,724-470 36,951-372 1,223-600 43,188-087 4,693-335 





ToTAaLs :— £P. mils. 
Revenue bias un eee us 83,410-114 
Advocates’ procuration fees she 4,370-750 
Advocates’ licence fees sa a 520-000 
Advocates’ annual fees... ... 1,569 - 500 
Fees on registration of clerks under 

service in an advocate’s office ... 66-000 
ToTaL ... sue ae 89,936 - 364 


VITI.— ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


The railways of Palestine, its posts, telegraphs, and telephones, 
its ports and roads are in public ownership and are administered 
by the Palestine Government. | 

The construction of the Haifa Harbour has been carried out by 
a Government Department, and an Oil Dock is being added 
under similar arrangements. 


Water supplies are administered, in all cases, by the Municipal 


or Local Council concerned. 
The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 


The principle that all mineral resources of Palestine are the 


property of the Government and may therefore only be exploited 
under licence by private individuals or corporations, is established 
by the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 


There are Ordinances for the control of fisheries, forests, and 
game, for the cultivation, manufacture, and sale of tobacco and 


71 


x; liquor, for the manufacture and sale of matches, for the manufac- 
ture and sale of salt, and for the export of fruit. 


Reference may be made also to the Mewat (Waste) Lands, Com- 
panies, Customs Tariff, Urban Property Tax and Collection of 
Taxes Ordinances ; and to the measures which are being taken to 

cary out a cadastral survey and a settlement of title to land. 


The terms of the concessions which have been granted by the 
Government in respect of the exploitation or development of any 
of the natural resources of Palestine, or public services, are such 
as to ensure, by means of time-limit clauses affecting the com- 
-mencement of the work and the expiry of the concession, genuine 
and expeditious development. 


Where appropriate, the Palestine Treasury is to receive reason- 
~ able royalties or rents ; the employment of local labour is adequately 
' guaranteed; the Government has the right of inspection of the 
~ concessionnaires’ accounts; and in certain*cases there is provision 

for local investment in the capital of the Company. In general, 
nghts under a concession may not be assigned without the consent 
~ of the Government, and, as a rule, the right of the Government to 
_ take over the undertaking in the event of war or similar emer- 
gency is reserved. Finally, provision is made for the reversion of 
the undertaktng and all assets and effects thereof to the Govern- 
ment at the end of the term of the concession. 


The provisions of the Mining Ordinance of Palestine are so framed 
that it is possible for the Government to prevent any speculative 
tying-up ’’ of undeveloped mineralized areas by prospectors. 


All leases of State Domain land contain a clause enabling the 
Government to resume possession of the whole or any part of the 
area for public utility purposes. 


2. It has not been necessary to arrange with the Jewish agency 
to construct or operate any public works, services, and utilities, 
Or to develop any of the natural resources of the country. ‘The 
Jewish Agency is, however, a large shareholder in the Palestine 
Electric Corporation, which holds the concession for generating 
electricity from the waters of the Jordan and the Auja; and the 
Palestine Economic Corporation of New York, of which the Direc- 
lors are non-Zionist Jews co-operating with the Jewish Agency, 
43 @ considerable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


_3. Reference to the activities of the Palestine Electric Corpora- 
ton, the Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation, and 
alestine Potash Limited is made in Section XXVI, paragraphs 9a 
and 14 of this Report. The Mavrommatis Concession for the 
eee of water to Jerusalem has been cancelled owing to the in- 
. ty of the British Company which had acquired the rights to 

: eae a operations within the prescribed period or to accept the 
*ws of the Government of Palestine as to the rate to be charged 


12 


for each cubic metre of water supplied. The Tiberias Baths Con- 
cession is still suspended, and the Concessionnaires are managing 
the Baths for the Municipality under a five years’ contract ; they 
have spent £P.2,000 on improvements. 


Huleh Concession.—The erection of the steel bridge (see 1932 
Report, page 57, paragraph 3) was practically completed by the 
Concessionnaires and ready for taking over by Government together 
with the approaches constructed during the year. 

Arrangements were made by the Concessionnaires for the demol- 
tion of the old masonry bridge early in the coming year. 

Steps are being taken, by advanced Land Settlement, to demar- 
cate exactly the land within the area of the Lake Huleh Concession 
that was under cultivation in 1914: according to the present Con- 
cession, the cultivators will have the right to acquire freehold title 


to such land from the Concessionnaires after reclamation of the — 


whole area on payment of £P.2 per dunum plus a proportion of 


the expenses of reclamation. 
4. The latest Balance Sheets of the several companies are fur- 


nished in Appendix I to this Report. The Jerusalem Electric and — 
Public Service Corporation reduced the rates for power and light- — 


ing considerably during the year; the Palestine Electric Corpora- 


tion had introduced substantial abatements in its scale of charges — 


on the opening of its hydro-electric works in the previous year. 


The High Commissioner has consented to a further increase of - 


£F.300,000 in the ordinary share capital of the Palestine Electric 


Corporation, required for the purpose of new turbines, the construc- | 


tion of new offices and extensions of the distribution system. 
44. During the year, a Convention was concluded by the Govern- 
ment of Palestine with the Anglo-Persian O11 Company, Limited, 


with a view to facilitating the conveyance of mineral oils by the 


Anglo-Persian Oil Company through Falestine. 


The text of this Convention is given in Appendix III to this 


Report. 


5. The difficulties placed by the Ottoman regime in the way of . 
foreign persons acquiring land in their own name and the pro . 


hibition against any foreign corporation holding land have been 
removed by the Palestine Government and all foreign persons, 
whether individuals or corporate, may hold land upon the same 
terms as any Palestinian individual or corporate person. The 
special tax which was imposed by the Ottoman Law upon immov- 
able property owned by corporate bodies was abolished this year. 

Economic equality as regards mining rights is secured by the 
provisions of the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 


There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime or in 


the Customs Regulations of the Palestine Government. The special 
privileges in respect of import duty, State and municipal taxation 
and tithes which were enjoyed by certain foreign charitable, reli- 
gious, and educational institutions prior to the War under the 


me Pay oe eas die Ve 


73 


Ottoman Law of Zilhi 1281 A.H., and various Firmans are main- 
tained in toto by the Falestine Government, but no fresh privileges 
of the kind have been granted. 


Apart from this, foreign subjects are liable to the same taxation, 
State or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. The Ottoman Law 
of Professional Tax (Temettu) which was assessed only upon 
Ottoman subjects and not upon foreigners, has not been applied 
by the Palestine Government. 

Under the Urban Property Tax Ordinance the net annual value 
of all immovable property in towns is assessed by Committees on 
which the public and the Government are represented in equal 
proportion. 

The Palestine Government will be ready to extend facilities for 
the setting up of free zones in the port of Haifa for transit traffic, 
in which the Governments of Iraq and Persia are specially 
interested. The facilities would include the landing, warehousing 
and transhipment of goods, and a certain degree of manipulation ; 
each free zone would, of course, be under the general control of 
the Palestine Customs, and subject to any prohibitions or restric- 
tions as to importation into Falestine that were required by Inter- 
national Conventions or local needs. Officials of the foreign 
Government concerned would be allowed to take charge of all 
processes within the zone; and would be granted reasonable con- 
cessions in respect of local taxation. 

A visit was paid to Palestine by the Iraqi Minister of Com- 
munications and his advisers for discussion of the general terms 
of a free zone arrangement on the basis of the accord in principle 
which was reached; a Customs Agreement with Iraq is contem- 
plated in regard to certain selected articles as well as improvement 
of desert communications. 


IxX.—HOLY PLACES. 


The incident at the Wailing Wall mentioned under this Section 
of the 1932 Report was repeated by an irresponsible Jewish youth 
on the Day of Atonement of 1933. For his attempt to contravene 
the Regulations (1931 Report, page 198) he was sentenced to 
fourteen days’ imprisonment; and a companion who sought to 
prevent his arrest was sentenced to one month’s imprisonment. 

Towards the end of the year, the outworn appurtenances of 
Jewish worship at the Wailing Wall were replaced by a new set of 
vntical. design and dimensions, in conformity with the Regula- 
ie under the Palestine (Western or Wailing Wall) Order in 

ouncil, 1981. The Supreme Moslem Council entered a formal 
eae on the ground that the Moslems did not accept and never 
‘ accepted the findings of the Wailing Wall Commission and 

ust protest against this further infringement of Moslem rights. 


h ; 
He eerie and use of the new appurtenances gave rise to no 
s en 8. : 


74 


2. The restoration of the Dome of the Katholikon in the Church © 


of the Holy Sepulchre is still proceeding. 


Grave signs of structural weakness were discovered in the Church , 


itself, necessitating survey by an architectural expert. The Pales- 


— = 


j 


4 


tine Government advanced £F.2,500 for the cost of the preliminary - 


survey and the immediate measures of conservation. 


3. Minor disputes between the worshipping communities in the — 


Church of the Nativity at Bethlehem show no signs of abatement. 


Police have to be in daily attendance to prevent disturbances. The 
District Officer is continually summoned by one or other party to . 


intervene, and as no law or regulation exists governing the activities 
of the clergy within the edifice, his task is difficult. 


The usual conflict arose in 1933 as to the cleaning of the northern | 


set of windows. As agreement could not be reached regarding the 
sect authorized to clean the windows from without, it was proposed 
that the cleaning should be carried out by servants of Government, 


but, in the event, it was not possible to carry out this arrangement. . 





X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religion throughout 
Palestine. 

The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescriptions 
of Article 83 of the Falestine Order in Council, 1922, which reads 
as follows :— 

‘‘ All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of con- 
science, and the free exercise of their forms of worship subject 


— 


only to the maintenance of public order and morals. Every - 


religious community recognized by the Government shall enjoy - 


autonomy for the internal affairs of the community subject t 
the provisions of any Ordinance or Order issued by the High 
Commissioner.’’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change of ‘ 


religious community is regulated by the Change of Religious Com- © 


munity Ordinance, 1927, and is directed to secure that there will 


be public notification of the change of legal status which is involved. . 


An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 


Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to make . 
Regulations for the organization of any Religious Community which 


applies therefor. Separate Regulations are to be made in each 
case suited to the special circumstances and organization of the 
Community concerned. The Regulations may provide for the con 
stitution of Councils or Boards of the Community which shall have 
Juristic personality and may confer on them power to impose CoD: 
tributions and fees for communal purposes which shall be recover 
able in the same way as municipal taxes and fees. 


——_— ey 


The only Regulations of this kind which have so far been made 


are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish Community, which con 
tain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion to Je¥S 
who wish to hold aloof from the established Community. 


(5) 


Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, 
s0 as to allow every labourer to enjoy, in freedom of conscience, 
that weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, subject to technical 
exivencies or considerations of emergency; and in fact a six-day 
working week is general in such works. The precise method of 
securing this end depends on the kind of work to be done, the 
period fixed for its completion, the locality in which it is to be 
carried out, and the different racial and religious elements of the 
labour gang employed on it. The matter is usually susceptible of 
adjustment by the District Commissioner concerned, in consulta- 
tion with the undertaker or contractor responsible for the work and, 
if need be, with the Religious Head of the Community affected. 

There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual craftsmen 
who can do their jobs in their own time. 

As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.), undertaken by 
Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours to 
avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour unavoidable 
to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions as might 
encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All Government 
officers are granted the weekly day of rest observed by the religious 
community to which they belong. But in the case of certain 
Departments, such as the Railways, Posts and Telegraphs, and 
Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff, the racial distribution of 
technical skill, and the essential continuity, for example, of watch 
and ward duties, entail the consequence, in some centres, that some 


employees shall perform essential services on their weekly day of 
Test. 


2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done 
by Jews and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the 
Wailing Wall Order in Council which was printed in Appendix I 
to the Report for 1931. 

3. The registration of schools is required by the Department 
of Education and granted subject only to compliance with sanitary 
requirements of the Department of Health. The establishment of 
schools in Palestine by communities or private organizations or 
Individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 

The Education Ordinance, 1933, ensures the rights of com- 
munities to maintain their own schools for the education of their 
own members.* All teachers are required to register their names 
and certain particulars with the Education Department, but except 
for this formality there is no restriction on the free exercise of the 
educational profession in a private school, that is, a school not 
ncelving assistance from public funds. Frivate schools other than 
nose private schools exempted by the High Commissioner on the 
eee that only religious instruction is given are subject to inspec- 
on by certain officers of the Departments of Education and Health. 


% 7 a a 
] Ordinance No. 1 of 1933. The Ordinance came into force on the 
t January, 1933. 


16 


No changes in the curriculum or internal management of a private | 
school established or maintained by a Religious Association may be | 
required by the Department of Education. i 

The full text of the Education Ordinance was given in Appendix! , 
to the 1932 Report. = 

Some progress has already been made with the establishment of _ 
Local Education Committees under that Ordinance and the Register _ 
of Teachers is in process of preparation. It should be observed that ~ 
under the I[ducation Ordinance no teacher may be refused 
permission to teach in a private school. | 

4. His Majesty’s Government officially recognized the Metro- ‘- 
politan Keladion as Locum Tenens of the Orthodox Patriarchate, 
and a Warrant of His Majesty’s Principal Secretary of State for ' 
the Colonies was communicated to His Grace in January, 1934, .. 
in the following terms :— : 


Warrant of Appointment of Locum Tenens of the Orthodor — 
Patriarchate by the Secretary of State. - 


I, Sir Philip Cunhffe-Lister, member of His Majesty’s Most 
Honourable Privy Council, Knight Grand Cross of the Most 
Excellent Order of the British Empire, upon whom has been 
conferred the Military Cross, His Majesty’s Principal Secre , 
tary of State for the Colonies, hereby confirm the appoint- 
ment of Keladion, His Grace the Metropolitan of Ptolemais, 
as Jiocum Tenens of the Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem : 
with effect from the 14th day of August, 1931. 

Given under my hand and seal this first day of January, i. 


1934. 


nee ee es 
oe hoes ass —s 


P, CUNLIFFE-LISTER. |. 


XI.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 
Police and Prisons. 


The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prisons | 


in 19383 was £P.420,774. 
The strength of the Force and of the warder establishment on 


the 3lst December was as under :— 


_— a ee 


Officers. Other Ranks. 
Chris- Chris- ; 

—- trans. ; tans. 4 2. 

e ss 

s 8 ¢ Ss 

gs. = gs | . & 

gi4,¢5 4% 6 , 2 § 

32:22 3  GsEK 

gaeaqess 6 &§ RR QR FF 8H 8S & EG 

District Police 46 21 43 24 1 1385 — 251 1,062 286 4 1,602 1,73) 

British Police 3 — —- —- — 3 641 — — — — 641 64 

Prisons and 8 — 4 3 — 1 — 42 2 16 — 27 22 
Jail Labour 
Companies. 





Total ... 57 21 47 27 1 153 641 293 1,262 300 4 2,500 2,653 


77 


2. The establishment was increased by an Assistant Superin- 
tendent, six Palestinian Inspectors, two British Head Constables, 
four Sergeants, three Corporals and forty-nine constables, to man 
a new division in Tiberias and new stations at Qatra, Sarona, 
Shafa Amr, Lydda, Qubab, and Salfit; to strengthen the Wireless 
_Telegraphy section; and to reinforce the Beersheba camelry so 
as to provide for the more active policing of the Wadi Araba. 


3. The health of the Force was uniformly good throughout the 
year, Danger of malignant malaria at a post in the Southern 
Ghor compelled its removal to a healthier site some ten kilometres 
away. 

4. One hundred and fifty-seven British Constables and four . 
hundred and four Palestinian other ranks (including sixty-five 
warders) sat for the Proficiency Pay Examination; sixty-eight and 
one hundred and fifteen respectively satisfied the examiners. 


The considerable increase over the figures of previous years is 
due to the decision taken to re-examine all Palestinian personnel 
who had been in receipt of proficiency pay for a period of over 
five years, as a measure of insuring that they had continued to 
maintain the requisite standard of proficiency. 


5. Three hundred and five British and Palestinian recruits were 
accepted during the year in the Police Training School, in 
addition to sixty-six who were under instruction at the end of 
1932. Twenty-four were discharged for inefficiency or on other 
grounds; two hundred and seventy-one were posted to Districts, 
- and seventy-six were still being trained at the end of the year. 


Nine non-commissioned officers and constables attended refresher 
and promotional courses at the Training Schools as well as five 
Palestinian cadets who were appointed to be Inspectors at the 
successful termination of their period of duty. 


One hundred and twenty-two men qualified for the First Aid 
Certificate, twenty-five for the First Aid Voucher and one for 
the First Aid Label of the St. John Ambulance Association. 


The British Section now counts among its recruits many young 
men from Public Schools and Universities ; and is beginning to be 
regarded as an attractive and instructive prelude to a Police career. 
It is gratifying to observe that two members of the Section were 
appointed to commissioned rank in British Colonies during the 
year, and a third was promoted locally. 


6. Colloquial language examinations in Arabic and Hebrew 
were held for British Police Officers: in the higher twelve passed 
in Arabic and three in Hebrew; and in the lower, one hundred 
and seventy-seven in Arabic and fifteen in Hebrew. 


In the examinations for Palestinian other ranks, fifteen non- 
commissioned officers and men passed the Higher Standard and 
two hundred and forty-three the Lower Colloquial. 


18 


7. Ten permanent and two temporary wireless telegraphy 


A i a a 


stations are now maintained by the Force and twenty-four fully 


trained operators are employed for the purpose. 

8. The single Jatfa Division was separated into a Rural and an 
Urban Division, to serve the distinct Police problems of the two 
classes of inhabitants, including the Jewish inhabitants of the 
rapidly growing complex of settlement on the outskirts of Jaffa 
and Tel-Aviv. <A separate Tel-Aviv division will be formed next 
year. The Police Stations of Tiberias and Beisan have been formed 
into a new (Tiberias) Division, in view of the large area and 
increasing population affected; and in addition, nine new Police 
Stations were opened at various centres. Eight existing Police 
Posts were closed down, and three new Posts established. 

9. The health of the prisoners has been uniformly good. At 
the 31st December, 1933, fourteen prisoners were confined to the 
Criminal Lunatic Section and fifteen to the Tubercular Ward of 
the Central Prison at Acre. ‘Two prisoners escaped from the 
Central Prison, Jerusalem, but were recaptured ; and of eleven who 
escaped whilst on outside labour, only four succeeded in evading 
re-arrest. 

10,876 prisoners were released under the Penal Labour Ordinance 
and employed on various services of public utility. No wages 
are paid to the prisoners for the work. 

A daily average of 725 convicted prisoners in Jail Labour Com- 
panies work on road making, quarrying and railway ballasting. 

In the Central Prisons, convicts are employed on making and 


repairing furniture for public offices, earth baskets for the Public ; 


Works Department, prison clothing, mats and sandals, iron grilles 
and doors, and carpets ; and on mending mail bags. A small print- 
ing plant is run with prison labour. 

The number of prisoners in confinement on the 3lst December, 
1933, was as follows :— 


Convicted. Unconvicted. 

Central Prison, Jerusalem ne 339 43 
Central Prison, Acre... <r 464 116 
Jail Labour Company No. 1 ... 321 — 
Jail Labour Company No. 2... 404 — 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem ... 44 6 
Northern District Lock-ups_... 28 39 
Southern District Lock-ups sei 110 113 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups _... 48 17 
Nablus District Lock-ups a 23 24 
Beersheba District Lock-up _... 6 2 

1,787 360 





The distribution of sentences was as follows :— 


Upto3 3-12 1-5 5-15 overl5 ,. Capital 
Debtors. months. months. years. years. years. Life. Punishment. 
48 298 562 436 357 72 51 


79 


There were 114 convicted offenders in the Reformatory School, 
The average age on admission was twelve years. 

1,484 debtors were imprisoned during the year, compared with 
1,446 in the previous year. 


10. Criminal Investigation Department.—The Criminal Investi- 
gation Department is controlled by a Deputy Inspector-General 
of Police. Huis principal assistant ranks as Deputy District Super- 
intendent of Police and there are in addition four Senior Police 
Officers in the Department. The subordinate British staff consists 
of two corporals and three constables, and the Palestinian personnel 
of three Inspectors, two sergeants and ten constables. 

The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are to 
prevent and detect crime by the collection and communication 
of intelligence, information and evidence, and by investigation ; 
to watch and report upon political movements, particularly com- 
munism, to repress seditious activities; to maintain criminal 
tecords and a Finger-print and Photographs Bureau; to examine 
the vernacular press and occasional pamphlets with a view to 
action in case of seditious, inflammatory or obscene articles; to 
prevent the smuggling of arms and drugs; to scrutinise applica- 
tions for naturalization ; to arrange deportations and extraditions ; 
and to preserve liaison with the corresponding departments in 
Egypt, Syria, Trans-Jordan, India, Iraq and Europe. Censorship 
_of newspapers from abroad is also undertaken by this Department. 


ll. A scientific section has been created for carrying out chemical 
tests for blood and noxious drugs, and microscopic examinations 
of firearms and ammunition used in the commission of crimes. 
‘Until early in 1933, all micro-photographs used in connection with 
criminal prosecutions were supplied by the Government Analyst ; 
the Criminal Investigation Department now prepares its own and 
has already tendered this form of evidence on 81x occasions in the 
Courts. A miniature cinematograph outfit is held for use on 
occasions of special importance. Thus an official cinematographic 
—Tecord exists of the disturbances in Jerusalem. 


12, The Criminal Records Office now holds 24,776 dossiers of 
convicted prisoners. The Finger Impression Bureau received 3,115 


. Slips for search, and in 811 cases enabled previous convictions to 
be traced. 


13, A system has been devised of keeping in touch with persons 
of known criminal tendencies or antecedents. The statistics of 

recidivism, showing a remarkable increase in the numbers of 
previous offenders admitted to prisons on reconviction, point to the 
eficacy of this innovation. 


14. The following are comparative statistics of crime in 
Palestine :— 


1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
indictable Offences . 4,723 5,015 4,815 4,133 2,881 
Nou-Indictable Offences ... 22,804 29,036 28,008 17,950 9,271 


80 


The progressive reduction in the number of offences speaks well 
for the improved methods and greater efficiency of the Police in 
recent years. 

The following is a comparative table of the incidence of serious 
crime :— 


1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
Murder... wa 178 126 119 119 108 
Attempted Murder asG 232 179 145 118 97 
Manslaughter ag oe 58 73 71 69 80 
Highway Robbery ae 34 28 +42 (98) +28 (57) 34 
Burglary, Housebreaking 
and Shopbreaking _.... 250 193 220 206 170 


The figures in brackets denote the revised statistics of highway 
robberies in 1931 and 1932 respectively, according to the classifica- 
tion adopted in 1933. All thefts from a person on a public road or 
track, accompanied by threat or violence, no matter what the nature 
or value of the property stolen, are now classified as highway 


robbery. In previous years some such cases were described as. 
animal theft, others as theft with violence, and so on. The decrease 3 


in this form of crime is very satisfactory. 


The small number of murders in 1933 is wholly due to a decrease . 


in cases involving the use of firearms and knives. 
In one instance highway robbery was accompanied by murder, 


an Arab villager being the victim. In fifteen instances the value | 
of the stolen property exceeded £P.20, and in three of these cases 


all the stolen property was recovered. 


In January, a certain Ahmad Hamad Mahmud, a villager of | 
Tammoun village since become known as ‘* Abu Jildeh ’’, murdered | 


three of his relatives whose sheep he had stolen and who had aroused 


his hatred by informing against him. He immediately absconded | 


and formed a gang of three highwaymen. This gang is responsible 
for nine serious crimes: two murders, five highway robberies, one 
theft with violence, and an attempted highway robbery. One 
member is now in custody awaiting trial for his part in these 
crimes. Special Police operations were undertaken against the gang, 
and for the last three months of the year, although no further 
captures were made, the gang was effectually kept from mischief. 

During the year there were nine highway robberies between 
Kalkilieh and Tulkarm, favoured by the bad state of the road ; but 
these were not the work of organized gangs. 


15. The Police have made special efforts to minimize the number 
of thefts committed by breaking into premises, a dangerous form of 
crime, which indicates premeditated criminal intent and determina- 
tion as opposed to impulse or opportunity. The success attending 
the organization and execution of preventive measures is shown in 
a reduction of 52 per cent. compared with last year. Comparative 
figures for the past seven years are given below :— 


1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
1,489 1,504 1,442 1,357 811 1,040 493 


mm hn a eh 
red a + Mee th 


81 


16. Cases of animal theft are no longer of a very serious nature 
s) far as concerns the value of the stolen live-stock and the total 
for 1933 is the lowest on record. | 

312 cases were reported, as against 611 in the previous year, and 
an average of 676 for the preceding five years. 

17. Only in respect of manslaughter do the crimes statistics for 
1933 show an increase :— 

1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
58 73 71 69 79 

This is almost entirely due to the development of motor traffic 
(65 of the 79 cases were the outcome of road accidents) and the 
difficulty of preventing mishaps.in an almost pavementless country, 
especially in certain large towns where main thoroughfares are still 
narrow. In many urban centres, however, street-widening is now 
proceeding apace ; other ‘‘safety-first’’ measures have been adopted, 
with the co-operation of the Palestine Automobile Club, and the 
Road Regulations are rigidly enforced. 


18. Four absconded offenders were extradited from Palestine to 
Syria, seventeen from Syria to Palestine, five from Palestine to 
Trans-Jordan, and seven from Trans-Jordan to Palestine. 

On page 11 of the Report of His Majesty’s Government on the 
Palestine Administration for 1923, reference was made to the pro- 
visional Extradition Agreement made in July, 1921, with the High 
Commissioner for Syria. 

The definite arrangement to be made between the two Govern- 
inents therein foreshadowed is now under negotiation, but pending 
its conclusion it has been found desirable to make certain modifica- 
tions in the existing provisional Agreement. These modifications 
were published in September, 1933, in the form shown in Appendix 
[I to this Report. 


19. One hundred and twelve persons were prosecuted under the 
Seditious Offences Ordinance, 1929, for offences connected with 
subversive communist movements: ninety-six were convicted and 
hinety-one were recommended for deportation. Sixteen communists 
were bound over under the Prevention of Crime Ordinance, to keep 
the peace, on occasions of political unrest. 

In addition, ten communists were ordered to be deported under 
the Immigration Ordinance, including the former General Secretary 
of the Central Committee of the Palestine Communist Party. 

Orders were issued by the High Commissioner on the recom- 
mendation of the Criminal Investigation Department for the 
exclusion of thirty-nine persons from Palestine, mostly because of 
communist activity. 

965 orders of deportation were issued, 391 against Syrians, 187 
igainst Egyptians, 115 against Poles, 34 against Russians and 238 
‘galnst other nationals. 382 Jews were affected by these orders. 

Tn 191 cases, deportation was ordered on the recommendation of 
Courts; 704 orders were against persons who overstayed the period 


82 


for which they had permission to remain as travellers, and ten 
against persons whose deportation was deemed to be conducive 
to the public good. 

648 deportations were actually carried out. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


20. The Force took up precautionary positions during the disturb- 
ances in October, but were not actively engaged. The detachments — 
in the Jordan Area were afterwards employed with effect to assist — 
the Police in suppressing gun-running across the frontier into — 
Palestine. 

The year was mainly devoted to reconnaissances and improve- 
ments in training, particularly in co-operation with the Royal 
Air Force. 

The mechanised Companies were furnished with their full 
complement of vehicles under the new re-organization, and the — 
summer was devoted to the tactical training of officers and _per- 
sonnel of the new companies. 

The Force was inspected during the year by the Secretary 
of State for the Colonies, the High Commissioner for Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan, and the Air Vice-Marshal, Commanding Middle 
Kast. 

In a Middle Fast rifle match, open also to the Iraq and Aden — 
Protectorate Levies, the first and second prizes were won by the 
Frontier Force, which, in addition, took eleventh place in twenty- 
five competing teams for the Egypt, Palestine and Sudan Shooting — 
Trophy. : 

The estimated cost of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in the 
financial year 1933-34 was £P.177,000 in respect of recurrent 
expenditure and £P.11,000 in respect of capital works. 
Of this total of £P.188,000, His Majesty’s Government accepted — 
liability for £P.149,000 in the form of a grant-in-aid of Palestine 
revenues. : 

The actual strength of the Force, including the Reserve, at 
the 31st December, 1933, was 1,041, made up as follows :-— 


Arabs. 
—_—s 
< = ; 
< 2 3 ‘3 < rd 
2 2 3 s 3 : Ss « 
= = 3 Nd 3 zs 6 
x = 2 © Bs & 3 ° 
RQ ey e) ar Oo RA D & 
Officers ... ee 24 8 8 3 8 1 — 383 
Warrant Officers 6 —_ nae — —_ fas das 6 
Staff Sergeants... ies 3 — mn on = a ass 3 
N.C.O.’s and Troopers... — 401 183 389 141 13 44 821 
Se a ae Se ee 
Total vee re 33 409 191 42 149 14 44 882 
Reserve N.C.O.’s and Men — _ 108 22 = 20 9 — 1859 
Total aa was 33 517 213 42 169 23 44 1,041 


83 


There has been no difficulty in obtaining recruits from persons 
resistered on the regimental waiting lists; 156 were enlisted, as 
follows :-— 


Arab Moslems ... es sae fon athe Fie 63 
Arab Christiane ... bah ae er re 5s 50 
Circassians ehe ae bee bis a _ 19 
Jews = Sais ade _ Sey aoe ne 14 
Egyptian and Sudanese cae A aes St 7 
Druzes_... : , sas wag . sie 3 


33l time-expired other ranks were re-engaged, the majority 
for a further period of three years. 


143 other ranks were discharged on termination of contract 
or for other reasons, and sixteen of them enrolled in the Reserve. 


The discipline of the Force continues to be satisfactory. 


The general health, too, has been good, save for a high incidence 
of malaria in November and December when the troops in the 
Jordan Area were on patrol almost continuously. 


The health of animals has also been very satisfactory, both 
at Zerka and in the Jordan Area, and with the exception of some 
cases of mange and catarrh among camels at Ma’an, the incidence 
of contagious disease has been negligible. 


_In order to assist horse breeders in Trans-Jordan, every effort 
is made to purchase remounts locally. 


A school of farriery is conducted at Zerka under the direction 
a farrier staff-sergeant, and five farriers were trained during 
e year. 


All units carried out individual and collective training, and 
co-operational flights in Royal Air Force machines were arranged 
for local officers and non-commissioned officers. 


All musketry courses this year were based on the tables in use 


in _ Regular Army, with minor modifications to suit local require- 
ments. 


Several officers attended tactical exercises without troops, and 
one a Staff College course, organised by the Army Commands in 
Palestine and Egypt; two officers were present at a series of 
lectures on the problems of defence at the War Office. 


Squadron and Company rifle meetings and field firing exercises 
were held in the autumn; and regimental courses in musketry, 
visual signalling, equitation and medical aid. 


Ps two mechanised Companies are now interchangeable, 
facilitating reliefs. The tactical unit is the half Company, con- 
‘isting of—Headquarters (staff car and W/T tender), one light 


84 


Troop (3 armed cars); and one heavy Troop (2 troop carriers an@-? 
1 heavy tender). All half-Companies are self-supporting in the 


field for four days, with a radius of action of 400 miles. 1 


Reconnaissances of the desert area have been made throughout 
the year, to familiarize all ranks with the terrain; tracks have 
been improved and simplified, and a great deal of useful inforr ,_ 
tion has been collected for map-making. " 


All personnel joining the Force, except clerks, orderlies} 
mechanics, and electricians, undergo a recruits’ course, rifle and 
foot drill, musketry, physical and recreational training ; personnel 
for mechanised Companies are trained in bayonet fighting; and 
drivers in mechanical transport, and cavalry recruits in horse 
management and equitation. Cavalry recruits spend six months 
in the training Depot, and other recruits fourteen weeks. One. 
hundred and one recruits completed the course during the year. (4. 


Special attention has been paid to recreational training, with, 
resultant improvement in the morale and physique of recruits. 


Recruits of special merit are given the appointment of squad 
lance-corporal at the Depot, and instructors are thus relieved of 
minor duties. | 


Reservists were called up for training in August and September; 
those for emplovment in Trans-Jordan in the event of mobilisation 
—at Zerka, and those for the Jordan Area—at Samakh. 


The monthly average of pupils attending educational classes was 
215 and illiteracy is gradually disappearing. 


Preliminary examinations were held on three occasions; there 
were in all 287 candidates of whom 202 passed the test. 


A school has been opened at Zerka for children of personnel of 
the Force: there are 38 pupils, and the school is self-supporting. 


Wireless communication has been maintained throughout the 
vear between Zerka, Jisr el Mejamie, Rosh-Pinnah, Ma’an, and 
Royal Air Force stations in Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


During the disturbances in Palestine, a station was erected and 
operated at Beisan. 


Three W’/T tenders were also in use in the Jordan Area, and 
two in the Ma’an Area. 

During operations in connection with gun-running, a station was 
erected south of Beisan, and one tender was similarly used at 
Jifthik. 

The number of messages dealt with during the year was approxi- 
mately 30,500. 

Units have been kept up to establishment in visual signalling 
by classes at Zerka, where a refresher course for all trained 
signallers was also held. 


XIT.—_INTERNATIONAL 


85 


AND TREATIES. 


AGREEMENTS, 


CONVENTIONS 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name 


Country. 
Egypt... 


Egypt 


France 


Great Britain 


Svria 
Syria 
Syria and the 
Lebanon 
23364 


of Palestine. 


(1) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramle. | 
11.7.21 (Palestine). 
15.7.21 (Syria). 
10.1.24 (Palestine). 


“+ 98.1.24 (Syria). 


Amendment ... 


11.9.33 (Palestine). 
23.9.33 (Syria). 


(11) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Customs Agreement ... 
Transit Agreement ... 


(ui) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Convention concerning the Reciprocal 
Enforcement of Judgments. 
Agreement concerning the Measures 
to be applied for the Control of 


Dengue Fever. 


.. Convention of Good Neighbourly 


Relagions concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of the Territories 

’ of Palestine on the one part and 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

ent between the Post Office 
of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland and the Post 
Office of Palestine for the Exchange 
of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement Sis 

Agreement concerning the Importa- 
tion of Antiquities. 

Agreement to provide for the Distri- 
bution of certain Receipts from 
Animal Tax. 

Parcel Post Agreement 


Money Orders Agreement ... 
ent regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 
Agreement for the Reciprocal Grant 
of Gratis Visas. 


Date of Signature. 
4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 

Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


Date of Signature. 
12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Jerusalem. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 

Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 
17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 


20.8.32, Jerusalem. 
6.9.32, Beirut. 


Country. Name. Date of Signature. 

Trans-Jordan ... Agreement for the Taking of 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
Evidence on Commission for the 6.3.29, Amman. ‘ 
purpose of any Criminal or Civil 
Matter. 

Trans-Jordan ... Agreement as to the Circulation of 14.11.29, Jerusalem. 
Motor Vehicles. 

Trans-Jordan ... Agreement regarding the Inter- 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
change of Judicial Documents. 6.3.29, Amman. 

Trans-Jordan Agreement regurding the Convey- 1.10.29. 
ance of Corpses from Palestine for 
Burial in Trans-Jordan and from 
Trans - Jordan for Burial in 
Palestine. 

United States of Convention regarding the Rights of 3.12.24. 

America. the Government and Nationals of 
the United States of America in 
Palestine. 
Agreement concluded in 193838. 
Egypt ; Arrangements for the Transit of 28.12.33, Cairo. 


Palestinian Pilgrims 
Egyptian Territory. 


through 


(Effective date), 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Name. 


International Convention prohibiting the Use of White 
(Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Opium Convention and subsequent 
relative papers. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. 

Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit asi 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 
Waterways of International Concern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. 
Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 

having no Sea Coast. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 
Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 

matters). 

International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Porta and Protocol of Signature. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
Berne. 
13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
Berlin. 
3.1.12, 21.8.24. 
The Hague 
20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
Berne. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24 
Barcelona 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona 
20.4.21, 9.10.22 
Barcelona. (Ratification). 
12.9.23, 23.65.27. 
Geneva. 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
Geneva. 
3.11.23, 29.8.24 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
9.12.23, 22.9.25 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 


87 


Name. 


Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electric Power and Protocol of Signature. 
Intemational Agreement as to Contagious Diseases 
of Animals. 
International Locust Bureau (Denounced) 


International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Exploration 
of the Mediterranean Sea. 

International Convention for the unification of certain 
rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 


International Radio-telegraph Convention 
Universal Postal Convention 
Agreement Concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 


Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial Navi- 
gation and Additional Protocol of May, 1920. 


_ International Convention relating to International 
| Exhibitions. 
_ International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
en of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 

eld. 


Intemational Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 


Traffic in Women and Children. 


Date of Date of 
Signature Accession. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25 
Geneva 
25.1.24 13.7.27 
Paris 
20.5.26, 18.8.27 
Damascus Ends 
31.12.33 
21.86.26, 9.10.28. 
Paris. 
26.4.29, 19.12.29 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31 
Brussels (Effective 
date). 
24.4.26, 4.12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date) 
25.11.27, 15.8.30. 
Washington 
28.6.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
28.6.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
13.10.19. 11.7.22 
(Effective 
date). 
22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
Paris. . 
19.2.25, 25.9.28 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 26.65.31, 
Geneva. 
27.7.29, 23.6.31 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
18.5.04, 
Paris. 6.5.32 
4.5.10, (Effective 
Paris date). 


Geneva. 


International Conventions adhered to in 19383. 


International Convention for the Protection of 
Industrial Property. 


Intemational Agreement regarding False Indications 
of Origin on Goods. 


23364 


6.11.25 


The Hague. 


6.11.25 


12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 
12.9.33 
(Effective 
date 
D 2 


88 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Date of eee Date of Application. 
Between United Kingdom 22.7.26 ... 29.1.27 (Ratification). 
and Albania. 
Austria ve arn wee 312.1873 ie 
26.6.1901 : aah: 
( 29.10.01, 
Belgium ie a ... | 6.3.07, 
Belgian Congo 3 3.3.11, 1.8.28 (Effective date). 
Ruanda-Urundi 8.8.23 and 
L 2.7.28 
Bolivia 22.2.1892 18.2.28. 
Chile 26.1.1897 13.1.28. 
Colombia 27.10.1888 5.12.30 (Effective date). 
2.12.29. 
Cuba ... 3.10.1904 12.12.31 (Effective date). 
17.4.1930. 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24 ve 15.7.27. 
Protocol 4.6.26. 
Denmark 31.3.1873 10.2.28. 
Ecuador 20.9.1880 19.1.28. 
Estonia 18.11.25 10.3.27. 
Finland 30.65.24 ... -. 25.11.26. 
Germany 14.5.1872 and 10.12.1928 17.8.30 (Effective date). 
Greece 24.9.10 .» 19.4.28, 
Guatemala 4.7.1885 11.9.29. 
Hayti ... 7.12.1874 bee -- 13.1.28. 
Hungary 3.12.1873 and 26.6. 1901 25.4.28. 
Latvia 16.7.24 ... sais .-- 7.6.26. 
Liberia 16.12.1892 16.10.28. 
Lithuania 18.5.26 29.3.27 (Ratification). 
Luxemburg 24.11.1880 28.1.28. 
Monaco 17.12.91 5.7.31 (Effective date). 
27.11.30. | 
Netherlands ... 26.9.1898 27.1.28. 
Nicaragua 19.4.1905 12.1.28. 
Norway 26.6.1873 13.12.29. 
18.2.1907. 
Panama 25.8.1906 24.1.28. 
Paraguay 12.9.1908 16.1.28. 
Peru ... 26.1.1904 16.1.28. | 
Roumania... 21.3.1893 11.1.29. 
San Salvador 23.6.1881 8.8.30 (Effective date). 
Siam bes 4.3.1911 wee §=29.2.28. | 
Ss bs 4.6.1878 and 19. 2. 1889 13.2.28. 
Switzerland ... 26.11.1880 she 19.9.29. 
29.86.1904. 
9.8.1842 (Article oy 
United States of America ...2 12-7.1889 3.12.25 
+4 13.12.1900 wee 3012.25. 
12.4.1905 f : 
Yugoslavia 6.12.1900 1.11.28. 
Treaty applied in 1933. 
"Iraq ... 2.5.1932 ... os 15.6.33 (Effective date). 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 
list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has been applied to the followinz 


countries :— 
Argentine. Mexico. Tunis. 
France. Portugal. Uruguay. 
Italy. San Marino. 


&9 


< ) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. 


Between Great Britain 


and 


Lithuania 


Yugoslavia 


Finland 


23364 


Name. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 


Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 
Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6. 30, Cairo 
Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14,12.23. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2.12.24, London. 


Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 
Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.7.26 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 


Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 
tions, 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.28. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 


Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.56.28. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
12.5.27. 


Agreements applied in 1933. 


Convention regarding the Suppression of 


Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 


into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 


Notes on Flag Discrimination in Portuguese 
Porte, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 


Date of 
Application. 


5.6.26. 


2.12.27- 
13.4.28. 


25.2.29. 


5.6.25. 
11.6.30. 
16/19.2.33. 
13.2.26. 
2.12.26. 


21.6.29, 
5.7.29 
(Effective 
date). 


23.3.27. 


9.7.29. 
1.6.30. 


25.5.24. 
24.4.23. 
10.12.29. 
2/19.9.32. 
19.6.24 
6.8.31. 
1.12.28. 


4.4.28. 


13.10.33 


14.10.33. 


D3 


90 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Country. 


Austria 


Belgium 


Czechoslovakia 


France bee 


Italy ... 
Netherlands ... 


Norway 


Poland 


Spain 


Sweden 


Estonia 


Portugal aes 


Countries which apply to Palestine 


Name. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 31.3.31, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 21.6.22, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 11.11.24. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 2.2.22, 
London. 

Extension to French Colonies and Terri- 
tories under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 1.8.33. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 20.3.28. 


Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certificates 
and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 25.1.29. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 

in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
17.12.30, London. 

Notes respecting Documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.31, London. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 30.1.3], 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 26.8.31, 
Warsaw. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil-and Commercial Matters, 27.6.29, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 28.8.30, 
London. 


Conventions applied in 1988. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 22.12.31, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters 9.7.31, 
London. 


1.12.29 
(Applicable to — 
British sub- 


11.10.33 


91 


XIII.—ANTIQUITIES. 


The policy of the Palestine Department of Antiquities continues 
to be based on the relevant provisions of the Mandate, which are 
given effect by the Antiquities Ordinance, 1929, amd the Regula- 
tions made thereunder. The texts of the Ordinance and the Regu- 
ee were printed in Appendices VII and VIII to the Report 
or 1929. 

The collection of Import Duty on antiquities has been abolished. 

The Regulations have been amended by a provision that ‘‘ Any 
antiquity of which the preservation is certified by the High Com- 
missioner to be incompatible with the carrying out of the pro- 
visions of a concession granted by the Turkish Government shall 
be exempt from the operation of the Ordinance ’’. | 

The immediate necessity for this amendment was the obligation 
upon the holders of the Concession for the drainage and reclama- 
tion of the Huleh Marshes to reconstruct the bridge known as 
Jisr Banat Ya’qub, (see Report for 1932, paragraph 8, page 57). 

The Department directs its efforts towards preserving unim- 
paired, so far as is possible, existing opportunities for adding to the 
knowledge of Palestinian archaeology and history and towards 
ensuring that the best use is made of those opportunities. 


2. The work of the Inspectorate has been continued with a view 
to preventing damage to antiquity sites, acquainting the inhabitants 
with the terms of the law, and obtaining data for the compilation 
of an archaeological survey. 

3. The Department has continued the works of research and con- 
servation, begun in 1930, at the Crusaders’ Castle of Athlit. 
Accounts of this work and of other investigations are published, 
from time to time, in the Quarterly of the Department of Antiquities 
in Palestine, of which the first number appeared in June, 1931. 

4. The Department has also completely excavated the undamaged 
portion of Tell Abu Huwam, near Haifa; the area has consequently 
become available for industrial development. 

d. Licences have been issued for archaeological excavations at 
the following sites :— 


(a) Tell el-Sultan (Jericho), by Professor J. Garstang, for 
the Institute of Archaeology, University of Liverpool. 

(b) Balata (Nablus), by Dr. G. Welter, for the Archaeo- 
gisches Institut des Deutschen Reiches. 

(c) Faradiya and Na’ana, by Dr. B. Maisler, for the Jewish 
Palestine Exploration Society. 

(d) Wadi Khureitun, by Monsieur R. Neuville, for l'Institut 
de Paleontologie Humaine, Paris. 

(e) Tell Duweir, by Mr. J. L. Starkey, for the Wellcome 
Historical Museum. 

(f) Et-Taiyiba, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

23864 D4 


92 


(g) Samaria, by Mr. J. W. Crowfoot, for the Harvard . 
University, the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem, 
the Palestine Exploration Fund, and the Hebrew University, 
Jerusalem. 

(h) ’Ain Shems, by Dr. E. Grant, for Haverford College, 
Pennsylvania. 

(1) Wadi al-Mughara (Athlit), by Miss D. A. E. Garrod, 
for the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem and the ~ 
American School of Pre-historic Research. 

(j) Jerusalem (Baq’a), by Monsieur R. Neuville, for the 
l'Institut de Paleontologie Humaine, Paris. 

(k) Et-Tell, by Mlle. J. Krause, for Baron Edmond de 
Rothschild. 

(1) Beisan, by Mr. G. M. FitzGerald, for The University 
Museum, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 

(m) Semunieh, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(n) Jebal Kasfa (near Nazareth), by Monsieur R. Neuville, 
for l'Institut de Paleontologie Humaine, Paris. 

(o) Tall al-Ful, by Dr. W. F. Albright, for the American 
School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. 

(p) Tabgha, by Dr. A. E. Mader, for the Orientalisches 
Institut der Gorresgesellschaft zu Jerusalem. 

(q) Isbeita, by Mr. H. Dunscombe Colt, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(r) Kefr ’Akib, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(s) Tell el Jerisheh, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(t) Tall el-Ujul, by Sir W. Flinders Petrie, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Egypt. 

(u) Tall al-Mutsallem (Megiddo), by Mr. P. L. O. Guy, 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 


XIV.— OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance with 
Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which reads as 
follows :— 

—“* All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of the 
Government and all official notices of local authorities and 
municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the High 
Commissioner, shall be published in English, Arabic and 
Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates and 
discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to any 
regulations to be made from time to time, in the Government 
offices and the Law Courts.’’ 

As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his arrival 


mm ee 
f 


——— 


93 


~ in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to the use of 
~ English, Arabic and Hebrew in the Law Courts was more exactly 
~ defined by a Public Notice as follows :— 

‘‘In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a trilingual 
area, every process, every official copy of a judgment, and 
every official document shall be issued in the language 
of the person to whom it is addressed, and written and oral 
pleadings shall be conducted in any of the three official 
languages. The Legal Secretary may from time to time issue 
Tules* restricting the languages of pleading in any Court or class 
of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 

‘* In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court shall, and 
in any other area may, accept a declaration and register a 
document in any of the three official languages.”’ 

2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 

_ mnay be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, Haifa, 
and Jaffa, and also the district of Jaffa and sub-districts of Tiberias 

_ and Safad. The recognition of the three languages in the Courts 
involves some complication in the hearing of cases, and occasionally 

_ tnals are protracted. The rules have, however, on the whole worked 
smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies may 

be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 

3. The Palestine Gazette, Reports of official Commissions and 
Committees, and Departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic, and Hebrew. 

4. Steps are being taken to label in the three official languages 
exhibits of the Palestine Archaeological Museum. 

It has not yet been found possible to overcome the difficulties 
Which would attend the introduction of measures permitting the 
despatch of telegrams in the Hebrew script. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 

A list of the days which are recognised as holy days by the various 
communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix IX to the 
Report for 1930. 

XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 


See separate chapters on Trans-Jordan on pages 242 to 288. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


Corngendum.—In the fourth line from the bottom of page 77 in 
the Report for 1932, the figure 12 was printed in error for 112. 

2. The position with regard to the application of international 
labour conventions to Palestine has not changed since 1981. 


* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


94 


Reference is invited to paragraph 2 in Section XVII of the Report 
for that year. 

The following is a brief survey of the international labour con- 
ventions to which His Majesty’s Government are a party, and 
which have been applied to Palestine, or the application of which 
is or has been under consideration. 


(a) Convention concerning unemployment. 


This convention is applied so far as the communication to the ~ 
International Labour Office of information concerning unemploy- - 


ment is concerned. 
The principles on which the statistics of unemployment are 


based are described in paragraph 2, Section XVII, of the Report 
for 19382. 


(b) Convention concerning employment of women during the night. . 


The night work of women is prohibited by the provisions of the 
Industrial Employment of ‘Women and Children Ordinance, 1927. 


(c) Convention fixing the minimum age for admisston of children 
to industrial employment. 


The minimum age of children in industrial employment is fixed at | 
twelve years by the provisions of the same Ordinance. The follow- .' 
ing restrictions are in force with regard to children below sixteen — 


years of age :— 


(a) Their employment in the _ trades declared as 
‘‘ dangerous ’’, or in the work of cleaning machinery while 
in motion, is prohibited. 

(b) The hours of work are restricted : not more than eight 


in any period of 24 hours and not more than five hours con- © 


tinuously. 
(d) Convention concerning the night work of young persons 
employed in industry. 

According to the same Ordinance, no child under sixteen years 
may be employed in any industrial undertaking during the night. 
(e) Convention concerning the rights of association and combtna- 

tion of agricultural workers. 


This convention is in effect in force in Palestine. f€uch asso- 
clations are not prohibited and most of the Jewish agricultural 
labourers are organized within the General Federation of Jewish 
Labour in Palestine. 


(f) Convention concerning Workmen's Compensation tn Agriculture. 
Agriculture is not included in the schedule of trades to which 


the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927, was made 


applicable. Its inclusion has in part been recommended by the 
Labour Legislation Committee, and the recommendation 18 now 
being considered by Government. 


—e ——_ - 
a” PEE : re ~ 


95 


(g) Convention concerning Workmen’s Compensation for Occupa- 
tional Diseases. 
Legislation on this subject also has been recommended by the 
Labour Legislation Committee; and is being considered. 


(h) Convention concerning equality of treatment for national and 
foreign workers as regards Workmen’s Compensation for 
accidents. 

This convention is applied to Palestine which formally adhered 

in 1929; and in the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927, 

there is no discrimination between Palestinian and foreign workers. 


(i) Convention concerning the creation of minimum wage fixing 
machinery. 

The variety of labour employed in Palestine—Jewish European 
labour, Jewish Oriental labour, Arab labour, etc., makes the appli- 
cation of this convention extremely difficult. The creation of 
minimum wage fixing machinery has been considered by the Labour 
Legislation Committee. 


(j) Convention concerning sickness insurance for: (i) workers in 
industry and commerce and domestic servants; and (i) agr- 
cultural workers. 


Neither convention is applied to Palestine. 


The Labour Legislation Committee has considered the pro- 
posals, but its report is adverse to them, and the Palestine Govern- 
ment is disposed to agree with this view at the present stage of 
soclal development in Palestine, and taking the working popula- 
tion as a whole. 


(k) Protection of Marine Workers. 


Convention fixing the minimum age for admission of children 
to employment at sea. 

Convention concerning unemployment indemnity in case of loss 
or foundering of the ship. 

Convention fizing the minimum age for the admission of young 
persons to employment as trimmers or stokers. 

Convention concerning the compulsory examination of children 
and young persons employed at sea. 

Convention concerning seamen’s articles of agreement. 


The development of the mercantile marine in Palestine has 
not yet reached the stage at which legislation on these subjects 
would be required. 


3. The accepted definition of unemployment is given on page 76, 
paragraph 2 of the Report for 1932. The monthly estimates cover 
all men and women seeking and in need of employment whether 
they are in normal circumstances employees, or small farmers 
or employers or even shopkeepers. 


96 


Although the appointment of a Labour Officer in the Depart | 
ment of Immigration has improved conditions, difficulties stil , 


present themselves in the collection of unemployment statistics. 
The few private employment agencies are small and limited in 
their scope. Information regarding Jewish unemployment is based 


on figures furnished by the Labour Exchanges of the General | 


Federation of Jewish Labour and subsequently checked and supple- 
mented by independent enquiries of other employment agencies, 
public and private, large employers, contractors, public bodies, 
managers of works and others who should be acquainted with the 
state of the labour market. 

Information regarding Arab unemployment is obtained by the 


District Officers who rely on the Mukhtars, Government Medical , 


Officers and teachers in the villages and on such similar sources 
as are available for ascertaining Jewish unemployment in the 
towns. The Arab trade unions that exist are not well organized 
and can give the Labour Officer little assistance in this respect. 

4. Unemployment among Arabs was practically stationary 
during the year, the number reported fluctuating between 15,000 
and 20,000, the highest monthly figure being 20,500 in July 
and the lowest 15,600 in December. The majority were 
agriculturists. 

Among Jews the decrease of unemployment observed in the 


’ a, Je 


last six months of 1932 continued. The lowest monthly figure : 


was 500 in March and the highest 1,550 in December. 
Monthly estimates of unemployment :— 




























JEWS. | ARABS. 
Total. Men. | Women.} Total. Men. | Women. 
| 

January ‘ 1,100 700 400 16,500 | 16,000 500 
February 600 250 350 18,500 | 18,000 500 
March 500 200 300 17,500 | 17,200 300 
April 600 350 250 16,500 | 16,200 300 
May ... 750 400 350 14,500 | 14,000 500 
June... 1,300 750 550 17,300 | 16,900 400 
July ... 1,300 450 850 20,500 | 19,950 550 
August 1,250 650 600 20,000 | 19,400 600 
September ... 1,000 400 600 18,000 | 17,500 500 
October 1,000 400 600 17,000 | 16,400 600 
November .. cat 1,100 600 500 16,500 | 15,500 | 1,000 
December . 1,550 | 1,050 500 15,600 | 14,400 | 1,200 

Average | 490 16,790 | 580 








5. Estimates were again made of the number of Jewish working — 
men and women in the Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa and Ramle dis-_ 
tricts, other than clerks, shop-assistants, hospital nurses and 


97 


attendants, chauffeurs, waiters, domestic servants and other 
similar classes. The comparative figures for October, 1931, 
October, 1932, April, 1933, and October, 1933, are given below :— 


October, October, April, October, 

1981. 1982. 1933. 1988. 

Factories and larger workshops 3,929 6,236 6,668 9,716 

Building see ~ si 2,299 4,152 6,395 10,5718 

Public works and similar works 1,166 1,039 931 916 

Agriculture oat wee e 6,957 7,332 9,875 8,510 

In the service of small em- 2,472 2,810 8,698 3,451 

ployers (industry). 

Government and Municipalities 662 661 597 595 
(permanent labourers). 

Total employed 17,485 21,230 28,164 33,759 

Unemployed (Members of trades 2,000 500 200 370 


covered by these estimates). 


6. The influx of capital, the increase of the population, the de- 
velopment of industrial and planting undertakings and the intensive 
building movement accentuated the shortage of skilled labour. As 
@ consequence wages as a whole increased, especially among Jews 
and in the building and allied trades generally ; Tel-Aviv, Haifa and 
the Jewish agricultural settlements of the Maritime Plain were 
chiefly affected by this rise. 

The wages paid in the Jewish building trade increased by twenty 
to forty per cent. as compared with the previous year. The rates 
of wages paid to Arab building workers also showed increases, 
though in a less degree. 

In the industries employing Jewish labour, wages increased in 
the building material industries and in wood works connected with 
construction. Wages increased in printing, clothing and other 
establishments, | 

In Arab industries, wages increased in the weaving industry of 
Majdal, and to some extent in the building material industries and 
In stone quarrying. The volume of employment in the building 
material industries increased on account of the constant demand for 
crushed stone, bricks and tiles. A downward tendency in wages 
was noted in the Arab soap industry, to which further reference is 
made elsewhere in this Report. 

A slight increase of wages took place in Jewish agricultural 
employment. The standard minimum daily wage of a general 
labourer, which had varied from 175 to 200 mils, was fixed at 200 
mils. A slight increase of wages was also noted in skilled branches 
of agricultural work. 

Wages of Arab agricultural Iabourers remained on the whole 
without change. 


7. The limitation of working hours to eight a day and extra 
payment for overtime were invariably included in the collective 
agreements made during the year. In some establishments the 


98 


existing: eight-hours working day was confirmed by these agree 
ments, in others hours were reduced to eight. An eight-hours 
working day was introduced in the bakeries of Tel-Aviv and in a 
number of the tailoring shops of Haifa. 


As a rule, in Jewish industry, almost all the larger undertakings © 
and a great number of the smaller ones observe the eight-hours 
working day. 


No appreciable change occurred in the hours of the closing of 
shops. ‘The voluntary agreements concluded between the shop | 
owners and the Jewish Clerks’ Union at Haifa and Jerusalem proved 
of short duration. At Tel-Aviv, the hours of closing of shops re- 
mained 8 p.m. in summer and 7 p.m. in winter. The Council of 
the Township took steps, however, to enact a new by-law, reducing 
the hours of work in shops, but no such legislation was proposed 
in any other town. 


8. The tendency to secure better conditions of work on the part 
of the workers found expression in demands for collective agree- 
ments, not infrequently supported by strikes. The general con- 
ditions of the labour market were favourable to the possibility of 
enforcing the desired terms on the employers. It should be men- 
tioned, however, that in numerous undertakings collective agree- 
ments were reached without any stoppage of work. The points of 
the agreements usually demanded by the Labour Organization and 
for the most part granted by the employers were as follow :— 


(a) An eight-hours working day ; (b) standard rates of wages 
(in the prevailing circumstances this meant as a rule increased 
rates) ; (c) recognition of the Union as the representative of the 
employees; (d) recruitment of labour through the labour ex- 
change office of the Union (in some cases through special 
committees appointed for this purpose); (e) reference to the 
Union in the case of dismissal of workers; (f) annual leave 
with pay; (g) insurance against accidents; and (h) contribu- 
tion of a certain percentage of the pay-roll to the Workers’ 
Sick Fund or to similar institutions. One item often included 
in collective agreements was an obligatory arbitration clause in 
case of dispute. 


In a few cases prohibition of the employment of young persons, 
sanitary regulations tending to safeguard the health and safety of 
the workers and regulations laying down the conditions of work of 
young apprentices were included; and several agreements embody © 
regulations concerning the distribution of work between the various 
competing labour organizations. 


9. The demand of the General Federation of Jewish Labour that 
only their members should be engaged and that through their 
labour exchanges met with strong opposition from the employers, 
both in town and country. In many labour disputes this question 





99 


of the recruitment of labour was the most difficult. The problem 
was further complicated by the intervention of a rival Union, the 
Revisionist Workers’ Organisation. 


At Tel-Aviv, an attempt was made during the year to establish 
a neutral Labour Distribution Committee, representative of all 
parties, with the intention of laying down the proportions of 
members of different organizations to be employed in building under- 
takings and municipal works. The Chairman of this Committee 
was appointed by the Township. A collective agreement securing 
certain conditions of work (hours, standard wages, insurance 
against accidents, etc.), and recognizing this Committee, was made 
between the Building Contractors’ Association and all the labour 
organizations of Tel-Aviv. But serious differences at once 
developed between the representatives of the various bodies on the 
Committee and after a brief notice the representatives of the 
General Federation of Jewish Labour were withdrawn. 


The ‘‘ Joint Labour Bureaux ’’ managed by representatives of 
both employers and workers, which were established in several 
Jewish agricultural settlements two years ago, met with little 
success. Only one survived until the end of 1933. 


In three Jewish agricultural settlements there were employment 
bureaux administered solely by farmers. Two of them were 
established in the course of the year under review. 


Two private fee-charging employment agencies were established 
at Tel-Aviv, one of which opened a branch at Haifa. These 
agencies, as well as that of the Jewish Community of Haifa, deal 
mainly with women clerks, shop-assistants, nurses, domestic 
servants and similar employees. 


10. Fifty-seven labour disputes came under notice during the 
year, affecting 240 industrial establishments, 14 farms and one 
public institution, involving 2,050 workers and the loss of 19,100 
working days. These disputes comprised 42 strikes, three lockouts 
and twelve differences caused by the demand of the General Federa- 
tion of Jewish Labour for the employment of Jewish or union 
labour only, but not involving any stoppage of work. One strike 
of 400 Arab weavers, which lasted for three days, affected eighty 
undertakings, mostly small weaving mills; there were general 
strikes in the building trade affecting 74 undertakings; and general 
strikes of carpenters, tailors, shoemakers, printers and bakers. In 
88 strikes and lockouts Jewish labour only was involved, in five 
cases Arab labour was involved, and in two cases both Jewish and 
Arab labour. Once a strike was declared by Jewish workers in one 
establishment to support Arab workers on strike elsewhere. 


_ Twenty-four disputes were caused by the workers’ demand for 
Improvement of conditions of work, increase of wages, shorter hours, 
etc.; 25 disputes were due, principally, to the demand for the 


100 


employment of Jewish labour, union labour or for such system of 
distribution of work as to assure a fixed proportion of the work 
available to Jewish or union labour. 


In 29 instances the workers more or less succeeded in securing 
their main demands, in eighteen they failed, and in nine the result 
was @ compromise. 


The special feature of the disputes was the tendency on the part of 
the Jewish Labour Organisation, already observed in the previous 
year, to secure collective agreements, covering entire branches of 
certain industries, and the pressure for higher wages. Many of 
the strikes in the building and allied trades were of short dura- 
tion, the conditions of the labour market being favourable to the 
workers’ demands. 


The disputes were frequently settled by arbitration and it became 
customary to include in the terms of settlement a clause laying 
down that any dispute that might arise in future should be settled 
by arbitration. 


11. The trade union movement showed some progress among 
Arabs and several attempts were made to establish Arab labour 
organizations, in some cases under the influence of the Jewish 
Labour Organization, in others in Arab districts spontaneously. 
Most of the Arab unions, however, lack proper organization and 
some of them must be described as imactive or even moribund. 
As a rule, Arab labour organizations include both wage-earners 
and independent artisans. 


The unions organized with the aid of the Jewish Labour Organi- 
zation belong to the mixed type, with both Arab and Jewish 
members. | 

The following is a brief survey of Arab and mixed labour unions 
now in existence :— 


Arab Unions. 


(a) The Arab Workers’ Association, Hatfa.—This organization 
claims to represent a relatively large number of workers, but is 
not yet fully ordered. | 

(b) The Co-operative Society of Christian Labourers, Jaffa, 
formerly the Greek Orthodox Labour Union. The majority of 
the members are wage-earners, about ten per cent. being inde- 
pendent artisans, of whom some employ hired labour. 

(c) The Arab Labour Association, Ramallah.—Established in 
1933. Includes both wage-earners and independent artisans. 

(d) The Labour Weaving Society, Majdal.—All the members are 
wage-earners. The union was established in 1933, its foundation 
being encouraged by a successful strike of weavers. 

{e) An attempt to establish an Arab Workers’ Club at Nazareth 
was made in 1933, supported by the members of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour, but with no appreciable result. 


101 


Arab-Jewtsh Labour Organizations. 


(a) The Unton of Railway, Post and Telegraph Workers, with 
branches in the principal towns. 

(b) The General Workers’ Club, Haifa, includes workers of 
various trades. The activities of this organization are centred 
upon social and educational aims. The majority of the members 
are Arabs, but the Club is directed by the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour. 

(c) The Sea Workers’ Union, Hatfa. 

(d) The Bakers’ Union, Haifa. —A co-operative bakery was _ 
established at Haifa by this union in 1933. 

(e) The Quarry Workers’ Unton, Hatfa-Yajur. 

(f) The Petroleum Workers’ Union, Hatfa.—Established in 1933. 

(g) and (h) The Civil Service Association (First Division) and 
The Crow Service Association (Second Division) include British 
Arab and Jewish Government officers. 


12. The Labour Legislation Committee (see 1932 Report, 
page 80, paragraph 10) submitted its final reports in the course of 
the year in regard to the revision of the existing Ordinance for the 
protection of women and children in employment and for the pay- 
ment of compensation for industrial accidents. 


13. In the light of these reports, the Palestine Government has 
under consideration amendment of the Industnal Employment of 
Women and Children Ordinance, 1927, and the Workmen’s 
Compensation Ordinance, 1927. 


14. In addition, the Labour Legislation Committee has sub- 
mitted its final reports on 
(a) minimum wage for any machinery. 
(b) legal notice of termination of employment. 
(c) a compulsory weekly day of rest. 
(d) compulsory sickness insurance. 


15. The Committee did not recommend any form of general 
minimum wage for either urban or rural labour in Palestine but 
suggested that the imposition of minimum wage rates should be 
confined to proved cases of exploited labour. 


16. The Palestine Government, after careful consideration of this 
proposal, supported by a memorandum from the General Federation 
of Jewish Labour in Palestine, decided that the conditions in Pales- 
tine were not at present such as to justify or render practicable a 
general enforcement of a minimum wage but that it was desirable 
that power should be taken by the High Commissioner to fix 
minimum wages in specific areas and for specific trades or industries 
in which it would be shown to his satisfaction that labour was 
being exploited or some other form of abuse of labour was taking 
place. 


102 


17. The Committee recommend and the Government has agreed 
that legislation should be enacted to provide :— 


(a) that employees paid on a weekly basis should be entitled | 


a 


to a week’s notice and those on a monthly or yearly basis toa | 
month’s notice, employees on their part being bound to give. . 
similar notice to their employers, and the right of an employer _. 


to dismiss an employee without notice on disciplinary grounds 


and to terminate employment without notice at the end ofs — 


probationary period being safeguarded ; 


(b) that to protect workmen whose employment was prac- ° 
tically permanent, whether or not their payment was calculated _ 
by the day or the week, a labourer or other employee engaged _ 
in the same employment regularly for six months should be 


deemed to be an employee entitled to one week’s notice ; 


(c) that an employee on the termination of his employment : 
should be entitled to a certificate from his employer that he ~ 


has served in a certain capacity from one date to another ; 


(d) that a week’s or a month’s wages should be payable in ; 


lieu of notice. 


18. Government approved the principle of a@ compulsory weekly — 


day of rest for all persons in receipt of salary or wages from an en- 


ployer in factories or shops; the legislation to be applied at first : 
only to Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv and Haifa and thereafter to any © 


large centre of habitation in which local option for its introduction 
was passed by the Municipal Corporation and approved by the High 
Commissioner. It is contemplated that legislation should be passed 


requiring every employer either to close his place of business com- | 
pletely on one day of the week or to satisfy Government that he has © 


made such arrangements as to enable every one of his employees to 


rest from work on one day of the week. It is proposed to exclude — 


certain places of business such as restaurants and others in which no 
person other than the proprietor or a member of his family is 
employed. | 

19. No steps have been taken by the Government to introduce 
any form of compulsory health insurance; the majority of the 
Committee held the view that legislation of this nature was not 
desirable in the present circumstances of Palestine. 

The Government has also considered the question of the adequacy 
of the existing legislation in regard to labour disputes involving a 


third party which is at present governed by the Prevention of — 


Intimidation Ordinance, 1927. In that Ordinance the definition 


of industrial disputes is wide enough to include a dispute arising | 


from the employment of persons on account of their race or religion. 
Cases have occurred of friction between Arab and Jewish workmen 
particularly in connection with the employment of Arab labour in 
Jewish orange groves. It is therefore intended to provide that an 
industrial dispute shall mean a dispute connected with employment 
or non-employment or terms of employment or conditions of labour 


103 


and not a dispute which has for its cause any objection by any 
workman to the employment of any person on account of that 
_ person’s race, religion, or language. 


20. A trained part-time assistant has been appointed under the 
Inspector of Welfare Work for factory inspection in Jaffa, Tel-Aviv 
and the surrounding villages. This hds greatly facilitated the in- 
spection of the continually growing number of factories and work- 
shops in this area and gives the Inspector a wider field of 
surveillance. 

The number of new factories and workshops has greatly in- 
creased during the past year especially in Tel-Aviv and Haifa, and 
_ INany of those which have been established some years are either 
enlarging their premises or moving to more spacious buildings. 

Owing to high rents and rates in the larger towns there is a 
growing tendency to build factories and workshops outside the 
municipal areas, and also in the Jewish settlements where motor 
cars and omnibuses take the hands to and from their work. This is 
encouraging as the new buildings are in much less restricted areas, 
60 that more space and air can be given to the workers; and they 
are, moreover, specially designed for industrial use. 


21. The number of children employed in both Arab and Jewish 
factories is decreasing, in the former because adult labour is cheap 
and plentiful and in the latter because the rates of wages are gener- 
ally regulated by the General Federation of Jewish Labour. The 
problem of child labour is, in Palestine, definitely not a serious one. 

In certain trades, however, such as cardboard-box making and 
taloring, young girls and boys are still employed at a low wage. 

Government birth certificates, which, in local circumstances are 
the only reliable test of age, are now available for most young 
Workers as registration of birth was made compulsory in 1921. 

In the majority of factories, an eight-hour day is the rule. 

Only in a few cases have complaints of exploitation of child 
labour been found to be justified; and in those, prompt remedial 
action was taken. The General Federation of Jewish Labour is 
doing much good work to improve conditions in factories and where 
owners and workers are members of the Federation much better 
conditions prevail. 

The number of small boys and girls trading in the streets or in 
cinemas and concert halls until late at night, especially in Tel-Aviv 
is increasing. Legislation for suppressing this evil has been 
suggested. 


22. There has not yet been time for the Employment of Females 
Ordinance (see Section VII, paragraph 4) to work any perceptible 
change in the condition of the negroid girls, daughters of tribesmen 
of a low caste in the Jordan Valley, who are customarily hired out 
to Arab housekeepers in the towns on long contracts for domestic 
service. 


104 


Steps are being taken, with the assistance of Police and District 
Officers, to make the provisions of this Ordinance known to all 
concerned, to register the hired girls, and to inspect them in 
service periodically. 

23. Employees of the Iraq Petroleum Company are either senior 
personnel on individual contracts usually engaged in Europe or 
America ; or locally recruited clerical, technical or supervisory staf 
engaged by letter of engagement, payable at monthly rates and 
entitled to a month’s notice; or locally recruited manual workers, 
skilled and unskilled, paid at a daily rate and lable to discharge 
without notice. 

The rates of pay of manual workers are graded as follows :— 


2 


“= a i ee 
en-ese 


, oak Pay of Grade Mils. 

Boy (60-80 mils) ... oe oak oe 

0 fees (100 mils) Seg _ an 0-100 
I Labourer, Sweeper (terminal) ... ai 120 
Ia 120-170 4 
II 160-240 

III Various categories of skilled labour 250-370 

IV ese 7 
vj 400-550 ; 


The standard working day for manual labourers is nine hours, 
subject to variation in pipe and road gangs from day to day at the 
discretion of the officer in charge, provided that the total working 
week does not exceed 63 hours. During construction, work 3s 
normally seven days a week, but officers in charge of works are 
allowed discretion to stop work on one day a week. If no weekly 
holiday is given an occasional half-holiday (without loss of pay) may 
be granted. 

Religious holidays are granted to all employees, as far as the 
exigencies of the work permit. Such holidays are on full pay pro- 
vided the workman works on the preceding and following days. 

Free medical attention is granted during sickness (if certified by 
the Company’s medical officer) with half pay up to a maximum ofa 
fortnight except at Haifa, where workmen receive free outpatient 
treatment, if they attend the Company’s dispensary, but no sick 
pay. 

Every accident to locally recruited employees (whether at work 
or not) is recorded. Compensation for injury is governed by 3 
series of rules and scales of payment authorized by the Company. 
not less favourable than those laid down under the Workmen's 
Compensation Ordinance, 1927. 

Arrangements exist for local allotments to be made by employee: 
to their families. 


t 


Rations in kind are provided to main construction gangs, and 
travelling and meal allowances are granted in appropriate cases 
where an employee travels on duty. 

There have been no labour disputes of any importance between 
the Company and its emplovees in Palestine during this year. 


"U9} 0} 44S!e w0Iy BuLAIVA—suor;eyUBId asuBIO UT {yastINS 07 OsLIUNS WO1J—pUT [vol00 UO : ote sIAMOgeR Qeiy JO sinoy yensn oy f, 
‘poAodure st Moqzy] YsIMapr eq 89880 YSOUl 
Ul om @ st YOIy ‘YOM Ayrep sinoy 3ySIe 07 sO 94} UO pucdselIoo Mog] Ueedomma jo yoodsel Ul WMOTS 89}¥1 OUT —'HAYOM JO SUNOPW 


a 0S-0€ 08-09 = OL-09 OOT =  @arspoy pue preoq a SJUBAION ULIV] pus sIBINOQGV] ‘(] 
09-0F 08-09 021-08 az SLI-0SI 006 ee : "+ - re1oued ‘sIOINOGV] °¢ 
— es as an OSZ-09T 00£-002 eee coe ove eee eee eee eee HOM Arreqy °g 
—— paren 0OF—-0°E — —— 009-009 eee eee eee rT} 6é SSB]O puz ‘Butyoed esuB1Q oy 
? 0023-091 — OSZ-OLIT | 008-002 |°" aye Si * (quo. ecard) da aes pus Zurjlos ofuv1Q “9 
09-07% 08-09 0z 1-08 = 00¢-0¢T 006 ™ ae as Buryord esuv1Q °g 
09-0F | OL-09 | OOI-09 | OZI-00T OST OOS-OLT. here, Rn GR EE 99 ‘sourA ‘saal[oO) Suryord ymiq “F 
_ — OST-00T — OOS-OLT | 00€&-09% | cs ants ‘ yom Arosmu ‘Suyueyd oly, “¢ 
09-07 08-09 021-08 = = ocz-00e | °" ats si 2 ganwiiea ‘Burqsaiy} ‘Zurdver ‘Burgsnoig °Z 
a —< 008-006 = =a OSt-00E | *” "+ gormeqoour Zuidumd ‘sIealIp 10,081], : FIOM OUTGORY *T 


“UOAPBYD | “waulo M | "ua "UAsPTYO | "uaUlo M | edi 


‘WU0M 40 HONVUG 


“ENOAV'] OLLVISY ‘anoavy] Nvaaowng 





quowfkodurg feNyMopsy Uy (STI Uy) soBem Ayyeq Zuyyeacigd—vy 


86} ‘ANILSH1Vd NI WHOM JO SHYNOH ANV SHDVM 


106 


“Uso M 


‘onus us sobom Anng 


"ua 





"aNOdVT OLLVISY 


“y4on 
fo ssnoy 
inog 





"ua 


‘snus ut sabon finng 


“anOdvy Nvidownay 










sdousason Tears=—s310% [879 [eIeUsT) 
"* MeBIog ‘sqMBHOR A 


= SUPIMIBHOOT * 
acne 


iauasseislbuy ‘SY40M PAT — TIT 


oes “** SurgsrureA ‘Surgsyog ° 


"* SiequedzE/ ‘gloWVUl JoUIG By) 


ampafuuonr 3 aAnpuUsng ‘84404 POO M— J] 


“+ gIomnoge'y 
s10qS1]0q nasiea ‘g1oYVUL OTT], 


AININOwNUBUT OLAS [SIOGTY PU SfT} JOLT 


YIOM [BNUVUI—sIOHVUIyOLIg 
410M oUTyoeul—sreqeUNVO LT 
: QIMJORNUBUL FOL 


Surysn.io ew 
“+ giamoqeyT 
pol] Sys—s1079n9-0u038 ‘uomATeNny 


: Suifirenb ou0}g ° 


“poise FT Gusapang pup saLsnn?) auonjg—'] 


(‘THQ AOVETAY 40 SaHWAOM) 
‘NOLLVdN00Q GNV ABLSOGNT 


“a1 
“PI 
"ST 


“sl 
‘Tl 
Ol 


pam 


ene SSS ee, 


SO[1jsupUl ZupMouynuvpY pojoojeg Ul sosem ZuyTercld— gq 


O0€I-00l 
002-081 


pa 006-00T 
= 0gc-0ST 


09-0F 





OSI-09 
OOI-OL 
0ST-00I 


on 00E—-006 


09-09 





o9gt-08 


O9T-00T = 
g GLI-001 ak 
— 002 
= OSt-0S¢ 
= 008 
= SZZ—-00 — 
SZZ-GLI 00-008 
01-6 GLI-O9T 082-002 
002 es 
i OLE 
} a { — OSt-OLE 





pe qf: 
fee {2 
af 
ee: 


ove py : 89110}08} Tews ‘mnojea—Sapyenr deog ‘61 


© ait 


3 6) 
e 


see eee BuTTOq Vy] 
woe Suryss AA ‘BUTI}0q, 
810}810d0 SUTqOV °2Z 


ees anne ameeipiay 4940 4 poyo.iap— x] 


eee SIGINOG VT 
” POPS “IST “9Z 
"SRW ANT —TITA 


mogy PID : Fmyoqey ‘Barpoed ‘Bays08 seo] “9g 


“ve 2) U8) 81888 


YIOM oUTyoRUT 1 ‘axox300 0000q0} ‘sloYeUT operEsIQ ZZ 


‘sayasvbeQ pup ov00G0,T— IIA 


ane BUIACAM “1G 
ae (ismeg) aeedny ‘Zurgsaly 
* (qxJ0M ouTqovur ‘Aloo F) Su y °0Z 
“SopO TL — TA 


"*"an0qs] PIT 
Sury0e qT 


+ Suidureys puv 3uygno deog -gT 
“Sitar 


(eure a _STOHIOM porrys £ s1ern0q? ‘Sutsseld [19 


ferpuy no puv dog—A 


Inoqey PIO 
aynpy : sioyuu xOq-prvoqpiny “OT 


108 


‘pofod ule st Moqs] YstMor aloyA sesso 480Ur UT peArosqo sf ABp YOM IN0Y4-34310 UY 
‘qiom Ajrep smmoy 74310 04 ajoya og} uO puodsalion ., Moqey usedoma|,, JO Joodsar ul oAOGV UMOYS sZulUIVE OY, —' HUOM AO SHQOH 


OSE-006 | 008-006 


"SE6I "S861 


‘UdAGTO 0} OUTU WIOI AIVA ,, MOGBT oVisy ,, JO HIOM JO smMoyY oy, 


oor-008 | ose-092 “+ siamoqey | 00F-092 | 00F-092 
004-009 | 009-007 "aug Jooyy | | — = 
oos-ose | 009-008 - sroqumg |  — — 
oss-00r | oss-o0e siyureg | 00s-09e | 00F-098 
002-009 | 009-007 “+ groroyseig | oge-09% | 098-002 
aaqono | quay | Crmgsovasay | sogoo | qaty 


‘Iaqopg | ‘[udy 


‘HQOaVY] OLLVISY 


‘aNOdvT Nvidowny 


“1940700 
HO SUAMUOAA) ——_—__—_—_— 


*NOLLVd000Q ‘HNOdV] OLLVISY 





‘MNOaVT Nvadouny 


009-00% | 009-098 
OSS-09h | 009-00F 
| OS9-00F | 09F-0LE 
099-002 | Oss-009 
00S-00E | 00F-008 
aaqono | qudy 





S1ysnpuyl Zapping oq} Uy (sW_ ay) sosem Ayyeq Zupyeastg—g 


‘sIsBq YOM 091d UO Jo sey8r oumly Aq pred JoqjoqM 


“+ giaquedieg 

“+ gyoqezot09 
SIOUIOL 03910007)-O110,7 
*-giofeTHOLIg ‘suose py 


BIISSAIP 004g 





(“TING AOVUTAY 
dO SUM HUO AA) 
"NOLLVd0000 


109 


XVII.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS, AND LIQUORS. 


Drugs. 
The control of traffic in dangerous drugs continues to be regu- 


lated by the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance of 1925, as amended by 
the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Ordinance 1928. 


2. International Opium Convention. 51 import certificates were 
granted in 1933. Imports were as follows :— 


Grammes. 

Opium medicinal ... bat set sae ee 2,390 
Opium preparations... 5 os 4,454 
Morphine in the form of salts and preparations... 735 
Heroin and the hydrochlorides ... cr 81 
Cocaine in preparations containing more than 

0-1 per cent. of cocaine made direct from the 

leaf . oe 45 
Cocaine in the form of salts and preparations ie 3,817 
Pantopon and preparations ane 68 
Eucodal and preparations ... wal ae 103 
Dilaudide and preparations ioe _ om — 
Extract of Cannabis Indica es a diss 12 
Dicodide and preparations ... Se os ss 35 


3, Syria continues to be the chief source of hashish smuggling 
into Palestine. There has been no instance of the manufacture 
of drugs in Palestine nor is there any custom for the traffic in 

“ white ’’ narcotics. Hashish and, to a very small extent, opium, 
continue to be the only noxious drugs known locally to any degree 
and much more is conveyed through Palestine from Syria and “the 
Lebanon for disposal in Egypt than is consumed in the country. 


4. Very close co-operation is maintained with the Central Nar- 
cotics Bureau in Egypt in the prevention of smuggling of hashish 
and opium through this country from Syria en route to Egypt, 
and from the fact that Syrian hashish in Egypt has risen consider- 
ably in price it may reasonably be concluded that greater success 
in preventive work has been achieved this year. Although there 
have been no instances of seizures of any considerable amount 
during the year the total number of seizures of both hashish and 
opium and the total amount seized are greater than in 1932. 

For the most part these seizures were made in very small 
quantities and were largely from the lower class cafés where they 
were held for customers who were known addicts. 


5. The hashish habit is not very prevalent in Palestine and the 
majority of addicts are of Egyptian origin. Efforts are being 
made by increased vigilance on the part of the Police to stamp 


110 


out the habit. Frequent raids have been made on cafés suspected | 
and where even minute quantities are found prosecutions are in- 
variably instituted. 


6. The ‘‘ Beam ”’ test has been resorted to in many instances for 
the purpose of detecting the presence of particles of hashish. 
Various articles, nargilehs, paper packets, and other containers were 
examined with success, and the evidence produced has resulted 
in convictions. Magistrates are particularly helpful in meting out 
heavy sentences on café-owners who permit the smoking of hashish 
on their premises and this severity is undoubtedly producing a deter- 
rent effect. 


7. Smugglers of hashish usually display very considerable in- 
genuity in disguising the drug and each year generally produces 
some new methods used. A considerable seizure was made this 
year of hashish disguised as insoles for shoes. Both land and sea 
routes are used by traffickers and latterly there has been some evi- 
dence that aircraft is being employed. It is, however, improbable, 
owing to the short distance by air from ‘Syria to Egypt, that 
Palestine will be used as a landing ground. At a conference in 
Cairo convened by Russell Pasha, Chief of the Egyptian Narcotics 
Bureau, in January, 1934, a working arrangement was made 
between the competent authorities of both territories with a view 
to the repression of this method of contraband traffic before it can 
be profitably developed. 


8. Seizures of noxious drugs during 1933 :— 








Other Total 

Hashish. | Opium. drugs. Number Total oe 
hs es of amount of length of 
Kilo- Kilo- Kilo- persons fines ss ada 
grams. grams. grams. convicted. imposed. seed: 
154-565 5-248 Nil | 235 £P. 667.200 mils.| 19 years. 














Fines ranged from 250 mils to £P.50, and terms of imprisonment 
from two days to twelve months. 

A large increase is shown, compared with 1932, in the number 
of persons convicted, the total amount of fines and imprisonment 
awarded. 


9. Funds still continue to be provided by the Central Narcotics 
Bureau in Egypt for extraordinary expenditure incurred in the 
prevention of smuggling of hashish and other narcotics into Egypt. 


Arms. 


10. The special campaign for the seizure of unlicensed firearms 
and ammunition was continued, and was intensified from the 
middle of November until the end of the year. Detachments of 


111 


the Palestine Police and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force were 
posted from north of Lake Tiberias along the Jordan Valley to the 
Dead Sea with the object of concentrating on the traffic in arms 
aa Trans-Jordan and Palestine. The following seizures were 
made :— 


I.—Arms. 
Description. Serviceable, Unserviceable. Totals. 
Rifles Bes sat ais 225 19 244 
Pistola and Revolvers... 269 29 298 
Shotguns... oie ae 155 18 173 
II.—Ammunition. 
Number 

Description. of Rounds. 
Rifle 8.A.A. ... ee sea it a bes ae 5,327 
Pistol and revolver ammunition ... = gee as 2,085 
Bombs and grenades ar ae 66 


Steps were taken during the year towards the stricter control of 
issues of firearm licences and the District Commissioner as Licen- 
sing Authority is now authorized, by an Ordinance passed early 
in 1934, to refuse licences without reason assigned. It is the 
intention carefully to restrict the issue of licences for weapons of 
military value and shot guns, too, will be sparingly licensed, to 
sportsmen or exclusively for purposes of protection. In times when 
disturbances are imminent, the District Commissioner will be able 
to order the withdrawal for a period of licences granted and licencees 
will in such circumstances be required to place their firearms and 
ammunition in the custody of the Police. 


_An Ordinance was passed during the year for the stricter regula- 
tion of shooting-galleries, prescribing a system of licences, and 
ate the use of any firearms other than an dirgun in such 
galleries. 


Liquors. 


ll. There is a general Police supervision over licensed premises, 
and penalties are provided for abuse of licence and for permitting 
disorderly conduct on the premises. The grant of licences is gener- 
ally regulated by the District Superintendent of Police without 
Whose authorization no licence can be granted. The consent of the 
Department of Health is also required. The applicant must prove 
hig respectability and objection to the grant of a licence in any case 
may be lodged by any two persons resident in the neighbourhood, 


and the District Superintendent of Police must take note of the 
objection. 


_ 12. Regulations limiting the hours of sale of intoxicating liquors 
In all municipal areas of Palestine have been enacted under the 


Intoxicating Liquors and Public Entertainments Ordinance, 1922. 
ese hours are 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. but in certain cases they may be 


112 


extended to midnight. This extension, however, is only permitted — 
to a few of the first class hotels and restaurants which are under 
excellent control. On certain occasions, such as public or private ~ 
dances or other entertainments, other well conducted premises are 
permitted an occasional extension of the hours of sale, and im the 
first class hotels no restrictions regarding hours govern the sale 
of intoxicating liquors to residents. 

For consumption off the premises the hours of sale are from | 
9 a.m. to 9 p.m. 

The necessity of prescribing hours of sale of intoxicating liquors 
in rural areas has not arisen as there 1s no appreciable consumption 
in these areas. 


13. An applicant for a licence to sell intoxicating liquors 1s re- 
quired to fulfil the conditions of three separate Ordinances, viz., 
the Intoxicating Liquors and Public Entertainments Ordinance, 
1922, the Intoxicating Liquors Ordinance, 1927, and the Regulation 
of Trades and Industries Ordinance, 1927. Under the first Ordi- 
nance the Licensing Authority is the Municipal Council in mun- 
cipal areas and the District Commissioner elsewhere, under the 
second it is the Director of Customs, and under the third the Police 
and the Department of Health have power to attach special con- 
ditions to any licence in the interests of public health and order. 


14. An amendment was made to the Intoxicating Liquors and 
Public Entertainments Ordinance during the year to empower 
licensing authorities to refuse a licence or renewal of a licence for 
the sale of intoxicating liquors without the necessity of assigning 
any reason. Hitherto the exercise of this power had been open 
to some doubt and its validation has considerably strengthened the 
position of licensing authorities. Already, the number of licensed 
premises in the country 1s lower than it has been for the past seven 
years. 


15. In 1922, there were approximately 660 licences for sale of 
intoxicating liquors in Palestine; in 1925 there were 846, in 1928 
there were 916, in 1931 there were 965, in 1932 there were 958. 
and in 1933 there were 884. The corresponding figures for the 
Moslem and non-Moslem population of Palestine in r Ehoee years 
were the following :— 


Moslems. Non-Moslems. Licences issued 
1922 Census ee es 590,890 166,292 660 
1925 (Estimated)... sae 650,000 197,000 846 
1928 (Estimated)... ad 710,000 228,000 916 
1931 Census ae ee 759,712 276,109 965 
1933 (Estimated)... se 789,980 314,904 . 884 


A considerable number of these licences are held by grocery shops 
for the sale of wine, spirits and beer off the premises and of the 
remainder the vast majority are held by hotels, restaurants, cafés 
and clubs. 


113 


16. The following are comparative figures of imports, local pro- 
duction, and exports of intoxicating liquors in litres :— 


Imports. Production. Ezports. 
Arak Arak Arak 
and Wines and Wines and Wines 
other and other and other and 
Spirits. Beer. Spirits. Beer. Spirits. Beer. 
1923 ... 930,000 1,550,000 47,400 616,000 51,000 1,836,000 
1927 ... 387,000 706,780 459,871 2,228,000 23,000 917,000 
1931 ... 44,000 871,400 395,000 2,839,000 21,600 1,015,000 
1932 .. 40,623 891,576 634,576 3,155,928* 30,710 1,376,198* 
1933 .. 52,969 1,080,857 846,588 1,629,125 26,757 933,253 


* Wines only. 


Note——The quantity of arak produced as shown above represents 
that quantity resulting from first distillation. In 1933, 52,064 
- hitres of cognac, and 162,401 litres of alcohol of fruits (included, on 
frst distillation, as Other Spirits) were re-distilled into arak, 
producing 211,434 litres. 


It cannot, however, be assumed that the quantity imported and 
produced, less the quantity exported in the year, was locally con- 
sumed; a certain quantity remains in bonded stores and in manu- 
facturers’ vats under Excise control. 


17. The following are figures of liquors released, on payment of 
duty, for consumption :— 


Litres. Litres. 
Locally Manufactured. Imported Liquors. 
Wines. Spirits. Arak Wine. Beer. Spirits. 
(included in 
previous 
column). 
1928 .., -. 876,686 369,467 86,609 49,801 491,611 29,511 
1929 ... ». 858,354 392,504 78,251 110,637 623,588 36,775 
1930 ... 918,467 351,361 184,273 54,669 888,181 34,451 
1931 ... 724,831, 350,136 243,743 43,691 829,377 35,584 
ne S -» 795,772 359,957 242,967 49,566 839,318 42,489 
ae -- 1,066,416 415,820 249,259 39,823 1,041,859 62,969 


_ The large increase in deliveries of wine for home consumption 
8 undoubtedly due to the reduction in the rate of excise duty, 
Which took effect on the 16th March, 1933, as follows :— 


Excise duty on wine. Not exceeding 15 degrees of alcohol 
reduced from 6 to 3 mils per litre. 


Excise duty on wine.—Exceeding 15 degrees of alcohol but 


not exceeding 25 degrees of alcohol reduced from 12 to 8 mils 
per litre. 


eine the year 1938, six small distilleries closed through lack of 
“ans, and one new distillery was opened. 


114 


Issue of Licences. 








Manufacture of Intoxicating Sale of Intoxicating 
Liquors. Liquors. 
Year. 

Distilleries. | Wine Presses. Wholesale. Retail. 
1929 we 25 19 92 927 
1930 ae 22 16 108 955 
1931 ciel 22 14 98 965 
1932 rae 23 15 96 958 
1933 Sig> 4 18 15 89 884 





18. No change was made during the year in fees for licences for 
the sale of intoxicating liquors. These fees are as follow :— 


£P. 

Hotel Ist Class... oe fee hiss ot 30—50 

2nd Class ... ne ee ate ao 15—25 

3rd Class ... ae de see me 5—10 
Bars, off-licences ... ~ ae ou ik 5 

on-licences ... ah eat ss ais 5—10 
Clubs, boarding houses ... a ses ste 5 
Cafés, restaurants ... sob eis son veg 5—10 
Manufacture of spirits... se: te ... 100 
Manufacture of wine and beer ... sae ie 50 


19. With a view to effecting a closer control over the sale of 
intoxicating liquors, a comprehensive Ordinance is contemplated. 
The general lines of legislation are to be the following :— 


(a) ‘Licensing Boards will be set up in each District and 
Municipal Area to enquire into and examine all applications for 
licences to sell intoxicating liquors. The Boards will consié 
of the District Commissioner, and representatives of the De- 
partment of Health and Municipality within Municipal areas 
and the District Commissioner and representatives of the 
Department of Health and the public in other areas. 


(b) No licence for the sale of intoxicating liquors will be 
granted unless a certificate has been given by the Licensing 
Board that the applicant is a fit and proper person and the 

_premises to be used are suitable. Boards may withhold cel- 
tificates without assigning any reason. 


(c) Boards may restrict the number of licences to be issued 
and may impose any of the following conditions on the grant of 
certificates :— 

(i) Limiting the sale to certain liquors only and 
certain classes of the public. 


115 


(ii) Restricting the employment of females in licensed 
~ premises : females under the age of 17 years not to be em- 
ployed and those under the age of 20 years not to be 
employed after 7 p.m. 

(iii) Restricting the hours of sale in respect of different 
classes of premises or premises situated in different areas. 


(d) The District Commissioner may direct the closure of 
premises at his discretion for a stated period and may direct 
permanent closure in respect of certain offences or if the 
premises are being conducted to the danger of public order. 

(e) The offence of selling intoxicating liquor without a licence 
will be punishable with a much heavier fine and sentence. 


20. The consumption of alcoholic liquor per head per annum 
 ased on the urban population is roughly estimated at about 4 litres. 
‘There does not appear to be any increase in this rate over a number 
of years which is not proportionate to the increase in the non- 
Moslem population. This increase is shown in the following 
table :— 


Christians. Jews. 
1920 bss ae sive ma 77,801 66 ,500 
1922 a” ips bes sae 73,024 83,794 
1933 he 55 a es 95 165 209 ,207 


21. There is little real drunkenness in Palestine, and instead of 
@ growing tendency to consume drink to excess, which was said to 
be the case, the reverse appears to be established. It is of interest 
to note that although, owing to greater activity on the part of the 
_ Police, the number of contraventions generally prosecuted has in- 
creased very considerably, prosecutions for drunkenness have been 
fewer. 

The following is a comparative table of prosecutions for drunken- 
mess in the four largest towns of Palestine. 


Percentage 

decrease or 

: 1932. 1933. increase. 
io or dw aes Sa vibe 108 83 — 23 
° eee eos eee ove S. Bies 139 147 -- 6 
Tel-Aviv eee eee eee eee 4 3 ase 25 
Hite 136 98 — 97 


oe ‘otal for the whole country was 399 : the non-Moslem popu- 
on In June, 1983, being 314,904. 


Pi Neither District nor Police authorities have noticed any 

alice. proclivity among Moslems to consume drink in public 

i and generally, except for a few habitual drunkards, there is 
foe drunkenness among Moslems. 

eine 24 road accidents which occurred during the year, three only 
* attributable to drunkenness. 


116 


23. The following tables show the incidence of habitual and other 
drunkenness during the year in respect of the eleven most important 


towns. 
JERUSALEM. 
Moslems. 
Convicted on one occasion ... ee 4 
Convicted on two occasions... < 1 
Convicted on three occasions mee 1 
Convicted on four or more occasions ] 
JAFFA. 
Moslems. 
Convicted on one occasion ... 100 
Convicted on two occasions... we 25 
Convicted on three occasions eee 4 
Convicted on four or more occasions 4 
TEL-AVIV. 
Moslems. 
Convicted on one occasion ... Ae ] 


Convicted on two occasions... as — 
Convicted on three occasions aes — 
Convicted on four or more occasions — 


HAIFA. 
Moslems. 
Convicted on one occasion ... cae 67 
Convicted on two occasions... ss 2 
Convicted on three occasions tae 2 


Convicted on four or more occasions — 


NAZARETH. 


Moslems. 


Convicted on one occasion ... sae 8 
Convicted on two occasions... “= 
Convicted on three occasions .- — 
Convicted on four or more occasions — 


NABLUS. 
Moslems. 


Convicted on one occasion ... oe 3 
Convicted on two occasions... a. = 
Convicted on three occasions Sie. «eee 
Convicted on four or more occasions — 


ACRE. 

Moslems. 
Convicted on one occasion ... as 14 
Convicted on two occasions... : — 
Convicted on three occasions a ] 
Convicted on four or more occasions ] 


Christians. 


23 
1 
1 


Christians. 


26 
2 


Christians. 


Christtans. 


19 


Christians. 


4 


Christians. 


Christians. 


Jews. 


ltd 


117 


TIBERIAS. 
Moslems. C hristians. Jews. Total. 
‘onvicted on one occasion ... .. 22 1 — 23 
onvicted on two occasions... yt 2 2 — 2 
‘onvicted on three occasions ma. = —: — — 


onvicted on four or more occasions — — — — 
There were no cases of drunkenness in Hebron, Gaza or Tulkarm. 


Summary Table. 


No. of Prosecu- 
No. of Licensed No.of Prosecu- tions for Con- 


: ae Premises (Ex- tions for traventions of 
Police Division. cluding Whole- Drunkenness the Intozicating 
sale Licences). during 19388. Liquors 
Ordinance. 

ferusalem Urban... 206 73 7 
lerusalem Rural oo 40 = ae 
lebron ... ee ae 2 = ae 
laifa Urban ... 89 98 26 
laifa Rural... sie 34 1 — 
\cre - Moe 12 22 aa 
\azareth is ee 30 1] 2 
‘iberias ae 28 21 a 
afad 7 "4 1 
Nablus ... i me 3 3 = 
lulkarm wis aa 4 — —= 
lenin... bia oe — 2 = 
fafa Urbans. 7 65 147 5 
‘el-Aviy ore 265 3 6 
laffa Rural ves 57 = 3 
tame ca aie “a 35 4 ax 
1428, se ior 5 — = 
Jeersheba si Sek 2 = ree 

\ll Palestine ... ome 884 389 50 


XIX.—EDUCATION. 


The educational work of the Government Department during the 


Kademic year 1939. 
i ae 2-33, has been normal and general progress has 


oe Education Ordinance, superseding the relevant Turkish 

agg ols Wa8 Promulgated in January and under its provisions 

i non-Government teachers were registered with the Depart- 
efore the end of the scholastic year 1932-33. 


- a he number of classified officers employed by the Department 
eat 1983, was 866, of whom twelve were British. The 

a er, with very few exceptions, are Palestinians. 
E 


118 


4. The expenditure by the Department in the school year 1932-33 
on educational services was as follows :— 


(a) Administration and Inspectorate £P. £P. 
(Arab and Hebrew) :— | 
Salaries oP 15,023 | 
Other Charges 262 
15,285 
(b) Schools :— 
(i) Government :— 
Salaries Sus ... 106,829 
Grant to Local Authorities 
for school buildings 1,000 
Books and equipment 6,079 
Scholarships, maintenance 
allowance, etc. ... 3,795 
117,203 
(ii) Non-Government :— 7 
Block grant to Jewish | 
Public System ... ate 22,222 | 
Per capita grant to other | 
schools :— 
Jewish 1,404 
Moslem | 853 
Christian 1,038 
25,517 
(c) Miscellaneous :— 
Grant to Board of Higher 
Studies ag ce _ 600 
Transport and travelling ... 3,477 
Other minor charges 545 - 
—_—— 4,522} 
| 
———— \ 
Total ... £P.162,527 : 


The revenue from the sale of books and school materials bi 
Government schools amounted to £P.1,100 and from Governmé):; 


school fees to £P.2,865. 














fo 
bo 
1 
' 


5 
ft. 
1 


5. The distribution of educational benefits to Arabs and Jew'|. 
continued till the beginning of the financial year 1933-34 to be base’. | 
on the proportion of the estimated population of the two races. Fo’; 
the last six months of the scholastic year the benefits were calc: 
lated on the proportion of the school age population; and educa | 
tional expenditure incurred by other Departments was for the firs 


time included. | 


119 


The actual expenditure by the Department under ‘‘ Schools ’’ 
Was apportioned as follows :— 





Arab Schools. £P. £P. 
Government ... me sis) 117,203 
Non-Government 7 oi 1,891 

119 ,094 

Hebrew Schools. 

Jewish Public System... 22 222 
Others ... as sot 1,404 





23,626 


The benefits to Arab schools are gross, and should be reduced 
by £P.3,965, the amount of the revenue from sales and fees 
mentioned in the preceding paragraph. 


6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1932-33 by 
other Government Departments upon educational services :— 








Approximate 
Department. Object. Amount 
LP. 
Agriculture... Supply of trees for Arbor Day... 137 
Health ... is Hygienic and medical care of 1,480 
pupils. 
Secretariat =... Printing and stationery a 232 
Treasury ... Cost of living and housing allow- 3,388 
ances. 
Public Works ... Rents, repairs, furniture and 9,390 
water supply. 
Total... ... 14,577 
Roe figures exclude any share of overhead charges for salaries 
0 


er administrative expenditure by the Departments concerned. 


The net expenditure of all Departments on education was dis- 
tnbuted as follows -— 


£P. 
Arab education ... a Wes ae ie 146,540 
Jewish education se - ae Bs 26 ,888 
- ara are still no exact figures of the total expenditure of 
a 


Ter: bodies and foreign organizations. The figures for the 
éwish Public System are given in paragraph 25 below. 
8 


193 The figures of children of school age (5 to 15) at the time of the 
31 Census were approximately : 


Boys. Girls. Totals. 


Moslems =... 5,700 71,900 157,600 
vhristians .. 9,940 9,140 19,080 
Swe... «17,160 17,440 34,600 


23364 E32 


120 


The pupils attending schools in 1932-33 were as follows, classified 
by religion. The age range ig 3-20, but the bulk is in the range 5-15. 


Boys. Girls. Totals. 
Moslems a 28 ,990 7,185 36 ,175 
Christians es 8,726 8,110 16,836 
Jews... ee 20,031 18 ,306 38 337 
Other religions 432 163 595 


These figures do not include pupils in a number of Christian 
Schools from which statistical returns have not been received. The 
number of pupils in these schools is estimated to be about 2,500. 


School Fees. 


9. Arab Public System.—In the Government kindergartens and 
elementary schools education is free. In the secondary day schools 
students are required to pay £P.3 a year. Day students at the 
Government Arab College and the Women’s Training College pay 
£P.6 a year and boarders pay £P.24. A number of pupils in the 
secondary schools are exempted from payment of any fee: 
when poverty is established. 

In the Kadoorie Agricultural Schools the students pay £P.24 3 
year for tuition and board. 


Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees paid 
very rarely exceed £P.1.a year, and are usually less than 500 mils: 
in places the practice of paying fees in kind persists. 

In the town schools the fees rise to £P.2.500 mils a year. In 
Rawdat al-Ma’arif College at Jerusalem the tuition fees in the 
elementary classes are £P.6 a year and in the secondary classes they 
rise to £P.8. The boarders pay £P.36. 


Jewish Schools.—The education rates and other revenues which 
support the Jewish public schools are, in many localities, supple- 
mented by school fees assessed according to the means of the paren! 
and the grade of the class. ‘Total exemptions are frequent. 

In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or mall- 
tained by local authorities, the fees range from £P.6 to £P.12 a year. 
In the elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to £P.12 and 1 
the higher classes of the secondary schools rise as high as £P.26. 

In the bulk of the purely private schools the fees charged ar 
very much lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciablt 
higher. 

At the boarding section of the Reali Secondary School at Haifa, 
local pupils are charged £P.9 a month and pupils from abroad 
£P.10. 

At the agricultural boarding schools the fees charged vary frow 
£P.30 to £P.50 a year. 

In the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, the 
fees, if any, are generally small. | 


121 


Chnstian Schools.—No information is available regarding the 
"fees charged in the schools under the Latin Patriarchate and the 
Archbishop of Galilee. Most of the foreign schools which submit 
returns through the Consuls are unwilling to disclose financial 
_ details and do not state the fees charged. | 

_ In some of the German Secondary Schools the maximum fee is 
£P.6 8 year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the secondary 
classes. In the Syrian Orphanages the maximum fee paid by a 
boarder is £P.20 a year. 

_ In the European and American Missionary town schools the 
. Maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in the large majority of these schools the fees are very much 
lower. In the secondary classes the fees range from £P.6 to £P.15 
_ayear. In addition to tuition fees, boarders pay boarding fees which 
_ do not usually amount to more than £P.35 a year. £P.57 a year is 
ei in the English Preparatory School of the Jerusalem Girls’ 
College. 

_ Generally speaking, no fees are charged in the village mission- 
ary schools nor any in the schools of the Orthodox Patriarchate. 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


10. At the beginning of the school year 1932-33 twenty additional 

teaching posts were filled, and at the beginning of 1933-34 seventy 
further posts, as part of the programme for expanding town and 
Village education. 
Of the 817 classified teachers employed by the Department in 
_ November 1933, 813 were Arabs (591 Moslems, 222 Christians) and 
_4were British. There were also 62 unclassified teachers employed 
. Mostly in villages. 


ll. Elementary Education.—In the summer term of 1933 there 
were 297 elementary schools with 26,553 pupils, as against 303 
schools with 24,696 pupils in the previous summer, Arrangements 
were made during the summer holidays to open 19 new schools, 
‘Qus raising the total number of Government schools to 316. 

In September 1932, 11,502 pupils applied for admission to 
Government elementary. schools, of whom only 6,231 could be 
| admitted owing to lack of accommodation and staff. On the recom- 
_Tiendation of the committee appointed in October 1932 (see 1932 
_“€port, page 115) to report on the possibility of increasing accom- 
‘‘Modation in town schools, nineteen new town and village schools 
‘ere opened early in 1932-33 and the accommodation in some of the 
existing town schools was increased, enabling the entry in Septem- 

1933 of 8,690 new pupils out of 14,383 who applied. 
further scheme for the expansion of rural education in the 
i school year 1934-35 by providing a boys’ school in every village with 

: seas Population of over 400 is now being examined. As & 
: ah iminary measure, savings were utilized to engage 34 additional 

*achers on small salaries for rural schools in the autumn. 


23364 E3 


122 


12. Lack of accommodation still retards progress in the grading © 
of classes by age. Entries are deferred for one, two or three years. 
Thus the age-range of the lowest class is excessively wide and the 
average age of entry too high. 


13. The number of pupils who repeat the preparatory class has 
been greatly reduced but the figures for the lower elementary course — 
as a whole are still somewhat high. | 


14. Town Schools.—The following are comparative figures for 
two years :— 














1931-32. 1932-33. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Town schools for boys... 31 5,608 31 7,126 
7” es » girls... 21 4,436 21 4,748 
Totals... oF 52 11,044 52 11,874 














During 1932-33 14 new classes were added to existing schools in 
towns. In July 1933 the highest elementary class (sixth) existed 
in 24 schools (16 for boys and 8 for girls) with an attendance of 
351 (266 boys and 85 girls). Of these senior pupils 205 (177 boys 
and 28 girls) are continuing their studies in 1933-34 in Government _ 
and non-Government secondary schools, and 52 boys are known to 
have found employment. 


At the end of 1932-33 arrangements were made for the opening of — 
three new boys’ schools, four new girls’ schools and one mixed 
school in the autumn. A boarding school for 25 boys all sons of 
Bedu Sheikhs, was opened by Government at Beersheba, and 15 — 
proving a success, 


15. Achievement tests in Arithmetic and Arabic were again con- 
ducted with satisfactory results in the 5th and 6th elementary — 
classes and in the 1st secondary class in boys’ schools. 


16. The four centres for the teaching of Domestic Science subjects 
which were inaugurated in 1931 have proved very successful and are 
much appreciated by parents. T'wo new centres were opened during 
1932-33, and others are being opened in 1933-34. 

Arrangements were made for the top class of three girls’ schools 
to visit the Infant Welfare Clinic daily in rotation in order to 
observe and practise correct methods for the care of infants. 


17. Rural Schools.—The following are comparative figures for 
two years. 





1931-32. 1932-33. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Village schools for Loys 244 12,972 . 238 13,997 
ss “ » girls 7 680 7 682 
Totals... we 201 13,652 245 14,679 








Ten schools were closed during the year, either on account of 
low attendance or on the recommendations of the Department 
of Health, and four new schools opened. 


123 


Eight new boye’ and three new girls’ schools were opened in 
the ee bringing the number of Government rural schools 
to 256. 

Nine villages erected ten new buildings during the year at a 
total cost of £P.3,250, and about £P.2,400 was collected in various 
villages for repair of school buildings and for school furniture. 

18. Practically all rural schools have now developed a third class, 
thus affording four years of instruction. In 1927, 93 such schools 
had no second class, 

19. Secondary education.—A higher standard of admission is 
now demanded in secondary classes and consequently fewer pupils 
attend. There was a roll of 297 pupils in the thirteen schools 
with secondary classes (including the two upper classes of the 
Women’s Training College). 

20. Government Arab College.—Twenty-nine new students were 
admitted in September, 1932, bringing the number to 79. 

Twenty-six students of the fourth class were entered for the 
Palestine Matriculation Examination. Twenty passed and five 
qualified for the School Certificate. Twelve were selected for 
training in the fifth class of the College, and two for Government 
scholarships at Beirut. 

Fourteen students of the fifth class obtained the teachers’ certi- 
fcate and were appointed to permanent teaching posts. 

21. Women’s Training College.—In September, 1932, there 
were 59 students, of whom sixteen were newcomers. 

Ten out of twelve etudents in the fourth class passed the diploma 
examination and all twelve were offered teaching posts under the 
Department. 

22. Scholarships.—Three Government scholars, including one 
woman, were maintained in Universities or Training Colleges in 
Great Britain, seven at the American University of Beirut, one 
at the Weaving School at Mehalla el Kobra, Egypt, and three 
boys were given scholarships to non-Government secondary schools 
in Palestine. 


Hebrew Public System. 


23. In accordance with a resolution passed by the Actions Com- 
mittee of the Zionist Organization and the Administrative Council 
of the Jewish Agency in July, 1932, the administration of this 
school system devolved, as from the beginning of the school year 
1932-38, upon the Jewish Community of Palestine as organized 
under the Religious Communities Organization Ordinance, 1926. 
Under the conditions governing this devolution, a emall Executive 
Education Committee was set up consisting of representatives 
of the Jewish Agency, the Va’ad hal-Leumi (General Council 
of the Jewish Community), the Township of Tel-Aviv and the 
settlements which have schools other than those of the Labour 
Federation, A representative of the Government Department 
attends the meetings of this Committee. 


93864 E 4 


124 

24. Owing to these changes, the difficulties experienced in 
balancing estimated revenue with expenditure, and the protracted 
negotiations between the Centra] Authority and the Teachers’ 
Organization, the opening of the schools was once more delayed 
at the beginning of 1932-33. For lack of money the provision 
of educational equipment continued to be imadequate, and the 
restoration of the weekly assignment of lesson periods to its normal 
strength had again to be deferred. These defects, which have 
been noticeable for a number of years, coupled with a multiplicity 
of autonomous educational authorities and the powers assumed > 
by the Teachers’ Organization, are reacting unfavourably on the | 
efficiency of the system. 

25. The estimates for 1932-83 showed a decrease of some 
£P.7,000, as follows :— 














Revenue. 1931-82. 1982-38. 

1. CENTRAL AUTHORITIES. £P. £P. 
Jewish Agency ... ies oe re 39,811 40,000 
Government 19,175 19,190 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association 5,500 £P. 5,090 Z£P. 

64,486 64,280 

2. Loca AUTHORITIES. 

Tel-Aviv Township vue ae bss 18,200 21,455 

Other Local Author'ties ... ee ‘a 6,242 6,000 

School Fees we ee ae “ts 12,350 10,124 
36,792 37,579 

3. MISCELLANEOUS. 

Rents and Donations jen hy a 245 40 
Teachers’ Contribution ... ee ae 7,731 — 
——— 7,976 40 





ToTaLs £P.109,254 £P.101,899 

















Expenditure.* 1931-82. 1982-88. 

1. ADMINISTRATION AND INSPECTORATE. £P. £P. 
Salaries... ee ee ee ies 4,438 4,529 
Other Charges 7 bass sh shi 1,344 677 

5,782 5,206 

2. ScHOOLs. 

(i) Maintained Schools. 
Salaries... “ atts Boa 83,013 79,606 
Rent and Maintenance ae fa oh 6,060 4,014 
Furniture and Equipment a i 1,707 1,400 
——— 90,780 85,020 
(ii) Assisted Schools. 
Grants to Labour Schools Sais oe 4,677 4,363 
Grants to other Schools ... ae ne 6,230 4,365 
10,907 8,728 

3. MISCELLANEOUS. 

Transport and Travelling vs 500 600 
Pension contributions, compensation, ete. 1,065 1,454 
Unforeseen Expenses — mee my 220 891 

1,785 2,945 











ToTAaLs £P.109,254 £P,101,899 








* The classification and grouping of the various items now follow those 
adopted in paragraph 4 and differ in some respects from those employed in 
the corresponding section in previous Reports. 





125 


The decrease in the estimated revenue was mainly due to the 
withdrawal by the teachers of their contribution, which in the 
wrevious year amounted to one month’s salary. 


36. Apart from the contributions of the Jewish Agency and one 

ot two local authorities, the estimated revenue was realised by 
the end of the school year. The amount not realised was approxi- 
nately £P.29,500, of which £P.27,754 was due from the Jewish 
\gency. Under the terms of the transfer of the administration 
of its school system to the Va’ad hal-Leumi, the Jewish Agency 
undertook to allocate a grant of £P.40,000 for at least one year 
iollowing the tramsfer. Not long after the beginning of the school 
ver, however, it became apparent that the Agency would be 
unable to meet its obligations, so that the Executive Education 
Committee was threatened with a large deficit. A committee 
representing the Executive Committee and the Government De- 
partment, set up for the purpose, recommended economies from 
changes in the salary scales, but the Va’ad hal-Leumi did not 
see its way to give immediate effect to the recommendations, with 
the result that by the end of the school year 1932-33 payment of 
silanes were three months in arrear. 


27. The following tables give comparative figures regarding 
«hools and pupils :— 


TABLE I (Administrative Groups). 


1931-32. 1932-33. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Jeneral www 138 14,180 134 14,663 
Mimahi 8, 62 6,821 54 6,695 
abOUr ww wn, 63 2,119 77 2,832 
Totals | aus 263 23,120 265 24,190 — 


Taste IT (Types of Schools). 


1931-32. 1932-33. 

Schools. Pupils. Schools, Pupils. 

semen 139 5,149 137 4,965 
poorest eC Om 109 15,676 111 16,275 

ndary in 

Commercial), g 8 1,888 7 2,024 
ares College... 4 403 4 374 
oe ae os 3 104 4 170 
Totals ,.. sie’ 263 23,120 265 24,190 


fs anaes with the previous year there was an increase of 
oe is 8 and 1,070 pupils, mainly due to the inclusion of schools 
in oe y not shown as included. In respect of the schools main- 
: dimin, assisted by the Central Authority there has actually been 

nution of 19 schools and 333 pupils. The increase in 


126 


| 
| 
| 
schools and pupils (699) was chiefly in the elementary grade, | 
and the largest increase (713 pupils) accrued to the Labour Group. : 


29. Owing to the decrease in the total estimated revenue, all 
the kindergartens which used to be maintained by the Jewish 
Agency ceased to be borne upon the Central Authority’s budget. | 
Some of the kindergartens were taken over by local authorities ' 
and committees whilst others, more particularly in poorer localities, _ 
had to tbe discontinued. Further, the Hebrew Gymnasia at - 
Jerusalem, the only secondary school heretofore maintained by ;. 
the Central Authority, was now given a grant only, while aa 
grants to other schools were reduced. 


30. Of the 65 maintained elementary schools 47 were ‘eae 
‘* Public ’’ in the sense of the Education Ordinance, 1938. 


30a. Two new school buildings were erected during the year. - 
An extensive building scheme is to be considered for Tel-Aviv, | 


where rents have risen sharply and some schools are ansatisfactorily 
and uneconomically housed. 


31. Kitchens which served over 3,490 children with meals were 
maintained in 15 elementary schools and 45 kindergartens, and | 
over 1,570 children received instruction in cooking and dietetics. 
In addition classes were instructed in dietetics by the cookery - 
teachers once a week. This work cost £P.5,084, in 1932-33. 


32. Achievement tests in Bible and Arithmetic were conducted 
by the Government Inspectors in Class V of all the principal’ 


elementary town schools, including geome not controlled by the: 
Central Authority. O 


For the first time common final examinations were conducted 
by the Jewish Education Department in the five secondary schools 
and in one commercial school. These examinations, which were 
limited in their scope, tested the pupils’ attainments only in 4 
small part of the subjects taught. Similar examinations in two 
subjects were held in the four Training Colleges. 


33. The Government Inspectors of Hebrew Schools addressed 
four elementary teachers’ conferences. A conference of secondar\ 
teachers was called in July, 1938, to discuss a memorandum drawn 
up in the Government Department on the teaching of science 
and mathematics. A standing committee was appointed to work 
out detailed syllabuses. The Teachers’ Organisation also held 


conference to discuss certain probleme affecting the teaching of 
Hebrew. 


34. The principal Hebrew publishing companies issued an appre- 
ciable supply of useful books, more particularly for class and 1- 
dividual work in elementary schools. The lack of suitable book: 
for the secondary grades continues to be a serioue handicap, but 
attempts are being made to improve the situation. 


127 


Other Schools. 


I.—Moslem Schools. 
85. The following are comparative figures for two years :-— 


1931-32. 1932-33. 

Pupils. Pupue. 
RN ——————— eo 
Schools. Boys. Girls. Total. Schools. Boys. Girls. Total. 

Schools other than 

of Kuttab type... 38 4,302 910 6,212 66 6,972 1,503 17,475 
Kuttabe ... --- 119 3,724 $260 3,984 108 2,947 176 3,123 
Totals ... --- 157 8,026 1,170 9,196 174 8,919 1,679 10,598 


II.—Christian Schools. 


36. The following table gives comparative figures of Christian 
schools for the years 1931-32 and 1932-33, excluding the schools- 


managed by the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem and the Greek 
— Catholic Archbishop of Galilee :— 


1931-32. 1932-33. 

Pupils. Pupils. 
Sh a. 
| Group. Schools. Boys. Girls. Total. Schools. Boys. Girls. Total. 
Catholic ... 0k. 72 4,508 65,619 10,127 74 4,564 3,359 9,923 
Protestant as 47 1,991 2,141 4,132 46 2,050 2,285 4,335 
Orthodox...  ... 28 1,675 1,130 2,806 27 ~=—s-: 11,620 —-:11,058 +=2,678 
Others ... 0. 4 83 36 119 7 157 150 = (3307 
Totals... .. 151 8,257 8,926 17,183 154 8,391 386,852 17,243 


i eed ve 


37. The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 


maintained by Palestinian and foreign bodies, except those ex- 
_ Cuded in the last paragraph :— 


(a) Palestinian. 
1931-32. 1932-33. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 


' Greek Orthodox Patriarchate 16 1,241 15 948 


Ssrian Orthodox Patriarchate 


; ; “4 2 112 2 120 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate re 4 610 4 645 
Orthodox wea CO 842 6 965 

.. Custodia di Terra Santa ... ath aw. «=o 2,613 15 2,541 
Others er ene 6 312 12 521 
Total wae 49 «5,780 45,740 
(b) Foreign. 

1931-32. 1932-33. 

Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
oe eae aes 88S”:*«« QOD 38 4,991 
Geman these ne 20 2,020 192,068 
tealinn oa aid sie a sie 21 1,934 20 1,954 
lmefan ee B79 141,739 
Swedish eee eee ee Ses jae 9 546 8 556 
eee as a ; 1 169 1 197 


Total 2... . 102 11,453 100 11,503 


mmm ee 


128 


Il.—Jewitsh Schools (not included in the Hebreu Public System). : 
38. The following table gives comparative figures for 1931-32 | 


and 1932-33 :— ! 
1931-32. 1932-33. | ; 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupil. _ 
Alliance Israelite Universelle as oa 7 3,793 8 4,108 
Anglo-Jewish Association . 1 363 1 363 
Women’s International Zionist Organisa- 2 113 2 122 
tion. 
Agudat Israel Organisation 9 800 8 762 


Talmud Toras (other than Agudat Israel 39 8,998 37 3911 _ Cj 
and excluding Yeshivas). 7 
Private Schools and Kindergartens .. 63 2,903 68 3,955 


Total ...  ..  .. Wl 11,970 124 13,991 
39. At the initiative of the Government Department a confer. , 
ence of Headmasters of the Alliance Israelite Universelle Schools in 
Palestine was held for the first time in June, 1933, to discuss . 
problems of common interest. 


Secondary and Post Secondary Education, and Examinations. 


40. The following summaries show the numbers of schools in : 
which secondary education is given :— 

















1931-32 1932-33. 
No. of pupils No. of pd 
Type of Schools. No. of me in Sec. classes.| No. of No. of in Sec. cla 
Schools. 7 j—— Schools. | 
classes. Boys. | Girls. classes.| p oye. c | 
Arab Public System. | 
Training Colleges oes 2 7 68 59 2 7 79 
Secondary Schools ae 10 20 248; — 1] 21 212 |= 
Hebrew Public System. 
Training Colleges 4 17 133 | 240 4 17 103 ; 1 
Secondary Schools 6 26 556 | 327 7 32 498 | | 
Private Seen Schools. ; 
Moslem ... ee 2 6 143 | — 2 6 141 ; 
Christian | 
Teaching in English 11 40 312 | 244 11 43 300 j 
Teaching in French... 8 25 205 60 8 26 197 , 
Teaching in German 7 9 39 43 7 10 38 | 
Teaching in Arabic ... 5 12 60 20 7 15 70 | 
Total (Christian) 31 86 | 616] 367] 33 94 | 605. ¢ 
Jewish ... os aie 10 30 233 | 359 6 21 237 | 


ree RE SE OES AL EE ee Ee Oe 


129 


41. Post Secondary Education.—240 Palestinian students were 
. registered during 1932-33 in the upper departments of the Beirut 
University. 


The number of candidates who sat in 1933 for the Palestine 
Matriculation examination was 109, of whom 41 obtained the 
Matriculation Certificate and 25 the Secondary School Certificate. 


49. Hebrew University.—The academic staff included 14 Pro- 
fessors, 12 Lecturers and 42 Instructors and Assistants. There 
were 188 students, of whom 17 were graduate research students, 

‘lil regular undergraduates and 20 non-matriculated students. The 
number of students who received their pre-university education 
in Palestine was 94. In December, 1932, 11 students were 

awarded the M.A. degree, and in January, 1934, 16. 


Expenditure amounted approximately to £P.39,000. 


Entrance examinations were held in October, 1932, for the first 

tme for candidates who had not completed a secondary school 
_ lecognised by the University or did not possess other eufficient 
~ educational qualifications. 


In the Faculty of Humanities, Bible and General History were 
_ Mded to the list of subjects and an Instructorship in Latin was 
established. Thirteen graduates of this Faculty attended a short 


: sate in education held by members of the University staff and 
others. 


- In the Faculty of Science, instruction in botany, zoology, bio- 
_ chemistry and bacteriology was imparted to undergraduates for 
the first time. The equipment of the Department of Physics was 
_ considerably enriched, and a large students’ laboratory for 
_ chemistry and biology was installed. 


43. Language Examinations for Government Officers.—Thirteen 
out of sixteen candidates passed the elementary examination in 
Arabic and eight out of twelve in Hebrew. 

Three sat for the Advanced Hebrew examination, of whom two 
passed and three sat for the Advanced Arabic and passed. 


44. Teachers’ Ezaminations.—Fourteen candidates sat for the 
sein Lower Certificate Examination, of whom eight passed in 
art I (Pedagogy) and two in Part II (School subjects). 


Twelve candidates entered for Part I and 10 for Fart II of the 


Teachers’ Higher Certificate Examination. Of these, three passed 
in Part I and one in Part IT. 


130 


45. Foreign Examinations.—The following table gives details of 
foreign examinations conducted and supervised by the Government 
Department :— 





Number of Candidates. 
Body. Examination. eee ee eee 
Entered. Passed. 
(| Matriculation aii 47 11 (8 Palestinians). 
| Intermediate : 
Arta sit 2 1 (Palestinian). 
| Science .. 1 oo 
gy eet Commerce 1 = 
University of London : Reonemiaa 3 2 (1 Palestinian). 
Ww l 1 
Final : 
B.A. Honours in l 1 (Palestinian). 
History. 
London Association of Intermediate : 
Accountante June 2 = 
: Final is 4 = 
Chartered Surveyors _ 
ee Intermediate... 1 





‘‘ Palestinian’ means resident in Palestine; the others are mostly resident 1 


Egypt. 
Agricultural Education. 


(a) Government Schools. 


46. The High Commissioner’s gift of £P.300 for the improve- 
ment of school gardens was distributed, £P.200 to Arab (Govern- 
ment) schools and £P.100 to Jewish schools. 

Bee-keeping was introduced in a number of schools, and model 
chicken houses were erected in four town and four village schools. 


47. Over two hundred village schools now possess land fot 
gardens, the area varying from one to ten dunums. 
25,314 trees were planted by Government schools on Arbor Daj. 


48. Twenty-nine boys completed the senior course at tbe 
Kadoorie Arab School, at the end of 1932-33, and fifteen were 
selected for a year’s training with a view to appointment as village 
teachers. Eighteen new candidates were selected to fill the firs 
year vacancies, and the total number of students is now 44, includ: 
ing six from Trans-Jordan. ee 

Again in 1983 fifteen village schoolmasters spent a year in agricul- 
cultural training under the scheme financed by the Near Eas! 
Foundation at an annual cost of £P.1,000: the Foundation al 
lent the services of a village welfare worker and four Government 
teachers attended an agricultural course of six weeks at Talabaya 
Farm, Lebanon, conducted by the Foundation. . 3 

Twenty boys have been selected for admission to the Kadoorle ' 
Jewish School, Mount Tabor, which will be opened early in 1934. 





131 


49. Improvement of Rural Life.—The welfare worker of the 

Near East Foundation visited a large number of Arab villages, and 
in co-operation with Education and departmental officers gave 
a series of lectures and talks to villagers on agricultural subjects, 
sanitation and hygiene, using a portable cinematograph, the average 
attendance varying from 200 to 1,000. Marked improvement is 
already visible in many villages. ‘Teachers and pupils have shown 
by their example what can be done in cleaning a village and keeping 
it clean. The example has been followed in many instances by the 
adult population. Manure, instead of being dumped in the street 
and used as fuel, is removed to the fields for fertilizing purposes : 
refuse and soakage-pits are introduced: stagnant pools have been 
filled up or drained, or where this is impossible, treated with crude 
oil, for the prevention of mosquitoes: cisterns have been closed 
and oiled for the same reason. Effective agricultural demonstra- 
tions were also given in spraying and grafting. Over 11,000 forest 
trees and 19,000 fruit trees were supplied to and planted by the 
villagers with the help of the village schoolmaster. Farmers were 
aided in attacking plant diseases and insect pests. Further, eleven 
night schools were established to teach illiterate adults, and 25 
reading rooms with small libraries opened for use by village boys 
after leaving school. 

The Government Department arranged for 12 students of the 
Beirut University to undertake voluntary welfare work in certain 
villages in Galilee and Jerusalem Districts for about one month, 
during the summer of 1933. The programme included village 
hygiene, recreation, practical projects and simple agriculture. 


(b) Other Schools. 
50. The following non-Government schools give instruction in 


theoretical and practical agriculture :— No. of pupils. 
1. Christian Schools. 1931-32. 1932-83. 
Agricultural School at Beit Jamal 
( Salesian Order) — de: Sag 45 21 
Agricultural School at Rafat (Latin 
Patriarchate) a or oe oe 31 28 
Agricultural School at Latrun (Trappist 
Order) oe ime ae 6 9 


il. Jewish Schools. 
Agricultural School at Miqve Israel 

(Alliance Israelite Universelle) ... 183 206 
School of Domestic Science and Agricul- 

ture at Tel-Aviv (Women’s Inter- 


national Zionist Organization) set 47 52 
Agricultural School for Girls at Nahalal 

Women’s International Zionist Or- 

ganization) ae aa ss oo 66 70 
Children’s Village at Meir Shfeya 

(Junior Hadassah of U.S.A.) .. 104 124 


Children’s Village at Ben Shemen 
(Judische Waisenhilf of Berlin) ... 233 258 


132 


The Women’s International Zionist Organization also organizes | 
five training farms for girls, which are managed by the pupils 
themselves, and provide mainly facilities in practical training. 


Manual Training and Technical Education. 


51. Satisfactory progress was made in the teaching of drawing 
and handwork in Government schools, and a competition in wood- 
work, in which twenty-five town schools for boys took part, was 
held in the spring. A similar competition was held for girls’ 
schools in needlework. 

A summer training course was held at Tulkarm for village 
teachers in agricultural handwork during the vacation. 

52. Weaving is progressing in the Ramle Girls’ and Bethlehem 
Boys’ Schools and satisfactory reports are received on the three 
boys who went from Majdal and Bethlehem to study weaving in 
Egypt. 


Education of Defectives. 


53. Blind.—The number of totally blind children in Palestine 
between the ages of 5 and 15 as shown by the Census of 1931 was 
338, including 187 girls. 

A blind Arab student, who obtained his B.A. degree from the 
American University of Beirut, was elected to a scholarship of three 
years tenable for the first year at the Royal Normal College for the 
Blind at Edinburgh. 

Instruction is given to the blind in the following institutions :— 


Boys Girls 
Moslem Orphanage, Jerusalem ... ie 12 1 
Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul, Jerusalem 5 14 
Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem (Christian) 7 6 
Jewish Blind Institute, Jerusalem ssa 24 22, 


54. Deaf and Dumb.—The school of the Alliance Israelite Univer- 
selle at Jerusalem has eight boys and four girls under training. 

55. Mentally Defectives.—There are only two schools for the 
mentally defective, both for Jews at Tel-Aviv, one municipally 
owned at which 24 children can be accommodated, and the other 
a private institution. 


Physical Training, Athletics, etc. 


56. Progress was continued in Government town schools, and a 
marked improvement shown in those in villages. Certificates of 
proficiency have now been awarded to 106 teachers, of whom 
fifteen have qualified for first-class certificates in physical training 
instruction. 

57. Summer vacation schools for Arab children were again 
organized during the summer. 


133 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 
Epidemic Diseases. 


1. The number of cases of notifiable infectious disease reported 
was slightly higher than in 1932 though there was actually little 
change in the relative incidence of sickness and fatality. 


The absolute incidence of epidemic nervous diseases, cerebro- 
spinal meningitis and poliomyelitis declined and no case of 
encephalitis was reported. Influenza was less prevalent though 
cases were more severe than last year. Measles, diphtheria, 
scarlet fever, whooping cough, chicken pox and pneumonia showed 
httle change, measles and pneumonia being, as in past years, the 
most important causes of mortality in this group, and responsible 
for 787 deaths out of a total of 1,007. There were fewer cases of 
typhoid and dysentery than in 1932, notwithstanding that the 
water famine during the year compelled the use of many sources 
of doubtful purity. 


There were 39 cases of anthrax with 9 deaths, compared with 17 
cases and 3 deaths in 19382. 


For the first time since 1927 smallpox made its appearance 
with 31 cases in the Southern District, one of them fatal. The 
infection was discovered in nomadic Beduin who had entered the 
country from Sinai and Egypt. One hundred and forty-seven 
contacts were detained in isolation camps, and the entire settled 
population in the Southern District was revaccinated: the co- 
operation of the inhabitants enabled approximately 88,000 vaccina- 
tions and revaccinations to be performed within a few weeks. The 
opportunity was taken to revaccinate completely the Palestinian 
tribes normally occupying the desert south of Beersheba; this 
involved about 47,000 treatments. 


In certain localities conditions occurred predisposing to malarial 
infection. 


Water shortage and failure of grazing led to transfer of animals 
and village groups to areas in the Jordan Valley and south of the 
Dead Sea not under anti-malarial control which are usually avoided 
in the summer months. The decline in the level of Lake Tiberias 
has rendered control extremely difficult around the shore, and 
large areas of seepage in the shingle have been exposed, offering 
ideal breeding grounds. Thorough measures were undertaken but 
have not prevented a small increase during November and December 
in primary cases of malaria reported in Tiberias town and settle- 
ments from Tabgha and Migdal in the north to Kinnereth and 
Dagania south of the Jordan outlet. 

Otherwise the general situation as regards endemic diseases 
remains favourable. The principal towns and villages are kept 
free from malaria; the spleen indices of town and village school 


134 


children were 1:37 per cent. and 436 per cent. compared with 
0-745 per cent. and 5°5 per cent. respectively in 1932. 


In answer to the question of the Permanent Mandates Commis 
sion about the resumption of the Tuberculosis Survey, it may be 
said that in December, 1933, the specialist officer took up his 
appointment and has entered upon the investigation of special 
endemic disease including tuberculosis, thus resuming the survey 
interrupted in 1931. A full account of the first year’s result will 
be given in the Report for 1934. 


InFEcTIOUS DISEASES 











1933. 
Diseases. Sa 
. | Cases. | Deaths. 
Acute Poliomyelitis 9 3 
Anthrax ; 39 9 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis 4 9 
Diphtheria 210 21 
Dysentery 414 0 
Encephalitis Lethargice aa 23 
Influenza ae 164 15 
Measles 4,998 372 
Paratyphoid 259 7 
Pneumonia 696 415 
Puerperal Fever 47 22 
Relapsing Fever 23); — 
Scarlet Fever ... 383 | — 
Smallpox 31 l 
Typhoid. 1,055 107 
Typhus .. 29 l 
Undulant Fever 6 l 
Black Water Fever 2 1 
Totals 8,369 | 1,007 
2. Births, Deaths, and Infant Mortality.— 
Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality. 
Birth. Number Esimated number — Death- 
rate of of rate Infantile Infantile 
Year. per 1,000 birthe = (Mt, deaths per 1,000 deaths. mortality. 
living. registered year). . living. 
1929 46-32 41,742 901,080 21,632 24-00 7,784 186-47 
1930 48-03 44,587 928,148 19,513 21-02 6,879 154: 28 
1931 48-07 46,011 957,181 21,149 22-09 7,826 170-09 
1932 44:14 43,538 986,319 21,958 22-26 6,669 = :153°17 
1933 44-34 46,049 1,038,331 20,834 20-06 6,641 144-4 


135 


Births and Deaths by Religions, 1933. 


Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 
Estimated population, 30th June, 


1933... .. 95,165 723,427* 209,207 10,332 1,038,331* 
Deaths... ... set .- 1,328 17,382 1,940 184 20,834 
Death-rate per 1,000 of popula- 

tion wwe sits .. 13°95 24-02 9:27 17:47 20-06 
Births... ... Se ... 3423 36,018 6,113 495 46,049 
Birth-rate per 1,000 of population 33:96 49-78 29-22 46:99 44-34 
Deaths of infants under 1 year ... 440 5,649 491 71 6,651 
Infantile mortality-rate per 1,000 

births ; ... 128-54 156-83 80:32 143-43 144-43 


Natural increase per 1,000 of 
population Fr .. 22-01 25°76 19-95 29 - 62 24°28 


* Not including nomadic Beduin population numbering 66,553 at the date of the 
Census, November, 1931. 


The population figures given in the tables are estimates based 
upon the Census of 1931, after taking into account recorded births, 
deaths and immigration; and the rates given are “‘ crude ’’ birth 
and death rates. 

Recorded births are approximately 2,500 in excess of last year 
and recorded deaths about 1,000 less. The absolute figures of 
infant deaths closely correspond with last year. 

The calculated crude birth rate is 44 per 1,000, the death rate 
20 and the infant mortality rate 144; the corresponding figures for 
1932 were 44, 22 and 153. 

In the three communities there is a decline in death rate while 
birth rates have been maintained at the level of the preceding 
year. The infant mortality rate is also less, viz.: Moslems 156 
compared with 164 in 1932, Jews 80 compared with 85 and 
Christians 128 compared with 141. 

The Permanent Mandates Commission asked for further infor- 
mation on the manner of calculating birth rate figures and on the 
basis of the figures relating to birth rate. 

The birth rate figure is obtained from the formula 


B x 1000 
BR =. 
P 
where B= Number of registered live births during the calendar year. 
P = The estimated population at the mid-year (i.e., 30th June) of the 
registration area. 
BR = Number of births per 1,000 of estimated population. 


The estimated mid-year population is calculated from the pre- 
ceding Census figures for the registration area by adding the excess 
of registered births over deaths during the period of time elapsing 
from the Census and the excess of immigration over emigration 
for the same period. 


The registration of births and deaths is compulsory under the 
Public Health Ordinance of 1918, and though there certainly has 
occurred and probably still occurs omission to register, the degree 


136 


of precision which has now been obtained in the settled population 
is very satisfactory and comparable with that obtaining in many 
European States. 

For obvious reasons registration is not effective in the nomadic 
Beduin tribes and for this reason this group is excluded from the 
figures on which the published statistics are based. ‘‘-Dead 
births ’’ (using the definition recommended by the Health Organ- 
isation of the League of Nations, April, 1925) are excluded from 
the registrations of births and deaths employed for the calculation 
of rates. 

Members of His Majesty’s Forces and their dependants in Pales- 
tine are excluded from the records. 

The following statement demonstrates the manner in which the 
estimated population on the 30th June, 1933, was obtained :— 


Estimated population on 30th June, 1933. 


Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 


Census of November, 1931 ... 91,398 759,712 174,610 10,101 1,035,821 
Deduct nomadic Beduin tribes — 66,553 — = = 


91,398 693,159 174,610 10,101 969,268 
Deduct His Majesty’s Forces 2,491 12 4 — 2,507 
and families in Palestine. 


88,907 693,147 174,606 10,101 966,761 
Add Natural Increase Decem- 3,161 28,642 5,881 438 38,112 
ber, 1931, to 30th June, 1933. 


92,068 721,789 180,487 10,529 1,004,875 


Add Excess of Immigration 3,097 1,638 28,720 3 33,458 
December, 1931, to 30th 
June, 1933. 


— 


Estimates at 30th June, 1933 95,165 723,427 209,207 10,532 1,038,331 


An indication of the degree of accuracy, or conversely error, m 
making the mid-year estimates of population can be derived from 
comparison of the mid-year estimate of population for 1931 (see 
1931 Report, page 102) with the corrected estimate based upon the 
Census of 1931 (see 1932 Report, page 119). 

Between 1922-1931 an underestimate of the settled population by 
some 85,000 had arisen. According to the Report of the Census, 
1931, the first cause of error is to be attributed to a short count 
of the settled population enumerated at the Census, 1922. 

This short count was mainly in respect of the female sex and 
consequently was of importance in the subsequent reproductive 
history of the population. The second cause of error, which is not 
independent of the first cause, is to be attributed to progressive 
and cumulative deficiencies in the annual estimates of mid-year 
population. The average error on these accounts is in the region 
of one-half per cent. per annum over the period of examination 


137 


which covers the early years of British administration, and it is 
certain that no other method of estimation could have given figures 
of greater accuracy. 


3. Regulation of Trades and Industries.—The number of 
premises and trades controlled under the Regulation of ‘Trades 
and Industries Ordinance during 1933 was approximately 14,550. 
All classes of hawkers are now placed under control by Police as 
well as the Health Authorities. 


The following were added to the schedule of controlled trades 
and industries :— 


Glue factories, shops for the sale of explosives, and factories for 
the preparation or manufacture of patent flours, patent cereal 
foods, baking powder, infant and invalid foods, dried and condensed 
milk and toilet requisites. 


In order to clarify the existing legislation governing the adultera- 
tion and falsification of food stuffs and to provide powers for 
sampling, a draft ordinance has been prepared for enactment early 
in 1934. An order was made prohibiting the importation of sub- 
stances declared as butter, samneh and artificial butter and artificial 
samneh unless conforming to certain standards of quality and 
properly labelled and invoiced. 


4. Drainage.—Further progress in the scheme for the main 
drainage of Jerusalem was achieved by final decision in regard to 
future requirements of the city and upon technical aspects of 
design of the disposal works. Estimates could thus be formulated 
and definite allocations made for the completion of the scheme 
out of the new Loan. The project is estimated to cost £P.150,000 
towards which the Colonial Development Fund will make a grant, 
in respect of interest charges, of £P.26,250. 


The Municipality in Haifa has carried out considerable extension 
of drainage lines in rapidly expanding or built up quarters. The 


temporary interceptor and outfall continue to give satisfactory 
service. . 


In Jaffa and Tel-Aviv minor works have been carried out in the 
extension of existing lines. Both municipalities hope to contract 
loans ehortly for the installation of main sewer lines. 


Village Sanitation. 


44. Considerable progress was made with rural sanitation. The 
bored hole latrine is installed in villages of the plain,.and an 
Inexpensive latrine has been designed for hill villages where rock 
formation is encountered. 


_ In the course of eleven months, 1,815 bored hole latrines were 
installed in ten villages with a total population of 15,722, and 


886 pit latrines were installed in five villages with a total popu- 
lation of 7,116. 


138 


_— —_ ew 


The work is preceded by propaganda and the villagers co-operate ‘ 


by bearing the cost (approximately 150 mils) of the concrete top 
of the latrine. In the Southern District priority of attention 1s 
given to areas in which a high incidence of blindness is associated 
with dirt and lack of sanitation, or ankylostomiasie 1s prevalent. 


5. Quarantine and Moslem Pilgrimages.—At the beginning of 
the year a serious epidemic of smallpox in Alexandria made it 
necessary to obtain from travellers arriving thence valid certificates 
of vaccination and medical surveillance for a fortnight after arrival. 

The increase of immigration pressed hardly upon the medical 
staffs at the ports. Consideration is being given to the expansion 
and development of the sanitary and quarantine establishments 
of Haifa to deal with the bulk of immigrant traffic in future. 

Two hundred and forty-seven Palestinians and two Trans 
Jordanians went on the pilgrimage to Mecca under official arrange- 
ments and returned safely and in good health: all were vaccinated 
against smallpox and cholera before leaving and were provided 
with special passport booklets containing tickets for the return 
journey. Two hundred and twenty-seven foreign pilgrims passed 
through Palestine en route for the Hejaz, including 93 British 
Indiang, and 45 on the way back. 

An agreement was concluded in 1933 between the Palestine 
Government and the Egyptian Government to regulate the transit 
of Palestinian Pilgrims through Egyptian territory during the 
season of the pilgrimage to Mecca. 


6. Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc.—An exceptionally large 
number of licences were issued, principally to German immigrants. 


$05 : Licences Total 

Practising at New Licences ‘thd practising 

end of 1932. Issued. ede: akoend of 
f or cancelled. 19338 
Doctors ‘en sas 658 384 19 1,023 
Dentists ea sie 214 83 2 295 
Pharmacists ... we 192 29 1 220 
Midwives es wo 333 35 — 368 


There is thus approximately one doctor to each 1,000 persons of 
the settled population. | 


7. Hospitals and Dispensaries.—The expansion of Haifa Hospital 
by 50 beds in the St. Luke’s building was accomplished early in 
1933 and has been of great utility to all communities in the district. 
Owing to the large increase of the Kuropean population of Haifa 
and of its labouring classes, the staff of the Hospital has had to 
work under pressure and every available bed has been required. 
The Government hospital at Acre has been closed. 

The municipal hospitals, at Jaffa and Tel-Aviv, were in full 
use, while the infectious annex of the former institution had to 
be supplemented for the treatment of enteric fever and dysentery 
by converting the Quarantine Lazaret into a temporary hospital. 


189 


To add to the somewhat scanty accommodation for communicable 
disease in Eastern Galilee, a small hospital at Safad has been 
established by the Government with 25 beds and it has already 
proved of great value. 


The Scottish Mission Hospital at Tiberias, the Jerusalem and 
the East Mission Hospital at Hebron and the Edinburgh Mission 
Hospital at Nazareth fulfilled their functions admirably and dealt 
with the sick of those districts in which no Government hospitals 
exist. 

In the larger towns the Church Missionary Society, French, 
German and Italian hospitals, dealt with a considerable proportion 
of the Arab sick and injured, and the Hadassah Hospital, the 
Kupat Cholim, Shaare Zedek and Bicur Cholim provided for Jewish 
cases, some of which also attended the English Hospital (Church 
Mission to the Jews), The Ophthalmic Hospital of the Order of 
St. John continued its valuable services in the campaign against 
eye disease and a few lepers are cared for in the Moravian Mission 
Home. 


The following are figures of the patients admitted to hospital 
or attending in-patient clinics during the year :— 


Unclassified 
Ohristians. Moslems. Jews. and Totals. 
others. 
Tn-Patienta :— 

Government and nee, 

Hospitals... 1,965 5,408 6,435 91 13,873 
Voluntary Hospitals ... ... 4,050 8,430 13,578 1,954 28,012 
Out-Patients :-— 

Government and saa on 

Ties .-- 10,199 91,598 15,238 74 117,109 

Voluntary Organizations ... 40,351 109,404 255,736 4,493 409,984 


The following tables provide information ag to the activities of :— 
A. Government and Municipal Hospitals. 
B. Voluntary General Hospitals. 
C. Special Hospitals. 


(a) Voluntary. 
(b) Government. 


"EE-L-FI poucdc ft “s}UByOI UlOg-Mou Zurpnyouy 4 "SE-C-1E PesolD « 


EL8'S1} 16 osF'9| 996'T| sore 29 oo 6EI 09€ 
98z GL 92 FBI LZ — — % — 
486z'9 = 1829} 6 8 Ze = 02 €L 
906‘ a = 09 90¢'T 17 ras ¥ Lg 
88 7 z II IL — = g ¥ 
1¥g I — SF cP Zz rd 6 02 
Q81‘Z = ILF PEE ose‘T — L GZ I? 
026‘T L GIg 96F 206 8 L OF GL 
061'Z y OFI £28 $221 91 9 Il OL 


neers | es | eS | Sf fA YS | ES | I | RS fC 9 ree SERSSRRacont [fener 


“SYyIDeT 


‘suotenUUpY “ypBuase-paq poUstuso NT 


"Seer ‘srejdsoy fedjoyany, pue yueuruz0A0y 
‘V Wavy, 


** eTeVOT, 


*** (quourmeAON) peyegt 
‘++ @IqQEUAMO], ALAY-[O], 
(mB98A4) BNIGUN 
(jedtoranyy) ey, 
(yedtoranyy) szex) 

""s (pedyorunyy) eger 


(quemrUIeAOY)) WIOTeENIOL 


"sondeo 7 


141 

















026 $-F56 929°9Z Qol‘T _ _ ch wr “* STRIOL 
— T-Pt 098 9 09 SyIeH "op """ OUROL op "0g 
or 0-91 098 8 09 Woreense¢ ueyegy | °° SUBS] OTVUOHEN suoszujOoNsY 
13 0-83 L28 08 08 IVA "op at _, HEBID “38 JO 8194818 JO TOPIO 
8 6-> SsT y 03 epur ‘op ea aS pany Hoag 
v0 ¢-69 L69'T 99 09 wioyusnier UVvULIO_) | UsesOUO RKC oyosEydzeom YoRUSCUY 
$0 gos | geet | ae 06 wr | op of vs od 
03 0-08 838. rx 08 meyqoTq70g "op ; od 
OF 0-S> $83'T L8 09 op qouelg | *" . youery 
61 8-ST g rat 03 op ‘op ‘op ; PIO 
‘CV'S'O pus “yn Afsoul ‘peoiqe 
99 ¥-8P £68'T 68 vL ‘op ‘op pues spuny feoo]) WNTOYO mq MON 
ad) "Uoeper pas aed 
oI 0-8T 68S st $s ‘op UvfupseIVg | ‘suoseUOp sda 8 biel 
oy} Ul AyfUNUIWIOD YsMoL Oty Jo 
ss g-TS St6. os ¢9 UVULIEH) | 810,00}01d PUY KIOIN], “Hopoz orevyg 
s | se | Bet | i ee ee 
; "eUPASIeI Ul Mogey yopmor 
6y T-P 039'T aI 09 uguUpseed | JO uoHVopey [ious Jo pun AoIg 
29 $-6P OTT gf 09 "op |. puepy00g Jo yoMYD 9917 poyyuy 
OF 5°9F oFe'T 98 09 ‘op ’ AQepog WOME [eopen YAMQuipy 
or o-t | te Ig oy op fe Ee 
49 9-93 308 gS $9 ‘op ore on od 
91 ¥-93 ¥00'T ¥3 49 Wha | Aqopoog Areuojysstpe gogo 
00 9-99 397. 63 g¢ ‘op Ss "od 
30 0-39 932‘ 90T oP op "od 
‘ “SOpPIGUIW JO TOR 
IvT $-9ST 0¢0‘s g6s UvopoUry | -ezjUUBIOQ 4eyUC;Z #,UeMIOM YeseEpeyL 





“eyroo ‘uoywooT =| ‘Anipuoypa | “WOpwEpuUDeLQ 1736007 


“SS6r ‘sieqidsox [esouen AivjunjoA 
‘'q Wavy 


Daaened |feommencs| oo oe 
“eponeeoH 1 Jno ome (a) 


“so[qumou] puv souveuy 


“AOpuo’T ‘440 
wofesnier |feuopeurezuy | -e0;_ [wUORwUI0;UT qeydbony 2097 
“‘puy[suy Uy Woresnzer jo UgOL 
wioreener 


WeRHG | 30 29P19 omy jo TeaVdo0H orareNnucO 





“woymooT =| “Anpuot~ "woes pwNsLO yonds0 TT 


S86} ‘sIeIdsoH [ejoods 
"-:) PIE, 


143 


7a. Government Grant-in-aid to Jewish Health Services.—A 
rant of £P.1,500 was given towards the expenses incurred 
vv the Hadassah Medical Organization under the auspices of the 
General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish Community on the 
School Medical Service. This sum represents the estimated cost of 
this service if carried out by a Government Department. On the 
same basis, £P.500 was granted to the Vaad Leumi for infant 
welfare. 

In addition £P.1,700 was contributed towards the maintenance of 
the Jewish tuberculosis hospital at Safad, with 40 beds; and a 
capital grant of £P.3,000 was made towards the construction of 3 
Nurses’ Home and laundry sections at the central hospital of the 
Kupat Cholim in the Emek. 


8. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services.—With the establish- 
ment of two new centres during the year, there are now ten Govern- 
inent Infant Welfare Centres and the Government shares in the 
work of eight centres conducted by local committees. Village 
centres under trarned midwives are being tried in certain places. 


There are twenty-two centres maintained by the Hadassah 
Medical Organization and five by voluntary committees for the 
Jewish Community. 


_ Two additional Superintendents of Midwifery have been appointed 
in Jaffa and Haifa in order to develop ante-natal work and to improve 
the standard of midwifery by a closer control over practising mid- 
Wives. At Hebron ante-natal work is being carried out under the 
auspices of a lady doctor attached to the Jerusalem and the East 
Mission. A considerable extension of the Infant Welfare work in 
that town has been made possible by an increase of staff. 

In Jerusalem the maternity section of the Government Hospital 
(16 beds) dealt with 499 deliveries. 

Seventeen midwives graduated after a six months’ course of 
training at the Midwives Training School. 


9. Ophthalmic Services.—A considerable expansion of the 
Ophthalmic Service was effected in Hebron, Majdal and Gaza to 
deal more radically with summer epidemics of acute conjunctivitis 
which have been responsible for the high degree of blindness 
amongst the inhabitants. 

Two additional ophthalmic centres were set up at Hebron and 
Majdal in J uly, and six subsidiary village clinics under trained male 
attendants supervised by the Medical Officers of the centres, to 
Which all but the simplest cases are sent for treatment. 

Between July and November the Majdal centre and subsidiary 
clinics dealt with 12,113 cases of which 2,712 were acute conjuncti- 
VIB, and the Hebron centre with 6,546 cases of which 4,004 were 
acute conjunctivitis. In its early days the campaign has already 

een successful in limiting the number of cases liable to blindness. 


144 


It is to be expanded in 1934 by the addition of a travelling unit 
and six additional village clinics. 

A new clinic was established at Safad in October. The existing 
clinics at Gaza, Ramleh, Jaffa, Tulkarem, Nablus, Beersheba and 
Acre dealt with 26,643 new cases and 256,271 attendances, while 
the school ophthalmic attendances numbered 2,460,541. 


10. Laboratory Services.—The laboratory personnel undertook the 
preparation, standardisation and issue of all necessary prophylactic 
and curative vaccines ; the identification and classification of insects. 
snakes and molluscs of medical importance; the recognition of 
animal parasites affecting man; the investigation of problems such 
ads water supplies, rabies control and anti-enterica measures; 
research in pathology, bacteriology, chemistry and entomology ; the 
maintenance of an adequate roster of blood donors; the provision of 
an analytical service for Government Departments and for the 
public; the carrying out of all medico-legal and chemico-legal work 
connected with the scientific detection of crime ; the performance of 
all kinds of bio-chemical examinations, and the preservation of the 
Government’s standard weights and measures. 

During the year the Bacteriological Division dealt with 160,88! 
specimens sent for examination; it prepared 367,200 doses of calf 
lymph, 116,000 c.c. of carbolized anti-rabic vaccine and 105,720 c.c. 
of anti-enterica prophylactic. Vaccine issue included 626,400 doses 
of calf lymph—167,960 doses for the epidemic needs of July alone—_ 
109,524 c.c. of anti-rabies vaccine for bitten human beings and 
10,000 ¢.c. for bitten animals, and 102,300 ¢.c. of anti-enterica 
vaccines. The anti-rabies vaccine, equivalent to 1,566 human treat- 
ment courses, was used at 34 district dispensaries. Research work 
included enquiries into the pathological changes which occur 1 
paralysis of the Landry type and into the histology of the neuro- 
paralytic accidents which occasionally complicate anti-rabic treat- 
ment; investigations into the nature of Trinidad virus were col- 
tinued and an evaluation was made of the agglutinin response to 
various types of anti-enterica vaccination. . 

The Entomological Division dealt with identification of anopheline — 
and culicoid species and classification of rat fleas collected at the 
ports. 

The Chemical Division disposed of 5,900 samples and specimens: 
general 5,030, biochemical 470, agricultural 400. In addition some 
3,300 milk samples were analysed in the twelve provincial centres 
equipped for the purpose. 

Special work embraced an investigation into the composition and 
origin of 763 counterfeit coins for the Currency Board, a continua 
tion of the corrosion experiments on aluminium alloys for the Wat 
Office, and the analysis of honey, oranges and olives. 

11. Town Planning.—The Central Town Planning Commission 
dealt with 120 projects, including 87 town plans and amendments 
to existing legislation and by-laws. 


145 


Three important schemes were approved for Jerusalem, and at 


Haifa the scheme for the Port Reclamation Area has been 
sanctioned. 


The Commission attaches primary importance to the by-laws con- 
trolling the heights of buildings and to zoning, as means to curb 
the general tendency towards overcrowding. 


12. Housing Conditions.—There is a considerable diversity in 
housing conditions in Palestine. The choice of material ranges 
Over goat-hair for the tents of the nomadic tribes, reeds for the 
huts of the marsh dwellers of the Huleh region, sun-dried bricks 
in Arab villages on the plains and rough-hewn stone on the hills, 
timber for barracks or canvas for tents in new Jewish agricultural 
homesteads, concrete or cement bricks for a later stage of settle- 
ment, bricks and red tiles in the larger colonies and the German 
farms, stuccoed silicate and reinforced concrete for modern Tel- 
Aviv, and impressive and skilfully dressed limestone for Jerusalem. 
The old-fashioned village dwelling is often an ill-ventilated building 
of one or two rooms to which poultry and livestock may have access. 


Ses stone walls and vaulted roofs afford protection against the 
eat. 


In towns, permits to build are granted by a sub-committee of 
“he Municipality, and elsewhere by the Local Council. For 
erusalem, Haifa, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv, and Tiberias there are Town 


MPlanning Schemes, approved by the Central Town Planning Com- 
mnission of the Government. 


The construction of all buildings in these areas is regulated by 
wnodern by-laws, prescribing stringent conditions for the density 
of the buildings, the height of the buildings, building lines, ventila- 
tion, sanitation, water-supply, foundations, water-proofing, and the 

~ ike. Plans of the lay-out of residential quarters are approved as 
7» detailed schemes and become part of the previously approved Out- 
tine Town Planning Scheme. Residential areas are grouped into 
yy three or more zones, each with a minimum prescribed area of 
oe building plot and minimum percentage of allowed built-up area. 


In Jerusalem, Tel-Aviv, and Haifa, new suburbs are growing 
quckly, but the supply of houses does not yet meet the demand. 
New houses generally maintain a fairly high standard of domestic 
ri  a¥chitecture. The combination of ground floor shops with resi- 


dential flats is common, so that large numbers of people are housed 
in commercial quarters. 


In the early stages of Jewish colonization, the vanguard is 
content with a minimum of comfort and convenience in tent or 
barack. Sanitary installations are often primitive. Later, two- 
~zomed dwellings of a simple standard design are erected and less 

inadequate provisions are made for sanitary and hygienic needs. 


146 


In the established colonies, conditions resemble those in the 
smaller towns and the standard of Kuropean working class rural 
areas may be said to prevail. This is true also of the German 
settlements. 


In modern town houses a reasonable style of sanitary installation 
is maintained. The use of electric light 1s spreading, and an 
adequate piped water-supply is available in Tel-Aviv and some of 
the larger Jewish colonies, but in other towns the main water- 
supply is limited. In consequence, rain-water cisterns and wells 
are still largely used to supplement supplies. Owing to lack of 
capital funds, main drainage is developing slowly and houses must 
be provided with septic tanks and percolating pits which require 
periodical attention and emptying and are not a satisfactory sub- 
stitute for main drainage. 


In the old quarters of Jerusalem town, in Safad, Hebron, Nablus, 
and Tiberias very few new houses are erected, but minor sanitary 
improvements are continually being made. A large number of 
families are moving out of the old houses into modern suburbs. 
Nevertheless a considerable proportion of the population are still 
housed in overcrowded and unhealthy dwellings. In Town Plan- 
ning Areas slums have been scheduled and an effort is being made 
by Local Authorities to prevent their growth. Progress in these 
matters must inevitably be slow in the absence of large capital 
funds. 


New blocks of flats, each with four or five rooms often providing 
accommodation for several families, are common in Jerusalem, 
Tel-Aviv, and Haifa. In older quarters of certain towns large 
blocks of apartments similar to ‘‘ tenement houses ’’ exist, having 
been constructed years ago by charitable or communal organizations. 
Helped by co-operative societies and by institutions, which make a 
speciality of granting long-term loans, large numbers of Jews 
construct their own houses and become their own landlords. 


The legislation for the contro] of the construction of new settle- 
ments and new quarters outside the Town Planning Areas and of 
buildings jn small towns is not yet adequate, and measures to 
improve control are under consideration. 


Control of rents and agreements of tenancy in Tel-Ao1o.—The 
rapid growth of the population of Tel-Aviv, to which a large pro- 
portion of newly arriving immigrants gravitated, gave rise to an 
acute shortage of residential and business accommodation early .nu 
1933. 


Although building activities were at their height, the demand 
for additional premises could not be fully met and rents rose 
generally. For the protection of tenants against unreasonable 
exactions, an Ordinance was passed, giving powers to Local Authori- 


147 


“ties, with the approval of the High Commissioner, to make by-laws 
-- for the extension of all agreements of tenancy or sub-tenancy and 
~ to fix the rent payable under such agreements. Under this Ordin- 

ance, by-laws were enforced in Tel-Aviv whereby existing tenancy 
-- @greements were extended until the end of June, 1933. 


This action conduced to the amicable settlement of cases between 

tenants and landlords and, during the ‘‘ moratorium,’’ landlords 

_ and tenants organized themselves, and an unofficial conciliatory 

y was formed which performed useful work in adjudicating dis- 
putes between the parties. 


13. Public Morality.—There is no regulation of prostitution in 
Palestine by means of reserved districts or licensed houses; nor 
is there any registration of prostitutes or compulsory medical 
eXamination. 


The law provides severe penalties against procurers and against 
_ those living on the earnings of prostitutes, under the Criminal Law 
Amendment Ordinance, 1927. 


Brothels are illegal, a brothel being defined as a place 
two or three prostitutes carry on their trade.’’ 


All possible steps are being taken to reduce prostitution ; special 
F>recautions are taken to prevent the surreptitious entry of foreign 
Frostitutes; and the admission of prostitutes is forbidden by the 
1_mmigration Ordinance, 1933. Those who contrive to enter are 
1 nvariably from Egypt and Syria, and generally of Egyptian, 
Syrian, or Turkish nationality, but they very often contract 
Tnarriages with Palestinians so as to avoid deportation. Some of 

_ them are so-called artistes and dancing-girls, who have been allowed 
. %o enter with a view to performing in cafés for a limited period. It 
18 believed that in most cases these women come to Palestine on 
: their own initiative. 


‘ where 


Supervision is exercised by Police and Health authorities over 
i: Places of amusement and persons employed at such places, and 
si enforced by Regulations under the Intoxicating Liquors and Public 
n: mtertamments Ordinance, 1922; and all employment agencies in 
Palestine are subject to Police registration. 


No traffickers are known by the Police to operate in Palestine : 
ae the traffic in young girls from Palestine to Egypt and Syria or else- 
~ Where for immoral purposes is practically non-existent, although 
it is attempted from time to time by traffickers operating outside 
‘this country. Where attempts have been made to entice girls to 
~~deave the country, it is always with a promise of lucrative work. 
—Xi instance of the use of force has come to notice. All such cases 
“=ar referred to the Government Welfare Inspector by the Police 
“== Immigration Authorities and the departure of the girls is thus 
Morevented. 


148 


There is no traffic in women and young girls through Palestine 
as the sea route is considerably cheaper and obviates the necessity — 
for passports and for immigration papers and visas for Palestine 
which are difficult to obtain. 


It has not been necessary for the Palestine Government to invoke 
the processes of extradition against traffickers in any case. 


The following institutions and officials in Palestine concern them- — 
selves with the problem of combating the traffic in women and — 
children :— 


(a) The Social Service Association, which is composed of — 
women representing all communities in Palestine, and which — 
includes in its activities the protection of women and children 
from all forms of vice. 


(b) The Government Welfare Inspector. 


(c) Various Jewish Societies which are not primarily for the 
purpose of protecting women and children but include it in — 
their activities. 


The Jewish Agency affords protection to Jewish immigrants to — 
Palestine through reception agents at the ports; and Christian and 
other girls are given protection by the Y.W.C.A., of which there 
are branches in the three principal towns. 


The following are statistics of prosecutions in the three chief 
towns for the offence of brothel-keeping :— 


Jerusalem. ' Haifa. Jaffa. Tel-Aviv. 


1932 ... ta oa 1 4 2 — 
1933 ... sine sie 1 5 14 2 


Convictions were obtained in 1932 in four cases, and in 1933 in 
nineteen cases, the sentences ranging from £P.50 or six months 
imprisonment to a fine of £F.5. 


Magistrates are aware of the gravity of these offences and 
deterrent sentences will be more regularly inflicted in the future. 


During the year, the General Secretary of the British Social 
Hygiene Council paid a visit to Palestine, and was given every 
facility for her investigations by the Department of Health and the 
Government Welfare Inspector. She was specially interested to 
learn that the Palestine Government had reserved a plot of land 
in the Reclaimed Area at Haifa, beside the Main Gate of the new 
Harbour, for a Seamen’s Institute which is shortly to be erected 
by the British Sailors’ Society. The site is being given for the 
purpose free of charge. 


Her report, including recommendations for treatment of venereal 
diseases, 18 now under consideration by the Government. 














149 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from Ist 
July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Government) to 


3lst March, 1933, are set out below :— 


Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. £P. 

Ist July, 1920, to 31st March, | 
1921... x 1,136,951 1,259,587 
1921-1922 2,371,531 1,929,341 
1922-1923 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-1924 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-1925 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-1926 2,809,324 2,092,647 
1926-1927 2,451,365 2,123,568 
1927 (April to December) 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 . 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 2,389,546 2,536,504 
1931 ae 2,333,895 2,374,867 
1932 (1st January ¢ to 31st t March) 657,289 511,656 
1932-1933 i 3,015,917 2,516,394 
29,453,652 28,223,356 

Surplus Balance at 31st March, 

1933... oe 1,230,296 
£P.29,453,652 


2. Summaries of the revenue and expenditure under Heads are 
contained in Appendices I and II to this Section and explanations of 
variations of note are appended thereto. 

3. The revenue for the period under review aggregated 
£P.3,015,917 and the expenditure amounted to £P.2,516,394, or 
an excess of revenue over expenditure of £P.499,523. 

4. The revenue under Head I, Customs, shows an increase of 
£P.338,208 over the revenue from that source in the twelve months 
ended 31st March, 1932. The increase is mainly due to expansion 
of consumption owing to increased population; to substitution of 
imported commodities for local agricultural products owing to crop 
failure, and to increased trade activities generally. The rate of 
duty was also increased on certain commodities, e.g., wheat, flour, 
rye, kerosene, beer, spirits, motor cars, socks and stockings, silk 
and artificial silk goods, etc. 

The amount of £P.15,822 collected under Head II, Port and 
Marine, was less by £F.1,710 than the receipts in 1931-32, due to 
the payment in that year of a sum of £P.7,262 in respect of light- 
house fees and interest by the Administration Général des Phares 

23364 F 


150 
de l’Empire Ottoman in respect of the period 6th August, 1924, to 


* 


dlst October, 1928. On the other hand light dues have been - 


collected on a gold basis as from the lst February, 1932. 


The revenue from Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted to £P.824,443 — 


as against £P.632,451 in the year 1931-32. The main increases 
are £P.6,261 under Animal Tax ; £P.85,869 under House and Land 


e 


Tax (including Urban Property Tax); £P.44,140 under Tithes — 
although these were £F.78,312 below the estimate for the year — 


owing to remissions, amounting to some £P.173,000, on account 
of failure of crops; £P.5,874 under Stamp Duties ; £P.40,730 under 
Tobacco Iixcise; £P.7,525 under Wine and Spirit Excise and 
£P.3,659 under Fines and Forfeitures. 


: 


On the other hand there is a decrease of £P.3,482 under Liquor 


Licences. 

The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £P.332,488 as against £P.248,363 in the year 1931-22. 
The main increases are £P.3,705 under Fruit Inspection Fees; 
£P.1,276 under Quarantine Fees; £P.1,350 under Regietration 
of Companies and Partnerships Fees; £P.1,740 under Registration 
of Immigrants Fees ; £P.45,748 under Registration of Lands Fees; 
£P.5,624 under Overtime Fees; £P.1,270 under Hospital Receipts; 
£P.1,570 under Reimbursements by the Trans-Jordan Govern- 
ment; £P.23,612 under Reimbursements in respect of Municipal 
Police; and £P.2,101 under Warehouse Rent. 


On the other hand there was a decrease of £P.6,081 under Court | 


Fees. 
The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphe, at £P.229,819 
is £P.18,646 in excess of the amount collected in the year 1931-32. 


The main increases are £P.11,798 under Sale of Stamps; £P.6,879 | 
under Telephones; and £P.3,445 under Miscellaneous. A de 


crease of £P.3,246 occurred under Telegraph receipts. 

The revenue from Head VI, Revenue from Government Property, 
shows an increase of £P.1,824. 

The revenue from Head VII, Interest, amounted to £P.83,773 
and reflects an increase of £P.40,469 over the receipts in 1931-32. 
Increaseg occurred under receipts on Investments by the Crown 
Agents of £P.24,244, due to the receipt of arrears of interest from 
the Joint Colonial Fund and to larger sums available for invest- 
ment; and under Receipts from Other Sources of £P.16,829 due 
to the transfer to Revenue of interest on Agricultural and Seed 
Loans, previously collected and held on deposit (£P.16,328). 

The revenue under Head VIII, Miscellaneous, amounted to 
£P.79,938 and shows an increase of £P.12,442 due to the increased 
contribution by the Palestine Currency Board in respect of 
Palestine’s share of the profits from currency. 

The revenue under Head IX, Land Sales, amounted to £P.18,6& 
and shows an increase of £P.8,521 in comparison with the previous 
period, due mainly to the collection of arrearg of instalments from 
the sale of Beisan Lands under the Ghor-Mudawara Agreement. 


151 


The revenue under Head X, Grant-in-Aid, consisted of the 
following :— 
£P. 

Three-quarters of the expenditure under Head 

XXIII, 'Trans-Jordan Frontier Force during 

the year 1932-33 (£P.169,701) oe ... 127,276 
Whole of expenditure on capital works in Tran 

Jordan under Head XXXI, Trans-Jordan 

Frontier Force Extraordinary during the year 

1982-33 a Se oes se es oe 568 
Add: Axmmounts undercredited to Revenue in 


1980 and 1931-32 iad 14 
127 ,858 
Less: ‘Uhhree-quarters of £P.93.253 mils in 
respect of temporary stabling, Jisr Mejamieh, 
erroneously charged to Ordinary Expenditure 
in 1931-82, instead of to Extraordinary works 
in Palestine - Eos a an 70 





£P.127,78 


The total receipts from the Parliamentary Grant-in-Aid for the 
year 1932-33 amounted to £P.131,140 but the sum of £P.3,352 
was transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit Account for adjust- 
ment of the grant in the current year. 


d. The Variations in expenditure in 1932-33 as compared with 
6 expenditure in 1931-32, are due to the following causes :— 


P enstons .—The increase was due to Pensions and Gratuities 
paid to further retrenched and retired officers. 


District Administration.—The main decrease occurs under 
Personal Bmolumente due to retrenchments. 


Customs , Excise and Trade.—The main increase occurs 
under Overtime Fees. Prior to the year under review collec- 
ons and payments of overtime fees were kept under a Deposit 
Account. “In 1932-33 the collections of overtime fees were 
camned to revenue and the payments debited to expenditure. 


th 


Department of Education.—The main increases occur under 
Personal Fymoluments (£P.4,738) ; Grant-in-Aid to Schools 
of the Palestine Jewish Agency (£P.6,397) owing to pay- 
ment of instalments withheld in the previous financial period ; 
and Grants to Local Authorities for School Buildings 


‘£P.1,000), a new item of expenditure in 1932-33. 


_ Department of Agriculture and Forests.—The main increase 
is due to Special expenditure on the establishment of Agricul- 


tural Stations at Gaza and Farradiya in the sums of £P.1,502 
233364 F 2 


152 


and £P.918 respectively; the latter expenditure being met 
from a personal contribution by His Excellency the High 
Commissioner, 


Department of Development.—Includes expenditure in con- 


nection with the newly established section of the Registrar of © 


Co-operative Societies as from Ist September, 1932. 


Police and Prisons.—The main increases occur under Per- 


sonal Emoluments (£P.11,678) owing mainly to the absorp- 
tion of the Municipal Police into the Palestine Police Force: 
Uniforms and Clothing (£P.4,812) due partly to the necessity 
to provide for uniforms and clothing of absorbed Municipal 
Police and partly to the payment made during 1932-33 in 
respect of outstanding indents from the previous financial 
period ; Compensation to discharged Police on termination of 
engagement (£P.3,215) which is payable under the Police 
(Amendment) Ordinance, 1929 ; and Forage and Forage Allow- 
ances (£P.2,387) due to the rise in forage rates during the 
year. On the other hand there were decreases of note under 
Transport and Travelling (£P.5,350) due to extended use of 
the Police transport service ; and under Harness and Saddlery 
(£P.1,238). 


Department of Immigration.—The expenditure of this 
‘Department was included under Police and Prisons up to 
31st December, 1931. Since then it has appeared as a separate 
Department. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force.—The decreases occur mainly 
under the following items :—Arms, Equipment, Uniforms and 
Clothing (£P.1,915) and Ammunition (£P.1,363) due to reduc- 
tion in establishment; and under Purchase of Riding Animal: 
(£P.2,555) which is not @ recurrent item of expenditure. 


Defence.—There was an increase of £P.35,000 under 


Contribution to Imperial Government towards the cost of the - 


Royal Air Force, Armoured Cars and Army Units employed 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan over the cost of such forces at ther 
normal stations, including the cost of local services; with 3 
consequent decrease of £P.19,599 under Cost of Local Services 


rendered to Royal Air Force and Army Units. The expenditure 


in 1932-33 on this account consisted of the cost of services 
rendered prior to the 1st April, 1932, the date on which the cost 
of such services was included in the general contribution to the 
Imperial Government. 


Public Works Department.—The principal decrease amount- 
ing to £P.2,841 occurs under Personal Emoluments and 15 
mainly due to vacancies in establishment. 





163 


Public Works Recurrent.—The main decrease occurred under 
Railway Fares and Freight (£P.10,394) which in the year under 
review were charged to the relative Sub-Heads and not to a 
separate Sub-Head as in the past. On the other hand there are 
minor increases under Maintenance of Mechanical Transport 
(£P.689) ; Rent of Offices and Quarters (£P.775) ; and Mainten- 
ance of Roads and Bridges (£P.835). 


Miscellaneous.—The main increases under this Head occurred 
under Payments to the Supreme Moslem Council in lieu of 
Assigned Waaf Tithes (£P.58,750); Write-off of uncollectable 
arrears of Agricultural and Seed Loans (£P.24,893) and Settle- 
ment of claim by the beneficiaries of the late Mr. James Finn 
(£P.4,277) in respect of land at Mount Scopus, Jerusalem. On 
the other hand there were decreases under Cost of Juiving 
Allowances (£P.13,386) due to the reduction of the rate of 
allowance; Depreciation on Investments (£P.19,772); 
Expenses of the Wailing Wall Commission (£P.3,896), of the 
O’Donnell Commission (£P.1,165); and Rent and Compensa- 
tion for Wadi Hawareth Lease (£P.1,135). 


Public Works Extraordinary.—The expenditure for the year 
under review falls under the following groups :— 


£P. 
Works and Buildings ee of 42,968 
Construction of Roads and Bridges ... 36,117 
Miscellaneous _... vee te 15,155 
£P .94,240 


The approved provision for the year was £P.99,635, and the 
under-expénditure is due to curtailment of certain works, to 
savings made on the original estimate of some, to postponement 
of others, and to works begun but not completed during the 
year and revoted in the following year. 


Railways.—The Palestine Railways show an increase of 
£P.8,653 in net receipts on railway working. There is, how- 
ever, an increase of £P.16,132 under Extraordinary Expendi- 
ture due to the payment of charges relating to previous years. 
It is also to be noted that a first allocation of £P.40,000 was 
made to the Renewals Fund in 1932-33, of which £P.30,780 
was expended during the year. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary.w—The decrease 
of £P.3,297 under this Head in 1932-33 as compared with the 
preceding year is due partly to the completion of the construc- 
tion of camps for the Force in the Jordan area, and partly to 

fy fact that few capital works were executed in Trans-Jordan. 

4 F 3 


154 


Railways. 


6. The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railways proper 
for the period 1st April, 1932, to 3lst March, 1933, were as under :— 


Revenue— 
£P. 
322,387 
81,014 


Coaching and Goods 
Miscellaneous 





Expenditure— 
Ordinary : £P. 
Ordinary 249 825 
Debt Charges 152,962 





402 ,787 
Capital Improve- 

ments _ 27 287 
Reserve for 


Renewals 40,000 





67 ,287 





Deficit 


The deficit of £P.116,673 on the Palestine Railways was charged 
to Expenditure under Head XXXII in the Palestine Government 


Account. 


7. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railways proper to 


31st March, 1933, is appended :— 


£P. 
From Loan Funds— 
Purchase of Assets from His 
Majesty’s | Government 
(included in Item II of 
Appendix VI) 840 ,647 


Other expenditure (see 
Item I of Appendix VI) 1,629,418 


From Revenue— 
Capital Improvements to 


31st March, 1932 553,217 
Capital Improvements to 
1932-33 27 ,287 





£P. 


353,401 


470,074 


£P.116,673 


£P. 


2,470,065 


580 ,504 


£P.3 050,569 


| } 


155 


8. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah-Tiqva Railway were 
as under :— 





£P. 
Revenue for the period Ist April, 1932, to 31st | 
March, 1933 1,440 
Expenditure for the period 1 1st ¢ April, 1932, to 31st : 
March, 1933 aii 840 
Net Earnings ba inf oe i ... &P.600 





In the terms of the agreement the earnings are to be applied in 
payment of interest charges on the capital provided by Govern- 
ment and the landed proprietors of Petah-Tiqva respectively, 
namely, £P.34,089 and £F.20,5138 (£H-.20,000), and in amortise- 
ment of the latter sum which was provided by way of loan by the 
settlers. 


The earnings have proved inadequate to meet the interest 
charges. 


iy The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway were as 
under :— 
£P. £P. 
Revenue for the period 1st April, 
1932, to 3lst March, 1933... 97 ,242 
Expenditure for the period Ist 
April, 1932, to 31st March, 





1938 : 
Ordinary ie Sie ... 84,340 
E:xtraordinary sh ... 16,318 100,653 
Deficit oo yee siose nate £P.3,411 


The deficit at the 3lst March, 1933, was therefore increased 
to £P.48 087. 


10. The revenue and expenditure of the Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) 
Railway were as under :— 


£P. 
Revenue for the period Ist April, 1932, to 
dist March, 1933 __... ... 104,068 
Expenditure for the period 1st April, 1982, to 
31st March, 1933 __... - 90,899 
Net Earnings... sa re ae ... &£P.13,169 


23364 F 4 


156 


The net earnings have been apportioned in accordance with the | 
financial scheme and accounted for as follows :— 





£P. 

Renewals Fund ... “ts — ae os 6,584 
His Majesty’s Government _... Se = 6,403 
Palestine Government ... ets oa uae - 182 
£F.13,169 





11. The revenue from the Posts and Telegraphs Department 
amounted to £P.229,819 and the expenditure other than from loan 
funds to £P.169,661 as under, or an excess of revenue of 
£P.60,158 :— 


£P. 

Posts and Telegraphs: ... . at 154,989 
Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary .. bea 14,672 
£P.169 661 


The Department bears no direct charge in respect of interest on 
the capital expenditure of £P.188,126 defrayed from loan funds 
(see Appendix VI). 


Taxation. 


(1st April, 1932, to 3lst March, 1933—For the previous periods 
see paragraphs 9 to 16 on pages 144 to 147 of the Annual Report 
for 1930, paragraphs 9 to 11 on pages 114 and 115 of the Annual 
Report for 1931 and paragraphs 12 to 14 on pages 136 and 137 of 
the Annual Report for 1932.) 


12. Under the Customs Tariff (Amendment) Ordinance in the 
financial period under review, the import duty on boots, shoes, 
socks and stockings was increased in the interests of local producers. 
Increases were also made in the import duty on kerosene and beer 
mainly for revenue purposes. The rates of duty on wheat and 
flour were varied during the year in accordance with the policy of 
protecting the local wheat grower during the local harvest season. 

The following articles were added to the Schedule of exempted 
articles under the Customs Duties Exemption Ordinance, 1924 :— 


Paper bags, seed pearls, sewing cotton, rattan, lanolin and 
hydrogen peroxide, sodium cyanide, sodium bisulphate, sugar 
for manufacture of sweets, etc., cloth for the manufacture of 
fumigation tents, printing metals imported for use with stereo- 
typing plants, composing or typecasting machines, fixed 
appliances and spare parts for Municipal or Local Council 
abattoirs, asphalt sprayers and water chlorinating apparatus 
imported by and for the use of Local Authorities and food- 
stuffs imported by and consigned to the Soldiers’ and Airmen’s 


157 


Christian Association, Jerusalem, for sale solely to members 
of His Majesty’s Forces. 


13. Under the Urban Property Tax Ordinances, 1928-32, an 
addition to the Urban Property Tax was imposed for revenue 
purposes as under :— 


(a) all house property, including the sites, except house 
property constructed and used solely for the purpose of an 
industrial undertaking in which mechanically-driven machinery 
is used :—3 per cent. of net annual value ; 


(b) house property, including the site constructed and used 
solely for the purpose of an industrial undertaking in which 
mechanically-driven machinery is used :—2 per cent. of net 
annual value ; 


(c) land, other than the site of house property or which is 
used for the cultivation of crops and subject to the payment of 
tithe :—14 per cent. of net annual value. 


14. Under the Commutation of ‘Tithes Ordinances, 1927-28, the 
following remissions of commuted tithe were granted for the year 
under review :— 


(a) a remission of 25 per cent. of the commuted tithe ; 


(b) an additional remission of 45 per cent. based upon the 
reduced assessment as provided above in approved cases of 
individual villages suffering from partial or complete failure of 
winter and summer crops; 


(c) an additional remission of 30 per cent. based upon the 
reduced assessment as provided under (a) and (b) above in 
approved cases of individual villages where owing to partial 
or complete failure of winter and summer crops the crops were 
insufficient to meet the needs of the village for human and 
animal consumption or to provide a surplus for disposal for 
the payment of Government taxes; 


Provided that these remissions should in no case apply to the 
commuted tithe payable in respect of land planted with orange 
ites, which tithe remained payable in full; and 


Provided further that where the whole or a part of the tithe 
remitted had already been paid, cash refunds should not be made 
but the amounts so paid should be taken into account and deducted 


- any tithe payable for the current year or in respect of 
ears. 


fi These remissions were granted subject to the following condi- 
ons :— 


In the case of reputed owners who had not themselves culti- 
vated the land but had rented it to tenant-cultivators, no 


158 


remission should be granted unless it was proved to the satis- . 
faction of the District Commissioner of the District concerned 


that the following conditions were fulfilled :— 


(a) where the rent was payable by a tenant-cultivator - 


in cash, upon the reduction of the rent payable by an 
amount equal to the commuted tithe remitted, attributable 
to the land cultivated by the tenant-cultivator ; 


(b) where the rent was payable by the tenant-cultivator 
in kind, that the tenant-cultivator should receive a reduc- 
tion in his rental of the undermentioned share of 2+ per 
cent. of the crop on which the rental was paid. The 


share should be represented by the proportion which the. 


total crop on which rental was paid, less the amount of the 


rental, bore to the total crop. 


These remissions amounted to approximately £P.178, 000 out 
of a total assessment of the tithe for the year of £P.268,570, # | 





under :— 
Assessment. 
£P. 
Northern District _... ie 137,006 
Southern District... ea 93,568 
Jerusalem District ... oe 37 ,996 
| £P.268,570 





Remissions. 


£P. 
101,658 
49,350 
21,925 


172,933 





Reduced 
Assessment. 


£P. 
35,348 
44.218 
16,071 





95,637 





The total collections of tithe during the year including arrears 


amounted to £P.101,688. 


An agreement was reached during the year under review with 
the Supreme Moslem Council for the commutation by an annual 
lump sum payment of £P.23,000 in lieu of tithes assigned to 


Waafs with effect from 1st January, 1932. 


This agreement 1n- 


volved the payment during the year of the following amounts in 


lieu of those tithes :— 


(a) Compensation for the reduction due to re- 
missions in the commuted tithe in 1930 and 


1931 


(b) In respect of the petod J aaa! to 5 Maveh, 


1932 


(c) In respect of the year 1932- 33 


£P. 


30,000 


&, 190 
23 ,000 





£P.58,750 





‘ 
| 
| 
| 
! 


159 


Defence. 


15. The Palestine Government’s contributions towards the cost 
in 1932-33 of the Royal Air Force Units and Army Units in 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan were fixed at £P.90,000. 


The following contributions have been made :— 


Financial 
period in 
which Amount. Financial year tn which liability was incurred. 
payment 
was made. 
£P. £P. 
1928. 53,500 1927-28 (1 year) wie = a 31,000 
1928-29 (9 months) .... be zs 22,500 
1929, 30,3875  1928-29(3 months)... a = 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months)... a sae 22,875 
1980... 24,3875 1929-30(3 months) ... °°... a 7,625 
1930-31 (payment for 6 months at the 16,750 


original rate of £P.33,500 per 
annum which was_ subsequently 
revised to £P.75,250 per annum). 
1931. 86,000 1930-31 (payment of balance of con- 58,500 
tribution for the year at the revised 
rate of £P.75,250 per annum). 


1931-32 (6 months) ... - vie 27,500 
1932 27,500 1931-32(6 months) ... ” oe 27,500 
(January 
to March) 
1932-33... 90,000 1932-33 (12 months) .., sek ee 90,000 


Total... £P.311,750 


Assets and Liabilities. 


16. The assets and liabilities are set out in Appendix III. At 
dlst March, 1933, the surplus balance amounted to £P.1,230,296, 
48 under :— 

£P. £P. 

Surplus balance at 31st 

March, 1932 ss sat 
Revenue for the period 1st 

April, 1932 to 31st March, 

1933 oe oe bs 3,015,917 
Expenditure for the period 

Ist April, 1982, to 31st 

March, 1933 eis = 2,516,394 


130,773 


Surplus for the period 1st April, 1932, to 


81st March, 1933 499,523 


Surplus Balance at 3lst March, 1933 ... _—=—-1,230,296 


Municipalities. 
17. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities are sum- 


Marised as under :— 


J erusalem— 


Ain Farah Water Supply— 
Purchase of Plant from Sir 


John Jackson, Ltd. 
Main Drainage Scheme 


New Abattoir and Incinerator 


E] Wad Sewer 
Other Advances 


Hatfa— 
Oil Storage Area 


Purchase of land for Municipal 


Offices 


Other Municipaltttes— 


For Works and Services 


Total 


Agricultural Loans 








£P. £P. 

8,485 
25,491 
18,408 
7,200 
2,082 

61,616 
9,143 
2,389 

—— 11,532 

1,725 

£P.74,873 





18. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of loans 


are summarised as under :— 


(a) Agricultural Loans, 
1919-23, £P.576,319 (North- 
ern, Southern and Jeru- 
salem Districts)— 

Outstanding at dist 
March, 1932 ts 

Repayment during the 
year 1932-33 ... sf 

Amounts written off 


Percentage of arrears to 


the total loans 3:2 per 


cent. 

(b) Agricultural Loans, 1927, 
£P.19,995 (Beersheba Sub- 
District) — 

Outstanding at 31st 
March, 1932 . 

Repayments during the 
year 1932-33... 

Amounts written off 


£P. 


1,556 
17,898 





117 
D47 





£P. 


38,774 


19,454 





664 


664 


£P. 


19,320 


161 


£P. £P. £P. 
(c) Agricultural Loans, 1928, 
£P.19,866 (Northern Dis- 
trict) — 
Outstanding at 3ist : 
March, 1932 ... sae 12,018 
Repayments during th 
year 1932-33... Aas 843 
Amounts written off siti 6,448 6,791 5 227 





Percentage of arrears to 
the total loans 27 per 
cent. : 


(¢) Agricultural Loans, 
1930-31, £P.29,979 (North- 
em and Southern  Dis- 
tnicts)— . 

Outstanding at  3lst 
March, 1932 a 
Repayments during the 
year 1932-33 ah 


25,615 
1,408 24,212 





Percentage of arrears to 
the total loans 80°8 per 
cent. 


(e) Agricultural Loans, 
1931-32, £P.17,186 (South- 
ern District) — 
Outstanding at 31st 
March, 19382 ... ve 17,136 
Repayment during the 
year 1932-33... sis 3,859 13,277 





(f) Agricultural Loans, 
1932-383 (Northern, Southern 
and Jerusalem Districts) ... 52,965 


£P.115,001 


av th the exception of £P.1,015, in respect of which an extension 

© period for repayment was granted under (a), the instalments 

“OMprising the outstanding balances of (a), (c) and (d) are now over- 

ra The loans under (e) are payable in*two equal instalments, 

frst of which fell due on the 1st August, 1932, and the second 

on the Ist August, 1933. The majority of loans under (f) are 
"epayable in one instalment in 1933-34. | 


162 


Earthquake Reconstruction Loans. 


19. The position with regard to advances made on account of 
earthquake reconstruction loans may be summarised as under :— 


£P. 
Advances outstanding at 31st March, 19382 ... 22,433 
Repayments during the year 1932-38 ... ‘nt 1,344 
Total outstanding oer ae Mes .. £P.21,089 





The arrears of due instalments at the 3lst March, 1933, amounted 
to £P.8,248. 
Deposits. 
20. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.—The 
balance of this account is made up as under :— 


£P. 
Amount of the Fund at 3lst March 1932 _... 230,165 
Profits on Stock realised mee the year 
1932-33 . : e 8 ,607 
Appreciation of Investments held ‘at 3lst 
March, 1933, at the mean market value _... 48 ,a51 


£P.287 323 


The interest received from the investments of this Fund is carmned 
to a separate account. 

21. Palestine Archaeological Museum Current Account.—-The 
amount of £P.11,727 shown in the statement of assets and habilities 
represents the balance of interest made available to meet the salaries 
of the staff engaged in carrying out the preliminary work of arrang- 
ing and cataloguing the material. 

22. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Account.— 
The sum of £P.16,560 represents the excess of expenditure over the 
remittances received from Mr. Rockefeller in connection with the 
construction of the Museum. 

A summary of the account is appended :— 

£ 





£P. 
Cost of Construction— 
To 3lst December, 1931 _... 52,481 
lst January to 3lst March, 
19382... 3,314 
lst oa 1932 to dlst March, 
19338.. ak ae 42,765 98 ,560 
Rmittances received ... ae 82,000 
Balance at 3lst March, 1933 £P.16,560 


NotE :—This account appeared under Deposits in the 1st Quarter 
of 1982. In 1932-33, however, there was a debit balance on this 
account and it was therefore transferred to Advances. 


‘ 


163 


23. Sir Ellts Kadoorie Bequest.—The bequest was made to His 
Majesty’s Government who have appointed the Officer Administer- 
ing the Government of Palestine to be their local representative for 
the administration of the Trust. 

The balance of £P.2,685 shown in the statement of assets and 
habilities represents the amount available locally at 31st March, 
1933, from remittances made by the Crown Agents, London, for 
defraying the construction expenses of the Arab Agricultural School 
at Tulkarm, the Jewish Agricultural School at Mount Tabor, and 
part of the maintenance of the Tulkarm School. 

The Trust Fund invested by the Crown Agents at 31st March, 
1933, was £P.110,850 and the cash balance held by the Crown 
Agents was £P.49. 

Investments. 


24. The total investments amounting to £P.928,821 consist of 
securities held by the Crown Agents as shown in Appendix V. 
In the previous period advances to the Joint Colonial Fund 
(£P.731,000) and the Insurance Companies’ Guarantee Deposits 
(£P.6,248) were shown under Investments, whereas in the year 
under review they have been included under Advances (see 
Appendix IIIT). This accounts for the apparent drop in the total 
investments in 1932-33 as compared with the previous period. 


Statement of Expenditure from Loan Funds. 


25. The expenditure from loan funds is shown in Appendix VII. 
The Palestine Loan of £4,475,000, 5 per centum guaranteed 
stock, iesued at £100 10s. Od. per cent., realised £P.4,497,375. 


os expenditure during the year amounted to £P.335,774 as 
under :— 





. £P. | £P, 
Railway Workshops _... a 30 ,294 
Less : Credits in respect of other 

completed works a 534 29 ,760 
Harbour Construction and Port 

Improvements— 
Jaffa Port Improvements sti 995 
Haifa Harbour Construction .... 805,019 306,014 

£P.335 ,774 


26. The total expenditure at 3lst March, 1933, amounted to 
£P.4,050,153, leaving a balance of £P.447,222. 


Currency. 
(‘See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report 
for 1929.) 
27. During the year under review the Currency Board paid 
a amount of £P.50,000 in aid of the revenue of Palestine. 





164 


28. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the total 
currency in circulation at 81st March, 1933, amounted to 
£P.2,821,664 or an increase of £P.413,000, as compared with 
the currency in circulation at the 31st March, 1932 :-— 


Cotns and Notes in circulation at 
3lst March, 31st March, 


Denomination. 1932. 1933. 
: £P. £P. 
Silver Coins— 
100 Mils ...  ... ee 144,000 143,500 
50 mils va a ... 189,000 140,000 





Face value of silver coin ... £P.283,000 £P.283 500 


Nickel-bronze coins— 


20 Mils ade eh ro 15 ,200 16,000 
10 Mils ee bas ss 17 ,600 18,400 
5 Mile us ce et 12,200 12,900 
Face value of nickel-bronze 
coins ... 


~ £P.45,000 £P.AT,300 


Bronze coins— 





2 Mils . fe she 1,072 1,168 

1 Mil ee — ure 1 ,424 1,776 
Face value of bronze coins ... £P.2,496 £P.2,944 

Face value of all coins —... £P.830,496 £P.333 ,744 
Notes— | 
£P.100 ae 25 As 9,500 8,400 
£P.50 22 - — 76 ,850 70,200 
£P.10 ex! ee ae 244,710 310,960 
£P.5 ae ae oe 643,815 751,828 
£P.1 ae eee oe 985 ,514 1,164,856 
£P.4 es a — 117,779 181,679 
Face value of notes ... £P.2,078,168 £P.2,487,920 


Face value of coms and ————— ——___—_—_ 
notes ist Oa £P.2,408,664 #£P.2,821,664 





168 


Monopolies. 


(fee paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual Report 
for 1929.) 


29. It should be noted that the excise duty of 250 mils per 
kilogram of tobacco, including imported tobacco manufactured 
and sold in Palestine, referred to in paragraph 33 on page 31 
of the Annual Report for 1929, was increased to 350 mils per 
kilogram under. the Tobacco Amendment Ordinance, 1932. 


Banks. 


- 30. The multiplication of Banks with little paid-up capital and 
questionable stability has given rise to some anxiety; and the 
High Commissioner has therefore appointed a Committee under 
the Chairmanship of the Treasurer, with a mixed unofficial 
nembership representing the most important banking and com- 
mercial interesste, to enquire into the situation and make repre- 
‘entations for ameliorating it by revision of the Banking Law, 
with special reference to the desirability of fixing a minimum amount 
of paid-up capital. 

The formation of this Committee has been generally welcomed 
43 evidence of the wish of Government to preserve the reputation 
and integrity of the credit system of Palestine, to which ite 
“economic prosperity is closely knit. 


166 


APPENDIX I. 


— — = =m—— «2 


Summary of Revenue for the years 1929 to 1982-83.(a) 














Heads of Revenue. 





£P £P £P £P 

Customs ... ““ 917,050 991,688 922,080 257,107 
Port and Marine 8,677 9,703 10,531 9,789 
Licences, Taxes, etc. ... 761,823(d) | 740,664(d)| 604,771(d)| 173,355(d) 
Fees of Court and Office, , 

etc. .... si 230,844 248,371 248,631 68,807 
Posts and Telegraphs 207,288 220,384 207,758 55,254 
Revenue from Govern- 

ment aloud 16,541 14,613 13,591 3,595 
Interest ... at 104,207 87,485 52,793 4,271(e) 
Miscellaneous 16,650 28,465 42,001 26,395 f) 
Land Sales 6,774 6,887 8,830 3,382 
Grant-in-Aid _.... 24,523 41,286 222,909 27,734(g) 
Railways (excess of Re- 

venue over Expenditure) 29,195 — — 27,600(/) 

Total £P| 2,323,572 2,389,546 2,333,895 657,289 3,015,91 









Annual Report for 1929. 
(b) The proportionate increase is mainly due to larger imports of wheat, 
Moreover there were increased duties on the import of | 
motor vehicles and accessories and eilk tissues. 
(c) Includes £P.7,262 in respect of Light Dues for the period August, 1924, 
to October, 1928, while these dues were collected on a gold basis from { 


flour and sugar. 


1930. 


1931. 


(a) The figures for the periods prior to 1929 are shown on page 32 of the j | 





) 


i 


Ist February, 1932. 

(d) The proportionate increase is due mainly tp increases in_ the { 
collections of House and Land Tax (including Urban Property Tax), Tithes — 
and in the excise duties on Tobacco and Wine and Spirits. The totals for j 
the periods to 3lst March, 1932, are exclusive of tithes assigned to Wadfs * 
and collected by Government. The amounts so collected were as follows:— — 


£P. 

1928 39,787 
1929 35,363 
1930 29,220 
1931... - 7,721 
Ist January to 31st March, 1932 3,843 
£P.115,934 


In the year under review, however, such collections have been included in 
this Head. 

(e) No interest was received during the period in respect of investments, 
whereas the arrears of interest were brought to account in 1932-33. 

(f) Include £P.25,061 and £P.25,238 respectively from appreciation on 
investments. 


o The expenditure in 1931 included £P.89,346 in respect of the yesr 
19 


(h) No payment of debt charges in respect of Palestine Loan fell due 
during the period. 


167 
APPENDIX IT. 
Summary of Expenditure for the years 1929 to 1982-83.(a) 





| 1932-33 








1932 
> Heads of Expenditure. 1929. 1930. 1931. (lst January| (1st April, 
to 1932, to 31st 
31st March).| March, 1933). 
£P £P £P £P £P 
ast 17,797 16,829 16,925 5,033 32,070(s) 
“thle Debt and Loan 
; 100,910 112,609 124,396 — (m)| 124,355 
] erin ae the © High 
- Commissioner 8,739 7,211 7,823 2,143 9,199 
 Soretariat te 19,534 21,330 21,956 5,452 23,437 
" (erict Administration. 88,528 89,590 91,791 22,480 84,755 
3 ee 8,959 8,578 8,757 2,308 10,155 
80,598 82,562 84,949 22,330 84,459 
aa 16,090 15,579 15,807 3,985 14,550 
: pditDepartment _.... 8,652 9,034 11,845 3,033 11,096 
,; toma, Excise and Trade| 66,803 71,153 70,759 16,955 76,767 
mlth Department 101,864 105,481 105,918 26,161 111,052 
»; Gueation Department... | 139,789 143,555 146,988 30,322(n)| 159,520 
_icultare and Foresta 76,714 102,518( f) 81,227 463 86,515(¢) 
y Atiquities Department 7,083 7,239 7,119 1,682 ,064. 
md Settlement... ... 20,355 21,280 23,353 5,706 22,772 
ee 18,037 17,369 17,651 4,256 18,283 
;drvey Department... 39,245 42,206 44,947 11,038 48,571 
poabpaiey of viele 
a ¥ _ _ 1,910 1,595 6,618 
ae Prisons ... | 376,060(b) | 475,851(g) | 469,516 111,329 475,042(u) 
rial of Immigra- 
us — — — 4,702(0) | 18,787(0) 
i. aes (British 
Bection) = = = = _ 
' yaaa “Frontier 
- Force 140,562 209,212(2) | 174,815 35,590(p)| 169,701 
; dence. 37,070(c) | 109,675(4) | 121,681(k)| 36,846(q) | 106,922 
_ tate and ‘Telegraphs 141,206 147,338 151,631 39,611 154,989 
Ublic Works Department | 40,261 48,662 48,720 11,869 45,193 
‘ublic Works Recurrent | 145,996 164,649 180,686 35,112 178,018 
filways.., 0. — (d) — (d) = Ls, = 
... . | 289,896(e)| 268,768(7)| 151,404 | 27,368 206,835(») 
(ots and Telegraphs 
i ss 25,978 26,096 11,452 2,678 14,672 
ablic Works  Extra- 
114,690 169,671 104,947 18,050 94,240 
“ailways’) Extraordinary — (d) — (d) = = me 
Tana - Jordan Frontier 
8,616 22,868 8,078 3,550 5,134 
‘ailways (Excess of Ex. 
Penditure over Revenue) — 19,592 67,916(2) — (r)| 116,673(w) 
Total sP| 2,140,032 | 2,536,605 | 2,374,867 | 611,656 | 2,616,304 


Sc a i 
(2) The figures for the period prior to 1929 are shown on pages 34-35 of 
he Annual Report for 1929. 


Polite Increase due to increase in the strength of the British Section of the 





168 


(c) Expenditure in 1928 represented two years’ contribution. 

(d) The excess of Railway revenue over expenditure has been incorporated . 
in the accounts and not the gross receipts and disbursements as hitherto. 

(e) Includes special grants to Tel-Aviv Township (£P.75,619) and 
Jerusalem Municipality (£P.55,211). 

(f). Includes £P.26,848 in respect of Anti-Locust Measures. 

(9) Increase due to further increase in the strength of the British Section 
and to increase in the strength of Palestine Police. 

(h) Increase due to increase in establishment and purchase of mechanical 
transport (£P.27,776). 

(1) Includes cost of local services to British Troops in Palestine 
(£P.68,193) and difference between public rates and preferential rates on 
the Palestine Railways for Royal Air Force and Army Units (£P.17,107). 

(j) Includes compensation on account of damages incurred in riots 
(£P.101,135) and special grant to Jerusalem Municipality (£P.31,178). 

(k) Includes cost of local services to troops in Palestine (£P.25,423) and 
difference between public rates and preferential rates on the Railways for 
Royal Air Force and Army Units (£P.11,158). 

(lt) Due to economic depression. 

(m) No payment of debt charges was due during the period. 

(n) Decrease due to non-payment of the grant to schools of the 
Palestine Jewish Agency during the period. The amount was paid in the 
subsequent quarter. 

(0) Formerly included in the Police and Prisons Estimates. 

(p) Decrease is mainly due to delay in payment of claims for material 
purchased during the period. 

(q) Includes the contribution to His Majesty’s Government in respect of 
the last quarter of 1981 (£P.13,760). 3 

(r) No debt charges were payable during the period and no contribution - 
was made towards the establishment of a Railway Renewals Fund. 

(s) Pensions.—Includes £P.14,796 gratuities paid in respect of retrenched, 
retired and deceased officers. 

(t) Agriculture and Forests.—The sum of £P.86,515 is distributed 4s 
follow :— 


£P. 
Department of Agriculture cae wat bey bes ... 43,209 
Department of Forests... ae is ie aa ... 17,333 
Department of Animal Health ... sé se 25,883 


which were shown as separate Departments in the year ‘ander review. 

(u) Police and Prisons.—Includes an increased provision of £P.20,2% 
under Personal Emoluments and £P.8,362 under Other Charges in respect of 
the absorption into the general Police Force of all Municipal Police Forces 
from lst April, 1932, and of the Tel-Aviv Township Municipal Police Fore 
from Ist July, 1932. The additional cost of Municipal Police Forces is, how- 
ever, recoverable from Municipalities in monthly instalmente which are 
credited to Revenue. 

(v) Miscellaneous.—Includes (1) payment to Supreme Moslem Council in 
lieu of Assigned Waqf Tithes as under :— . 


£P. 

(@) Compensation for the reduction in the Commuted Tithe 
in 1930 and 1931 me vis 30,000 
(b) In respect of the period January to March, 1902 wee 5,780 
(c) In respect of the year 1982-33... a 23,000 


169 


and (2) Write-off of uncollectable arrears of Agricultural and Seeds Loane for 
' which authority was granted during the year, made up as under :— 


£P. 

(a) Agricultural Loans, 1919-23 eee bee bas ak 17,897 
(b) Agricultura] Loans to Beersheba Cultivators, 1927... 548 
(c) Beed Loans, 1928... ve de sis oe see 6,448 
£P.24,893 


(w) Railways.—The Palestine Railway expenditure in 1932-33, apart from 
the contribution of £P.40,000 to the Renewals Fund, includes the following 
_ amounts in respect of payments relating to previous years:— 


£P. 
(a) 72-610 kilometres of second line of Kantara-Rafa 
(Sinai) Railway 2 an ee 16,692 


(b) Interest on His Majesty’s Gavsenncnis anes of moiety 
of profits of Kantara-Rafa (Sinai) Railway for ne 


Ist April, 1923, to Slet March, 1932 ... a 2,327 
(c) Reconstruction of El-Arish Bridge ces - oes 5,963 
(2) Deficit on Kantara-Rafa (Sinai) tee for the year 

1924-25 sue 2,345 


£P.27,327 


170 


LIT"¥68°89 
sp “ds 





S2L'°610°9 
S8I'SE0'O 


09L°699°9T 
EZ8'SL8 ‘PL 
WOE’ LIES 
899° 208 F 
Te9"98¢°S 
L88°SL3‘E 
OST"°680°TZ 
POU SFS'T 
¥06'000°STT 
000°#8¢‘9 
000°000‘08L 
000°S2E°EL 


spss “ds 


ry 


COUVADY eydvaiojey pus 9604 
eee [e198U98f) 104 8BUI7BOF 
*(WoTONIQsUOD) UMes 

“7H TeoBojooeyory OUlqSs] eT 
selqtyediormny,y 
*quoeul 
“81998 70} pusey jo oseqomag 
*"e100G0 Q{UOUITLIOAOS) 
* SJUSUITIGAOL) 10490 
= se0IOY IGFET Y) 
‘suBO'y 
tononisuooey = oyenbyy7e77 
‘aryorndeg AToH 
eqs jo yomyy 07 siredoyy 
""* SUBO'T [BINYMOUsY 


*(sjtsodeqy ,serued a0 
gouvmmeuy) s}tsodegy poxly 
** “puny [BIUO[OD FUTOL 04 4UaT 


‘dopuo'y 
‘qOvg Jo\suToNy99M 04 4UeT 


‘SHONVACY 
HSV) 


‘90887 


608-9g61's 


TSn'1z8* ‘Se 
6E0'909'Z 


SEO OSL‘II 


Te F26'2 
I9T'919°%2 
189° 140° 
SLE'EFO'E 
¥ZE'906'E 
$88°806'E 


962 LZP'E 
000°¥86°S 


F69'Z0F‘S 
O96 FESS 
909°0F0°T 
EZTS6L“ST 
LIP I88‘ZP 
TL9°990°9 


STs “dz 


2p ae Lage : Secs aye a 
Eg a ec 


“eR UMNOOOY 


| oe 29% one sjbeAA O7VATI 


: awoded _sydvazeyey, pus #1800 
"PYT Fsujog ouryseed 

*‘(yumoooy 9UeLIND) 
WUNnsEN| [VoIZojoowyory sulyse[Vq 


“UOI} BI} 


“AMUPY AO Sqn ten614¢ 

ga queg [BINYMoLsY UvMI0}IO 
a “* garqipedroraonyy 

sytsodeq SULIZ[I J Booey 

"+ g9O}FTUINIOD UOIZBONpY [woo] 
ss sytpodeq( Ajsifoy puvy 


"‘sUBO'T TOTONIAS 
-uoooy oxenbyyeq wo 4se107,UT 
soo} UBIENY) Ssoruvdul0; souvINnsuy 
*(Avmrey yey 
“er6} 083) qUCUIMIGAOY) [BIJed uly 
**-eooq TEENY) (Sy UBIZTOIUNT 
SPUSUIYOT] YW SuUlO FT 


sy1s0deqq 81030819 00Z) 


“BO QOeT 


“‘SLISOAA 





"SS6T “GOleA ISTE 18 SON TMIGePT pus syossy yo jueIE;EIg 


“ANILSHEIVG #0 LNZWNYHAOS) 


‘TH XIGNddd¥ 


171 





EGL'SIS*LOT‘S 


686'F19'1Z 


€10°1Z8°8Z6 


S88 F0P'F 
COE’SLLEFI‘T 


oF0'898'0I 
€98'°78'S 
FHO'FLY'S 


80L°269°E 


SEL'SLO FEC 
LOGS ‘OFO 


£E6'06F'S 


832'9£6 
698 FEO‘LE 


d3 


vee syduiseley, pus s3s0g 
qunoooy ALreng sx10 AA Ong 


Sa10}G [BIEUED) SHIOM OTQNT 
‘SHYOLG GLLVOOTIVNY) 


eae eee 


puny souny eood 
*(pung yuouMopud) unos 
“NY [eoojoeeyory ouyseyeg 
“spun 
UVOT pus SoOUL[V oqepeay 
"SINGALSHANT 


ooo eos eee SLSHAUAIWNT 


soousapy Arpung 


“s];emou 


“OW egnoy qdeisojoL Teulg 
sAVMITRY 


ESL’SISLOTS 





T¥9°966°08S'T 
FLY'GSS ‘LIF 
Ser gsl 


002’ 6E8 “68h 


8£6'F89°S 


EEL SZELES 
3Z0'8L6°E 
LOS TL9 
GL0°649‘9 
PLZ 808°C 
099°SIZ‘T 


SLT68E'9 
910 FLL 

T69°219°S 
*90'603 ‘9 


ds 


"OE6T “IOQUIZAON 48] OY} OI; 
88 uvsoq uinjued Jed ‘pH ‘se TF 
yO OY81 04} 48 puUNg SuryuIg 
04} 0} UONNqUyUO0D jenuUUY oT], 
ceo "BIOp]OF 
Q00'SLEF -YOOWG-UOT euUljso[vg 
3 IPC popung 


‘(souvpeg snjding) saIL 
‘THSVY] BAAO SASSY 40 S8AOXg 
LINNOOOY NVO'T 
SHONVLLINGY ANV SLavac 


"* - qsonbeg o00p®S STA Ig 
+(quouLAopug ) 

canesn}{ TeoBopoosqorV eulysa[ eq 

pany sou 

__ Pa sorted oxen byyweq 

--gyumoo0y Arpung 

speoy pure soyddng Jo78M oSeTITA 

eee Ay10d 01d peourepouy) 
-(pry-al-4ueiy) 

Jeayquorg uweplor - suviy, 

eee sys0g SOT°d peroedg 

e1oy ‘ucry PIO JO F¥S 

- Aqaodos1g 9979IS WEIsenyy 


9010.5 


172 





698° F69°L9' ds" 





OIF 196'9 
6FP'ELO'IQ = * 


“Ainsvoll, 04) Ul yUNOCOW eoueAPY 8,J02EUERT [eIONOH Og) GM SpUNOCOY ABMITEY 04) Ul sUNOD0Y #,J0INSBOLL JO WOPejou0cEH 








OSL'LLO‘FOI' dF OSL’ LLOFOl' ds 
GFF EL9'19 
026'998'6L _ STeUAVEH] PUY saloyg poyeooyeuy, °g | YIT'S9LF 
QELOFI'SS "* goousapy ‘“f | GOL'F68'S 
PLY'068'9 “+ adeatrey ayajg usndisgq ‘¢ 186°LL9‘61 
9FL'989'SP a Avaroy zeleH °Z IFl'SFP'OL 
¥06'L89‘L seg ‘1 «| «66880226 
“aT “IF "S[TUL “IF 
epesy 








“aNLIGHIVGY 40 LNEWANYHAOY) 


"AT XIGNUddV 


j ae (IIL xtpueddy) seyniqery 
pore sinsimoae aucun aes Py 9s sofeaepy 


(poyen{P* oma) sfemlrey Aq sulez! poysn(peay : ppy 


ea0gs {TNI}849 Tl MACS se 4tmoooy s,szomevery, 


_SMMoooy 8,1amever], 

* pung seung * 

eee ooo s)1s0deqy ° 
° “*  YUMONOY UVOT—YFVawry-qeyeg 
_ puny seaousy Aemprey (vyey-ereyaey) reuig 
pung sjemoucy Avarreyy ounsoleg 


"SS6T “UOlBA ISTE 38 JUCMIUICAOD oUTSeTVg ON) Aq pozeIEdo SKBMTEY Of} Jo SONTTIGSP] pus syossy OG} Jo yUCTIE;EIE 


mA oD Hd 


173 


- APPENDIX V. 
GOVERNMENT oF PALESTINB. 


Statement of Investments. 


A. Securities held by Crown Agents: 


(1) Available Balances and Loan Funds 
| Middle Market 


Nominal Value. Cost Price. Price on 31st 
March, 1933. 
£ 8s.d £P. mils. £P. mils. 
Gold Coast 3 per cent. 
Stock, 1927-52 35,176 12 0  32,274.529 —«-83,417.770 
Hong Kong 3} per 
cent. Stock 1918-43 16,427 7 0 16,492.217 16,427 .350 
Conversion 5 per cent. 
Stock 1944-64 50,000 0 0 58,375.000 58,250.000 
Conversion 3 per cent. 
Stock 1948-53 : 39,829 0 7 38,680.938 39,331 .167 
Conversion 44 per 
cent. Stock 1940-44 127,566 38 2 142,323.370  141,917.350 
India 5 per cent. | 
Stock 1942-47 27,000 0 0 27 064.863 29,970.000 
New Zealand 5 per 
cent. Bonds 1932-34 60,000 0 0 49,515.625 51,000.000 
New Zealand 4 per 
cent. Stock 1933-43 4,856 4 2 4,977.913 4,953.334 
New Zealand 3} per 
cent. Stock 1940 ... 30,000 0 0 28, 763.299 80,000.000 
Queensland 8 per cent. 
Stock 1922-47 8,408 13 3 7 ,426.738 7,647 .334 
Queensland 38} per 
cent. Stock 1945 . 2,302 8 ll 1,746.653 2,256 .395 
Treasury 4 per cent.. 
Stock 1934-36 145,719 14 4 146,811.776  150,455.609 
Treagury 3 per cent. 
Bonds 1933 . 18,700 0 0 6,011.937 19,237 .625 
Cape of Good Hope 
3 per cent. Stock 
1933-43 or ag 1,189 13 1 997.109 1,165.863 
Carried forward 557,170 16 6 561,461.967 586,029.797 


Brought forward 


Cape of Good Hope 
34 per cent. Stock 
1929-49 - 


Commonwealth of Aus- 
tralia 5 per cent. 
Stock 1945-75 


South Australia 34 per 
Stock 1939 ... 


Northern Rhodesia 3} 
per cent. Stock 
1955-65 (45 per cent. 
paid) ‘ 


Ulster 34 per cent. 
Stock 1943 os a 
cent. paid) . 


Trinidad 3} per cent. 
Stock 1958-68 (5 per 
cent. paid on 
£20,000, 45 per cent. 
paid on £25,000) ... 


(2) Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund. 


Consolidated 4 per 
cent. Stock 1957 or 
after ... 


Guaranteed 3 per cent. 
Stock 1939 or after 


Guaranteed 2} per 
cent. Stock 1933 or 
after 


London County 
34 per cent. Stock 
1929 or after 


Carried forward 


174 


Nominal Value. 


£ os. d., 


557,170 16 6 


9,441 5 6 


2,688 7 7 


13,075 13 10 


582,376 3 6& 


20,000 0 0 


35,000 0 0 


45,000 0 0 


682,376 3 5 


50,000 0 O 


27,000 0 0 
47,819 8 10 


15,050 6 9 


139,869 15 7 


Cost Price. 


£P. muds. 


561,461.967 
9,460.571 


2,880.108 


12,832,242 


586,634.888 


9,000.000 


7,155.188 


12,625.000 


615,415.076 


41,626.000 


17,711,000 
29,699.900 


9 425.700 


98,462.600 


Middle Market 
Price on 3lst 
March, 1933. 


£P. mils. 
586,029.797 


9,535.687 


2,903.450 


13,206.450 


611, 675.384 


9,000.000 


7, 155.188 


12,625.000 





640,455.572 


54,750.00 


23,625.00 


87,777.358 


14,975.088 


_—— 


131, 127.446 


175 


Middle Market 
Nominal Value. Cost Price. Price on 31st 
March, 1938. 
£ s.d, £P. mils. £P. mils. 
Brought forward Sa 139,869 15 7 98,462.600 131,127.446 
london County 3 per 
cent. er 1920 or 
after .. eat 116,472 17 2 76,264.012 102 ,496.117 
India 3} per cent. 
Stock 1931 or after 14,489 11 2 9,807 .825 12,678.362 
India 8 per — cent. 
Stock 1948 or after 20,000 0 0 11,388.100 16,100.000 
Conversion Joan 
per cent. Stock 1961 20,968 7 9 21,021.808 21,020.808 
311,800 11 8 216,943.845 282 422.733 
Northen Rhodesia 3} 
per cent. Stock 
1955-65 (45 per cent. 
paid) os 5,000 0 0 2,250.000 2,,250.000 
316,800 ll 8 219,193.845. 284 672.733 
(3) Police Fines Fund. 
New South Wales 4 
per cent, Stock 
19383. . 1,829 5 5 1,742.379 1,856.708 
Victoria 54 per cent. 
Stock 1924-34 ; 1,800 0 0 1,755.000 1,836 .000 
3,629 5 § 3,497 .379 3,692.708 
Total LP. 928,821.013 


176 








696'°S1¥'S8 
000°000'000‘T 
126° LIF'6Z9'T 
L90'6L6‘E6E'T 
FO8 SEP'OET 


-eaoidmly 40d VBVe “I 
— sue 
-aoldwmy WOg pue 
TOHonyysUOH ©46sMOqIe 
“TIT W094] 


“*gUOUIULIOAOL) 
sAje0lay SI, wor; 
goese jezyIdvo 10430 
pus Avmyrer Jo osvyomg 

“IT W104] 


*(peyopduaoo) 
syi0M Avayrery 10990 ‘Z 
edoysqIoM Avarrey *T 
. — eheapney 


"T Wex] 


"SECT “AOIeH ISTE 38 JUNOCOY ULOT 


"Horsey 
$IE 000°SLE°L6F> 
“St6l sa “d3 


“ENLLSTIVG 40 LNEANUHAOL) 


‘IA XIGNGddV 





68 “ee PePVOOTTSUL) “ES 


"SHIOM 
reo'tes'T Avmyry 10NMO °% 

; "sdoys 
LLZ'OVG HOM = Aeaey *7 
—? sABmpiey 

"dd “dd 

"J W087] 

"0783g Jo ArBjoI00g 


043 4q peaoidds sv uvoy jo uonsolsy 


"(L361 “eouUvUTpPIO TeC’T 
eunsereq Aq pestioyyne) “yueo Jod 
"SOT OOTF 48 ponsst OOO‘OLEFS JO YO0IS 
pooyaereny) ounsepeg %G JO specoolg 





117 


000°SLE‘L6F'F| d3 


PLY'GSC'LIP sousted 





929°Z91°020F 





Z26'SZL‘6SE 


A ad Re 


000°00¢* eee 
1S +s aSuyprmg, qaouraesoy) 





000'SLE‘LEFD | ds 








GLE‘LOV'P' ds 
gLe‘o0g | 
L0E0SI weo'] Fursrer jo 490 
‘eoyQ sunulg 





Tes‘est -Of9L, pure sqdexsopoy, 
“AI WOT 


eee eet *WOTZORIYSUOL) 

000‘0SsT mmoqreH = BVH *S 
‘p}UeUTeAOId 

OOOTOI “Wl Hog eel “I 


—: syuemeaoid 


000‘TSeT 


st waoly 930888 
[eyideo z0q}0 pus 
Aemyrer Jo 





OSL°6SE ds 

EOE ‘OST 

006‘IZ 

921881 
d3 





£91 ‘090F 


(P)6ZL°6ZE 


178 


900°160°T 


000‘000‘T 
STF‘629'T 
d3 


“SE6t 
‘YosD IT PIE 
0} aangrpuadx 
jonpy 


918909 as 
£08031 UVOrY BuyEPEI JO YOK) 
eoBO 
I¥8‘L61 Sayuri jo quoudmby pre NOHO SUO|) pus se0IJO JUOUTTIOAOL 
les‘ssl °° soucydejay, pus sydeiZofey, 
a3 9 —: Jopun sv dn ope (2) 
OLE‘LEP‘F 000‘009"F 
"U8O'T 04} JO Sutstel oy} Zurpnjour 
@inpeyog siqy Ul pouoMuceu sesodind 
ey} jo Aue ILA pejyoouUOD JO 04 
[eyuepiour sesodind puv “yueumdojosep 
jo syiom Jourm ‘shoains ‘souoyd 
(»)9L8'909 000'SFL -9[ey paw sqdesfojy ‘aBurppmq onqng “> 
*#] WeMIOAOId 
o00*rgE‘T 000°STIT “wy Hog pus uoyonssuoy) moqivy *€ 
"$UIUIUIOAOY) 8,Aqsel up] STF, Wioly syosse 
000‘000‘T 000°000‘T lezideo Jeqjo pues Avmjrer jo eseyomng °Z 
000‘0+0'T 000‘0F8'T “* shuayrey “T 
d3 3 
‘uno7T fo "9Z6L ‘POP sunoT 
speao04d vnAL{[ PY eo pup ; 
yonpo fo aussarDg 840 M 
uostn007 Y Of ayn poyos 














"SECT ‘WOIVML ISTE 38 SeoUL|eg MeO] Jo uCTIE;EIS 


‘ENLLISWIVG 40 INS WNYHAOS) 
THA XIQNAddV 


179 


‘spun U8oO'T 07 posreyo pus srvot snoraaid Ul USyezPIOpUN sHIOA SNOLIBA Jo yoodser UI [Z6‘Z0S dF JO quowyen[ps UB sepnjoUy , 


ToP‘LIE 




















ZoO'1TT G19‘98 039‘6SL 6Z1‘888'S S8L‘LZI — 000‘°SLF‘F sia €E61-ZE61 
191 ‘92 $9402 ZOE 0E 999629 — 000‘SLF‘F oe6I ‘qorepy 07 Arenuer 
816 ‘SOI LOZ‘TS 886 ‘9FT 986 ‘O11S — 000‘SLFP ee 1E61 
18P‘SOI SI9‘ZOI goo‘eFl 092 8PE‘S — 000‘SLF‘>F OS61 
798101 PIL‘OL 68L‘6EI 6F0'663'S — 000‘SLPF 6261 
189°86 098°SL GIL‘LEI 029°8F9'S _ 000‘SLF‘F sg 8361 
898‘EL 06%‘Z9 660‘00I GE0‘60L‘T — 000‘SL¥F L261 tages 0} [udy 
9L9'16 Z1E‘99 O1s‘9II 688‘F0E‘' — — LZ6I-9G6I 
I1¥‘g8 680°LE 26601 OFFF00'S — — 9Z61-SZ6I 
OFF'F8 169‘¢¢ 999‘Z0I 0¢8°696'T — — GZ61-F261 
8696 0go"9s SLL‘66B 88L‘SL9'T — — +361-€261 
FLO'LIT O19‘8E 06916 1§8‘608‘T — — €261-Z261 
969°9FI Lee‘er S1F‘06 1gS‘I Les — — as ZOBI-IZ6I 
GLO ISI 9F0'1S 6L0‘02 ¥88 ‘OSI ‘T — — 1261 eqoxeyy 46 981 OF ‘OZ6I ‘AOL 48T 
dF dF dF d3 
asnynoibp | ‘wowponpy "990408 soouDapy 
pousayxa PUD suUDOT *(sasnbyf 
wosf 38040)) “sa syounuupy 
uniy 49440 1990 40 posouUDus JT 





“sopsnesg [ejoods 


“IIIA XIQNAUddV 


180 


XXITI.—DEMOGRAPHIO STATISTICS. 
Attention is invited to pages 135-188 of the Report for 1931. 


2. The excess of persons entering Palestine over those leaving 
during the year was 41,870, of whom 29,101 (27,862 Jews, 963 
Christians, 274 Moslems and 2 others) were registered as immi- 
grants on entry. 79,833 persons are recorded as having entered 
Palestine as travellers and of these 18,029, of whom about 10,400 | 
were Jews, were apparently still in the country at the end of the 
year. 32,783 residents of Palestine left either temporarily or per- 
manently in the course of the year and 32,523, some of them after 
long absences, returned. Of the residents who left, 9,828 were 
Jews, and of those who returned, 10,236. Therefore there was, 
on balance, a return of 408 Jews who had previously emigrated 
and a net emigration of 668 non-Jews. The extent of illicit and 
unrecorded immigration into Palestine from or through Syria and 
Trans-Jordan has been estimated at about 2,000, and Jewish as 
to fifty per cent. The total net increase of the population of 
Palestine by migration during the year may accordingly be calcv- 
lated, approximately, at a figure of 43,870, comprising 39,646 Jews 
and 4,224 others. 


3. Vital Statistics.—The following are the vital statistics since 
1921; those from 1923 onwards include estimates of population, 
other than nomadic Beduin :— 








Infantile 
Birth Estimated : 
Number | popula- | Number Death | i.e., death of 
Year per 1,000 of births tion of deaths rate chaldren 
living registered. | (mid-year registered. | per 1,000. | under 1 year 
estemates). of age per 
1,000 births. 
1921— 
Town 27-4 — — — 16:1 208-6 
Country 28-4 — — — — 123-3 
1922 ... — — — — 18-75 — 
1923... 47-43 31,402 | 662,013 16,994 25-67 184-76 
1924 ... §1-31 34,955 | 681,245 17,672 25-94 184-83 
1925... 49°31 35,479 | 719,508 19,611 27°25 188 - 64 
1926... 53-47 40,471 761,896 18,620 24:43 163-03 
1927... 50-35 29,193 | 778,369 21,806 28-01 200-46 
1928* ... 48-78 42,895 | 879,532 23,054 26-21 186-33 
1929... 46-32 41,742 | 901,080 21,632 24-00 186-47 
1930 ... 48-03 44,587 | 928,148 19,513 21-02 154-28 
1931... 48-07 46,011 | 957,181 21,149 22-08 170-09 
1932... 44:14 43,538 {| 986,319 21,958 22-26 158-17 
1933... 44-34 46,049 1,038,331 20,834 20-06 144-43 


*The figures from 1928 onwards are estimates of mid-year populations based 
upon the census of November, 1931. 


181 


_ 4. Immigration and Emigration.—The following is a table show- 
Ing Immigration and emigration in respect of Palestine of Jews 
and non-Jews for the years 1920 to 1933 inclusive :— 











Immigration. | Emigration. 
Year. 
Jews. Non-Jews. J ews. Non-Jews. 
1920 (September—October) 5,514 202 — — 
1991 sie, a 9,149 190 — = 
1929 7,844 284 1,451 1,348 
1923 7,421 570 3,466 1,481 
1924 12,856 697 507* 604* 
1925 33,801 840 2,151 1,949 
1926 13,081 829 7,385 2,064 
1927 2,713 882 5,071 1,907 
1928 2,178 908 2,168 954 
1929 | 5,249 1,317 1,746 1,089 
1930 4,944 1,489 1,679 1,324 
1931 | 4,075 1,458 666 680 
1982 | 9,553 1,736 t t 
1933 30,327 1,650 t t 
! 
* Figures for July to December. 


T No statistics of emigration were compiled. 


9. Since 1919, according to statistics gathered by the Jewish 
Agency, 155,000 Jews immigrated into Palestine. The distribution 

according to their countries of origin is: 63,600 from Poland; 
28,800 from Russia; 7,700 from Germany ; 7,380 from Roumania ; 
9,400 from Lithuania ; and the balance from most countries of the 
world Including the British Empire. Their division according to 
sex and age is: adult men: 43°7 per cent. ; adult women : 34:2 per 
cent. ; children : 22-1 per cent. 


XXITI.—_CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


The total net revenue of the Department of Customs in 1933 was 


£P.2,071,870. For the five years 1929-1933 the figures are :— 
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
£P £P £P £P £P 


1,161,950 1,234,957 1,169,924 ~=—«:1,511,149 + —-2,071,370 
23364 Q 


182 


Receipts and expenditure under the various items were 4s 


follows :— 


Import Duty des ans 
Export Duty nae asl 
Anchorage Dues ... : 
Registration Fees ... 

Light Dues... 

Berthage Dues 

Mooring Dues __... 
Wharfage Dues ... 
Pilotage Fees sed 
Miscellaneous (Ports) 


Licences— 


Customs Enclosure 
(Boatmen). 

Boats and Lighters 

Custom-House Agents ... 

Fishing ... se 

Liquors ... 

Tobacco ... a soa 

Others (Matches and 
Warehouses). 


Excise— 


Matches ... eek oes 
Salt fae eee ar 
Tobacco ... eva kes 
Wines and Spirits - 
Fines and Forfeitures 
Fees, Customs 
Fees, Office : 
Fees, Overtime... ‘as 
Sale of Departmental 
Stores. 
Sale of Publications 
Warehouse Rent ... 
Miscellaneous Sundries 


Total 


Total Expenditure as per 
cent. of Total Revenue. 
Cost of Classified Staff as 
per cent. of Import Duty. 


1929. 


153 
6,011 
717 


Per cent. 


5°72 
3-32 


1930. 


£P. 
991,560 


6,331 
60 
3,195 


10,447 
11,341 
150,541 
31,941 
5,995 
458 
1,899 


41 
168 


4,422 
1,120 


Per cent. 
5-76 


3°47 


Recerpis. 
1931. 


£P. 
921,945 


11,895 
11,410 
153,720 
33,262 
3,766 
321 
2,156 


10 


155 
4,271 
685 


£P. 1,161,950 1,234,957 1,169,924 


Per cent. 
6:06 


3°92 


1932. 1933. 
£P. sp, . 
1,193,683 1,687,981 4 
6,595 8,08 
37 b2 
13,413 10,959 - 
_ 1,605 
_— 293 - 
— 13,058 
333 3,022 | 
114 131 
1,020 1,188 
968 
620 
414 353 
4,290 3,723 
6,281 6,672 
212 
16,382 14,625 
12,000 12,550 
201,722 222,864 
37,632 43,985 
3,980 3,528 
355 451 
2,757 3,972 
2,527 11,250 
24 86 
129 480 
5,259 16,192 
402 1,580 
1,511,149 2,071,370 
Per cent. Per cent. 
4-73 4-68 
2-97 9-27 


Salaries... see 
Tobacco Officers ... 
Tobaceo Inspectors 
Preventive Officers 
Distillery Officers ... 
Cranemen ... 

Guards and Boatmen 
Temporary Officers 

Staff at Kantara ... 
Overtime ... 00... as 
Cost of Living Allowances 
Transport and Travelling... 
Railway Fares and Freight 
Lighting and Heating 
Uniforms and Clothing ... 


Marine Survey Fees 

Maintenance of Tugs 

Maintenance of Boats 

Pilotage Fees 

Banderolles ; re 

Maintenance of Cranes and 
Lifts. 

Miscellaneous Stores 

Typewriters ose 

Telegrams, Telephone and 
Postage. 

Contingencies 

Maintenance of Buoys 

Water Supply for Haifa 


Harbour and Customs 
Stations. 
Conservancy at 
Weighing Machines, ete 
Purchase of Padlocks 
urchase of Tents... ve 
Purchase of Duplicator ... 
Purchase of Arms and 
unition. 
Purchase of Tarpaulins ... 
Purchase of Cigarette 
Paper. 
a of Weighbridge... 
Tchase of Rowing Boat 
Purchase of Trollies, Spits, 


ete. 


Drawbacks of Customs 
Duty. 


Total ... «= so £P, 


23364 


1929. 
£P. 
30,554 

3,900 


3,601 
4,517 
9,388 
948 
590 








183 


Expenditure. 
1930. 1931. 
£P. £P. 
34,438 36,159 
3,978 3,377 
410 480 
3,665 3,773 
4,330 3,747 
“a 72 
10,172 10,565 
751 470 
591 591 
2,243 2,249 
1,047 957 
1,356 1,172 
664 613 
4,563 3,919 
5 10 
111 171 
1,200 1,526 
oe 17 
508 350 
105 116 
455 400 
93 78 
243 — 
283 149 
57 — 
71,298 70,961 


1932. 
£P. 
35,563 
2.863 

480 
3,700 
3,046 

120 

12,358 
470 
591 


71,596 


1933. 
£P. 
38,430 
3,076 

480 
3,711 
2,634 

289 

14,183 
1,294 

591 
7,542 
1,367 
2,465 

748 
1,903 

813 
3,439 

ll 
1,375 
69 

377 
1,235 

192 


180 
108 
520 


88 
120 
75 


184 


2. The year 1933, while it brought increased revenue to the De- 
partment, was attended by many difficulties arising from the 
necessity for finding accommodation for the much larger tonnage of 
imports handled at Haifa and Jaffa as the following statement 
shows :— 


Jaffa. . Haifa. 


Year. ee 
| Discharged Loaded Discharged ; Loaded 
| Tons. Tons. Tons. | Tons. 
| ] 
1929 ... | 129625 | 75,841 154,069 . 389,820 
1930... ... | 133,241, 100,862 174,862 61,425 
1931 ... sts es ! 151,975 | 77,873 214,893 48,303 
1932 ... ee ae 221,113 {| 106,824 273,411 54,164 
1933 ... : | 348,797 96,888 401,410 41,632 


The volume of imports at Jaffa in 1933 was such as to cause 
serious congestion not only in the transit sheds and timber yards, 
but also at the lighter quays. The limited extent of the quays 
militated against expeditious despatch of the large number of 
lighters daily loaded from ships discharging in the roadstead. It 
is hoped that by the end of 1934 this state of affairs will be reme- 
died by various works of improvement. 


The congestion at Jaffa compelled agents in many cases to divert 
vessels for discharge of cargo to Haifa. At this port, too, notwith- 
standing the greatly increased accommodation in the new harbour, 
the extraordinary movement of goods, including potash from the 
Dead Sea, imposed a severe strain upon the transit sheds. 
particularly during the time of citrus exports. 


3. The following statements show the value of Imports and Ex- 
ports, including specie, for the years 1929 to 1933. 


Value of Imports, exclusive of Specie, for the years 1929-1933. 


LP: 
1929 ey = ie oe sie Bie 7,166 593 
1930 aa ei an ve sg ae 6 ,985 ,258 
1931 ae ses sme ie as el 5,940,000 
1932... a ve a i 7,768,920 


1933... sis m2 we ae ... 11,123,489 


185 


Value of Specie Imported during the years 1929-1933. 


LP. 
1929 ... — oe oe sa oa pe 12,310 
1930 ... Me Bae ee she Sut a 3,229 
1931 ... Se oe ei ie. Tatas se 2,025 
1932 ... one sive aes Bass oe .. 155,501 
1933 ... 3 ans re Sis ss ... 145,306 


Value of Exports, exclusive of Specie, for the years 1929-1933. 


| £P. 
W290 ae eee 1,554,262 
OBO! ese sks aes, «ay. 081095 
WBN eae eevee 1,872,0611 
PrO2 he ak ee: eg SSL AGT 
8B ae ae 8,89.,617 


Value of Specie exported during the years 1929-1933. 


£P, 
W290 a, 212 667 
W380 ee ts es 1,654 
re 226,467 
320 «505,952 
1933 a ee oe ioe at a . 841,878 


4. The difference between the value of specie imported and ex- 
ported in 1932 and 1933 is explained by the fact that there are no 
testrictions in Palestine upon the importation or exportation of gold, 
whereas gold nnay not be exported from the neighbouring territories 
of Syria and Egypt. This prohibition led to the smuggling of 
large quantities of gold into Palestine without declaration and its 

- Sale to the Banks or merchants who declared it to the Customs in 
. the ordinary way on ©xportation. 
23364 G 3 


186 


5. The Import Dues collected during the five years 1929-1933 
are the following :— 


cP. 
1929 52 xe ee sis oe ae 917,050 
1930 aa ats “ te = ~ 991 ,560 
1931 es as toe bi se a 921 945 
1932 ihe Se Ss iy i Ses 1,193,683 
1933 bet so one ae oe ae 1,687 ,981 


6. The following articles were exempted from Import Duty in the 
course of the year :— 


(i) Cloth of the type suitable and intended for the manufac- 
ture of fumigation tents, to assist orange-growers in the cam- 
paign against Black Scale. 


(ii) Domestic requirements imported by officers and men of 
any of His Majesty’s Forces serving in Palestine. 


(iii) The following articles when imported by any person 
who cans or bottles fruits or vegetables or their juices for sale 
to the public :— 


Cardboard containers, empty cans and parts, water ex- - 
hausters, scalding baths and cookers for canning or . 
bottling fruit and vegetables, as a means to promote this 
branch of husbandry in Palestine; 


(iv) Preheaters, superheaters, refiners, earthenware vessels, 
decomposition tanks, glass pipes, granite blocks for the con- 
struction of granite towers, perforated stoneware plates, stone- 
ware pipes for the production of any mineral salts, minerals 
and chemicals contained in and beneath the waters of any 
inland lake or sea in Palestine, largely for the benefit of the | 
Dead Sea Concessionaires. 


(v) Hay, tibn and bran, in the interest of farmers for the 
feeding of livestock during the drought ; 


(vi) Antiquities ; 


(vii) Silica for the manufacture of artificial teeth by a local | 
factory. 


000‘9&L'b} 000 8z8't| 000°SLE's 


000°TS0'2! 000°F8F'T 
000'S29'1| 000°E%6 


187 











yABAILY [B[I0dmy ‘aOfsseouND esnogygsy] og) ‘AusduloD wine[o149q bey oy4 se qons 


000° 29'S) 000 aes 


Ee | EE | | | — — ro 


000206 | 000°L08 
000°S90'T! 000'SéL 
000°6E2 | 000°8LE 
000°8IF | 000°LFF 
"dF ‘dd 





“O86I “6661 











000°8TL | 000°869 





"eS6l esse | aver | “BS6I 








000'STS 

000°8 

000‘981 
“dy 





‘quama1b py swmogsng 3utjse707 
pishig ay} 4opun suoijduang 


020°T0S | 000°909 





000°860°F| 000°0EL'2| 000'FE8"T| 000'EZT'Z) 000°6FS'T 


| ee ee | 


000°TSO | 000'FSF'T) O00*LOL 
000'82't] ooo'esz | o00'sge 
000'08F | 000'FZ2 | 000'0G2 
000°sze | 000'0%% | 000'6FA 
"de ‘dd ‘dz 


&S6I “T&6r 





y “O86T | “6861 “S86I : 





‘Q0UDUIDAQ) UOLIdUWLaxT 








— se 


 000'208 


)00°61F 

000°LLE 

000°9F 
‘dd 


“6661 


Sa}IN(T 8ULOFs,) 74} 49PUN suoIplusay 


'gBU;HVIIPUN UlVjpID 0} OULSo[V_ Ul SUOyBI]sj}sUl Pepuog wor; Aynp Jo 01} poddns sjjo Joqj}O puv ouszueq Supnyoxrg » 





ote see fr oer 1030.1 


"pep 
-IS8B]9UN PUB SsNoOoULT[soSTFT 


poinqoejnusul A[UIem spooy 


*peinjzoey 
-nusmon Ajulwm spoop 


“* QoIBqO], puv HUG ‘poo 


(ne 0te ee eeeeeeeeeeEEeeEeaeEeEeEeEeEEeEee—eeEeEeEeEeEeEeeeeEeeeEeEesssn OE Ee ae tetera eerie ie 


“sSE61-626I SuLnp poyuesd suordurexg yo onje, +, 


23364 


G 4 


188 


8. Statement of Commodities exempt from duty in 1933 under 
the Customs Duties Exemption Ordinance. 


Commodities. Und. Quantity. Value. 
£P. 
Meat, frozen and chilled... wie nee .-- Tons 378 16,249 
Cattle (Oxen, Cows and Calves) ... ae .-. Number 8,796 90,141 
Goats and Kids ees eee aes ue ee - 53,155 27,189 
Sheep and Lambz ... bed are bee sae oe 21,129 47,079 
Poultry, alive ape eee ae ie sae 5 280,236 18,175 
Cocoa Beans ... Ses os ro oe ..- Tons 129 5,164 
Cocoa Butter a hs exe rs Sa _ 3l 2,506 
Glucose se Ss ea eae ves See ‘ 735 10,080 
Coal ... en ee abe ate a 58,007 62,443 
Asphalt and Bituiven: = a abs nee i 5,015 26,601 
Sulphur sien ‘i soe sats ie ~P as 153 1,383 
Cotton, raw ... she rs ws ais iat ys 253 11,258 
Wool, raw... vad au ae ro ba - 22 1,177 
Copra ... i nee wee saa ato es * 1,562 21,001 
Linseed on at wes wes ges a. - 761 8,284 
Groundnuts, decorticated . oe Bue ae ms 7,819 103,186 
Sunflower Seeds we was oe ss 2,183 16,524 
Petroleum, Crude and Fuel Oil ae oa ons a 21,409 39,984 
Olive Oil, unrefined .. ve aoe ‘sie sue es 1,888 65,356 
Acid Oil be ne ane we bos oes “ 2,853 — 63,668 
Buffalo Hides a9 oii ue ies Sy 173 10,588 
Camel, Cattle and Horse Hides Ses ao ears = 55 3,024 
Animal Hair . se sey es 26 2,193 
Fibre of Hemp, J ute, ‘Sisal and Manilla in a 5 92 1,748 | 
Plants, Shrubs and Trees ... sae ve — — 3,225 | 
Seeds, agricultural ... gen be ue .. Tons 496 10,091 
Mother of Pearl Shells ses ome sas see 5 78 2,171 
Tanning substances ... fs cs es ee ie 377 5,879 
Earthen Pipes bats aor shG So4 5 ‘5 1,524 11,528 
Millstones.... fos ‘ne si6 ... Number 187 1,355 
Plate Glass, unworked a see sas ... Tons 489 17,892 
Empty Bottles and Jars... 0 6.. eee wee ~— 20,077 
Cylinders, empty... Wc ay — 1,112 
Iron Pipes, Tubes and Fittings thereof bs .. Tons 11,591 208,080 
Aluminium Foil, Tinfoil and Sheets ee eat s 50 8,262 
Lead Pipes sue er sos ne ss 137 2,828 
Tinplate in sheets... ae as bisle ar st 1,748 35,321 
Printers’ Types eos eee ees —— 6,463 
Unmounted Metal Frames . _ we 1,743 
Dairy Implements ...00 00.00 eee oust 3,743 
Agricultural Tools... eee 7,995 
Dental, Medical and Surgical Instruments a. 43,995 
Machines and parts of machines ... 83... 0 ee 457,600 


580 

5 

101 

Silk Yarns... em a i 45 22,639 

36 

629 

178 

82 


Cotton Yarns... a ut a .. Tons 68,600 
Mosquito Nettings sie us bad Pe sien “6 3,004 
Woollen Yarns ae ves re Bes ae a 45,985 
Flax, Hemp, Jute and Linen Yarne Pe = 53 1,891 
Sacks and Bags, empty aie oe ae ean mA 18,520 
Chlorine . cad pe - wee 5 3,534 
Insecticides ... es ie ee ts sae “s 5,616 
Caustic Soda... 02 ane tue tee 7 1,189 12,704 
Drugs and Medicines ne a ee — 71,119 
/ 


189 


Commodities. Unit. Quantity. Value. 
£P. 
Aniline dyes .. awe ee ai re .. Tons 22 5,502 
Otherdyes ... eee eee 2 3s 14 1,439 
Paper for packing oranges . ee vials Bee 1,428 27,669 
Aircraft and parts thereof . ie 3s sae — — 1,553 
Ships, Boats and material therefor ay oOo — 5,551 
Tractors and alee thereof .. sa wie sds — — 43,883 
Paper Bags . re aes as ... Tons 467 10,047 
Books, printed cee we owe — = 24,602 
Advertising and printed matter eae bee eats — — 17,197 
Belting for machinery as a ae — 9,817 
Corks and Capsules for bottles — — 4,428 
Cotton and Gauze, antiseptic : oes — aoe 4,162 
ican apna andrefills ...0 ..° ww. = — a 850 
Printing ae” tes “e- wee, - tx “Dons 23 4,152 
Fishing ruEe . sae — — 882 
mels Number 7,798 51,933 
Donkeys i 1,198 4,313 
Horses 963 8,218 
Mules .. Gest. ius eth ss 1,338 17,808 
Chemical Fertilizers .. Seis Pre ee ... Tons 10,750 95,968 
Manure a re | Can SS oe 1,665 3,688 
N.AA.FB.I. Stores ses a er ise see — — 79,228 
Government Stores ... Ses eg oe woo — 325,561 
Military Stores a aes as: bien — — 343,639 
Trans-Jordan Government Stores ... bee Sa — — 36,077 
Iraq Petroleum Company Stores ... ... 0 «se — 694,588 
Used personal effects Fe see bes OU — 393,072 
Other goods exempt from duty ae ee — 74,314 
Total os ee aie ade ae sie sis £P.4,038,000 


9. Value of goods imported by charitable and religious institutions, 
consuls and archaeological societies during the past five years :— 





Under the Under the Customs Duties 








Ottoman Law. Exemption Ordinance. 
Year _;—- -—— — Total. - 
ot Charitable 
ale and other Consuls.* 
° | Institutions. 
SP. £P. £P. £P. 
1929 29,982 18,619 4,643 53,244 
1930 27,097 13,007 3,404 43,508 
1931 32,647 9,960 3,828 46,435 
1932 _ 33,971 7,690 7,382 49,043 
1933 31,152 19,309 7,629 58,090 . 


> 





"Including benzine, etc., delivered to Consuls from Bonded Oil Installations | 


10. The amounts credited to Palestine on account of duty on 
goods in transit to Trans-Jordan for the five years commencing 


are shown hereunder :— 


Month 


October 
November 
December 
January 
February 
March 
April 
May ... 
June... 
July ... 
August 


September ... 


Total 


1928]29 
£P. 
247 
361 
570 

1,039 
706 

1,060 

1,305 

1,078 
931 


8,422 


190 


Ist October, 1928, when the Transit Agreement first came into force, 


1929/30. 
£P. 
475 
540 
888 
418 
221 
435 
277 
552 
473 





1930/81. 
£P. 
831 
870 
789 
680 
314 

1,055 
628 

1,004 
753 





1931/82. 1982/38. 
£P. £P. 

590 1,752 
1,205 1,472 
1,182 1,904 
852 1,626 
918 1,908 
1,875 2,035 
1,465 1,944 
1,148 2,041 
1,604 2,298 
1,411 2,530 
2,381 2,649 
1,727 2,376 

16,358 24,535 


11. Principal commodities imported and the amount of Import 
Duty received from each in 1933 :— 


Wood and Timber’ m? 
for building. 


Cement 


Woollen Tissues 


Silk Tissues ... 


Rubber 
Tubes. 


Iron bars 
Girders. 


Tyres 


Articles. Unit. 
Benzine Litres 
Sugar Kilos 
Kerosene Litres 
Tobacco leaves Kilos 
Wheat Flour ‘ 
Wheat a3 
Cigarettes oan - 
Cotton Piece Good - 
Motor Cars ... Number 
Rice ... Kilos 
Coffee ii 
Barley me 


and <5 


and - 


Quantity. 


27,878,600 
16,067,000 
42,088,300 
88,303 
26,918,000 
60,047,000 
33,715 
4,016,000 
1,969 
15,713,000 
983,000 
24,834,000 
115,619 


39,409,000 
375,000 
438,000 
389,000 


45,038,000 


Value 


177,408 
141,865 
115,563 
20,207 
264,679 
448,236 
20,521 
410,572, 
370,879 
132,236 
52,403 
106,788 
253,777 


88,328 
201,559 
231,733 

66,091 


240,069 


Rate of Duty. 


Mils. 11 per litre 
Mils. 10 per kilo 
Mils. 12 per litre 
Mils. 400 per kilo 
Various rates 
Various rates 
Mils 1,000 per kilo 
Various rates 

25 per centum 
Mils. 2 per kilo 
Mils. 15 per kilo 
Mil. 1 per kilo 
Mils. 800 per m° 


Mil. 0-85 per kilo 
12 per centum 

20 per centum 
Mils. 50 per kilo 


Mils.0°8 &0:5 per 
kilo. 


Duty 
Collected 

£P. 
305,467 


159,850 
73,654 
35,317 
67,635 
73,323 
33,685 
89 634 
90,767 
31,378 
14,723 
22,165 
34,651 


32,323 
23,904 
37,798 
18,914 


31,767 


191 


12. The Import Duties were raised on ale and beer in the interests 
of revenue, and similarly on mechanical lighters. Metal fasteners 
were made subject to a higher rate for the protection of a local 
factory, and the tariff on wheat and flour was again adjusted by 
means of a sliding scale of duties based upon the invoice price and 
related to a periodical determination of local market values by the 
Director of Customs so as to ensure that the threefold object is 
attained, namely, the preservation of the market for local agricul- 
turists during harvest time, the provision of cheap supplies at 
other times and the protection of the local milling industry. The 
duty on salt was increased from 3 mils to 4 mils per kilogram to 
assist local producers in competing with foreign dumping, on the 
understanding that the price to the consumer would not be 
increased. 


13. Excise Duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 
methylated spirits, salt and matches. The receipts during the 
last five years were as follow :— 





1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
£P £P £P £P £P 

Tobacco— 

Duties’ See aa 162,984 150,541 153,720 201,722 222,864 

Licence fees ve 6,290 6,076 5,872 6,281 6,672 
Intoxicating Liquors— 

Duties bad eae 28,220 31,941 33,262 34,457 38,853 

Licence fees sie 3,461 6,223 6,725 4,290 3,723 
Methylated Spirits— 

Duties va a — — — 3,175 5,132 
Salt— 

Duties oes es 11,118 11,341 11,410 12,000 12,550 
Matches— 

Duties See Soe 6,674 10,447 11,895 16,382 14,625 

Licence fees ae 10 100 100 50 50 


EEE ee 
ere fe | 


Total ... £P| 218,757 216,669 222,984 278,357 304,469 
CR ee 


14. The Excise Duty on heisheh tobacco was reduced from 350 
mils to 150 mils per kilogram and the annual licence fee for a factory 
manufacturing only this brand was fixed at £P.50. This reduction 
Was granted in the interests of Beduin tribes in Northern Palestine 


ee are addicted to heisheh, and cannot afford more expensive 
tobacco. 


Heisheh may not be grown outside the Beersheba Sub-District, 


but within those boundaries its cultivation is exempt from the 
Provisions of the Tobacco Ordinance. 


15. The Excise Duty on wine was reduced from 6 mils to 3 mils 
per litre of wine not exceeding 15 degrees of alcohol, and from 
12 mils to 8 mils per litre of wine exceeding 15 degrees but not 


192 


exceeding 25 degrees of alcohol, and the licence fees for manu- 
facture have been reduced to the following scale :— 


For the first 10,000 litres, or part thereof manu- 


factured during the previous year... - £P.10 
For every eens 1,000 htres or par 
thereof... - £P.1 


Frovided that the maximum Seeant an ence 
fee payable shall not exceed ... ve .. &£P.100 


In the case of a person applying for a licence for 
the first time, or in respect of premises for 
which no licence has been issued during the 
preceding year, or for which a@ licence has 
been in force, but no intoxicating liquors other 
than spirits have been manufactured during 
the preceding year sos ae say oe £P.10 


Both these measures were taken to relieve an industry on which 
viticulture is largely dependent. 


16. The following is an analysis of Customs taxation for the 
years 1929-1933 :— 


1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. ~° 1933. 
£P £P £P £P £P 


Total Value of Imports ... 7,167,000 6,985,000 5,940,000 7,769,000 11,123,000 


Less value of Government, 599,000 678,000 591,000 1,303,000 1,479,000 
Military, N.A.A.F.I. and 


Irag Petroleum Uo. 





Stores. 
Net Value of Imports’... 6,568,000 6,307,000 5,349,000 6,466,000 9,644,000 
Net Duty collected -- 917,000 992,000 922,000 1,194,000 1,688,000 
Corresponding rate of duty 14 15-5 17 18-5 17-5 
per cent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 
Net Value of Imports’... 6,568,000 6,307,000 5,349,000 6,466,000 9,644,000 


Less value of goods exempt 1,250,000 1,445,000 1,243,000 1,427,000 2,559,000 
under the Customs Du- 
ties Exemption Ordin- 
ance but including goods 
of Syrian origin. 


. 


Value of ordinary Imports 5,318,000 4,862,000 4,106,000 5,039,000 7,085, 
Net Duty collected -- 917,000 992,000 922,000 1,194,000 1,688,00/; 
Corresponding rate of duty 17 20-5 22:5 23°5 24 


percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 





. Carried Forward. 


193 


1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
£P £P £P £P £P 


Brought Forward. 


Value of ordinary Imports 5,318,000 4,862,000 4,106,000 5,039,000 7,085,000 
Less value of goodsexempt 506,000 501,000 644,000 598,000 718,000 
under the Syria-Pales- 


tine Customs Agreement 
Value of Dutiable Importe 4,812,000 4,361,000 3,462,000 4,441,000 6,367,000 
Net Duty collected -- 917,000 992,000 922,000 1,194,000 1,688,000 


Corresponding rate of duty 19 22-5 26:5 27 26:5 
: percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 





Net Value of Imports... 6,568,000 6,307,000 5,349,000 6,466,000 9,644,000 
Value of goods exempt 1,250,000 1,445,000 1,243,000 1,427,000 2,559,000 
under the Customs Du- 
ties Exemption Ordin- 


ance. 
Percentage to Net Value 19 23 23 22 26:5 
of Imports. per cent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 


Value of goods exempt 506,000 501,000 644000 598,000 718,000 
under the Syria-Pales- 


tine Customs Agreement. 
Percentage to Net Value 7:5 8 12 9 7:5 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. percent. 


Total value of exemption 1,756,000 1,946,000 1,887,000 2,025,000 3,277,000 
under Customs Duties 
Exemption Ordinance 
and  Syria-Palestine 


Customs Agreement. 
Percentage to Net Value 26-5 31 35 31 34 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 





Total Value of Imports ... 7,167.0.0 6,985,C00 5,940,C00 7,769,000 11,123,000 
Total Value of Exemptions 1,849,0(0 2,123,0C0 1,834,000 2,730,000 4,038,C00 
ander C.D.E.O. including 
Government, Military, 
N.A.A.F.I. and Iraq 
Petroleum Co. Stores. 
Percentage to Total Value 26 30 30:5 35 36-5 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. percent. 


Value of goods exempt 506,000 501,000 644,000 598,0CO 718,000 
under the Syria-Pales- 
’ tine Customs Agreement. 
Percentage to Total Value 
of Imports. 7 7 1] 8 6-5 
percent. percent. percent. percent. percent. 


Grand Totalof Exemptions 2,355,000 2,624,000 2,478,000 3,328,000 4,756,000 
Percentage to Total Value 33 37 41-5 43 43 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 





Total Value of Exports of 1,554,000 1,896,000 1,572,000 2,381,000 2,592,0C0 
Local Goods 





17. Statement of principal imports of Syrian origin during 
1932 and 1933 :— : 


194 





Barley 
Beans eee 
Chick Peas 
Lentils 
Durrah and Maize 
Wheat... 
Wheat Flour 
Bakieh 
Kersenneh sxe 
Goats and Kids ... 
Sheep and Lambs 
Poultry, alive 
Samneh 
Eggs - 
Fish, fresh 
Apples, raw oer 
Other fresh fruits 
Apricot Paste 
Confectionery 
Walnuts .. 
Other nuts ; 
Other Oil, edible 
Onions dé 
Potatoes . ae 
Other Vegetables, raw ... 
Starch... nea 
Other Articles of Food oor 
Beer in Bottles ... 
Beer in Barrels ... 
Trunks and branches of 
trees. 
Cotton, raw and waste ... 
Olive Oil, unrefined 
Seeds Agricultural 
Cement 
Brass and Copper. manu- 
factures. 
Furniture se 
Wood manufactures 
Cotton piece goods, dyed 
Cotton manufactures 
Woollen Tissues... 
Silk Yarn 
Silk Tissues 
Silx manufactures 
“Ropes and Twines 
Khilims and Carpets 
Textile manufactures ... 





Unit. 


Tons 


Litres 


be) 
Tons 


1981. 
Quantity. eg 
16,487 | 74,773 
482 | 3,009 
1,141 8,831 
572 | 6,090 
1,388 |; 8,602 
20,950 163,974 
4,563 | 43,057 
549 2,979 
300 1,864 
21,977 | 15,214 
104,334 | 92,177 
39,699 | 3,150 
292 | 3,415 
4,133 7,940 
109 4,131 
201 2,026 
1,136 | 10,363 
286 | 3,916 
1,164 | 30,186 
166 | 5,360 
14 1,216 
1 33 
2,039 | 8,103 
1,513 | 9,606 
601 3,157 
64 1,036 
— 2,289 
399 764 
277 | 12,739 
7 136 
159 | 2,447 
27 54 
— 3,677 
— 7,401 
— 2,776 
92 | 19,612 
5,914 
2,276 | 2,506 
3 3,159 
105 33, 236 
2,026 
176 | 5,986 
23 3,662 
— 2,519 








g 1931, 

1982. 1983. 
Quantity. eee puaaniy Ui 
1,810 | 10,702] 2,670 | 13,485 
1,877 | 11,995] 3,071 | 19,286 
495 | 4.042 541 | 3.897 
1,988 | 18,985] 1,511 | 11.9% 
7437 | 46.479| 5,480 | 33.738 
17,045 |148,295| 18,324 | 173.530 
3.035 | 38,981] 5,187 | 61.211 
497 | 2.447 641 | 344 
1,216 | 6898| 1,144] 5473 
4159 | 3,621 470 | ‘354 
22596 | 25,805} 1,080] 1,083 
176,796 | 11.939} 279.544 1 17,991 
94 | 11.090 19 | 2679 
7,147 | 12,261| 9,689 | 19.03 
170 | 5,148 317 | 11,051 
295} 2118 184] 178 
1,137 | 9.979! 1,853 | 16,015 
536 | 7.353 175 | 3783 
733 | 18.946 625 | 19,951 
238 | 6,680 184 | 7.970 
37 | 3.140 68 | 5,68? 
188 | 6,487 153 | 6048 
2,499 | 10,095} 2,096 | 62% 
1858 | 9.749] 2.093] 9437 
833 | 4.681| 1,798 | 9.77 
56 | 1.026 66 | 1317 
— | 3311; — | 292% 
cas —| 30,854] 1,567 
a —| 4975} 6 
1,130 | 3,161| 1,209] 2,813 
113 | 4,586 189 | 9,12 
98 | 3,102; — = 
307 | 4.618 309 | 5,380 
1,224] 3,332| 1,394] 291 
= 4031| — 5 488 
_ 5,584, — 8294 
Be 3070| — 3.905 
119 | 26,963 gg | 18.315 
= 5.484,  — 4,289 
2,816 | 2249| 1,937] 1,32 
7 | 6,470 12 | 10,067 
45 | 18,359 113 | 43.419 
= 2,290 —_ 2,999 
228 | 9.615 210 | 10,969 
26 | 3.471 52 | 4,352 
~ 20541 — | 4,795 





195 


| 1931. 





1982. 1988. 
Unit. 
Quantity pre Qua nity, pat © Quantity. oe 

Boots and Shoes. of | Pairs — | 17,5389 — aaa 255,941 | 19,120 

Leather. 
Braces, Suspenders and ~~ — 6,219 — 5,650 — 7,925 

Belts. 
Cloaks ... Tons 36 | 11,937 38 | 9,912 44 | 11,298 
Hats, Bonnets and Ogals — — 3,015 — 3,699 — 3,351 
Hatta and Shawls sia — — 17,382 — 16,596 — 21,088 
Stockings and Socks Doz. 19,070 | 3,237 — 2,419; 20,617 3,528 
Other Apparel ... a —_ — | 29,416 — 21,806 = 35,934 
Sole Leather ..- | Tons 7: 670 24| 2,472 50 §,305 
Upper Leather ... +4 35! 5,163; | 41] 5,610 48 5,414 
Umbrellas and Walking — — 1,370 — 1,127 — 1,049 

Sticks. 
Camels... see sii No. 2,761 | 21,803 2,944 | 21,087 7,725 | 51,418 
Horses... — atte 54 849 | 9,698 628| 5,858 809 6,426 
Other Articles... hax — — 58,440 — 32,847 — 49,544. 

Total £P.1810,000 £P.1683,000 £P./829,600 


The decrease in value of imports of Syrian origin in 1932 com- 
pared with 1931 was chiefly in wheat, goats and kids, confectionery, 
cotton raw and waste, silk tissues and boots and shoes of leather. 
The increase in 1933 was chiefly in wheat, flour, apparel and 
camels. The progressive decline in the value of foreign goods 
imported from Syria is in respect of textiles, and may be ascribed 
to the depreciation of Palestine currency in the Syrian market and 
to the high Customs Dues imposed in Syria on foreign textiles, as 
well as to Japanese competition. 


18. Licensed tobacco, tombac and snuff factories :— 


1929. 1930. 1931. 1982. 1938. 

Tobacco and eee .. 10 10 11 9 10 

Tombac_... a oe 3 2 2 1 l 

Snuff wide ee bee bee 2 . 2 2 3 2 

Total... ‘ee se - 15 14 15 13 13 
Output 











Cut 
Tobacco. 


Cigar- 


Year. ettes. 








Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. 


20,107 | 531,887 |100,127} 1,209] — ae 
1930 20,801 | 487,587 | 96,899] 2295| — = 
1931 24,570 | 493,741 | 95,9293 | 5,444] — —_ 
1932 20,798 | 478,022 | 78,709] 4,805 | 1,228 839 
1933 17,666 |537,348 | 71,930] 6310| 2,039] 1,644 


pesca Lm ot Pate Sines es, Se 








196 


As a result of efforts made to eliminate the growing of inferior 
leaf, particularly in the Southern District, there are now only 
about 1,250 tobacco cultivators in Palestine compared with 3,700 
four years ago; the annual crops for 1928-1932 were the following :— 


Vay Tobacco Tombac 

" Kilos. Kilos. 
1928 ... sas see 334,455 7,381 
1929 ... see oat 1,183,196 10,748 
1930 ... ee a 954,424 3,531 
1931. 2.: a sie 503,641 558 
1932 ... a: ee 565,617 5,771 


19. The annual production of salt at Athlit by sea-evaporation 
and at Jebel Usdum (rock formation) is 8,500,000 kilograms; and 
of matches 130,000 gross of boxes. 


20. To mitigate the severity of the law towards the relatively 
harmless contraband occasionally practised by fellahin, it has been 
decided to amend the law with a view to allowing for a small fine 
where the offence consists of possession of insignificant quantities 
of tobacco or salt. 


21. The Merchandise Marks Ordinance continues to serve a useful 
purpose in protecting buyers in Palestine from deception as to the 
origin and quality of the goods they purchase: nearly 600 consign- 
ments were detained by the Customs. 


22. The total value of imports of merchandise for home consump- 
tion in 1933 amounted to £P.11,123,489, compared with 
£P.7,768,920 in 1932. A large part of this increase is due to the 
entry of immigrants with personal effects, implements and 
machinery, of which the value was half a million pounds greater 
than in 19382. 


The rapid erection of houses and business premises to accommo- 
date newcomers accounted for the extensive importation of timber, 
iron bars, angles, rods and girders, sanitary ware, cement, tiles 
and bricks, electrical fittings and insulated tubes and pipes, paints 


and colours, window and door fittings, to a value of approximately 
£P.900,000. 


The crop failure in Palestine is the reason for imports of wheat. 


barley, flour and semolina valued at £P.833,719, compared with 
£P.450,131 in the previous year. 


There were noticeable Increases also in seeds and nuts for 
pressing oil, cotton piece goods, woollen and silk tissues, apparel, 


197 


benzine, motor care, rubber tyres and tubes, and chemical fer- 
tilizers; imports of raw materials and articles mainly unmanu- 
factured for use in local industries exceeded last year’s figure 


by nearly £P.280,000. 


23. Principal imports during 1982 and 1933 :— 


SS | ett | cee ES | ES | Ce 


Article. Uni. 

Barley tons 
Durra ” 
Rive ... ” 
Wheat eee 99 
Wheat Flour See - 
Animals for slaughter number 
Fish in brine, dry, salted, 

fresh and tinned... ee tons 
Coffee coe . 99 
Sugar ove ” 
Potatoes 99 
Coal rr) eee eco eee 99 
Seeds and Nuts for express- 

ing oils... ee vee es 
Cement 


Wood prepared for citrus 
fruite 


Wood and timber for building} _,, 
Iron bars, angles, rods and 
Iron tubes, pipes, and fittings 
thereof... wai bas 
Agricultural machinery ... _— 
Industrial machinery — 


Cotton piece-goods... tons 
Woollen tissues 9 
Silk tissues ... = ae 4 
Apparel of all sorts see — 
ne... wes 1000 litres 
Benzine see 99 
Motor Cars ... ae .-- | number 
Rubber Tyres and Tubes... | tons 
Chemical Fertilizers eee ” 
Government stores... ... — 


Military stores... aus — 
Irmq Petroloum Company 
N.AA.F.I. stores ... 
Personal effects 


l 1 





1932. 
Quantity. | Value 
£P. 

13,257 71,913 
9,337 | 56,883 
12,813 | 150,797 
21,445 | 182,656 
20,058 | 190,330 
99,067 | 162,514 
2,275 71,382 
805 | 47,862 
12,860 | 132,710 
7,780 44,857 
54,678 | 64,247 
11,020 | 115,175 
7,151 | 25,264 
46,025 | 176,731 
74,743 | 183,554 
13,201 | 66,558 
6,419 | 118,977 
— 33,291 
— 175,208 
2,615 | 382,449 
252 | 152,807 
279 | 174,887 

— 291,874 
37,493 79,499 
20,240 | 183,324 
760 | 164,347 
295 | 58,022 
6,028 | 52,431 
— 335,925 
—_ 213,480 
— 671,155 
— 67,998 
— 111,124 


26,918 


123,080 


2,954 
983 
16,067 
9,753 
58,007 


16,241 
39,409 


41,553 
115,619 


45,038 
11,978 


3,016 
375 
438 


145,097 
253,777 


240,096 


214,958 

56,376 
466,699 
410,572 
201,559 
231,733 


24. The total value of exports of Palestine produce amounted 
to £P.2,591,617, compared with £P.2,381,491 in 1932, the increase 
being chiefly in respect of citrus fruits, which amounted to 


£P.2,078,361, compared with £P.1,780,565 a year earlier. 


198 


Otherwise, exports of agricultural produce showed a marked — 
decrease. 


Exports of locally manufactured goods were satisfactory on the ; 
whole, with the exception of soap, wine, olive oil and bedste:ds. 


Principal’ exports of local manufacture during the las: five — 
years :— 


Article. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 
£P £P £P. £P £P 
Cakes of all sorte for ne 
animals Se 25,905 1,660 22 8,980} 7,304 
Biscuits and cakes... oe 1,534 2,138 2,505 2,728) 1ol7 _ 
Bread eee) ae ay 5,452 3,902 2,386 3,430} 2,282 
Cheese . a aa a 7,684 3,255 2,438 4,401} 7,111 
Chocolates mr ae on 639 974 1,084 1,653 548 
Confectionery .. | 2,146 | 1,636} 1,513 |  1,813| 2,118 
Fruit Juice and Syrup. sas 189 2,651 3,318 4,509} 6,793 
Brandy and eee a 1,552 1,142 2,703 2,740) 2,206 _ 
Wines ... wee sae 27,304 31,411 30,592 30,737| 22,270 
Olive Oil auc “as ses 7,736 19,394 29,227 32,414} 20,786 
Sunflower Oil at bes 23,211 3,211 3,447 | 29,353 612 
Oils, other, edible... ... 4,865 1,338 5,281 | - 473 26,459 
Cement aa ue ie 19,026 28,702 20,450 22,151} 14,068 
Mirrors 223 389 2,222 3,551, 3,249 - 
Bedsteads Bad: parte ‘thereat 469 1,708 2,817 4,343 818 
Tin manufactures... a 2,285 2,553 523 1,117; 1,464 
Olive wood manufactures... 3,742 3,319 2,320 1,567| 1,726 
Cotton Yarn and Thread... 24 2,517 840 2,039; 2,533 
Cotton manufactures.. ods 4,280 5,450 2,536 2,338} 1,795 
Stockings 18,919 19,722 16,075 12,538} 11,584 
Wearing apparel of all kinds 13,398 19,059 | 17,081 16,508} 26,959 
Soap .. .-- | 215,203 | 206,259 | 119,941 | 108,101} 79.342 
Paper and Cardboard ‘goods... 930 2,475 3,787 2,544 1,768 
Curios and articles of piety .. 3,307 6,604. 4,078 2,819] 3,936 
Beads and Mother-of- Pearl 
manufactures we = wee | «12,869 | 11,582 | 10,662 9,560} 8,634 
Leather Handbags ... ... 3,883 6,274 6,023 5,290| 7,249 
Stationery ... seen — 2,727 3,834 6,770| 4,620 
Artificial Teeth So ae 9,261 10,325 16,152 13,429] 23,674 
Essences of all kinds aoe 4,901 158 703 2,285] 3,023 


Other manufactured goods ... | 41,069 | 35,577 | 50,394 | 95,433] 108,755 


Total ... St £P| 462,006 | 438,062 | 364,954 | 435,623} 406,398 





— 
—S 





199 


£648 


"dS 


“6861 4000 


OEDILIUT 


"ds 


996886 


8L9°9°F'TT 


92 LEE 


296°C0S‘T 
LOO‘E FS 
9Le‘O6I 


16h‘188S 
"ds 


L6OL‘OSI‘8 
109°SeT 


0Z6°S9L‘L 
"d3 


8Z0°L3S‘S 


LOF‘9ZS 
SEE 19S 


ZOTLLT 
190°CL9°T 
"dS 


L8T‘6I11‘9 
GZ0°S 


99¢6°98%'S 


¥99'T 
G26 CSL 


G8E‘cel 
960°968'I 
"d3 


CL8‘SPL'L 


GsE‘eel 


TOL ‘0€SS 


eee nn nnn md ee oe 


L99‘°Z1Z 


"dS 


SS | ES | ESSE eT aR eR a ES | RS LS | SS GT eA ES 





oe (7O.L, 


* eweds jo syiodxiy 
‘enood 1070} JO s,10dx0-047 
puoq wory syodxq 
‘ss qrsuvi4 ul sylodxq 
gonpoid ounsoeg jo sj10dxq 


es | | neg ES | SSS SSS SPEER fs SSS | nen ee ee ee eer enn ene 


POL 


"+ gtoeds jo s10duy 
qisuVs} Ul sy10d uy 
**> wordunsuoo Joy 8y10d uy 





—: €E6T PUT ZEGT ‘TEBT ‘OEGT ‘ESET OJ 8e1qQu7 eArereduIoD ‘e740dxo pue syioduiy [B09 JO ENIVA “LE 


200 


emerson es | ee | oe ES | oe ES | EIS | EEE I | SE eS TED 





——. 


LI9‘°169'S 


960°968'T 


396 FO9'T 


‘d3 





‘ds aes eee eae 1770.7, 


as "**  - Peyissejoun pus snoeuyjoosrpy 

pemngouyn meu Auyeur 10 Ayjoya sapornsy 
*" pamjosmueu 

-am = Ajureur s]0118 puvy s[¥LIQQVUl AByy 


"OooBqgoT, pues FAL “poo 


(ens | ess | cocoa | abet sete | RS NTS | ESS ee SEES a 


= €90°L 
006‘9 = 
G00'TT = 
= GLE03S 
‘d3 "ds 
Cf6[ sepun GL6[ 4000 
aepesary oenesoUy 
= 080°109 
= €86‘ZE8'T 
== 6IS°6LG 
— L86‘0*9 
‘dF “dF 
Cf6l[ 4epun | “SP6l sano 
aepasza(] aeUaLIUT 


68F'EZI ‘TI 
E6L°LITS 
POE EPL‘'S 
GS8P‘9E8 


LI8‘SZF'S 
‘ds 


16P‘188‘S 190°ZL9‘T 
sIg 892° 
26E‘ZIE SEP‘O8Z 
LI6‘3F Z69‘89 
¥99‘9Z0‘ £99°6Zc'T 
‘d3 ‘dF 
"BE6I I€6I 
036‘S9L‘L 000‘0F6'S 
CILOIS‘T ZSI ‘SSL 
I1¥016‘E G8L‘192‘E 
996‘99¢ | F06‘LIF 
Of8‘FRL‘T 6cI ‘SES'T 
‘dF "d3 
"OE6I "IE6I 


89Z‘G86'9 
OFS'L26 
GEI‘L90°F 
PLO“LES 


600°E6E‘T 
‘ds 


—: PEGI PUT ZEBT ‘TEGT ‘OEGT ‘6261 $21q%) eATyeIeduIO? 


€69°99T“L 


Ce enn oe 


“as 


‘aqgoon Se sae 1710,], 


poyissypoun pus snoauyoostyy 

Peounuen: Ajuyout Jo Ajoya sepqiy 
poinjzoeynueul 

“UN AJUTBUI SapIPTe PUB sTVLIa}VUL MY 

oe ooovgoy, pue FUT “poog 


“Loduty 


~—— sce 


ssassejo £q syiodxo pur syrodum Jo onjea -9z 


201 


21. Imports by Countries of Consignment during 1932 and 


Cee] 





United States of Arverica 
countries ... P 


- Ntkey if 








292,396 
101,355 
518,619 


520,466 
164,962 


7,768,920 


1933. 


£P. 
1,949,936 
452,087 
186,822 
346,740 
88,614 
312,943 
74,191 
459,575 
1,193,303 
96,418 
117,800 
54,394 
357,022 
289,718 
581,635 
157,637 
122,213 


73,944 


1,208,227 
349,859 
81,592 
942,663 
364,056 
838,774 
423,226 


11,123,489 





Percentage 1933. 


_—~ 


— 
SOSH AWS SHSCOMOVOHH HA 


S| wawnmowSor 
SERA SASSSRCSSNSSSASSZSe8B8asg 


S 


| 
| 
=: 


28. Exports by Countries of Destination 1932 and 1933 :-— 


Countries of Destination. 


Syria 
United St ee aes 
Other Contain eee 


Total £P. 


ee eee 


1932. 
£P 


1,342,031 


80,129 
4,574 
27,333 
35,333 
332,723 
31,320 
13,217 
9,533 
16,499 
54,069 
13,874 
128,734 
229,903 
18,632 
43,587 


2,381,491 


Exports. 
1933. 


£P. 
1,559,496 
60,613 
9,801 
37,485 
21,922 
373,749 
53,853 
14,312 
16,284 
15,122 
40,620 
25,265 
71,962 
212,982 
21,415 
56,736 


2,591,617 


Percentage 1933. 


S 


puns 


SOPWOHSOSCOWMOMOW 
SOSAIRADSAD OKRA A 


$ 
3 


202 


Commerce and Industry. 

29. Palestine industry improved appreciably during 1933. Manu- 
facturers enlarged their plant and added to the number of work- 
people employed, with consequent increases in production. 

Lhe capital introduced by new immigrants played an important 
role in this development ; many of the German Jews who came to 
Palestine during the year were themselves industrialists or had been 
associated with some kind of industry in Germany. 

A number of small factories were established for the manufacture 
of hosiery, razor blades, motor oinibus bodies, cement pipes and 
blocks, bricks and tiles, electric fittings, metal goods, chocolates 
and sweets, chemicals and drugs. 

Producers of constructional materials and similar articles were 
fully occupied in supplying the needs of builders; and, in this con- 
nection, it may be noted that a shortage was felt of skilled workers 
for the building trades, particularly electricians and plumbers. 

30. There was considerable building activity throughout the 
country and large sums were invested in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv 
and Haifa. 

The approximate total investment in buildings in twenty centres, 
including the four principal towns, during the five years 1929-1933 
is set out below :— 


Year. Amount invested. 
£P. 
1929 aes es 1,741,687 
1930 ha re 2,448 670 
1931 2,720,678 
1932 2 945,708 
1933 (estimated) 4,500, 000 


The demand for houses and business premises in Tel-Aviv and 
Haifa still exceeds the supply, and rents rose from 20 to 40 per cent. 

Apart from the large number of labourers and artisans direct! 
employed, importers of building materials were busy, and their 
turnover increased appreciably. 

The following table shows the value of such imports during the 
last five years :— 


1929. 1980. 1881. 1922. 1983. 
£P. LP. £P. £P. £P. 
Timber and Wood for building 141,245 167,564 158,381 184,267 253,77/ 
Iron bars, angles, rods and 114,451 101,746 83,629 96, 683 240, 096 
girders 
Sanitary Ware ... oe ... 21,687 20,993 19,824 39,288 66,041 
Electrical Fittings and In- 38,740 88,884 22,704 29,475 658,491 
sulated Tubes and ee 
Cement ... 22,215 16,996 14,359 25,264 88,328 
Paints and Colours 17,379 18445 18,963 24,471 39,339 
Plate Glass 14,453 15,953 15,872 21,984 34,431 
Tiles and Bricks 19,117 18,618 16,068 20,849 34,528 
Iron manufactures* 88,340 57,3846 47,912 59,524 96, 079 


* Door and window fittings form about 60 per cent. of this item. 


31. Direct shipments of oranges and grape fruit from Jaffa and 
Prices ranged from 9 to 1} 


Haifa bevan early in November. 
shillings per case of oranges and 10 to 16 shillings per case of grax 


fruit. 





208 


antity, value and country of destinat 


f 


10n O 


———— 


t exported during 1932 and 1933: 


i 


grape fru 


Table showing the qu 


oranges and 


PSL‘GZI 





LZ8 
06 
ShO'T 
OIF'T 
j 
c6e 
S52 san | 
096‘ 


G86‘ 
9 
102 11 
O19‘? 
£63 
SIL'S 
ILI 


9Z8'0S3 


G89‘l 
161 
¥00‘E 
VO8S 
¢ 
8h8 
GGL‘ 
LPL‘2 


898'e 
OL 
GEL‘ZS 
168°8 
g9¢ 
CEES 
oge 
II 
£69‘ 
¥LE 
193 
909 
gIg 


088'SsT 


"S088 


‘syinsf-adviyy 


LLU6P6'T 


o62'T 
9I0'T 
POL‘T 
L19‘0Z 
GI8S 
90¢‘Se 
91L'8 
0S0‘'ST 
CBS'S 
0996 
ZEE 
ose‘cre 
P99 
O8I'F 
RZ0'FE 
6ST 
L9¢°S 
Le8'9 
ER's 
869'6 
CZS'T 
198 


SIZ‘SOr'Tt 


‘d's 


6268 
EFS 
919‘ 
839‘OF 
o89'S 
L00°G2 
008‘6T 
GGG GZ 
OFFS 
62Z.€8 
90 
G6Z BEL 
9€8'9L 
0836 
SE9°SL 
L¥E 
CST. 
169°FT 
9621'S 
91S‘ IS 
O6F'S 
ose‘T 


G8e*Le0'e 


"sO88D 


SI6‘661'F | 100‘102‘T 


919 
79'S 
LEUS 
GGS‘EL 


986'6F 
L189 
9IF'8 . 
102‘ 
VBS FS 
6rE'S 
oss‘F1e 
G1S°8 
OF0'T 
PPL 9G 
93'S 
OLFF 
628'S 
986'F 
COPE 
Pes'y 
LITE 


992202 T 


‘dé 


"s20unigQ 
me 


"SE61 pup spar Gutanp qJinaf-adnapn pun sabunicQg fo 8140dTY 


66S‘F29‘E 


6982 
906'F 
96¢'F 
82662 


92666 
GSL'SI 
098'9T 
Oss 
PL196F 
¥99'F 
186‘ 199 
6S9'LT 
6ErS 
CLECS 
LLY? 
1986 
826'S 
{sit 
E16'Z 
o1S'6 
992'9 


989'86r'S 


"SO8BL) 





1890], 


salIZUNO/ 10749 


“* BTABTSODN 
°° PUBpIEzZ4yIMg 
as uepoag 
eve “--e1Ssny 
see BIUVUINOY 
aoe paslog 
oe ABAION 
is -BTAQETT 
“° puso 
cee 909015) 
aes Aueulsex) 
ans eouely 
™ paelarg 
ure yrswmueg 

BL YBAO[SOYIEZA) 
Se slies[ng 
eee wmnislog 


o9B4Q Col] SII] 


ane Bpeusy 
oe “+ eIpuy 
See “- depy 
opsury pezu/) 





204 


82. Quantity and value of cereals and flour imported during the 2 
five years 1929-1933 :— 





Wheat. 





Quantity Value 





Barley. 


Quantity 









Flour and Semolina. 


Value } 


Tons. EP. Tons. £P. 
1929 12,949 152,528 1,128 $99,896 
1930 2,476 21,350 2 189,639 
193] 21,196 165,634 16,893 159,890 
1932 21,445 182,656 13,257 195,562 
1933 60,047 448,236 24,834 106,788 278,695 








33. The olive crop was very poor and soap manufacturers had to 


import large quantities of raw materials. 


Thus, the quantity and _ 


value of acid oil, offals and unrefined olive oil imported in 1933 


was 4,749 tons valued at £P.119,202, compared with 3,098 tons 
and £P.67,698, respectively, in 1932. 
A protective tariff in Egypt has led to a severe falling off in 


exports of laundry soap for some years, whereas toilet soap 1s . 


increasingly exported. 
The exports of soap during the five years 1929-1933 were :— 


1929. 1930. 1981. 1982. 1938. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Laundry Soap . 214,185 204,876 117,893 104,830 75,531 
Toilet Soap ... 1,068 1,383 2,548 3,271 3,811 


34. The demand for cement rose with the expansion of building ~ 


activities and considerable quantities were imported. The produc- . 


tion of the local factory amounted to 135,000 tons, of which 6,393 
tons were exported and the rest was used locally. 


35. Ten workshops producing motor omnibus bodies were fully 
occupied during the year. A new type of aluminium body with 
comfortable seats has been introduced and travelling by omnibus 
between the different parts of the country has in consequence rapidly 
developed. 


36. The laying, welding and burying of the pipe-line of the Iraq 
Petroleum Company on the Northern Route (Kirkuk to Tripol) 
was completed at the end of August, and the southern line (Kirkuk 
to Haifa) in mid-November. 

1,172 miles in all were laid. 

Work is now proceeding on the construction of twelve pumping 
and two terminal stations. 

The telegraph and telephone lines along both routes are in oper 
tion, and eight wireless stations were commissioned at various 
depots and pumping station sites. 


ey 


eee 
Loe 


ee 
.. od ¥ = 
ae a = . “ 
vee £E es dit z pe 


oar 


y 
| 
| 


205 


37. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 


living :— 


January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 


September 


October 


November ... 


December 


Average 


eet 


Wholesale Prices 


(Basts 19382— 
100 per cent.) 


100-4 


99-0 
97°3 
99-0 


Cost of Living 
(Basis January, 1922— 


100 per cent.) 


57:8 


Retail prices for the last five years, of the commodities on which 
the cost of living is based :— 


Commodity. 
Wheat ... 
Bread ... ae 
Flour (mixed) ... 
Mutton... 
Beef 
Fish 
Milk 
Butter ... 
Cheese ... 
Kerosene 


Charcoal : 
Rice (Rashid)i) ... 
Olive Oil (edible) 
Sugar (granulated) 
Eggs ‘ine 
Soap (Nabulsi)... 
Coffee (raw) 
Potatoes 

Onions ... 


Unit. 
Kilo. 


Tins 
(4 gallons) 
Kilo. 


1929 


Mils. 


13 


1930 


Mils. 


1931 


Mils. 


8 
16 


1932 
Mils. 


12 
16 
16 


1933 
Mils. 


12 
16 
15 
87 


206 


Prices of cereals and flour maintained their level throughout the 
year, largely as a result of the adjustable tariff enforced as from 
the 1st June. 


Prices of seasonable vegetables and fruits were on the whole 
higher than in the preceding year. 


38. The following is a comparative table of wholesale prices of 
the principal commodities for the last five years :— 


1929 1980 1981 1982 1933 
Commodity. Unit. 

Mils. Mils. Mils. Mils. Mils. 
Bread ... per 100 Kilos 1,680 1,480 1,430 1,570 1,430 
Wheat os 1,200 820 750 1,180 1,050 
Barley B 790 390 530 720 620 
Millet e 910 500 600 740 ~—«690 
Kersenneh + 990 620 570 810 770 
Rice (Rashidi) - 1,970 1,840 1,680 1,860 1,390 
Beef ie 7,860 9,010 7,520 6,420 5,680 
Mutton ‘ 9.790 8630 7,550 7,200 7,190 
Eggs per 100 420 330 270 980 —3i10 
Milk ... per 100 litres 210 180 150 140 = 140 
Butter (local) ... per 100 Kilos 21,100 18,860 13,480 12,930 19,640 
Cheese (local) : 8,760 6,830 5,600 7,180 6,150 
Potatoes ... , 1,100 870 1,000 850 = 710 
Peas , 1,550 1,080 760 850 —8i0 
Beans (ful) ps 1,340 1,630 830 900 850 
Sesame Seed r 2,450 1,690 1,620 2,170 1,920 
Lentils - 1,750 1,075 690 790 890 
Lupins <5 1,180 &20 780 570 480 
Tomatoes ss 980 1,270 1,180 1,140 = 1,130 
Onions as - 550 430 570 620 510 
Apricots (fresh) ... rn 1,600 1,750 1,960 1,750 = 1,800 
Figs 7 . 850 1,170 1,130 870 ‘1,300 
Grapes 7 1,250 1,160 1,130 1,220 1,42 
Melons : 1,050 1,160 950 810 = 1,350 
Water Melons 3 380 420 420 430 690 
Almonds ... . 5,950 4,910 3,960 4,410 4,030 
Coffee (beans) - 10,950 8,090 5,880 7,530 7,760 
Sugar (granulated) - 2,290 2,100 1,950 2,000 1,8 
Salt . 490 495 550 580 
Charcoal ... _ 650 650 580 660 («570 
Sesame Oil me 6,130 4,810 3,890 4,880 4,840 
Olive Oil... zs 7,800 4,080 3,850 4,500 5,46 
Soap (Nabulsi) ... : . 4,910 3,570 3,180 3,240 3,560 
Flour (Foreign) ... . 1,730 1,530 1,400 1,600 1,8 


207 








ew 1Z8‘T | sce‘cne'c LLO*! | 9IT'ZS | 9g CO0S‘0Z | [gg 100's60'¢| LOS‘T  ete‘evere 9Z0°T |" 270], 

















FST*LOOT | 26 cos‘e6‘'t | 8t8 | 668‘II 62 |S C619°0T CSE CGL*G6S‘T | 8E9 PSI‘EST‘I | gig “*  parBa[p 
€96'60¢S‘T | 688 IZO‘OLI‘T | 628 LIL‘OI OLZ 9886 9I¢ 9F2'66F'T | 619 CEl‘O9TT | gig “* paloyugy 
suot, | *sjassa/ | “*8Uuo.T "879889 4 | *SUuo,], "879889 A | "80, T, *899889 A *SUuo.T, "879889 A | “suo, "879889 A 
“PEGI | “OE6I | "PE6T | "OL6I "PE6I | “CE6I 


SS -  eeeeee_—eeeeee— ee ——e eee ee eee 


"1040, ], | ‘bumpy “munay 
‘CERT pus ZEEE sived 043 
JO} OUTISI[V JO 9pB1]T, SUISBOD 94} UI polve[o put poisjUO s[osseA SUTTIeG pue w1BE4g Jo oseUUO, pue JoquINNy 
‘app J, Guysvon 





me 3 owe 


r09°E0S"9 | OL9'9 | BIT°Z60'F | LES‘s 
L99°e9 610° €LOFE OF6'T | EOE IFI‘E | GLZT | TFL‘BLEOT | 896 “e parBeely 
GL9°69 090° FEL"GS 6961 | 696°EZ2‘e | ZIT | IIT‘E00'% | FL6 we peiezay 


| 
ore 8E1 | 6L0°F LOZ‘60I | SI6‘E | Z9c°S9E'9 | Tess | ces‘csE'e | SHOT | °° MOL 


OLG‘60Z‘E | 86Z°E | FIS*EEOS | F16°% 
FEN EGS'E | SLEE | SOE*SSOS | FBS 


— ee ce | Ge | SES | ES ee ee — © cee ee 


"UOT = | “828804 “UCL | “eyee8o4 “SUOT =| “87804. = "SUOT =| “8faeeaA | “UOT "S7A880 A "suo L | “sere 


ee | Gee eee | tr CE es | Ce ee ee | ee 


“$861 “OE6L “Sor “OS6L “Sool “Of6L 














“buapogy "uratgy 





‘EG6T Pus ZEET srved O47) 
1OJ OUIZSETVg JO epeBiy, USI910, OY} UI palvald pus peiejzUE S[asseaA SUT[IVG puw WIBE}g Jo eseuu0], pus 1aquInN 


‘appsy, ubtasoy Seer 
: Suiddiqg ‘6 


208 


40. Number and tonnage of steam and sailing vessels entered at - 
and cleared from each port in the foreign trade of Palestine during - 


1933 as compared with 1932 :— 























sf 


ENTERED. 
Porte, (see. 
Sailing Vessels. Steam Vessels. ‘Total. 
No. Tons. No. Tons. No. Tons. 
Jafia 4 1982 956 | 29,632 532 | 1,098,476 | 1,488 | 1,128,103 
1933 | 1,012 37,169 691 | 1,683,608 | 1,703 | 1,720,777 
Haifa { 1992 731 | 23,118 441 | 903,735 | 1,172 | 926,848 ~ 
1933 952 30,768 619 | 1,539,968 | 1,571 | 1,570,736 
Acre 4 1932 259 1,542 1 900 260 2.449 
1933 78 859 1 183 79 1,042 
Gare | 1982 23 907; — as 23 907 
1933 18 879 1 200 19 1079 
Total ae 1,969 | 55,194 974 | 2,003,111 | 2,943 | 2,058,305 
1933 | 2,060 69,675 | 1,812 | 3,223,959 | 3,372 | 3,293,634 
CLEARED. 
Ports. 
Sailing Vessels. Steam Vessels. | Total. 
: | 
No. Tons. No. Tons. | No. Tons. 
Jaffa | 1982 841 25,086 355 | 599,204 | 1,196 | 624,380 
1933 891 31,689 410 | 856,774 | 1,301 | 888,463 
Haifa 4 1992 755 25,405 612 | 1,879,547 | 1,367 | 1,404,952 
1933 | 1,013] 34,709 867 | 2,284,146 | 1,880 | 2,318,855 
Acre 41982 326 2,338 1 900 327 3,238 
1933 103 1,738 1 183 | 104 1,921 
Gaza | 1932 24 1,244; — = 24 1244 
1933 12 531 1 200 13 731 
eet , acne | Penna: 
ae bee 1,946 54,073 968 | 1,979,741 | 2,914 | 2,033,814 
1933 | 2,019 eseer, 1,279 | 3,141,303 | 3,298 | 3,209,970 








41. Lighthouses erected on the coast of Palestine :-— 
(1) St. Jean d’Acre (built 15th June, 1864, rebuilt December, 
1931), on the ramparts of the town. 
Latitude : 32° 54’ North. 
Longitude : 35° 08° East. 
1 Red fixed light. 
Height of the light above sea level—154 metres. 
Range: 10 miles. 


209 


(2) Mount Carmel (built 20th July, 1864, rebuilt 26th January, 
1928) on the terrace of the Monastery. 


Latitude : 32° 49’ 55” North. 

Longitude : 34° 58 01" East. 

1 White light with white flashes every 5 seconds. 
Height of the light above sea level—154 metres. 
Range: 26 miles. 


(3) Haifa Harbour (built in 1938). 
(i) Main or Northern Breakwater :— 


Green light with flash every 3 seconds, operated by acetylene. 
Latitude : 32° 49° 32” North. 
Longitude : 35° 00’ 30” East of Greenwich meridian. 
Character: Green light 0°3 seconds. 

Echpse 2-7 seconds. 

Total period 3 seconds. 
Klevation of light above mean sea level—9-55 metres. 
Visibility in ordinary weather : 4 miles. 


— 


_ {i) Lee or Southern Breakwater :— 
Red light with flash every 3 seconds, operated by acetylene. 
Latitude : 32° 49’ 22” North. 
Longitude : 35° 00° 24” East of Greenwich meridian. 
Character: Red light 0:3 seconds. 
¥ Echpse 2°7 seconds. 

Total period 3 seconds. 
Elevation of light above mean sea level—9-55 metres. 
Visibility in ordinary weather : 6 miles. | 


(4) Jaffa (built 5th October, 1864) south of the town about 
4) metres from the sea. 

Latitude : 32° 03° North. 

Longitude : 34° 44’ East. 

Alternating red and white flashes every minute and total 
eclipses. 

Height of the light above sea level—28 metres. 

Range = White flashes—18 miles. 

Red flashes—14 miles. 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


Coincident with the favourable financial conditions obtaining, 
there were large increases in most of the services conducted by the 
Department of Posts and Telegraphs. Both revenue and working 
_Wrofit were higher than those recorded in respect of any previous 
year, 

_ Revenue amounted to £P.269,342 as compared with £P.219,955 
in 1982, the principal increases being :—Sale of Stamps, £P.27,009 


(29 per cent.), Telephones £P.15,715 (19 per cent.) and Parcel 
Post, £P.3,225 (40 per cent.). 


210 


Expenditure was £P.165,569, as compared with £P.154,194 in 
1932. The increase was due chiefly to increments of salary, addi- 
tional staff and increased payments for the conveyance of mail 
outside Palestine. 

For the first time in the history of the Department the surplus 
of revenue over expenditure exceeded £P.100,000. The actual” 
surplus was £P.103,773, or taking into account the value of the- 
free services rendered to or by other Departments, £P.112,374. 


Posts. 


2. Mail services by road, rail, sea and air were maintained with 
regularity throughout the year. | 

An acceleration in the Simplon-Orient train service from Europe 
to Aleppo during the latter part of the year resulted in the diver-— 
sion of an appreciable quantity of transit mail from the Jerusalem-. 
Baghdad overland desert route to the Damascus-Baghdad route. _ 

There was a very large increase in the use made of air mail 
services, and 3,884,316 items were so conveyed, or 27 times more 
than last year. This may be ascribed partly to a reduction in the 
onward air mail postage rates, partly to an acceleration in the air 
services and partly to the arrival of settlers from countries where 
air mail is used more or less as a matter of course. 

The existing air mail services were extended to Burma, South. 
America and South West Africa. 

With the exception of outward foreign parcels, which showed a 
slight decrease, there were substantial increases in all Classes of 
postal matter. 

The Returned Letter Office disposed of 112,439 letters and post- 
cards and 138,317 other articles. The total value of the contents 
found in undelivered correspondence was £P.861, of which all but 
£P.74 could be returned to the senders. 


Telegraphs. 


3. Although inland traffic continued to decline, there was a large 
increase in foreign traffic, 807,000 telegrams being dealt with, 
compared with 252,600 in 1932. Prior to 1933, there had been 4 
continuous decline in telegraph traffic since 1926. 


Telephones. 


4. The demand for telephones was greater than in any previou: 
year, and 907 additional instruments were installed. Local calls. 
increased by 24 per cent. and trunk calls by 18 per cent. 

On the 7th April an overseas radio service via Egypt and England 
was successfully inaugurated. The new service, which places 
Palestine in a position to communicate with 95 per cent. of the 
world’s telephones, has been used with fair regularity. 

The trunk system was extended to Syria on the Ist June, (0 
the considerable advantage of the commercial community. 


211 


The services to Egypt and Trans-Jordan continued to expand, 
as the following figures show :— 


Calls. 
1932. 1933. Increase 
per cent. 
Egypt eee 8 12 227 14,796 21 
Trans-Jordan oe 9,751 10,440 7 


Ships moored at the quayside in the new Harbour at Haifa can be 
furnished with telephones affording direct connection with the local 
exchange. On one occasion, these facilities were used for a long- 
distance call to Sweden. 


Broadcasting. 


_ 5. Plans have been made, on the recommendation made by a 
Committee appointed for the purpose, to establish a broadcasting 
service in Palestine. 

Meanwhile, applications for receiving licences continue to be 
numerous, and at the end of the year there were 2,500 licences 
In use. 

On three occasions, events in Palestine were broadcast in other 
countries through the medium of landlines to Egypt and the Cairo- 
Rugby radio link, namely (a) the inauguration of the overseas 
Tadio telephone service, (b) the opening of Haifa Harbour and 
(c) the ringing of the Bells of Bethlehem. The Bethlehem broad- 
cast from the Church of the Nativity on Christmas Eve is note- 
worthy for the fact that it was listened to by the largest audience 
in history. By arrangement with the British Broadcasting Cor- 
poration it was relayed throughout the United States of America 
and in sixteen countries of Europe. 

The Postmaster-General attended, as the representative of the 
Palestine Government, the European Radio-Diffusion Conference 
held at Lucerne in May. Two wave-lengths (449°1 metres and 
307'1 metres) were allotted by the Conference to Palestine for broad- 
casting purposes. 

Engineering. 

6. The telegraph and telephone lines were maintained in an 
eficient condition and there were no serious interruptions. 

To meet increased traffic loads and the continued expansion of the 


lelephone service the following additional trunk circuits were 
brought in use :— 


Haifa. Beirut (three). 
Lydda. Ismailia. 
Jerusalem. Jericho. 

Jaffa. Rishon. 

Jaffa. Petah Tigqva. 
Jaffa. Lydda. 


Jaffa. Rehovot. 


212 


Certain of these circuits were provided by the erection of additiona 
wires and the remainder by superimposing on existing lines. 

Additional switchboard extensions were installed in the large: 
telephone exchanges and some of the smaller exchanges were - 
placed by others of larger capacity. The manual switchboard. ¢ 
Ramallah and Rehovot were replaced by rural automatic exchange | 

The rural automatic exchanges have proved satisfactory and :. 
is proposed to extend their use in the future. 


General. 


7. A new Post Office was opened at Nes Tsiyona and Postal 
Agencies were established at Tel Nordau, Pardess Hanna, Nathanya 
and Shekhunat Borohov. 

The influx of immigrants into Tel-Aviv necessitated the renting 
of additional premises and increases in staff. 

A long-standing difference with the Egyptian Government as to 
the rates to be paid by Egypt for the use of telegraph and telephone 
lines between Kantara and Rafa has now been settled by an agree- 
ment assuring to Palestine reimbursement of the actual costs of 
maintenance and depreciation. 

The disturbances of October imposed a great deal of work at 
high pressure on the telephone and telegraph staff, but all grades 
responded loyally to the demands made upon them. 


Revenue and Expenditure. 
| 





Public Service 1933. 
1932. 1933. Increase. | Decrease. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
REVENUE— 
Sale of stamps = 91,868 118,877 27,008 — : 
Commission on money orders . 950 1,331 381 — | 
Postal orders poundage... se 853 911 58 — 
Foreign parcel a is 7,960 11,185 3,225 — 
Tel 24,070 25,901 1,831 — 
Telephones ‘ae 85,477 101,192 15,715 — 
Rent of letter-boxes _... ie 2,653 3,088 435 — 
Maintenance of lines in Sinai ... 2,446 2,700 254 — 
Miscellaneous - 3,678 4,157 479 — 
Total ... Sue Su £P.| 219,955 269,342 49,887 — 
EXPENDITURE— 
All services except conveyance | 145,949 | 153,138 7,189 
of mails outside Palestine. 
Conveyance of mails outaide 8,245 12,421 4,186 
Palestine. 
Total ... er es £P./ 154,194 165,569 11,375 





213 


‘stimated Value of Services rendered to and by other Government 
Departments during the period 1st December, 1932, to 
30th November, 1933. 








| £P. 
aiendered to Other Departments : 
Official Correspondence _... ose sah or 6,348 
Telegrams... a oe eee sich ee 1 
Customs Services ... Sas ae a ace 2252 
8,601 
Rendered by Other Departments : 
Nil. 
Credit Balance ... ... £P.8,601 
Traffic Statistics. 
I 
Item. 1932. 1933. ees 
per cent. 
etters ... — aie sis ... | 12,389,400 | 17,716,800 | + 43 
ost cards sa ae 918,700 1,376,400 | + 50 
nnted matter aa samples seis oe 6,446,700 0,604,000 + 49 
arcels, inland... aes waa 32,200 39,900 + 24 
arcels, foreign, despatched sie me 28,500 27,300 | — 4 
arcels, foreign, received ae 72,600 86,800 | + 20 
ash-on-delivery parcels, despatched . 24 44; + 83 
ash-on-delivery parcels, received be 2,000 2,500 | + 25 
ash-on-delivery parcels, inland, posted 167 329 | + 97 
it Mail— 
*Items despatched... or “a 66,800 3,458,200 + 5,077 
*Items received ae wee vs 76,200 426,100 + 459 
elegrams .. ae 252,600 307,000 + 22 
clephone subscribers” exchange | lines .. 3,300 3,862 + 17 
elephones (stations) ... | oe 5,248 6,155 + 17 
elephone, local calls... “ee ... | 17,500,000 | 24,760,500 + 41 
elephone, trunk calls .. ne 819,000 969,700 + 18 
clegraph and telephone, local lines km. 16,881 18,172 + 8 
clegraph and telephone, trunk lines km. 13,556 | 13,434 _ 
t 


ee a ere ee, ee ere ee ee ee 
* Included in items 1, 2 and 3. 


24364 H 


214 
Money Order and Postal Order Stattsttcs. 





1932. 13a: |e 
per cent. 

Postal orders issued eeeeee 

Number ey be sas 95,364 102,774 + 8 

Value... sete sue £P.72,550 £P.77,152 + 6 
Postal orders issued (Imperial) 

Number suk se ee 22,518 23,290 + 3 

Value... sia or £P.14,493 £P.14,927 + 3 
Postal orders paid (Palestine) 

Number oie sae 95,251 102,177 + 7 

Value... ee = £P.71,783 £P.76,794 + 7 
Postal orders paid (Lmperial) 

Number see eae 6,263 6,408 + 2 

Value... es bes £P.3,791 £P.3,642 — 4 
Postal orders paid (Egyptian 

Number . bos ne 5,519 6,045 + 10 

Value... eis oe £P.4,895 £P.5,333 — 
Money orders, Inland (issued) 

Number id ee oe 11,236 11,390 + 1 

Value... ae .. | £P.120,300 | £P.122,756 + 2 
Money orders, Foreign (issued) 

Number B ide see 2,046 2,595 + 2 

Value... ahs se £P.11,717 £P.13,106 + 12 
Money orders, Foreign ( paid) 

Number jas oe 19,126 26,133 + 37 

Value... ee ees aie aed £P.61,050 | £P.127,157 + 108 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND FISHERIES. 


The drought years 1931 and 1932 were unfortunately followed 
by a third water-famine in 1933. The winter and summer crop: 
were poor, while the yield of olives was much below average. — 
In congequence, Government was obliged to come to the help 
of the rural population by the remission of tithes and the issue 
of seed and fodder loans. ‘Tithes were remitted to the extent 
of some £P.190,000 divided as follows :— | 





£P. 
Northern District... ae 532 Bt oe 108 ,658 
Southern District... sae 2) he aon 51,417 | 
Jerusalem District Le As tae sad 29 ,648 
£P.189,723 


In addition, loans in kind or cash for the purchase of seed were | 
issued as under :— 


£P. 
Northern District ee aes cae a 27 ,a95 
Southern District ie nee aie te 17,476 ! 
Jerusalem District ee me a ee 15,150 


£P.60,221 


215 


Seed wheat was imported from Trans-Jordan and barley from 
Turkey to make up the local deficiency for sowing. 


2. The low rainfall wag responsible for a dearth of pastures 
and, in consequence, livestock were generally in an emaciated 
condition during the summer and autumn. The delay in the 
rains at the end of 1933 gave cause for great anxiety and it was 


necessary to issue loans for the purchase of forage in the following 
sums -— 


£P. 

Northern District... ce a - aa 5 000 
Jerusalem District ... a ae cas oat 5 000 
Beersheba District ... - ul oe shee 1,970 
£P.11,970 


3. Field mice made their appearance in the plains of Northern 
lestine in the winter of 1932-33, infesting 90,000 dunumeg in 
the lands of 169 villages. Zelio grain and gassing machines were 
ised to combat them ; villagers supplied labour without payment 
ind the results of the campaign were most successful, losses of 
ons being inconsiderable. 


Pa 


- 4. Official Agricultural Stations —The Agricultural Station at 
Acre was extended by a further 1,000 dunums; 100 dunums were 
added at Jericho and 50 dunums at Farradiya. 


Farradiya, Acre, Beisan, Jericho and Majdal provided 41} tons 
selected seed grain for issue to villages and settlements, besides 
‘ing selected seed for issue to farmers. 


of 
ral 


More attention was devoted in 1933 to the raising of vegetable 
‘edlings, the cultivation of potatoes and the raising of forage 
7 b8, with the object of decreasing imports and of encouraging 
farmers to provide more feed for their stock so as to reduce mortality 
during the 8emi-starvation period of the long summer and to 
“prove the condition of the animals. . 


. Village Demonstration Plots.—The experiments conducted at 

* Yanous Agricultural Stations form the basis for demonstration 
Work in the Villages where the peripatetic staff demonstrate to 
sete the best methods of cultivation and endeavour to effect 
ees in the crop rotation. Efforts to convince villagers 
is © desirability of conserving green fodder as hay and silage 
—"* Met with encouraging results. 


23364 H 2 


216 


In all, 503 demonstration plots were established throughout the 
villages, compared with 247 in the preceding year :— 





1932. 1933. 

Demonstration plots er zal bg 23 26 
Vegetable plots... wie bak oy 61 68 
Potato plots Sa 3 ah sis 31 53 
Seed Improvement plots one ... 126 209 
Forage plots ee es bi ve 6 111 
Flots and pits for silage ... 2 seg, NAL, 36 

Total... o she .. 247 503 








In addition to the vegetable plots, 184,000 vegetable seedlings 
were distributed from Agricultural Stations to School Gardens. 
The Departments of Agriculture and Education co-operate in en- 
couraging school children to take an interest in agriculture and 
gardening ; to keep poultry and bees and grow vegetables. 

To improve the natural pastures, large numbers of varieties of 
Australian and other imported drought-resistant grasses and shrubs 
are being acclimatised and sown on hill sides. 

6. General Agricultural Council.—A special Sub-Committee was 
formed to deal with the financial aspects of the various schemes sub- 
mitted by the Committees of the Council. This Sub-Committee has 
worked exceedingly well in practice, for it has enabled the various 
schemes involving expenditure to be thoroughly sifted and their 
financial implications clearly appreciated and set out before dis- 
cussion by the Council. 

On the recommendation of another Sub-Committee a Citrus Fruit 
Advertisement Ordinance was passed ; and an advance of £P.7,50U 
was thereupon granted by the Government to defray the cost of 
advertising in the United Kingdom and on the Continent, recover- 
able by a fee of 1:5 mils per case to be charged on an estimated 
export of 5,000,000 cases during the season 1934-35. 

7. The Kadoorie (Arab) Agricultural School at Tulkarm has com- 
pleted its third year of instruction, to the entire satisfaction of the 
_ staff and students. The School has earned an excellent reputation 
amongst landowners, and year bv year the standard of the can- 
didates for admission to the School improves. 

Forty-four students were in residence during the year, includins 
four from Trans-Jordan. 

Fifteen of the students who completed the two-year course ar 
being trained for a further year in pedagogy in the Department o' 
Education so that thev may be employed as rural schoolmasters 
and thus afford a much needed rural bias to education. 

The curriculum lays more emphasis on practical than or 
theoretical work, the latter having been reduced to the ver 
minimum. Fach week’s instruction consists of 18 hours in the 
classroom and 21 hours practical work in the field. Particular 


217 


. attention is paid to the practical side of the course, and all students 
are trained in the actual field operations of the various branches of 

_tuxed farming, including management of cow byres, stables, the 

dary, keeping of sheep and poultry; the raising of cereals, vege- 
tables, and fruit and forest trees. 

The expenditure on the School amounted to £P.5,763; the 
_tevenue to £P.3,575, of which £P.1,678 is interest on the Endow- 
went Fund, £P.1,142 derived from students’ fees and £P.705 

from the sale of produce grown on the School lands. The difference 
. of £P.2,238 was made good by a grant-in-aid from Government. 


8. The farm buildings at the Kadoorie (Jewish) Agricultural 
“School, Mt. Tabor, have been constructed, and the residential 
.. buildings, laboratory and classrooms are nearing completion so 
_ that the students should be able to enter their first term in June, 
» (934. 

The fields have been cleared and ploughed and sown with field 

crops. The irrigation layout has been completed and citrus groves, 
_ Mneyards and demonstration fields have been laid out. 
An excellent herd of cross-breed cows and working animals has 
been acquired and all machinery is now in place. 
_ The dairy and the canning and fruit drying and preservation 
. fooms have also been equipped. 


Veterinary Service. 


9. The general condition of the fellahin’s stock towards the end 
_ of the year was very unsatisfactory owing to the drought, resulting 
in lack of grazing and fodder. 


10. There were no outbreaks of serious epizootic cattle disease 
such as cattle plague and pleuro-pneumonia. Foot-and-mouth 
disease, which was on the wane towards the end of 1932, gradually 
subsided in the earlier part of 1933, and since September no case 
has been observed or reported. 


11. 246,701 animals were imported through quarantine stations 
of which 19,603 were cattle, 141,316 sheep and 82,351 goats, 
valued at approximately £P.500,000 ; in addition, 350,000 head of 
poultry, 3,441 horses, mules and donkeys and 20,000 (in transit) 
camels were imported. Quarantine revenue amounted to £P.7,940. 


‘12. Rules were made prescribing the conditions under which 
diferent kinds of animals may be imported from Holland, Ger- 
| any, Belgium, Italy, Austria, Poland, Switzerland and Denmark. 


_ 13. Further progress can be recorded in the prevention and eradi- 
cation of bovine contagious abortion. There are now 45 herds, 
taprising 3,190 head of cattle, which are regularly tested and under 

© Supervision of Veterinary Officers. Of these, 30 herds are 
“atitely free of the disease while in the remainder the incidence 


. Of the disease has fallen considerably. 
23364 H 8 


218 


14. Tick-borne diseases continue to cause serious losses, includ- 
ing emaciation and debility, among native cattle, sheep and goats, 
and serious fevers and mortality in grade stock. Of 288 cases con- 
firmed by laboratory examination, 73 died. 


15. Dipping of sheep and goats in control of ticks and other 
external parasites was demonstrated in 20 localities and some 
25,000 sheep and goats were dipped ten times at intervals of fourteen 
days during the tick season with excellent results. 


16. A few cattle baths have been constructed by some of the 
settlers in Beisan Sub-District. : 


17. All stallions and mares in the sub-districts of Acre, Nazareth, 
Safad and Tiberias, totalling 2,683, were tested for possible infec- 
tion with dourine before being licensed for breeding purposes. Twelve . 
stallions and 117 mares were found to be positive: the affected - 
stallions were castrated and the mares branded and prohibited from — 
being bred. : : 


18. Anthrax was less prevalent than last year. There were 1(3 - 
outbreaks involving 28,692 animals, of which 1,180 died and 27,572 — 
were protected by vaccination. Some settlers now practise annually © 
protective vaccination of their stock. | 


19. Annual vaccination of young stock in black quarter areis | 
was continued with good results. 


20. A few sporadic cases of sheep and goat pox occurred but, 
as last year, the spread of the disease was checked by suitable — 
segregation measures. 


21. No case of glanders was detected or reported. 13 animal - 
affected with epizootic lymphangitis were destroyed and thet 
carcases properly buried. | 


22. Rabies in animals is still prevalent, despite measures devised 
for its control. With the assistance of ‘the Police and lol 
authorities, over thirteen thousand dogs, cats and jackals wet 
destroyed. There were 109 case of rabies in animals, of which ” 
were confirmed by the Government Laboratory. 617 suspected!’ 
rabid animals were placed under observation, of which 12 developed 
the disease. 


23. Fowl pox continued to cause serious losses. Vaccination by 
pigeon pox virus vaccine was employed with encouraging results 
Protective vaccination of flocks is practised by poultry raisers wi!) 
variable results. Losses due to spirochaetosis (a disease transmitted 
by ticks), coupled with cell inclusion disease, were severe 1D 4 — 
number of farms. 


24. A few outbreaks of fowl typhoid and fowl cholera wel 
reported. Vaccine and serum respectively were employed in teil-, 
ment of these two diseases. | 


t 
Li 


219 
Veterinary Laboratory. 


25. The principal work has been the testing of cattle and horses’ 
blood samples in control of contagious bovine abortion and dourine. 
In connection with these two diseases, 23,656 agglutination tests 
and 6,144 complement fixation tests were conducted. 

26. Four thousand four hundred and fifty blood films and pus 
smears were microscopically examined and numerous small animal 
inoculations performed in connection with field diagnosis. 45,194 
doses of various vaccines and anti-sera were prepared. 

Investigational work on Theilieriosis, Brucellosis and other im- 
portant local diseases were continued. 


Animal Husbandry. 


27. The cereal and hay crops at the Acre Stud Farm were a 
partial failure due to absence of rainfall. The area under irrigation, 
however, yielded large quantities of green fodder. The present 
well has been deepened and fitted with a new pump coupled with an 
electric motor to ensure an adequate water supply. 

28. The establishment of breeding stock at the Farm was in- 
creased by 2 Cyprian and 6 Damascus jackasses, 153 selected native 
ewes and rams, 143 Syrian goats, 8 Scotch Blackface rams and 
ewes and one large white boar. 

29. Nineteen rams, 2 male goats and 33 young pigs bred on the 
Farm were sold. Receipts from sale of stock totalled £P.300. 

30. Stud jackasses were distributed in the Districts and 131 
local donkeys and mares were covered by them during the breeding 
season. 

Twelve villages were supplied with Government bulls of the 
Lebanese breed. ‘These bulls were allowed to run with the cows 
of the villages and approximately 1,000 cows were served. All 
male cattle of such villages were castrated. 

31. The result of the castration of village atock during the winter 
of 1932/33 was so successful that towards the end of the season 
the veterinary staff was unable to cope with the demands of 
villagers. Some 356 bulls, 297 stallions, 365 donkeys and mules, 
© rams and male goats were castrated. 

32. The sterilization of scrub bulls and inferior types of male 
stock will ensure a rapid improvement in the village stock of the 
country. The system will be extended and appled on a much 
larger scale next year and shepherds and herdsmen instructed in 
the correct method of operating. 

33. Poultry and beekeeping has proved to be a remunerative 
occupation for farmers provided they possess the elementary know- 
_ ledge required. The Acre Poultry Station and Apiary together with 
the District Poultry Stations and Apiaries are of inestimable value 
in the development and extension of these branches. Some 24,000 
hatching eggs, 605 pullets, 488 cockerels, and 200 bee swarms were 
- sold to farmers during the period under review and receipts totalled 
£P.1,100. 

23364 H 4 


220 


34. The demand by farmers for breeding stock, hatching eggs 
and bee swarms has increased each year, necessitating continuous 
expansion of the Acre service. 

35. One hundred and fifty modern hives were distributed on the 
‘‘ hire purchase ’’ system to farmers who had the native type, to 
encourage the adoption of the movable frame system. The response 
was very encouraging and preparations are being made to issue 400 
hives and equipment on the same terms during the next swarming 
season. 

36. Foul brood is being successfully controlled. The majority of 
modern hives were inspected, infected colonies of bees destroyed 
and hives disinfected. 


Forest Service. 


37. 1,029,264 timber and ornamental plants were raised at 
thirteen Government Forest Nurseries, and 258,021 plants were 
purchased from Girls’ Nurseries operated by the General Federation 
of Jewish Labour. 999,929 plants were used for departmental 
afforestation schemes; 217,501 were distributed gratis for amenity 
purposes, and 2,403 were sold. 

38. 194,112 olives were planted by the public, of which 18,183 
were wild olive suckers extracted from forest reserves under licence 
and 129,845 were obtained from private groves or nurseries. 
Further to encourage olive planting, 30,480 wild suckers from forest 
reserves were issued gratis to cultivators in districts where wild 
olives are not available ; in addition 15,604 were lined out at Govern- 
ment forest nurseries and horticultural stations for subsequent 
budding. 

39. Planting of forest trees was continued in 29 forest reserves. 

£P.4,000 was spent on this purpose but owing to the poor rainfall 
mortality was considerably above the average. 

117 plantations and wood-lots comprising an area of 1,779 dunums 
were formed by private agencies. 

40. Forest revenues totalled £P.5,418. The estimated value of 
forest produce extracted from forest reserves by right-holders for 
their domestic needs was £P.3,733 and the value of forest produce 
extracted from reserves under trade licences for sale was £P.2,530. 
The estimated value of produce sold from privately-owned planta- — 
tions and woods was £P.37,344. 21,202 forest licences were issued — 
by District Officers, including 3,941 to right-holders. 

41. 61,938 animals were licensed to graze in forest reserves. Oi 
these 58,759 belonged to right-holders. 1,281 persons were con- 
victed for forest contraventions. 

42. Fifteen forest reserves, embracing 7,248 dunums, were pro- | 
claimed, bringing the total number of reserves to 220, covering 
689,335 dunums. 114 existing and proposed reserves were surveyed — 
and demarcated. 

43. A modest programme of silvicultural and botanical research 
was further developed. 


221 


44. Experimental reclamation of sand dunes was continued with 
promising results at Gaza and Acre. Seeds of 184 exotic species of 
timber, shade-trees, and ornamental plants were obtained from 
abroad for trial by purchase or exchange. 


45. Departmental plantations formed during previous years at 
Acre, Nazareth and Beisan having reached the productive stage, 
portions were thinned or clear felled. These yielded poles, fenc- 
ing posts, tree guards, tree-supports, and fuel which were sold or 
issued to Government Departments. 


Sericulture. 


46. Thirty-one thousand mulberry plants were distributed to 
interested schools, villages, settlements, individuals and Govern- 
ment plantations. Mulberry plantations at Acre and Gaza Sand 
Dunes have made good growth. 


47. At the departmental plantation at the Acre Stud Farm, 
mulberry trees were interplanted with beetroots in order to show 
the best utilization of the soil under irrigation. 


48. Departmental silkworm rearing was carried out in schools; 
in many of them, the cocoons obtained were of good quality. 
Government and private schools were equipped with modern breed- 
ing equipment and materials and silkworm eggs were distributed 
gratis. Prizes were given to five schools which produced the best 
cocoons. 


49. A small quantity of cocoons was reeled at the Cyprus Silk 
filature, Ltd., and the resultant silk received an excellent report. 


80. Sericultural courses of theoretical and practical instruction 
Were continued at the Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm, some 
15 village schoolmasters and 11 students attending the courses. 


Horticultural Service. 


51. Considerable progress was made in the development of horti- 
culture. A new Horticultural Station was established at Nablus, 
the centre of the olive-growing district of the north, and a Horti- 
cultural Section was added to the main Station at Acre, where 
large numbers of grafted fruit trees and vines are being raised. 


k d2. The establishment began of a Central Citrus Demonstration 
Station at Sarafand in the centre of the citrus belt. Land has been 
purchased and ploughed; the well is being dug and buildings are 
being erected. ‘This station is part of a scheme of citrus research 
‘nd demonstration which is being carried out in conjunction with 
the Jewish Agency who, at their Station at Rehovot and Nes 
Tsiyona, will devote themselves to research while the best methods 
of cultivation, manuring and fertilizing, and irrigation, etc., will 
¢ demonstrated at the Government Station. 


222 


53. At Farradya, Acre, Beisan, Jerusalem, Jericho and Majdal, 
fruit-tree nurseries have been established in order to raise and 
distribute to fruit growers better varieties of fruit-trees. Already 
30,000 grafted vines, 100,000 citrus seedlings and 40,000 different 
kinds of fruit-trees have been so raised during the year. 

54. A considerable amount of demonstration was done in various | 
parts of the country in co-operation with fruit-growers. 

55. New activities include the pruning and spraying of olive trees _ 
to demonstrate the resulting increased yields and improved quality 
of oil; sanitation work in citrus groves; the drying of prunes; a 
new method of bleaching almonds; the use of local stocks of apples 
and plums in the nursery in preference to imported stocks; the 
effect of wilting of citrus fruits on ‘‘ keeping ’’ qualities in cold 
storage ; and the use of a newly introduced picking rake for olives. 

56. Exports of citrus fruit continue to increase, and inspection 
staff was increased accordingly. It is essential to carry out a very 
strict examination in order to eliminaté fruit which is not calcu- 
lated to arrive in good condition, so as to maintain the reputation 
of the fruit and its price. 

57. Exports in 1932-33 were 4,498,241 cases, consisting of 
4,240,765 cases of oranges, 244,603 of grapefruit, and 12,873 of | 
lemons. This compares with an export of 3,620,889 cases in 
1931-32 and an estimated export of 6,000,000 cases in 1933-34. 

The following table clearly indicates the rapid extension of the 
area under citrus fruits since 1926 :— 


Year, Approximate Dunums. Year. Approximate Dunums. 
1926 42,000 1930 110,000 
1927 60,000 1931 125,000 
1928 70,000 1932 140,000 
1929 95,000 1933 175,000 


Entomological Service. 


58. Almost the entire staff together with some officers seconded 
from the Horticultural Service were occupied with the fumigation 
campaign against Black Scale. 

59. Novel features were the destruction or lopping of uneconomic 
citrus trees (10,120 uneconomic trees were destroyed, and nearly 
70,000 lopped for regrafting), and the employment by certain grove 
owners of gangs working with tents and other equipment pur- 
chased by themselves. This system is encouraged by Government 
as it leads to a marked reduction in costs. 

60. In all, 145,762 trees were fumigated by Government and 
54,776 trees by private agency. This is an increase of some 87,000 
over last year. 

61. Red Scale is a pest of increasing importance, particularly in 
the new groves of the coastal plain, although older groves are also 
attacked. Attempts have been made to control the pest by spray- 
ing, but the Entomological Service is now inducing growers to adopt 
fumigation which is cheaper and more effective. 











223 


62. A laboratory has been established at Acre for the study of 
the bionomics of the Black Scale and another at Migdal on Lake 
Tiberias where the behaviour of the Scale shows certain distinctive 
features. 

63. Trials were made with a method of trapping for the control 
of the Olive and Mediterranean Fruit Fly. 

64. A detailed investigation of the control and life history of the 
beetle borer of stone fruit trees (Capnodis Cabonaria and allied 
species) is being taken up, as this pest menaces the whole stone fruit 
industry of the country. 

65. ‘The quarantine line designed to prevent the spread of Black 
Scale from the north to the south has been moved northwards 
so as to save from possible infection the new plantationg on the 
Plain of Jezreel. 

66. 10,493 certificates were issued in respect of plant importa- 
tion and 1,749 consignments were confiscated or refused entry 
by Plant Inspectore. The potato tuber moth (Phthorimes opercu- 
lella Zell), a pest not known in Palestine, was intercepted on two 
orcasions in potatoes coming from Syria. 


Fisheries Service. 


67. A skeleton service is maintained with two officers to collect 
statistics of fish landed and to suppress illegal fishing practices. 
A third officer is to be empivyed next year for similar duties in 
lacustrine waters. 

68. Imports of fresh fish :— 


Quantity. Value. 
_ Tons. LP. 
1932... i ths oe aK 510 22,360 
1933 (first 9 months) oe of: 882 33,814 


The local catches amounted to tons 1,130, valued at £P.45,611. 
69. Foreign fishing trawlers caused a notable increase in the 
amount of fish landed at Jaffa. 


Meteorological Service. 


70. Ten official meteorological stations are maintained where 
readings of air pressure, air temperature, humidity, vapour pressure, 
wind velocity and rainfall are recorded by observers. 

71. The records are scrutinised by the Meteorological Service, 
- Cairo, and summaries are published by the Department annually. 
In addition, rainfall records are obtained from 42 non-official 
stations and monthly statements of rainfall are compiled in the 
Headquarters of the Department, showing comparisons with the 
averages of previous years for periods up to 86 years. These 
statements, together with monthly weather reports, are published 
and distributed to institutions and individuals interested. 

72. At the beginning of the rainy seagon 1933-34, twelve new 
rain-gauges were installed in places typical of areas for which no 
rainfall data have hitherto been available. 


224 
XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS, GEOLOGY, AND MINING. 


The total expenditure on public works was about £P.435,000 
compared with £P.383,000 in the previous year. 


Recurrent works were satisfactorily carried out at a total cost 
of about £P.185,500. The continued increase in the demands of 
the Department of Police and Prisons accounts for a considerable 
part of the expenditure on maintenance of buildings, minor works, 
rent of offices and quarters, water supply and conservancy. 


£P.88,890 was expended on the maintenance of roads and bridges, 
excluding arterial roads within municipal areas, which are a jolt 
charge upon Government and the municipalities, the Government 
contribution being £P.2,565. 


2. The architectural staff has prepared working drawings and 
specifications or preliminary sketches for a number of new pro- 
jects, more particularly, the General Post Office, Government Arab 
College, Printing Press and Police Barracks at Jerusalem, standard 
School and Police buildings, additions to the Agricultural School at 
Tulkarm, and hospital annex at Nablus. 


The important works completed during the year were Police 
Posts at Yajur, Shatta, Sarona and Qatra; Nurses’ Quarters and 
Infectious Diseases Block at the Watan Hospital of Nablus, Law 
Courts in the same town, quarters for Immigration Officers at 
Kantara and for Telegraph Linemen at Railway Stations; the 
Palestine Archaeological Museum, begun in 1931, was two-thirds 
completed at the end of the year; new Customs offices and new 
roads in the reclaimed area at Haifa were on the verge of com- 
pletion ; and the extension of the Reformatory School at Tulkarn 
was making good progress. 


The Jewish Agricultural School at Mt. Tabor will be ready m 
June, 1934, and preparations are being made for commencement 
of work on the Government Printing Press at Jerusalem, for which 
the site has been acquired. 


The camps of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in the Jordau 
Valley and at Rosh Pinna were maintained, and various improve- 
ments and additions made. 


At Tulkarm, a building for a Boys’ School was erected by the 
Government Department at a cost of £P.808 provided by the Local 
Education Committee, and a substantial sum was disbursed 9 
materials and technical supervision for domestic water supplies. 
irrigation systems, road improvements, schools and other minor 
village works, which were carried out by volunteer labour. 


225 


3. The following roads were completed or under further construc- 
tion in 1933 :— 


(i) ‘Affula-Mas’ha (16°5 kilometres). 

(1) Bat Galim-Carmel Point-Haifa (1:5 kilometres). 

(ii) Acre-Safad (49 kilometres). 

(iv) Latrun-Beit Sira-Ramallah (22 kilometres) ; this road 
will open up a new area attractive to tourists and relieve traffic 
on the Jaffa-Jerusalem-Nablus road. 

(v) Jenin-Megiddo-el Harithiya (18°700 kilometres). 

(vi) Mas’ha-Sajara (2 kilometres) to provide access to Mt. 
Tabor Agricultural School. 

' (vu) Beit Dajan-Rehovot-Gaza (75'5 kilometres). 
(vii) Haifa-Acre-Shefa Amr (9 kilometres). 
(1x) Jerusalem-Jericho (reconstruction—7 kilometres). 


£P.2,000 was spent on general improvements of third-class roads 
sich as regrading surfaces, constructing culverts and side drains, 
to permit wheeled traffic at all seasons to pass between the villages 
ind reach the highway. 


As elsewhere recorded, £P.23,300 was assigned to relief works 
during the year, principally construction and improvement of roads, 
In order to provide employment for villagers who had been im- 
poverished by crop-failure. 


4. The increase of motor vehicles in 1933 was exceptional, the 
number of registrations rising from 4,381 to 6,126. The following 
are comparative statistics affecting road transport, as between 1923 
and 1933 :— 


Per cent. 
Increase of motor vehicles ... oh 921 
Increase of Government revenue "(Teigences and 
Import Dues) ap .. BSB 
Increase of Government expenditure on roads ... 332 


Warning or directional signs are fixed at suitable points on public 
toads in accordance with the Convention of the 24th April, 1926, 
relating to International Circulation of Motor Vehicles; and they 
have proved their utility, although the number of accidents is stiil 
high, 

‘Al roads have now been remeasured and kilometre stones correctly 
re-set. 

Four weighbridges are installed on the main roads, and by their 
means 2,762 cases of overloading were detected during the year. 


). The staff of the Government Department, as usual, carried 
out inspections Of boilers, prime movers, factory machinery, and 
oll storage installations. 

Thirty-one claims, affecting men in the employ of the Depart- 
ment, under the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, 1927, were 
investigated and compensation was paid in all but two cases. 


296 


6. Four meetings of the Road Board were held, for the discussion 
of the following principal subjects :— 


(a) Measures for avoiding undue competition between the 
Railway and Roads. 

(b) Construction of feeder roads from orange growing areas 
in the Coastal Plain to the Railway. 

(c) Selection of roads qn which useful work could-be done as 
relief measures by distressed peasants. 

(d) Programme of road construction and maintenance, during 
1934-1935, including arterial, municipal arterial, village and 
by-pass roads. 


7. Having taken into account all the factors governing the appor- 
tionment of employment on public works, including the Jewish 
contribution to revenue, the Palestine Government decided that 
30 per cent. of such employment should be given to Jewish work- 
men during the financial year 1933-34. It was understood that this 
allocation might require change in the event of the necessity 
arising, from drought or agricultural distress of any kind, to insti- 
tute relief works in the course of the year. 

The following 18 a summary of the distribution of employment 
on works carried out by the Department of Public Works, either 
directly or by contract, during the period from the 1st Apmil to 
the 8lst December, 1933 :— 





Men days. Wages. Rate per 1,00). 

£P.mals. (on wages). 
Jewish labour ... 68,982 26 ,993°590 215 
Arab labour ... 715,030 95 ,870:957 759 
Other labour ... 6,053 3,250°701 26 
Total ... 790,065 125 ,615-248 1,000 





The percentage in respect of Jewish labour had not reached 
the predetermined allocation at the end of the period in question. 
The reason for this was the considerable building activity in Tel- 
Aviv and Haifa which attracted Jewish labour. Jews did not. 
therefore, offer themselves readily for employment on public works 
particularly as the Department of Public Works could not, without 
increasing its expenditure on labour unwarrantably, pay the rates 
enjoyed on private Jewish works by skilled, semi-skilled and uv- 
skilled ‘Jewish labour. This preoccupation of Jewish labour in 
Jewish works is illustrated by the circumstance that the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour was invited on thirteen occasions to 
tender for Government works but, save in a single case, abstained 
from tendering. 

8. Road Communications.—Before the War, there was not 2 
single first-class road in the country. The Jaffa-Jerusalem road was 
only second-class ; it had been constructed on light foundations and 


227 


could not stand up to heavy traffic. Between Beersheba-Hebron- 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem-Nablus-Jenin-Nazareth, Jerusalem-Jericho, 
and Haifa-Nazareth-Tiberias, there were lightly metalled routes with 
httle or no bottoming, which were often impassable in the wet 
season ; and for the rest Palestine was served by unmetalled tracks 
formed by animal transport, and quite unsuitable for wheeled traffic. 

During the War, the Turkish Authorities improved the Rosh 
Pinna-Tiberias-Nazareth-Haifa and the Nazareth-Jenin-Nablus 
roads but did practically nothing in Southern Palestine. 
Immediately after the Occupation however, the British Military 
Administration spent large sums in converting the routes between 
Beersheba-Hebron-Jerusalem, J affa-J erusalem-Jericho-Jordan River, 
and Jerusalem-Nablus into roads that would withstand the passage 
ot heavy Army lorries, and following the Military Administration 
the Palestine Government maintained the policy of improvement. 
The net-work of trunk highways has consequently undergone an un- 
usually rapid development, both in the steady increase of its mileage 
from year to year and in the higher standards of construction 
gradually adopted. 

These measures have enhanced the agricultural and trading 
potentialities of the country and have facilitated the maintenance of 
public security in remote areas which were previously inaccessible 
during certain periods of the year. 

In twelve years, the mileage of main roads open for traffic in all 
weather has been more than doubled :— 


Year. Kilometres. 
1921 ead ae aor fn od bese ee 450 
1922 ana bans sie see aon on he 450 
1923 a see ee a te Sos ae 570 
1924 a _ a ae bd ae tae 580 
1925 ae eae aa a hs seis eas 600 
1926 sie nee an be aie mae es 631 
1927 a ae, me ey sine sie ses 655 
1928 er wae Ss sod ise ae se 706 
1929 sia... a a sie er si bie 716 
1930 ee ae me za ie ee bees 912 
1931 is siete Ses sa se ae se 929 
1932 a =< Sane ius sais oe eas 951 
1933 ban as se ra _ _ .. 1,015 


After the War, main roads were seldom more than four metres 
wide, if as much. The object of the Public Works Department has 
been :— 


(a) To make all metalled surfaces on main roads at least 
5 metres wide. 

(b) To lay properly constructed soling for foundations to 
metalled surface. 

(c) To provide rough curb stones on each side of the metalled 
surface to prevent spreading of the metal. 


228 


(d) To provide properly shaped edges of earth formation, on 
each side of the metalled surface for support to the trafhc 
section and for emergency use by vehicles. 

(e) To deepen and enlarge roadside drains so as to keep 
foundations from becoming water-logged. 

(f) To extend, enlarge and improve culverts and bridges to 
permit of storm water discharge and widening of metalled 
surface. 

(g) ‘T'o eliminate dangerous bends and steep gradients. 

(hk) To protect all surfaces with asphalt as a means to 
lengthening the life of roads and removing the twin evils of 
dust and mud. 


New roads built to these standards cost from £P.1,500 to £P.2,5Uv 
per kilometre, according as the work is in hill districts where 
suitable stone is available close at hand or in the plains where heavy 
expenses must be incurred on rail transport or otherwise. The cost 
of resurfacing, that is metalling, rolling and asphalting, in similar 
circumstances varies between £P.500 and £P.1,000 per kilometre. 

Over a period of twelve years—1921-1933—the expenditure of 
Government on construction of new roads, and improvements to 
existing roads was £P.955,958; and on maintenance, including 
plant, machinery, transport and overhead expenses, it was 
£P.809,260. Maintenance includes periodical resurfacing, asphalt- 
ing and resealing, upkeep of bridges and culverts, and directional 
and danger signs; and assistance in the form of blasting material, 
bridge-work and technical advice towards the making of village 
roads. It also includes Government’s share in the cost of maintain- 
ing the sections of arterial roads within municipal areas. The shares 
cf Government and Municipalities in this cost are based upon traffic 
censuses. 

Between 1926 and 1928, a number of roads were constructed to 
provide relief for the unemployed; and again in 1933 road works 
have been put in hand for the benefit of villagers rendered destitute 
by failure of their crops. 

After the disturbances of 1929 some small roads to Jewish 
settlements were constructed on grounds of public security from 
funds provided jointly by Government and the agencies concerned : 
and Clovernment contributed towards the cost of two roads from 
villages to Railway Stations, the cost of maintenance remaining © 
the responsibility of the villages. 

Considerable lengths of village roads have been built, and rough 
tracks improved in many parts of the country by the villagers them- 
selves. Such works are undertaken either by voluntary labour— 
generally made available during the periods of the year when there 
is little agricultural work to be done—or by participation in the 
form of cash or labour under the Village Roads and Works 
Ordinance. This Ordinance provides for the payment by each 
taxable male inhabitant of a sum of £P.1 per year or the equivalent 
in working days, to be applied to village roads or other public works. 


229 


Village road works are generally undertaken on the initiative of 
the District Commissioners and with the administrative and, to 
some extent, material assistance of Government. Villagers readily 
appreciate the great benefit which they derive from roads passing 
through their lands and connecting their habitations with urban 
markets, main roads or the railway stations, and they show con- 
siderable keenness in executing these works. Village roads, though 
naturally of a comparatively low standard both in regard to width 
and type of construction, represent a valuable addition to the net- 
work of communications throughout the country. 


Road revenue consists, directly, of licence fees under the Road 
Transport Ordinance and Import Duties on petrol and oil, auto- 
mobiles, etc.; indirectly, better roads, in so far as they promote 
general prosperity and facilitate development, mean larger receipts 
from taxation of all kinds. Over a period of twelve years— 
1922-1933—the revenue from licence fees, excluding the share pay- 
able to the Municipalities in respect of vehicles of which the owners 
reside in municipal areas, was £P.181,516; and from Customs Dues 
£F.1,745 ,059. 


The following are figures of motor vehicles (including motor 


cycles), other than vehicles of the garrison, operating in the country 
yearly from 1922 to 1933 :— 


Year. No. 
1922 aoe sik wih win ae ea ate 400 
1923 ae ee ade whe a ve a 600 
1924 i ae _ Ge abe fous FP «ads 891 
1925 ales oe _ ies salt Bec ian. “1 704 
1926 a oe aie ve sen bike ... 2,306 
1927 oe Bs me ee bh shin ... 2,318 
1928 oe od ae at ah ee .. 2,627 
1929 ma ie sae so a es we 2,677 
1930 sue uaa base ek ae _ ... 93,186 
1931 cae sae oe sat oak . ... 93,843 
1932 nee ae oe nay sive sat ... 4,381 
1933 or as: oe oes Sais ... 6,126 


_ Censuses taken in 1926 and again in 1930-1931, indicate a general 
increase of about 100 per cent. in volume of the motor traffic over 
that interval of time. 


A Road Board was appointed by the High Commissioner in 1926, 
consisting of the Director of Fublic Works as Chairman, General 
Manager of the Railways, the three District Commissioners and the 

eputy Treasurer as members with the terms of reference as 
follows : ‘‘ to formulate a policy and programme for the construc- 
tion, maintenance and improvement of roads in Palestine.” 

Tn 1928, the Board prepared and Government approved a pro- 
eramme of road construction; the considerable changes which the 
Country has experienced during the last five years has made it 


230 


necessary to depart from this programme on occasion. The Board 
Is how engaged in preparing a new three years’ programme. 


9. Water Supply.—The country suffered greatly from drought 
during 1933, the effects being particularly severe in the hill villages 
of the Jerusalem and Northern Districts, although the diminution 
in yield of springs and wells was general. 

Government applied itself especially to alleviating the hardship 
thus caused to men and cattle. An official committee was formed 
by the High Commissioner to consider emergency schemes for the 
improvement of village supplies where the shortage of water was 
greatest and a credit of £P.7,000 was placed at its disposal. 

The committee gave authority for the execution of over one 
hundred schemes, mainly for opening spring-heads, cleaning 
channels, deepening wells and drilling new shafts or bores, build- 
ing reservoirs and drinking troughs, laying distribution pipes and, 
where advisable, installing pumps. 

‘'he works were carried out by the Public Works Department with 
the assistance of unskilled labour provided by villagers and subject 
to repayment of 50 per cent. of cost or such less percentage as might 
be determined by the District Commissioner, taking into considera- 
tion the condition of the village and the success of the work carried 
out. In seventy-two instances the supply of water was substan- 
tially increased, at times several hundred-fold. In several villages 
Roman shafts were exposed yielding a supply far greater than was 
enjoyed by the villagers in recent years. 

These schemes were intended to relieve immediate distress but 
they will of course be of permanent value. For the permanent 
improvement of rural supplies, a sum of £P.45,000 has been reserved 
in the new Loan Schedule and is being partly expended in advance, 
a3 necessity arises, from the surplus balances of the Government 
under the direction of the official committee. The expenditure 
takes the form partly of grants and partly of advances on long terms 
to villages and settlers and it is hoped thus to make water available 
not only for domestic needs and animals but also for some measure 
of irrigation. 

The Government has been instrumental in arranging loans 
on reasonable terms by Barclays’ Bank to the Municipal Councils 
of Nablus and Gaza for the entire reconstruction of their respective 
water supplies; further reference is given below to the Nablus 
scheme. 

During this year of exceptional shortage, Jerusalem was depend- 
ent almost entirely upon the Wadi Kelt source. At the end of the 
rainy season, the storage reservoirs at Solomon’s Pools and Ain 
Arrub were practically empty and in order to accumulate a small 
reserve it was necessary in April to reduce the supply to consumers 
to once in four days. During the summer water was supplied once 
in five days. The scheme for pumping a permanent supply of 
water from the spring at Ras el ’Ain near Jaffa is now in hand. 


231 

The survey of the route has been completed; a constructional 
eugineer has taken up his duties; sites for the pumping stations are 
determined ; £P.164,000 worth of main engines, tubes and fittings 
has been ordered ; and pipes have been strung out along the route. 

It is anticipated that the scheme, which has been adopted after 
close and prolonged examination of all alternatives as being that 
ofering the most satisfactory solution of the problem, will be com- 
pleted by the middle of 1935. It is a matter of gratification that a 
“rave shortcoming in the amenities of the capital is now to be 
removed. Meanwhile the reservoirs built at Romema in 1932 with 
capacity of 2,000,000 gallons are being operated satisfactorily and 
facilitate a more regular distribution to consumers. The estimated 
cost of the new water supply for Jerusalem is £P.370,000 and the 
Colomal Development Fund has agreed to make a grant of 
£P.31,000, spread over a period of years, towards payment of the 
interest charges. The cost is to be charged to the proposed new 
Loan eventually, but at present expenditure is being met from 
surplus balances. 

Additional tests are being carried out at Acre to discover a source 
for the Haifa supply; in Nablus, pipes and fittings for the new 
scheme, to cost £P.20,000, were laid and reservoirs constructed ; at 
Shefa Amr, a large village in the Northern District, £P.1,000 is 
_ being spent on a new supply. 

The special] requirements of the new Harbour at Haifa are met 
for the present by tank wagon daily from the well of the Railway 
workshops. 

Further work at the source for Hebron revealed a minimum daily 
_ Supply of 60,000 gallons and a scheme for the town is now in hand, 
while at Jenin, a bore seven kilometres south of the town, at a 
depth of 255 feet, struck water in sufficient quantity for domestic 
_ purposes and limited irrigation. 

_ Reference has been made in the 1932 Report to boring for water 
ln the Beersheba district. The first bore on the Gaza-Beersheba 
Road was carried to a depth of 1,170 feet but had to be abandoned 
en account of the high salinity of the water, and a second bore some 
Kilometres away was unsuccessful for the same reason. 
_ An earth dam was built across a suitable wadi near Beersheba to 
Impound water sufficient for the irrigation of about 200 hectares of 
land; and the results indicate that water can be successfully con- 
served by this means. 
_ At the Jewish settlement of Artuf, near Jerusalem, a bore 985 feet 
deep was sunk without penetrating the bituminous limestones; and 
the work was temporarily suspended owing to the demands of other 
Villages where water had entirely failed. Boring will be resumed at 
the first opportunity. 
_ _The two Government drilling rigs are principally employed for 
development of village water supplies and irrigation, and for investi- 
gation of water beneath large dry alluvial flats otherwise suitable for 
€conomic irrigation of citrus and other fruit trees. 


232 


The Underground Water Resources Committee of Government 
has considered geophysical methods of determining the position of 
underground water, in conjunction with an expert attached to the 
Jewish Agency; diagrams of water horizons have been made and 
drilling operations are in progress. 

9A. Palestine Electric Corporation.—263 plans for extensions 
(including two alterations to routes) operating from the mains of - 
the Company were approved by Government during the year. These 
include many important extensions such as the supply of electricity 
to the towns of Nazareth and Acre and the Esdraelon Valley in the 
north, and to numerous settlements in the Hasharon area further 
south. 

The Corporation installed a third turbine-alternator of 8,500 H.P. 
at the Jordan Works, in order to cope with the increased demand 
for electric light and power. The units sold during 1933 were 
20 million kilowatt hours, as against 114 million kilowatt hours in 
the previous year. 

Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation.—The power 
station at Jerusalem has been operated satisfactorily. The plant was 
increased by a new 490 K.W. set towards the end of the year. 

The rates for both lighting and power were reduced in the second 
half of the year by 20 per cent. 

Twenty-three extensions were approved during the year, including 
an extension to the town of Ramallah, north of Jerusalem. Work 
was also begun at the end of the year on an extension to Bireh 
Village, near Ramallah. 

Geology. 


10. Five additional geologists were at work in Palestine during — 
1933, three employed by the Iraq Petroleum Company and two by 
Mr. D. A. Sutherland. 

Prospecting over an area of 43 square kilometres from the 
!:avptian boundary northward was continued under an exploration 
permit granted to Mr. L. L. Willams, and in December, a report 
was submitted with specimens and map, showing a partial differen- 
tiition of the igneous-metamorphic complex. The specimens 
appear to resemble very largely those already reported, comprising 
the acid igneous granites, which have been invaded first by — 
porphyries and then by dolerite dykes. The series also contalis 
definite volcanic rocks and there are metamorphic types comprising 
mica-garnet-schist. Areas covered with ‘‘ Nubian sandstone ” 
also occur but no rocks of Paleozoic age are recorded at the base 
and the only fossils submitted are from the Upper Cenomanian 
limestones which occur above the ‘‘ Nubian _ sandstone ”. 
Apparently, only in the small area of the Wadi Meneiaieh are rocks 
of Faleozoic age preserved and here the age of the sandstones 
carrying manganese ores has still to be determined. In this con- 
nection, it is interesting to note that rocks of carboniferous agé 
have been identified in Syria. 


233 


The geologists of the Iraq Petroleum Company examined the 
hornub area. The fossils obtained show an important uncon- 
formity between Upper Cenomanian limestones, containing 
Exogyra Flabellata, which occurs down to the top of the ‘‘ Nubian 
sandstone ’’, and the Upper Jurassic limestone which has a fauna 
similar to that of the Argovian and Callovian of Somaliland. 
Between the two series, there are 413 metres of vari-coloured 
” Nubian sandstones ’’ which are considered to be mostly of terres- 
tral formation, except for some marine bands with Exogyra 
labellata towards the top. 


On the Sinai-Palestine frontier, the limestone, 300 feet in thick- 
ness, occurring above the ‘‘ Nubian sandstones’’, also contains 
Qstrea flabellata and Ostrea olisoponensis, typical of Upper Ceno- 
manian, while in southern Trans-Jordan there is a gradual increase 
from little more than 100 feet of brown sandy limestone between 
the top of the ‘‘ Nubian sandstone ’’ and the Campanian cherts of 
the Akaba Nagb, to 500 feet between Petra and Tafileh. There is 
no evidence of Lower Cretaceous marine strata in any part of 
Trans-Jordan or Southern Palestine, and it is doubtful whether any 
vreat thickness of Lower Cenomanian exists, whereas in Jebel 
Maghara in Northern Sinai, 150 kilometres west of Kornub, all 
the divisions of the Lower Cretaceous are represented by marine 
heds. In the Nahr ez Zerka, between these marine beds and the 
Jurassic rocks, occur 600 feet of sands where the only fossils are 
plant remains in shales near the top. 


In Palestine, the Albian formation is well developed as judged 
by exposures already reported west of Ramallah and in the Wadi 
Farah. Further work has shown that below these beds occur 600 
feet of sandstone with two intercalations of limestone containing 
abundant marine fauna of Lower Cretaceous age. 


In the Nahr ez Zerka, the Geological Adviser has found below 
the ferruginous sandy limestone a massive limestone resembling 
that of Tiebanon containing a rich fauna. Below these, east of 
the Wadi Huni, lies unconformably a series of shales and lime- 
‘tones, resembling the Cambrian of Zerka Ma’in. These are 
— associated here with thick gypsum beds. 


Further examination of the sandstone west of Lake Huleh shows 
@ similar sequence to that already given at Wadi Farah. It is 
therefore evident that the transgression and recession of the sea 
in Lower Cretaceous times recorded in Syria by M. Dubertret, 
extended to Northern and Central Palestine but not to Southern 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


Specimens of chalky marls devoid of macro-fossils, and others 
from the Shephela and the chalk country to the west, show by their 
contained foraminifera the definite presence of Tertiary rocks in 
the Shephela and make it possible roughly to separate Upper 
Cretaceous from the Eocené and Lower Miocene marls and chalks. 


234 


There seems to be a gradual passage stratigraphically and faunaily 
from Upper Cretaceous to Eocene. 

The chalk and marl beds of the Shephela are placed as Upper | 
to Lower Eocene while the bituminous limestones—previously 
mentioned in the Dawaime area—are considered to be Upper 
Eocene as distinguished from those of Artuf and Beit Nuba which 
are Danian. The Beit Nabala and Barriye bituminous marls have 
Turriliticones determined as Neancylocerag and Bostrychoceras of | 
Lower Maestritchian age. The flinty chalks around Beersheba are — 
put as Upper to Lower Eocene with occasional lenticles of Middle 
Eocene Nummulitic limestones, coming in south of Beersheba 
around Khalasa. 

Mr. L. R. Cox, of the British Museum, who has made a new 
examination of the fossils from the Ramle quarry and Qubeiba | 
in conjunction with the micro-determinations, has stated that the 
fossils appear to be of Oligocene rather than Miocene facies. The 
supposed Oligocene includes the hard Operculina limestones which 
pass laterally into marls and chalks and are referred by the Iraq — 
Petroleum Company geologists to Lower Miocene (Aquitanian) in ~ 
both areas. No Miocene younger than Burdigalian has been dis- 
covered; the Lower Miocene is overlain unconformably by Middle 
Pliocene conglomerates, shelly limestone and sandstone or by the 
silty clays of Sakia which are also of Pliocene age. 


11. Geological maps of Palestine and Trans-Jordan have been 
prepared by the Geological Adviser to be incorporated with similar — 
maps of Syria and the Lebanon for publication by the French 
Government. 


12. Specimens of rocks, minerals and fossils have been in pro- 
cess of collection and arrangement in a small museum in the 
Public Works Department, open to the public. These are now 
fairly representative of all formations existing on both sides of the 
Jordan. Where necessary, identifications have been carried out by 
specialists in palaeontology at the British Museum and elsewhere. | 

Specimens of building stones, marble and minerals, together 
with a geological relief map of Palestine and Trans-Jordan, were — 
exhibited at an Anglo-Palestine Exhibition in London. 


13. Quarries.—450 licences to quarry were issued during the year, — 
for stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) ; sand (including “‘ ail- — 
zif’’) and clay, and gypsum. 

Mining. 

14. Further exploration by a right-holder in the Akaba district | 
has shown the existence of numerous mineral veins containing — 
barytes, fluor spar and copper ores. 

Sulphur Quarries Limited, holders of two mining leases in the 
Gaza District, are about to erect special plant for the concentration 
of the sulphur in the ore by oil flotation, and hope thus to obtain 
a purity of over 99 per cent. 





235 - 


The results of experimental flotation of Palestine phosphates were 
less successful. Further tests were made in London which 
showed that the calcium phosphate was so intimately associated 
with the gangue that it was practically impossible to effect any 


concentration. Other qualities of the ore ure now being investi- 
gated. 


The mining of rock salt at Jebel Usdum continues and there is 
some prospect of utilizing the gypsum deposits in that neighbour- 
hood as well. 


Dead Sea Concession.—The present areas of evaporating pans 
are 340 hectares in Palestine and 110 in Trans-Jordan, a total in- 
crease of 200 hectares during the year. 


Preparations are now being made for the production of carnal- 
lite at the Southern end of the Dead Sea where an area of 62 square 
kilometres has been applied for. It is estimated that the area 
suitable for pans is capable of production of 100,000 tons of potash 
per annum. 


Arrangements have been made for the preparation of magnesium 
cement by a subsidiary company; and experiments are being con- 
ducted for the production of calcium chloride and magnesium 
hydroxide. 


In addition to four concrete buildings for unmarried workmen, 
four three-storied houses each with six flats of two living rooms, 
kitchen, etc., were built this year. The floors have been made of 
locally produced magnesium cement of various colours. 


Two hundred and forty skilled and 197 unskilled labourers were 
employed at the end of the year. 


Haifa Harbour Works. 


15. The Permanent Mandates Commission have asked for 
detailed information on the subject of the arrangements for the 
construction of Haifa Harbour. With one exception, namely, the 
dredging of the harbour, which was given out to a company after 
tenders had been called for (see paragraph 18 below), the work of 
construction was carried out by a department of the Palestine 
Government under the advice and supervision of the firm of Messrs. 
Rendel, Falmer and Tritton, who prepared the whole scheme for 
the construction of the harbour, and are frequently employed as 
Consulting Engineers in connexion with the construction of Colonial 
harbours. In order to maintain a close lidison between the Pales- 
tine Harbour Construction Department and the Consulting 
Engineers, a member of the staff of the Consulting Engineers was 
from time to time attached to the Department, becoming for such 
period a Government servant, and at certain times, two members 
of the Engineers’ staff were so attached, but, with this exception, 
ho members of the Harbour Construction Staff were connected 
with the firm of Messrs. Rendel, Palmer and Tritton. 


236 


16. With the exception of the permanent lighting installation 
and a few minor works, the new Harbour was completed and 
officially opened on the 31st October, 1933, and its administration 
assumed by the Department of Customs. 

17. The gross expenditure, including all charges, from the com- 
mencement of the works to the end of 1933 was approximately 
£P.1,155,000, but there remain some liabilities to be met which 
will bring the figure to approximately £P.1,250,000. 

The works carried out during the year included the completion 
of two transit sheds, railways, pavings, roads, open dumps, and 
water supply. 

18. In September, 1931, the Tilbury Contracting and Dredging 
Company of Egypt, competing in open tender with American, 
Dutch, Italian and other firms, secured the contract for dredging 
and reclaiming land within the Harbour Area. This contract was 
fulfilled by the 7th October, 1933; it involved a total of two million 
cubic metres. 

19. At the busiest period of the works, about 1,800 men were 
employed. 

A minimum wage for common unskilled labour of 150 mils per 
9-hours day was established by the Palestine Government. This 
represented for the Arab workman a substantial increase over his 
usual earnings. 

The difficulties arising from the higher standard of living of 
Jewish labour were to a large extent overcome by a system of 
piece-work by labour-gangs. Sabbath rest was assured as far as 
the technical exigencies of the works permitted, and fair condition: 
of labour were generally applied. 

The different races worked together harmoniously throughout 
the execution of the works, and there was a minimum of labour 
discontent. 

20. The following are particulars of the new Harbour : 


~ 


Breakwaters. 
Length of Main Breakwater, 210 metres (7,250 feet) ; length of 
Lee Breakwater, 765 metres (2,510 feet). 


Narigation Lights. 

Green flashing light at end of Main Breakwater, visible in 
ordinary weather for a distance of 4 miles; Red flashing light at 
end of Lee Breakwater, visible in ordinary weather for a distance 
of 6 miles. 


Land and Water Areas. 

Total area enclosed by Main and Lee Breakwaters, including 
both water area and reclamation area; also including dredged 
channel beyond the end of the Lee Breakwater—1,567,300 square 
metres (387°3 acres). 


237 
This total area ig made up as follows :—(a) Main Reclamation, 
outside of Customs Fence, 201,300 square metres (49-7 acres) ; 
(b} Main Reclamation, inside of Customs Fence, 160,500 square 
metres (39°7 acres); (c) Additional Reclamation at West End, 
‘8,100 square metres (19°3 acres); (d) Harbour Water Area, 
1,127,400 square metres (278°6 acres). 


Dredged Areas. 
Of the Harbour Water Area, the following are the dredged 
areas :— 

Dredged to 11:30 metres (87 feet) below M.S.L., 368,800 
square metres (91:1 acres) ; Dredged to 9:40 metres (30°8 feet) 
below M.S.L., 255,600 square metres (63-2 acres) ; Dredged to 
10:06 metres (33 feet) below M.S.L. (Oil Dock Area), 102,450 
square metres (25°3 acres). 


Wharf Details. 

Length of Main Wharf dredged to 9:40 metres (31 feet) below 
MS.L., 400 metres (1,312 feet). 

Length of Intermediate Wharf dredged to depth varying from 
940 metres (31 feet) to 5°5 metres (18 feet) below M.S.L., 110 
metres (361 feet). 

Length of Lighter Wharves, with depth of water averaging 
d metres (164 feet) below M.S.L., 175 metres (574 feet). 

Number of bollards for tying up vessels, 33. 

Level of surface of quay, 2 metres (64 feet) above M.S.L. 


Tidal Variation. 

Normal Variation—from 30 centimetres (12 inches) above M.S.L. 
to 30 centimetres (12 inches) below M.S.L. 

Maximum Range Recorded—from 42 centimetres (163 inches) 
cbove M.S.L. to 49 centimetres (19 inches) below M.S.L. 


Moorings and Berths. 

Bollards along the Main Breakwater—To withstand a pull of 
2) tons, 10; to withstand a pull of 150 tons, 19. 

Deep water berths along Main Wharf Wall for three large 
cargo vessels, or for four small cargo vessels. 
Passenger Landing Stage. 

A small passenger landing stage has been provided for the landing 
of passengers brought by launch from large vessels moored to the 
Main Breakwater. 


Transit Sheds. 
_Two transit sheds now built, each single storey at present, but one 
cesigned to take a second floor when required. 

Dimensions of Sheds—Length, 116 metres (381 feet) ; breadth, 
36 metres (118 feet); floor area, 4,176 square metres (1 acre) ; 
average depth to underside of roof trusses, 20 feet. 

Main Wharf Wall has been extended sufficiently to provide a site 
lov a third transit shed when required. 


238 


Dump Areas. 

Areas totalling about 60,000 square metres (or nearly 15 acres) 
have been surfaced up with quarry waste to form open dumps, or 
uncovered stacking areas for goods. 


Oil and Potash Trades. 

At the eastern end of the reclamation an area of about 50,000 
square metres (or some 123 acres) has also been surfaced, ready for 
whatever development these two trades may require. 


Cranes. 
The following cranes are provided :— 
Fixed derrick at East end of main wharf, capable of lifting 
15 tons at 65 feet radius. 
Travelling 5-ton gantry crane on West lighter wharf. 
Travelling 5-ton gantry crane on East lighter wharf. 
Floating breakwater maintenance crane, 15-ton derrick 
mounted on lighters. 
Rails for travelling gantry cranes have been laid along the 
main wharf, but no gantry cranes are provided ; heavy lifts will 
for the present have to be off-loaded by ships’ derricks. 


Rail and Road Access. 

Standard gauge rail traffic has access to the lighter wharves and 
down the main wharf in front of the Transit Sheds; there are also 
three standard gauge lines parallel to the main wharf, behind the 
Transit Sheds. 

Narrow gauge (1:05 metres) rail traffic has access to the lighter 
wharves. 

Road vehicles have access to all parts of the Customs Area, includ- 
ing lighter wharves and main wharf. 


Facilities for Vessels using the Harbour. 

Coal.—None. 

Fuel Oil.—A supply will probably be available, and possibly a 
feed pipe along the Main Wharf. 

Cleansing Water.—Plentiful. 

Drinking Water.—Very limited supply at present; small 
quantities available for vessels in emergency. 

Boiler Water.—Limited supply available for Harbour Craft. 

Electric Lighting.—The whole Customs Area is well lighted. 
including the quays and the interiors of Transit Sheds. 

Tugs.—Two powerful tugs have arrived at Haifa and are avail- 
able for towage services. 


Future Extensions of Main Wharf. 

The Main and Lee Breakwaters enclose a water area sufficient to 
allow of an extension to the Main Wharf of 900 metres, or 
2,950 feet. 

This extension would provide sites for five extra transit sheds, 
over and above the three sites along the present Main Wharf; 1.e., 
a total of eight sheds. 


239 


This extension would also provide additional berths for six large 
cargo vessels, or for eight small cargo vessels, over and above the 
terths at present provided. 

21. In view of the increasing shipping activities anticipated at 
Haifa with the completion of the new Harbour, consideration has 
heen given by the Palestine Government to the question of providing 
welfare facilities for seamen. 

A suitable site for the erection of a Seamen’s Institute, readily 
accessible to sailors arriving at and leaving the Port, has been 
reserved in the Reclaimed Area. The support of organizations 
interested in the welfare of sailors was enlisted in the proposal to 
provide an Institute, and, as a result, the British Sailors’ Society 
has undertaken to erect a building and to accept responsibility for 
its management. 

Meanwhile, the possibility is being explored of undertaking 
welfare work of a temporary nature until the Institute is ready. 


XXVII.—RAILWAYS. 


1. The system is divided as follows :— 


Kilometres. 
Standard 105 em. 
Gauge Hejaz 
Railway. Railway. 
(a) In Palestine (Mandated Territory). 
Rafa—Haifa ie shee se 238 — 
Jaffa—J erusalem i me 87 — 
Haifa—Samakh* es une — 88 
Haifa (4-50 kilo.)—Acre ... hae — 18 
Affula—Nablus—Tulkarm 4.) a 98 
325 204 
(}) In Sinai (Egyptian Territory). 
(Owned by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment). 
Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafa .... 203 a 
(c) In Trans-Jordan (Mandated Terri- 
tory). 
Nassib via Amman to Ma’an* ... = 323 





Total (Palestine and T'rans- 
Jordan) soe vat ash 528 527 


a en ee oe 


* The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans- 
Jordan runs through the French Mandated Territory of Syria and is adminis- 
tered and operated by the French authorities. The line formerly continued 
southwards to Medawara (113 kilometres) on the border of Trans-Jordan and 
the Hejaz and thence to Medina but this section of the line has not been fully 
reconditioned since the damage done during and after the War. 


240 


2. The system which serves Palestine proper comprises three 
lines of separate and distinct origin :— 


(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem Railway. 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder line from the Port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed to carry pilgrim 
traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its origin was 1 
fength of standard gauge line starting from Haifa which an English 
Company had built, but not completed, under an Ottoman con- 
cession. The original concessionnaires were bought out by the 
Hejaz Railway Administration and the 105 centimetre gauge Hejaz 
Railway system was laid out of Haifa on the formation completed 
or partly completed by the English Company. 


(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem Railway was laid originally as a metre 
gauge line by a French Company, also under an Ottoman conces- 
sion. At the outbreak of War it was taken over by the Turkish 
Army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to serve as part of 
the projected extension southwards of the Hejaz Railway as 4 
military track. Subsequently the line was converted by the British 
Army to standard gauge and incorporated in the line built during 
the War from the Suez Canal to Palestine. 


(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge system 
in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British Army in 
1918 as the northern extension of the line which fed the troops 
during the advance from Egypt. 


At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre gauge 
lines come together and at Haifa, in order to use the space avail- 
able for shunting to the best advantage, it is necessary to make 
use of many dual gauge tracks. 


3. The permanent way, buildings, locomotives, and rolling stock 
were kept in the best possible condition with the funds available. 


4. A summary of the principal operating and statistical results 
compared with 1932 is given below :— 


Gross Revenue. Working Expenses. 

1932. 1933. 1932. 1933. 

£P’s. £P.’s £P.’s £P.’s 
Palestine Railway _... 3 347,057 391,874 395,322 410,997 
Sinai Railway ... Joe ae 99,738 104,352 94,625 90,939 


Hejaz Railway fe as 94,928 95,653 87,995 83,587 





241 


The working expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper in- 
cludes £P.156,458 for interest and amortization charges on the 
capital value of the line. 


5. 1932. 1933, 
Passengers carried - 1,125 ,439 1,275 ,308 


Freight handled meiading 
stone traffic for the con- 
struction of Haifa Har- 


bour. Tons 1,098 ,723 795 ,084 
Freight handled—Ordinary 

Merchandise. Tons 610,711 722 624 
Trains run ... a sae 16,077 20 ,465 
Engine Mileage ... tae 1 167 319 1,279,630 
Total staff at 3lst 

December ‘ise wiles 3,229 *3 820 
Salaries and Wages .. £P.278,197 *979 924 


6. Passenger traffic receipts in 1933 showed an increase of 
£P.13,459 mainly in the third class, as a result principally of a 
reduction in fares made during the year. 


A road and rail service was instituted in November between 
Ras el Ain and Petah Tiqva, Tel Aviv and Jaffa, and is working 
satisfactorily. 


7. There was an increase of £P.32,116 in goods traffic receipts, 
the main increasee being :— 


Tons. 
Barley oe ise ait ‘odie ve oot 4,973 
Cement oye — se ce a ... 85,943 
Cereals... ... os oe sae _— .. 15,333 
Groceries and Provisions ... aa see - 7,809 
Flour an ss ash a ae 5 340 
Kerosene and Fuel Oils &; sed sig ~— 7,130 
Manure 23 sas on gia uss ... 15,587 
Oranges we ve bas sus i ... 29,441 


There was a decrease of 450,445 tons of stone and sand traffic 
- Ptincipally owing to the cessation of Harbour construction at Haifa. 





* These figures include men (and their wages) temporarily engaged on 
_ Tenewals and extraordinary work. Apart from this there was a reduction in 
the numbers of the permanent staff 


242 


8. The principal commodities carried were :— 


Tonnage. =" 
Barley oe ss ses ast sae . 109 
Stone ape sik as as baie ... 126,434 . 
Sand sais ae zi ay sine th 9 298 
Lime oud she nasi ea sie aes 6071 .; 
Cement de eas ba sad ee ... 136,588 
Other Building Materials ... aa hd ... 22,667 + 
Cereals ee an es Lo | “fast .. §6,774 ° 
Coal sis ye xs whi «eh ... 40,470 
Groceries and Provisions ... seg aoe .. = 28,950 
Flour st ie i as a .. 19,724 
Kerosene and Fuel Oils... a Sa ... 90,574 
Manure Sas fas wae wai a4 ... 89,784 
Melons du nea a nde bee .. 11,295 
Oranges — ee bit a see ... 170,579 
Petrol - i oe a = = 6,703 
Salt ... sei he bee 6 os a 7,066 
Miscellaneous Sess Sue ie iss ... 149,933 


9. The requirements of Trans-Jordan are met by three mised 
trains each way weekly between Nassib and Ma’an, and one train ~ 
between Amman and Ma’an. : 

10. The old workshops at Haifa and Kantara were closed eatly 
in the year and the machine tools, etc., and staff, transferred to ~ 
the new buildings in the Acre Bay Zone. , 

11. The Railway has maintained a nursery of seedlings at Lydds - 
and has continued its programme of tree planting at stations and . 
along the track. 


TRANS-JORDAN. 
I._INTRODUCTORY. 


1. Legislative Council.—During 1933 the Legislative Counell 
was not summoned to meet in Extraordinary Session. On ass 
bling on the 1st November for its third and final Ordinary Besson - 
it excluded any member of the Executive Council from the le. 4 
financial and administrative committees which it elected and a : 
sequently prevented the transaction of any business by fallin © 
form a@ quorum. 

In these circumstances, His Highness the Amir dis 
Chief Minister on the 17th November and appointe 
Pasha Hashim to succeed him. . 

2. Ibrahim Pasha, who is a Palestinian by birth, at the t™ 
held no post in the Government service but in the past has ae be 
as President of the Court of Appeal, as Treasurer and 48 caer ee 
of Justice. He constituted his Executive Council of two ™&™ pi 
of the former Council and three members selected from 8@" 
the Legislative Councillors. i 


missed the . 
d Ibrahim - 


me | 


243 


Three of the five are Moslem Arabs, one is a Christian and one 
a Circassian and all but one are natives of Trans-Jordan. 


3. Owing to these changes the opposition in the Legislative 
Council was reduced to a minority of two and, before the Ramadhan 
recess on the 7th December, a considerable amount of business 
Was transacted. 


_4.The most important of the Laws and Regulations brought 
into force during the year are the following :— 


The Addendum to the Moslem Family Law, 1927.—Article 3 of 
the Moslem Family Law, 1927, prescribes sixteen years completed 
lor both the bridegroom and the bride as the minimum age of 
marrage, 

In non-Moslem communities the minimum age for marriage 1s 
determined by the Canon Law of each community. All com- 
munities, including the Moslem, were subject to a provision in the 
second Addendum to Article 200 of the Ottoman Penal Code, to 
the effect that a woman under twenty years of age shall not be 
married without the consent of her nearest relative; but this is 
modified by the terms of the Addendum now enacted which provides 
that the Kadi of the Sharia Court may, at her request, marry a 
girl or woman who has completed her sixteenth year despite the 
guardian’s objection. 


_ The Laws contain no special prescription as to the age of consent 
inside marriage but it is generally accepted that it is the same as 
the minimum age of marriage. 


Article 197 of the Ottoman Penal Code provides that consent 


cannot be admitted in the case of an offence against a child who is 
under fifteen years of age. 


The Income Tax Law.—See section II, paragraph 7. 


The Trade Licences Law.—See section II, paragraph 7. The 
Introduction of this Law met with some resistance and was a cause 
of annoyance to the merchant class who previously had escaped 
their fair share of taxation. 


The Addendum to the Public Health Law amends the fees pay- 
able by doctors, dentists and pharmacists so as to bring them into 
line with the new fees imposed by the Trade Licences Law. 


The Land Tax Law is referred to fully later in paragraph 12 of 
this section of the Report. 


The Land Settlement Law.—See section IX dealing with the 
Land Department. 


The Marriage Contract Fees Amendment Law raises the fee 
payable from 500 mils to £P.1. 


The Nationality Law places the authority to grant Trans-Jordan 


nationality by naturalization in the hands of the Executive Council 
Instead of the Chief Minister. 


244 


The Public Meetings Ordinance.—This was passed by His High 
ness the Amir in Council as a matter of urgency when the Legisla 
tive Council was not sitting and provides that no public meetin; 
shall be held in Trans-Jordan save with the permission of th« 
Executive Council. 


The Law Modifying Article 219 of the Penal Code provides 
heavier punishment for the offence of highway robbery. 


The Non-Moslem Religious Community Councils Law provide 
for the formation and jurisdiction of such Councils in matters o. 
personal status. 

The Road Transport Amendment Law permits the use of, an¢ 
provides for the fees payable on, lorries of a carrying capacity of 
more than three tons. 

The Tribal Offences (Settlement) Law.—In order to expedite the 
settlement of cases occurring in the Desert, it is provided that the 
Bedu Control Board may delegate such jurisdiction as it thinks fit 
to the Officer Commanding the Arab Legion or an officer nominated 
by him. 

The Board has delegated full jurisdiction with authority to 
inflict punishment up to three months imprisonment or a fine of 
£P.20. 


5. The following are among the proposals made by elected 
members of the Legislative Council :— 


(i) That the Removal and Deportation Law be repealed. 
This has not yet been discussed. 

(ii) That the Electoral Law be changed with a view (a) to 
reducing the number of Christian and Circassian electors and 
(b) to making the whole country one electoral area. This 
was refused. 

(iii) To modify the provisions of the Prevention of Crime 
Law. This has not yet been discussed. 

(iv) To modify the Stamp Duty Law. A draft of a new 
Law which has been prepared by the Government is still 
under consideration. 

(v) That the Agricultural Bank Law should be amended. 
This has resulted in the enactment of a Law providing that 4 
debtor to the Bank whose land has been seized in satisfaction 
of a debt may lease this land from the Bank at a rental equal 
to the interest due on his debt and may eventually redeem 
the land on payment of his debt. 

(vi) That the Rules of Court relating to Court fees be 
amended. This was passed to the Government and is still 
under consideration. 

(vii) That a census of the people be made. This was 
rejected on account of expense and lack of urgency. 
(viii) That the State Lands at Ghor el Arbain and Bagoura 
in the Jordan Valley be transferred to the cultivators. This 
has been done as described in paragraph 11 of this section of 

the Report. 











245 


5. The Amir withheld his assent from five laws passed by the 
‘cislative Council; one of these was assented to after amendment 
d the remainder are still under consideration. 

The proceedings and business of the present Legislative Council 
ve been conducted smoothly and a considerable amount of useful 
ork has been done. 


fF 


(. Desert Control.—The system of controlling and protecting the 
ople of the Desert, initiated in 1931, has proved an unqualified 
ecess. The Desert Police has now a strength of approximately 
9 officers and men; it has six armed cars and a small section of 
mel-men, and is based on four forts in the Desert, all equipped 
th wireless. The men are all Beduin except the car drivers and 
ireless operators. 

Raiding has ceased because it is no longer a paying proposition or 
necessary means of livelihood. To one who has seen the chaos out 
which order has been restored, the change, very largely due to the 
nhity of the Officer Commanding the Desert Police, is remarkable. 
he security of the Desert has helped to improve relations with the 
ighbours of Trans-Jordan and enabled the Iraq Petroleum Com- 
iny to build its pipe-line unhindered. 


8. Relations with Saudi Arabia.—Mutual recognition by His 
ighness the Amir of Trans-Jordan and His Majesty the King of 
audi Arabia was effected on the lst April by an exchange of 
*rtified copies of notes signed by representatives of the Govern- 
ients of Trans-Jordan and Saudi Arabia. On the following day 
1e two Rulers telegraphed reciprocal greetings to each other. 

Negotiations for the conclusion of a Treaty of Friendship and Bon 
olsinage between the Amara of Trans-Jordan and the Kingdom of 
audi Arabia were begun in Jedda in April, and were concluded in 
erusalem where the Treaty was signed on the 27th July. Ratifica- 
ions were exchanged in Cairo on the 21st December. 

The Treaty provides in general for the maintenance of peace and 
nendship between the two countries, and in particular sets up 
nachinery which will enable the contracting parties to co-operate 
N preserving good order and security in the frontier areas. Any 
lispute arising out of the provisions of the Treaty will be settled 
'y arbitration under the terms of an Arbitration Protocol appended 
0 the Treaty. 

The final English translation of the original Arabic text is not 
vet available but this will be published as an appendix to next 
rear's Report. | 

All claims on account of raids between the tribes of Trans-Jordan 
ind Saudi Arabia which had occurred between November, 1925, and 
the end of July, 1930, had been abandoned as described in the 
Introduction to the Report for 1931; on the 8rd August, it was 
igreed that all claims from raids which had occurred between the 
ist August, 1930, and the 27th July, 1933, should also be cancelled: 

23364 I 


246 


9. Relations with Syria.—Negotiations for the conclusion of 
Bon Voisinage Agreement between Trans-Jordan on the one ha 
and Syria and the Jebel Druze on the other hand are still proces 
ing On the basis of a draft agreed to by local representatives whi 
was prepared after discussions at Beirut in June and at Ammani 


August. 





10. Land.—The work of Demarcation, Survey and Valuatio 
initiated in 1928, was completed during the present year at a tot 
cost of £P.44,000 and the extent and value of the work accomplisie 
deserve special mention. 

When, in October, 1924, the present system of financial contr 
was put into force, direct taxation was still being imposed on th 
principle which had been applied before the War. For instance 1 
the Belga District, the tithe was assessed and collected annualls 
while in the other two districts of Ajlun and Kerak the tithe hi 
been commuted to a fixed sum payable by each village or tribe. 11 
Ajlun, however, this fixed sum was collected from individuals 1 
proportion to the cultivable area possessed by them, whereas 1 
Kerak it was divided equally amongst heads of families. As regard: 
Werko and Road tax, the amounts due from villages and tribes ha 
been assessed years before and the method of distribution of thes 
taxes was the same in Ajlun and Kerak as for the commuted tithe. 
whilst in Belqa it followed the same system as Ajlun. 

The Land Registries were in considerable disorder and the syste 
left much to be desired. 

In 1926, Sir Ernest Dowson was invited to make recommendations 
for the improvement of this situation and did so after a second visit 
in 1927 and after examining the report of a local Commission whici 
had been appointed to study the matter. 

It was decided that any return to the tithing system must be 
avoided and that any readjustment of taxation could only be base? 
on a reliable fiscal survey. 

With this object in view a Land Demarcation, Survey and Valu:- 
tion Law was enacted in 1927 and a British officer was appointed to 
take charge of the work on the lines, necessarily elastic in view o 
the peculiarities of the problem, indicated by Sir Ernest Dowson. 

The necessity for the exercise of rigid economy has been a rulin: 
factor throughout and the greater part of 1928 passed in selectins 
boys from the Secondary Schools and training them as surveyor. 
in collecting the other staff and equipment and in feeling the way 
to a sound and expeditious method of procedure. “ 

The boundaries of nearly every village dealt with were in dispute 
end at first these proved difficult of settlement; but as the work 
spread over a considerable area of the country the inhabitants came 
to realise the importance of demarcation both in regard to existing’ 
conditions and as a necessary basis for all future reforms and it was 
soon evident that the people were accepting the demarcation as final 
and were adhering to the boundaries demarcated. 


247 


| A specialist was engaged from Palestine until the staff became 
' expert in valuation. Valuation was assessed in terms of kilograms 
- # wheat in all cultivable land except vineyards where the assess- 
- ment was in rotls of grapes. 


“" 1L. State Lands.—In May, 1929, the Land Department was 
formed by amalgamating the Survey Department, the Land Registry 
_ind the State Domains Department with the British Officer already 

“mentioned in charge. A second British officer was seconded frora 
Palestine and placed in charge of Field Survey. 


The records of State Domains were most incomplete and little 
was known regarding the extent and cultivation of these areas. In 
1929 the Disposal of State Lands Law was enacted and, with the 
Disposal of State Lands (Amendment) Law, 1931, gave authority 
to the Executive Council, or, in the case of plots not exceeding 
10 dunums in area and £P.50 in value, to the Director of Lands, 
to dispose on payment of land of any category belonging to the 
Government. Payment of the purchase money might be spread 
over a number of years but the land might not again be disposed 
of till payment had been made in full and the transaction regis- 
tered. 

It was the Government’s object to dispose of small areas which 
it Was uneconomic to retain and to facilitate building. They also 
aimed at putting State land, at a reasonable price, in the hands 
of persons who, it was clear, had rendered, or intended to render 
It fruitful. 

Under these laws, it has been possible, as survey advanced, to 
dispose by transfer of an area of 156,699 dunums of land at a cost 
of £P.6,694. 

In the Jordan Valley north of the Dead Sea an area of 108,000 
dunums, claimed as the property of the Adwan tribe, but regis- 
tered as Mahlul by order of a Turkish Administrative officer, was 
transferred to the tribe on an arrangement for payment of the 
registration fee over a period of seven years. 

Further north in the Valley, the Ghazawieh Arabs, who claimed 
ownership over an area of 60,000 dunums of Medawara land in 
the Ghor el Arbain have, after protracted negotiations, agreed to 
accept an area of 46,000 dunums which the Land Departrnent has 
partitioned amongst them and has agreed to transfer to them at 
300 mils per dunum, payable over ten years, provided they do not 
upset this partition. The balance of 14,000 dunums has been 
leased to neighbouring people who are in need of land at a fixed 
rent instead of on payment of rental tithe; it will be transferred 
to them by sale should they show that they can cultivate it 
adequately. 

The same thing will be done in the case of the Sukhur el Ghor 
Arabs still further north, and on completion of that work all State 
Land in the Jordan Valley will have been dealt with. 

23364 I2 


248 


12. Land Tax Law.—By the end of 1931 the Fiscal Survey had 
so far advanced that the draft Land Tax Law, which provided for 
the imposition of a tax of 6 per cent. of the gross annual yield 
of the land in place of the Werko, Tithe and Road Tax, was placed 
before the Legislative Council. This draft Law, which provided 
that a man would pay a tax in proportion to the extent of his 
cultivable land threatened the pockets of the larger landowners, 
who had hitherto paid less than their due, and it naturally met with 
strong opposition in the Legislative Council. Eventually the Law 
was passed in March of this year in a somewhat modified form 
which limited the increase in taxation to £P.10,000 and provided 
that, where the tax on any person exceeds by 50 per cent. or 
more the Werko, Tithe and Road Tax as assessed before the comin: 
into force of the Law, such excess should be payable during the 
first four years at a rate of one-fifth, two-fifths, three-fifths and 
four-fifths respectively, of the amount of the increase due. 


The Law did not come into force until June. 


As it was so long delayed a transitory law for the distribution 
of taxes in Kerak district and amongst the Beni Hassan tribe was 
enacted in June, 1932, whereby, without altering the total of the 
taxes due from the areas concerned, the taxes were distributed 
amongst the tribal areas in accordance with the fiscal survey 0! 
Kerak and in accordance with the partition and settlement whic! — 
the Land Department had carried out in the 600 square kilometre: 
occupied by the Beni Hassan tribe. 


The limitation of the tax increase to £P.10,000 has necessitated 
a great deal of recalculation and it has only been possible to declate 
the new tax in force in Ma’an, Kerak and Belga as from Ist April, 
1934. 

The average tax per dunum of cultivable land works out # 
21:78 mils. 


13. Steady improvement has been carried cut in the Land Regis- 
tries, and although the fees have been very considerably lowered. 
receipts from this source have risen from £P.2,915 in 1929 " 
£P.4,068 in 1933. 
was mucl! 
etru- 


ne 


14. The distress amongst the agricultural population 
relieved by the employment on the pipe-line and the Iraq P 
leum Company showed itself most willing to co-operate in © 
on men from the areas which were more severely affected. 


In addition, the Government spent £P.3,300 on relief road work 
and remitted £P.14.000 of the current year’s taxes. 


15. The Assistant British Resident and the Financial eee 
who both have an intimate knowledge of the country, 2° a : 


249 


out an annual comprehensive inspection of the standing crops 
- during the month of May. The report furnished by these officials 
_has proved of the greatest value. 


I6. An Economic Committee, appointed by the Amir to study 
and make recommendations regarding the condition of the country, 
_ advised the issue of seed loans to needy cultivators amounting to 
- £P.38,000. On the basis of this suggestion loans of £P.30,000 

have been issued. 


I7, The Municipal Advisory Board, composed of the Directors 
of Health and Fublic Works and representatives of the Depart- 
ments of Finance and General Administration, which has done such 
good work in the past, has been reformed by the new Government 
and will take several urgent matters in hand. 


I8. The royalties paid by Palestine Potash Limited are a 
welcome addition to the Government’s revenue. Areas of Govern- 
ment land to the north and south of the Dead Sea have been 
leased to the Company for making further evaporation pans. 


19. Four oil exploration permits have been issued to the Iraq 
Petroleum Company for areas in the Jordan Valley. 


20. A convention has been concluded with the Anglo-Persian Oil 
Company, Ltd., in order to facilitate the conveyance of mineral 
ails by that Company through Trans-Jordan. The terms of this 
Convention are substantially similar to those of the Convention 
concluded between the Company and the Palestine Government, 
the text of which is printed in Appendix III. 


Il.— FINAN CE. 
1. Public Debt. 


_ The figure of the public debt at the 3lst December, 1933, was 
£P.40,000. This figure was made up of £P.10,000 due to His 
Majesty’s Government on account of an advance of £P.20,000 in 
1927 for Earthquake Relief Loans, and £F.30,000 borrowed from 
the Palestine Government in December for the issue of seed loans 
to needy cultivators who have suffered from crop failures in recent 
years. The loan of £P.30,000 is repayable over a maximum period 
of four years and the first payment will be made in 1934-35. 


2. Comments on the Principal Variations in Expenditure. 


(1) The forecast of the actual expenditure of the Trans-Jordan 
Government for 1933-34, prepared on the data available at the 
31st December, 1933, shows that there will be an increase of 
£P.10,603 under ordinary expenditure and an increase of £P.6,371 
under extraordinary expenditure, compared with the actual 
expenditure of 1932-33. 


23364 13 


250 


(2) Under ordinary expenditure, approximately £P.2,800 of the 


increase is due to annual increments. The following are the 
principal increases in departmental votes :— 

£P. 
Pensions and Gratuities... ae ‘5 oe 1,700 
Agriculture and Forests... ae ee bs 1,000 
Public Works recurrent... a4: i Ae 1,000 
Police he nk ig — Yow ie 3,600 
£P.7 300 


(3) The increase under extraordinary expenditure is principally 
due to the provision of £P.4,000 for the improvement of water 
supplies, for which a special grant has been made from the Colonial 
Development Fund. (See Section X, paragraph 8.) 


3. Comments on the Principal Variations in Revenue. 


(1) The forecast of local revenue for 1933-34, based on the data 
available at the 3lst December, 1933, shows a decrease of £F.1,013 
as compared with the actual receipts for the previous year. The 
position under each head of Revenue is as follows :— 


Actuals. Forecast. 
1932-33. 1933-84. 
£P. £P. 

1. Customs and Excise ... ot 82 397 85 ,000 

9. Licences, Taxes, etc. ... 117,159 105 ,230 

3. Fees of Court or Office, etc. 29 ,804 30 ,420 

4. Posts and Telegraphs _.... 14,416 12,000 
5. Revenue from Government 

Property ae sees jee 3,495 3,250 

6. Interest oe A fon 863 630 

7. Miscellaneous Receipts sad 4,795 9,140 

8. Sale of State Domains __... 821 1,100 


(2) It will be seen that under Head 2, Licences and Taxes, the 
revenue has dropped by approximately £P.12,000. Owing to the 
failure of crops as a result of drought in many localities subject to 
fixed taxation, the Trans-Jordan Government was obliged to remit 


£P.14,000 of the current year’s taxes whereas only £P.8,000 wa: - 
remitted in 1932-33. In districts subject to annual tithe estimation, © 
the failure of crops resulted in the assessments being £P.8,200 


below those for 1932-33. 


There was also a considerable decrease of revenue from the Animal : 
Tax owing to the losses of livestock consequent on the lack of 


grazing, and to the sale of livestock by individuals whose crops failed 
in the previous year. 


1 
I 
| 


251 


Increased revenue under the new Income Tax Law and Licensing 
{ Trades and Professions Law, which replaced the Turkish Temettu 
‘ax, amounts to £P.5,450. In addition it is estimated that £P.1,000 
f Temettu Tax arrears from previous years will be collected by 
he end of the present financial year. 

(3) It is unfortunate that there should again be an extensive 
ulure of crops and further losses of livestock which have neutralized 
he slight improvement mentioned in the Report for 1932, page 206, 
aragraph 4. | 


4. Financial Position of the Trans-Jordan Government at 
3lst March, 1933. 


Inabilittes. Assets. 
£P. Mails. £P. Mils. 
Jeposits ... ... 15,353.898 Advances ... 13,978.788 
soans) (H.M.G.) 10,000.000 Imprests ... 1,999.418 
Xemittances sate 176.480 Cash and Bank 
ixcess of Assets Balances ... 28,957.038 


over liabilities 19,404.866 
£P.44 935.244 £P.44 935.244 


5. Arrears of Taxes. 


Continuing the survey of arrears begun by the Treasurer last 
rear (see the Report for 1932, page 206, paragraph 6), the following 
rrogress has been made :— 


(1) Final recommendations regarding the arrears of Ma’an 
and Madeba for the years up to 1930-31 were submitted and 
authority was given for the remission of the uncollectable 
portion. The remission of uncollectable arrears of Irbid, Jerash 
and Jebel Ajlun up to 1930-31 has also been authorized. 

- (2) The examination of arrears up to 1930-31 at Tafileh and 
Amman has been completed and final recommendations will 
shortly be made. 

(3) The examination of arrears up to 1930-31 at Es Salt and 
Kerak is nearing finality. 

(4) Approval for the remission of the uncollectable arrears 
of the year 1931-32 has been given. 

(5) Arrears of the year 1932-33 had been examined in most 
districts and a report is expected before the end of the financial 
year 1933-34. 

(6) Collection of arrears of taxes from the Ist April to the 
31st December, 1933, amounted to £P.2,765 as compared with 
£P.4,817 in 1932-33 and £P.2,583 in 1931-32, Having regard 
to the poor harvest in most districts in 1933, the position is not 
unsatisfactory. 


23346 I4 


252 


6. Control of Revenue Collection. 


On the Ist April, 1933, the control of Tax Collectors was tran 
ferred from Treasury Sub-Accountants to District Commissioner. 
On the whole it is considered that the change will in time prove 
be a success. Collections are in most cases lower than in 1932-3 
but it must be borne in mind that with the exception of Ma‘a, 
Tafileh and Kerak the harvest for 1933 was not so good as that of 
1932. At Ma’an and Tafileh there is a marked improvement 
revenue collection. At Kerak there is some improvement but no 
as much as might be expected having regard to the good harvest in 
that district. 


7. Revenue Reform. 


On the Ist April, the Turkish Temettu Tax was abolished and 
replaced by a simple form of Income Tax payable by employees and 
by a system of Licences for Trades and Professions. Tt is estimated 
that the Income Tax will yield revenue of £P.5,000 per annum and 
the Licences £P.4,100 per annum. The revenue from the old 
Temettu Tax in 1932-33 was £P.3,650. ) 


8. The new Land Tax, in lieu of Tithe, House and Land Tax and 
Road Tax, has been applied as from the Ist April to the liwas of 
Ma’an, Kerak (Kerak and Tafileh) and El Belqa (Amman, I 
Salt, Madeba) ; and the House and Land Tax Law, 1925 (Municipal 
Areas), to the towns of Ma’an, Tafileh and Kerak. 


9. Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure under Heads are 
given in the following tables. 





0Z0°SFE 888°Fos | 991° 9F0'SEES 919°L9E LEI‘OTE | S99°L0E | §L0°Z8S ozg°sog | 69F'8L2 dF “° ~ "* SPDIOL, 


SSE | eS ee | ee | ees | ae: | co ee | Gens | a eerie | STSCI eet OT PPA 


= — a — 009"9 cs =“ = = sss guSeTeq Wosy FUBI) 
*VUOTITLIGA OF) 
000‘¢9 000‘SL 000°00L‘F8 000‘F8 000‘0F 000‘or | 000‘SF 000‘99 L96‘SOI | Uepioe-suely, jo pry-Ul-yUEIL 
“9010 TetzaOLy 
GBL‘EE BEI‘6Z O80'EFF0E ZOP'SE GL¥‘IE FPO'LZ — — — Teplor-sueiy, jO pry-Ul-77eIx) 
QGZFFs «| GEL‘ES% §=«| Le zOE'scs §=—«|:«FOO‘OGS «=| SLT‘ees =| ~Ile'ees | ezo‘Les | Oze'9es | zoo'FLE | °° senuaaay YDIOT 1030], 
000‘T 128 BEE LLS‘T Z1F'T O9L OF Z8E 862'EI — ‘7 se" guTBUTO(T 07%9g Jo eTeg 
09a‘. *6L‘P ESl'S1Z'9 9OI‘T oZ6'T G18 Ser E98 LI9S sci ate eydrecoy SNOSUYTOOSTHY 
O&L £98 9F6'FE8 L96 I10'T 69L GL8‘T SIFT eP SES CAN 
096% cere 188'91E‘e 9LZ‘S OSL‘ SFO'S PEl'F 920'F PPS Ractang quUOUIUIEAOF) UOJ; onueseyY 
OLS‘IT O1F FI 909°9Z0‘TT LLL‘ST G10‘sT $926 00F‘S £99'F gg9°9 quouyiedeq sydviZejey, pues #3909 
00e‘08 $086 66I'809'FS 681‘9Z 966° ZOL‘FS G98‘ Loo‘6I s9e'sI on sdreooy e0WO pus sea 40D 
GZS‘OII | BQI‘LIL | Ize'peetIt | tse‘eer | zec‘est | ese‘str | zer‘ser | sso‘ser | soettol | °° "* goxXB], pue SsOUCOLy 
000‘6L L6E‘Z8 IST’ 6099 996‘F9 SOLFO 06E‘Z8 LES‘T9 ESL‘F9 $968? oe a; Os1IOXY puv suM0jeNyD 
as d3 TN ‘dF d3 df dF "d3 ‘d3 "dF 
Pe-ee6l | -pe-geer | -ee-Tee4r ‘T&-O86I | “O&-626T | “62-826I | *8e-L86I | “L2-986I | *98-S26T ‘sunoooy fo onty, 


PaRTUNS TT 


eee 
eae 


"MONT ANY 




















SIL‘08 PSES'8Z oeg-seo'es | SOC ee 
OOt't 896. ILS -S6U'T SOP'T Ov a 
ooo «= | wo =| ezt-zore §— | oor | boas ) 
: : "L0m £00°L L68‘9 089°9 QPL 029°6 986‘6 
vOE 8 199°8 691 S06 6 LOS*O 890°ZI 696'IT : : : 
oe aa LOG -Q9T‘9T PLO'S — ss : ae pail 
—s = a PLE'T — = — _ _ 
= = — 698 1&6 = a = — 
008°ZT 1OW‘SI 990-Z0L‘01 Tés'tl LOOT 0960 = — a 
OT8‘00I PE'S6 08L- 18°18 82118 S08‘F8 ZOL‘L8 996 Z0I 880 901 622 OF 
086‘SI 0OFEI 810-408'ZI1 969‘ZI TOL‘O 9EL‘9 QLE'T 18g = 
OT'SI L88°SI 920-221 ‘ZI ISP‘ 940‘0I LIL’6 vrE's 06F°L 166°9 
= aa — = <— aa £08 LO€‘T S6 
006°LT 898‘9T 99 -€L8°91 069‘9T €OL‘6I 6£0'0% L69‘LT CL6 ‘91 = 
000F LStF FOP: ESF 08t'>F 166°S 139° sge‘e 996‘ T19°GS 
— = ann _ a 806‘S 099° LI0% OIZ'T 
8L9°S 069‘ 0L0-019°S 9LE'S €68'1 ¥86'1 826° 7908's 18> 
090°L 6L¥'S O€9-0Z1‘9 962°9 8IF‘'g 060°8 8ee‘9 609°S 66F'T 
OLL‘SZ 88E'SS 99S - FLT ISL‘ EOFs ¥60°IS 8EL‘6l 3ES'8T TLO‘FI 
= —- ae 6 €I £0€ 697 one 
OOT ‘ZI 096‘TT 269: 162 11 006‘0I ¥E8°01 L96‘0I 606‘0I L96'8 SILL 
099°. 60F‘L 168 -6Z3'L L68‘9 200‘L E129 919°9 SSL'€ ISL‘F 
gso"rl 969°FI LOL -ZI9'FI O18'FI 99L‘C1 $96‘9I LOS‘LI 6EL‘FI TLE°6 
006°S 9ZL'E O1F-ZL9°€ 179° 689°S 160°S ¥Z0'S SII’ 6L8‘S 
007'9T 9L9°ST L¥9- $98" €60°91 840‘9I SF6'9T 6IT'9T She Fl ole'II 
003°0T €16'9 6L0-988'9 FOT'L 008°L O6LL Goe*L SLE‘L 8SL'L 
090°F GFL‘S 863 -989'S SIL‘S 689°F 400°9 €69°9 006°9 ogs*9 
0079 oer‘s 6LI-89L'F gag GOL‘S 609°E 108‘ P6L‘S SoP'T 
GE8‘E TL8°€ 99 -O€L'E 869°E CPP's vol ae = = 
169 06g 660-069 O€L 699 069 = a ve 
06% FT TShFT GLL- 966 SI 999°ET LEg‘eT STPF'9I 98 91 969‘9I ees! 
"d3 "d3 "SN “dd "d3 "dd "d3 "ds "dd “d3 
"Pe-Le6l | ‘wn : ; Pee pws sepa nn 
1657 | £8-6F6I | o8-TE61 ! [&-0861 | 0&-6661 : 66-8661 | 86-LO6I | Lo-966T | 96-S66T 





ea SMO a aoyucrg BUPIo Ll-sUVZy, 
| SU preog jog peque 
qWourzIeded IWpny 


eorog. “¥ 
—quoupredog SUOSLIG pue corog 
“* guouyredeq spuey 
- DOH VSTUUpY [Squyy, 
“+ qupuredog syderdopay, pus 990g 
* p8alg ZUQULIG 
“**  - guaLMoeY SHIOAA ONT 
“* quouyrede, sqI0M ofqnd 
ae  kyedoy puwy 
queuyiedeq sonmbynuy 
fxease}0 A pus syslog ‘omymMousy 
ie quounredeg uonsonpy 
an eUujUBIEN? 1e, VT 
* yrouyreded qyTeoH onqnd 
“* OSLOXY PUY SUIOZETK) 
"* quourzivdoeq sousuly 
ov “++ MMOD /BUByS 
queunyrede] peso] 
TOHVISUTMApY FOLrysiT 
“** JOLIOJU] PUB Je_STUTPY JoryD 
sorMZeI_) puw suoTsUET 
“* amgesiey 
seep Uso] paw sqoqt ONAN 
oe $sFT TAD 


"yunoooy fo ort, 





“AOLIGNeIXY 


ape‘sce | EssOre | Ge0-ERerrE | sesose | Lor'see | O96'STE | OOZ'SIE | OZO'SLZ | SLO'PLG lax  asnppusdzy poo), punsp 


SS | | eS | | SN A, 9 Sg cu eae 
ES 


ogg 186 em = = sa = = s ATCUIO}eA PUL 8}9810,T ‘oINyNONIY 
“o1QBly 
00% ae = =o a aaa ae — — UY eMeT JO UOIeTOD pus SutyUIIg 
SoI ‘I = aa aa re = = _— — - sfououl oqnd jo yo oI 
"uoIssIMmM0( ATepunog 
996 ma PEP: LP ai a = a — — uvpior - suvly,—o1ss sesuod xy 
os == 000 - 000'¢ a = — — = = (yuoudofeaeq pueq) wury oq) “H'H 
= — = €06'T = = ai = — “*  - goreaztqry ploy 
OLT’E 861% 616-F8E°9 OLS°L = = = — SUOSLIG PUv COT|IOT 
7 mai — I3U 13 6F9 <I = = a = MBredura) qsnoo'y 4Uuy 
AN Gls i 7 as ELE 886 ae — ma a " HTeeH oqng 
080°¢ Gog OST - SOFT 299'E E30 166% on = — eo10g JouOIy WepIo(-sTeyy, 
OFI's L98 209-896‘ £8 OZ1'S SLL‘ e68's E90‘ — “+ “sreqdextopey, pue 990g 
009 = ae ey — — geg = = QOUvULT 
000'6 TFSI eBL-Z81'21 | 68> 180'8 oge'9 626'TI SLE‘sI — - sHIOM OTTQNY 
= = 000-STE aa 692 CEST 960°6 $1 = quepIeey TSHUg 
= | ai = 6g GLIS L80‘E = = — * sIyMbYUY jo UOMPAICSUOZ 
"dS "dF ‘SRA “dF “dF “dé "dS ‘ds "dd "dF *KAVNIGUOVALXY 
: | 
Bemis | ‘P2-BE6I | ‘OE-I861 | T-O861 | ‘08-6861 | ‘68-8861 | 83-L86I | 18-9861 | ‘98-L26I | ‘qunoooy fo ap, 


Py 
“ponurjuoo— TAN LIGNIdIX 


256 


Ill.—_CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


The value of goods imported from Syria has fallen from 
£P.231,000 of local and £P.99,500 of foreign in 1927 to £P.65.0% 
and £P.12,736 respectively. The greater part of the Syrian trade 
now flows into Trans-Jordan from Palestine and in consequence 
the annual Customs payment made by Palestine to Trans-Jordan 
has been raised, as from the 1st October, 1931, from £P.25,500 to 
£P.33,000. 


2. The revenue for the calendar years from 1927 to 1933 (exclusive 
of the payments made by Palestine on account of re-exported foreign 
goods) is given in the following table. 


257 





— ees‘zt | sie‘eo | ezo1p | zie'se | poeoe | oorze | geese | guize (Ot mos, 














— OL6 S139 SHEP SEES 1e8‘T 916 189 6 | «(099 po ttt 8 pnoaumpeost pT 
= IL gage 18 992 99 FIZ 19 691 Lee Sh me. ed 
= 33 099 8E9 a! 619 L8P OLF rt i MT 
| > S9QUBDVT 
— 61Z SLOT £98 £96 VE8 400 186 PEL Ae Oe ES mee 
= ELS 98F‘SI e1E‘Ol CIPF'L rE6'9 009°¢ ZLO‘E 02 SF. oie SS. ESOS: 
> Souq 
— 916 11S 96I‘T PLOT SsI‘T 00‘ €9L 618 [OSS CE aS | SS ea beg 
-_ 901 CL¥P‘O 698°9 L8L‘E 9L6‘E 8ES'31_ | SII‘LI 966 OR oe -Aegeeaay, 
= €2F'S Tou'93 | SLeST | POST | LLE‘OT Tee‘sI | e68't | BOI‘OT | ott peromey 
> SULOISND 
‘dF "dF "dF "dF "dF "d3 ‘d3 ‘dF "dF 
‘semewvogy | ‘aenasout | “SEG 6S61 ‘Te6I ‘O86 | “6861 | ‘8861 | “L861 
paseo?) "supa X sppuany 


SE6I PUD Se6T 





‘aSIOXT GNV SWOLSAD 


258 


8. The large increase in the receipts for 1933 is due to the 
money brought into the country by the Iraq Petroleum Company | 
and distributed in wages which are being freely spent. Another 
contributory cause is the shortage in the heisheh crop which was a | 
more complete failure than last year; this has led to increased 
consumption of foreign cigarettes. 


The Legislative Council has refused to allow any control over 
the growing or sale of heisheh and a comparison of the tobacco 
excise receipts of 1931, a year when the crop was good, with thoz 
of 1933 will show that the difference is nearly £P.5,000. ‘To pre- 
vent this loss when the crop is bad, cheap tobacco is assisted tu 
compete in the market with heisheh by lowering the excise duty, 9 - 
that at present tobacco which is retailed at 10 mils for 40 grammes — 
only pays 120 mils per kilo instead of the 250 mils due on more ~ 
expensive kinds. In a good heisheh year, however, a further . 
reduction in the excise on cheaper tobacco would not keep the 
heisheh out of the market. 


4, During 1933, 9,174 kilogrammes of foreign and 55,061 of local ~ 
leaf were brought into the factories and 29,670 kilogrammes of — 
tobacco and 2,600 of cigarettes were manufactured. 


5. 6,824 litres of wines and 17,997 litres of arak and cognac were 
delivered from the three local factories, compared with 5,302 and — 
13,701 litres, respectively, last year. The increase in sales is prob- 
ably due to purchases made by labourers working for the Iraq 
Petroleum Company. 


6. The statistics taken at the six principal points of entry show 
that £P.527,400 worth of goods entered the country. It is est — 
mated that a further £P.65,000 worth entered uncontrolled, making 
a total of £P.592,000. 


IV.—LEGAL AND JUDICIAL. 


The course of instruction given by the Judicial Adviser and the 
President of the Court of Appeal to the Officers and Non-Comml- 
sioned Officers of the Arab Legion, has now been completed an 
the lectures in the Police School which have now been established 
will be continued by an official of the Arab Legion (see the Report 
for 1932, page 212, Section IV). 


2. The practicability of replacing the present Public Prosecutors 
by members of the Arab Legion is now under consideration. 


3. The inspection of Law Courts (see Section IV on page 212 of 
the Report for 1932), which had been entrusted to the fourth | 
member of the Court of Appeal, had to be suspended during ei ( 
summer as that member was required to relieve other judges "° | 
were ill or on leave. 


959 


4. The preparation of new Codes referred to on page 213 of the 
heport for 1932 has not been completed, though the work is pro- 
ceeding and is being encouraged by the present Chief Minister who 
i: a trained lawyer. The work undertaken in respect of these 
laws, consists of codifying and re-stating in a simple form existing 
provisions which it is desirable to retain, repealing what is useless 
und bringing the whole into agreement with the needs of the time. 
The rights of minorities will, of course, be adequately safeguarded. 
As regards Criminal Law, the precepts and practice of Islam have 
ug since been abandoned by Moslems themselves and the object 
isto draw up two modern Codes. 


). The practice has now been adopted of seeking the advice cf 
the Judicial Adviser in any case where the question arises of His 
Highness exercising his prerogative of pardon. 


6. Much attention has been paid by the Judicial Adviser to the 
procedure of extradition which has now been placed on a more 
uitisfactory basis and a new Extradition Law has been drafted in 
smple terms. 

During the year a new Extradition Agreement has been nego- 
uated with Palestine. Extradition Agreements are also being 
negotiated with Syria and Egypt. 


7. Under the terms of the Notary Public Law of 13829, a.u., 
cettain of the fees levied were allocated to the Notary Public. In 
128, it was thought desirable to modify this Law so that the 
Notary Public shall be a salaried official and all fees be paid to 
the Treasury. Since this change was made the fees accruing to the 
Treasury have steadily decreased and it has been decided to revert 
lo the earlier system. 


8. There is no employee in the Ministry of Justice capable of 
translating from Turkish to English, so the very considerable 
volume of work entailed in translating numerous laws from Turkish 
bas been undertaken by the Judicial Adviser. 


260 


8L 


fo yovT 


91Z 


vol 


L9G 
CVG 
€&<6 
Lol 


“posoposip 
a auaffo ON 


‘PHT ven’ 


619 


“‘souepera 
yuaso—neu 7 





i Se ne oe 


Oz (pr) 
rz } 66 6F (2) 
6¢ 6<¢ €g (9) 


“po}eures/vuIe saseo FT (P) 


“DsQUOS) 


o19 8oI 


Olé 
261 Ip 6LI 
PLI 907 “806 
ovl 9 09T 
! 
“euorzuan 


WU ea 





"(0147 40f yuae soenp 


“‘poproep seenp fo ssnjpnoysog 





622 
aa 
801 
981 


-sv0h 
fo pua qo 
buspued 


808D/) 


Z09°S L89°S PFI "Seer (Pp) 
190° | $60‘ ZOL "Zeer (9) 


696T | 898‘T gst |“ 1g6t (9) 
LoOT | GPL‘T L9 "O861 (0) 
ssa fo 
“ponsaces | bugusu: 
papscop | Poe a anes 
ene man Buspuad 
8980) 


“SHUOLQOASOUd OLIGNd AHL AG AACYW NOILVOLLSAANT IVNIWIU)) 


261 


IL3‘TZ 











zoe‘e | ete‘it | eat‘es | gro‘s | soc'st | eoo'ts | 1r0'z zzo'st | sto‘st | size | eez'er | -° smo, 

£62 see | o19 ost oer | gog 002 SOE 169 L¥G VE yore, 

062 ore | etn 99% sch | Zi 793 SOF 809 991 SE ue,eyy 
+P 126 «=| Svat «| «(8a Ligt | wet | ser | eet | seat | gee L96 aq opeyy 

ZBL To. | 9s9't | ¢99 e66 | ror | 82g 9801 | eaz't | zeg on Yo 

991 oLt't | ¥90°% | 869 99F'1 | Gest | egg ore't | sel | Zar sor | “unify jeqor 

zor | sect | cove | zee't | gate | oes | 106 soo’ | pze% | eeot | el |  aeg-eg 

zer‘t | ego's | zee’e | sort | sees | vez's | 208 Luet =| Bre | SEL LLOT | || ROY 

or0'% | LzI'z =| ere'e | seett | iso's | vaste | Fe o19's | gece | Fert | eoe'z pIqa] 

ogee | zoz‘s | 2999 | go's | Fe0'e | ger'e | 96's ess's | ee | gent | eez'z ueUTUry 
ousug | parg | mo | puswug | pap | mo, | urug | “nap | “roy | rou | -patp Prony 

| | | —_— | mo i_- _ cr \y moo i  —x—_—-:'! q—' ~———_—'l———————_ iwc O UDA 
GE6I ZE6l "Ie6l O61 
"SS6I AONV SEBl *1E6T ‘Og6T Sava, wANOT FHL NI GHUAINA Sasvyi) £0 SaVLOOLLAV EG 
‘$LUN0D ,SHLVYLSIOV]T 
ssr_ | OI CF oz | 9b | 982 88 ee | osm | (162 e9 9 fc oc Seer 
rt | €0l Se er | ere | SLI GL zu. | sem | 3g zol «| PEL BRET 
ger | 6L rag gt | 99% | ePt Lg co | Ler | 9% 08 oer tt OTS6E 
tel | UL Le €2 | 22s | 88 *9 o. | op | Ist 08 cor | so" OSL 
smo z,| “StnOUDaU ! -cous, ‘esnouneus | -porys, S4NOUTAUL | ore) 
-opes 9 | nary | PE apes py Ol mas |r| -epesar MO | pag 
pousws.s9 pousurssy yours wed 
ng I 8 


“EE6I ANV ZEGl ‘IEG ‘OE6I SUVAA BAO, AHL NI awuyING SUSV) 40 SUWIOOLLEVG 
‘AONVLSNY LSU AO sLryn0O 


262 


CouRT oF APPEAL. 


PaBTICULARS OF APPEALS ENTERED IN THE FOUR YEARS 1930, 1931, 1932 ann 1933. 














Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
From From 
Year. Courts From Courts From ; Total. 
: Magistrates : Magistrates 
of First Courts of Firat Court 
Instance shoal Instance : 
1930 51 592 149 680 1,372 
1931 61 579 189 667 1,496 
1932 33 667 209 735 1,644 
1933 45 682 217 680 1,624 
Civin Actions, 19383. 
Oo ope nee ee 
| padi 
Ferdind | New Cases | Cases | 314 Det 
1933. entered. decided. 1933. 
ee cme aS PMN: am rece 
Appeals from Courts of 3 45 42 6 
First Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ 38 682 678 42 
Courts. cee Re roe eet —— 
Totals 0000. 41 727 720 48 
Se — 
Courts of First Instance: 
Amman ee es 34 96 92 38 
Irbid ... 0 we. an 14 42 54 2 
Kerak ...00 oe ae 3 26 25 4 
ee oes He eee 
Totals...  ... 61 164 171 “4 
eT ee I Oe eee _—_—_——————— 
Magistrates’ Courts: 
Amman ae 148 2.767 2.722 rt 
Irbid ... sae ee 39 2,127 2,110 46 
Kerak ...0 9 00. ues 26 2,089 2,019 fa 
Salt de 108 1,538 | 1,492 a 
Jebel Aun oz sae — 1,175 1,089 0 
Jerash . ike | ue 9 701 690 36 
Madeba_ ee 95 927 986 19 
Ma’an and Maha pe 40 310 331 ae 
Tafileh... 0... 00 4. 8 335 343 | 
Totals ... 473 11,919 11,782 610 


ts Re ay To eA ene re a ee 


ee 7 


263 


ToTAL NUMBER OF ACTIONS IN CIVIL CourTS INCLUDING 
Court oF APPEAL. 











Pending at 
Year. beginning New Actions Actions Pending at 
of year. entered. decided. end of year. 
19380 . 576 20,772 20,838 510 
1981 . 510 24,007 23,902 615 
1932 . 615 25,768 25,412 971 
1983. 971 23,949 23,365 1,555 
CRIMINAL CAsEs, 1933. 
Pendung Pending 
lst Jan., ast ey dei 3lst Dec., 
1933. : : 1933. 
Appeals from Courts of 9 217 205 21 
First Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ 28 680 637 71 
Courts. a 
Totals... Bea 37 897 842 92 
Courts of First Instance : 
Amman per os 12 354 341 25 
Irbid ... dee vee 9 374 365 18 
Kerak ... 2 2 162 162 . 2 
Totals ... 23 890 . 868 45 
Magistrates’ Courts 
Amman 114 2,630 2,488 256 
Irbid ., 23 2,040 1,974 89 
Kerak .. 16 1,122 1,129 9 
Es-Salt 90 1,025 939 176 
Jebel Ajlun 7 756 668 88 
Jerash .., | 14 7182 172 24 
Madeba... 50 414 421 43 
Tafileh | 10 293 302 1 
Ma’an | 29 290 289 30 
Totals .. | 346 9,352 8,982 716 


264 


898°800'S 6Z9°9Z2 61g°09Z —Ba0reLtt «| | QIaZFT 















e, T9.L 
OSTITl 960°6 900°9T . O80°19 OSOTL | Us By 
688891 6F6'92 069°&2 00%'66 000° Wye, 
O€L'eIé 09¢'éF G8o'ZE Qg1°98T 00€°8z eqopryy 
GSS'S9E 969°89 062°SZ GZ0'SLI SILI yseior 
P9L°908 ¢99'°0E FED LE GL8"ESS 009° IT unity Teqor 
080°99L QLE'SPI SII'SII OFO'SEF 099°98 WPS -87 

— SLU00/2 ,SaLVALSIOVIN 
698°L96‘S 06L°S#9 OFO' LLP 62859‘ FOE SII‘ 918'OFF'T "10,7, 
ZEQ' IPS 09e'19 O18'F6 ZOL'989 OOT'¥9 009°F9 y819 5] 
L16°99¥'Z 098° FOI OIF 18 Z6P'S89 FPO LLP 129° POL ‘T ***pIqiy 
0ZF'040' 080°0FF 028°00€ GL9°680‘T 083289 969° LZS uvUlUry 


—! GUNIGWOO SLHN0O ,SALVALSIOVAY 
GNV HONVISN] Lsulg 40 Lan09 


ee cee em eS cee |e peer RE |g gS TS RS | eee a A SS ES | A A a TS 


— — ——- OI 6EI IWaddyY dO LAno/) 
TW ‘ds BIW “dd TW ‘dF "SIN “dS 
“UORNIEL IT *sUuotp Py 
‘sao ONIN uo seq uo seq 
‘POL fisr0 N ee "panog fo nuny 
"1489 | "poususesy 


‘GG6L ‘SLUQ00 TAIN JO FNNAATY 


265 


TotaL REVENUE OF THE CIVIL CouRTS FOR THE FIVE YEARS 
1929, 1930, 1931, 1932 AND 1933. 





Crminal: | Civil Notary 
Your. ——T Frecson | Feeson | Public | Total. 
Pines Costs Actions. | Execution Pees. 
€P. Mils.| £P. Mils | £P. Mils.| £P. Mils. | £P. Mils. | £P. Mils. 
199 2.128.069 | 806.465 | 4,972.793 | 483.739 | 1,640.148 | 10,031.214 
1930 1,702.294 | 1,138.127 | 4,720.359 | 879.085 | 1,642.849 | 10,082.644 
1931 1,428.149 | 777.909 | 4,496.741 | 813.920 | 1,312.257 | 8,828.976 
1932 1,188.196 | 774.559 | 4,590.623 | 916.535 | 1,216.423 | 8,686.336 
1933 1,255.609 | 1,557.566 | 3,683.094 | 727.359 | 972.319 | 8,095.947 





V.—EDUCATION. 


The Government has continued its policy of training its school- 
masters in agriculture so that instruction may thus be more quickly 
disseminated amongst the boys. 

To this end, arrangements were made with the Near East 
Foundation in Syria to take six teachers for a short course of six 
weeks and two boys who had passed through the tenth class for 
a course of one (and possibly two) years at their farm in Talabaya. 
In addition, four more boys from Trans-Jordan have joined the 
Kadoorie School in Palestine for a combined course of agriculture, 
secondary education and teaching lasting three years; and two 
schoolmasters have joined the same school for a year’s instruction 
In agriculture. 

The personnel thus trained are posted to schools which already 
have gardens : there are twenty-eight such gardens comprising an 
area of 264 dunums. 


2. A trained agriculturist has been appointed to take particular 
charge of this branch of village school work and has the gardens 
i excellent order. Two hours practical instruction daily is in- 
cluded in the curriculum. 


3. A grant of £P.300, made by His Excellency the High Com- 
missioner to encourage school gardens, was allotted to poultry and 
bee-keeping but has not yet been spent because the very serious 
Water shortage, which forced many villagers to bring their water 
from very considerable distances, rendered it inadvisable to make 
any additional calls on the available supplies. 


4. The financial difficulties of the people caused by the drought 
has also made it necessary for the Government to advance a sum 
of £P.340 to supplement the money subscribed by the people to 
repair village schools. 


266 


5. Sixty-six schools are maintained by the Government, of which 
four have Secondary classes, one is an Arts and Crafts School, 
one a Kindergarten, ten are for girls, one is for the children of 
Arab Legionaries and is situated in their lines, and four, estab- 
lished at posts in the Desert, are for the Beduin soldiers of the 
Desert Patrol and for Beduin children. 

In these schools 5,560 children are instructed by a staff of 120 
men and 30 women. 

For a number of years now the Government has maintained 
five boys at the Beirut University and two girls in the Women’s 
Elementary Training College, Jerusalem ; with these, on the com- 
pletion of their course, and with others who have passed out of 
the Trans-Jordan Secondary Schools it has been possible to replace 
nearly all those who were not Trans-Jordanians among the Govern- 
ment teaching staff. 

The Arts and Crafts School is a very satisfactory institution, 
the standard of instruction is high and boys leaving the school 
on completion of their course can readily find employment in the 
country. 

In addition to the Government schools there are a number of 
Community Schools as under :— ' 














Attendance. Teachers. 
Kind. No. 
Male. Female. Male. Female. 
Moslem 67 1,781 159 66 8 
Greek Orthodox 13 387 114 13 4 
Church Missionary 
Society 4 91 47 4 6 
Greek Catholic 21 590 77 26 2 
Latin 24 952 804 43 (a) 24 (b) 
Others 3 119 101 1 4 
132 3,920 1,802 153 48 
Totals: ame ae seca aaeaas cr aaa 
5,222 201 
(a) Includes Priests who give lessons. (b) These are Nuns. 


VI.—_HEALTH. 


The establishment of the Department of Public Health has 
remained the same as in 1932; and the expenditure was £P.12,392 
as against £P.11,960 in 1932, which represents 3:4 per cent. of 
the total expenditure of the Government. 

2. Vital Statistics.—No census of the country has yet been taken. 


The population, including the nomadic tribes, is roughly estimated 
at 305,000. 





267 


10,900 births were notified during the year, giving a birth rate 
of 836°3 per thousand, compared with 10,871 births notified in 1932 
or 35°5 per thousand. 

7,354 deaths were notified during the year, giving a death rate 
of 24:5 per thousand, compared with 6,152 notified in 1932 or 
200 per thousand. 

The infant mortality rate is 203 per thousand births, compared 
with 210 in 1932. This rate is unduly high and may be attributed 
to the following causes :— 


(1) The majority of the inhabitants are uninstructed as 
to the proper feeding and clothing of their children and being 
poor and obliged to work must leave the baby in the care of 
its small sister who is hardly big enough to hold it in her arms. 

(2) It has not so far been practicable to provide more than 
one Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in Amman and 
another in Es Salt which is run on a very small scale. Women 
can go on payment to the Italian and English hospitals in 
Amman for their confinement. 

(3) The majority are unwilling and generally unable to pay 
for medical attendance, though free attendance would be wel- 
comed. 

(4) The notification of deaths is undoubtedly more accurate 
than the notification of births as there is a superstition that 
the notification of birth may bring harm to the child. 


3. Infectious and Communicable Diseases.—The total number 
of cases notified was 4,369. Total deaths 315, compared with 
1,818 cases and 1386 deaths for 19382. The classification is as 
follows :— 


1932. 1933. 
Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
Typhoid 94 8 132 14 
Measles 425 48 2,010 185 
Mumps 47 = 211 = 
Paratyphoid 52 4 26 — 
Pneumonia 143 30 212 48 
Dysentery 152 5 273 4 
Influenza . ie bes Spe 615 23 1.086 41 
Whooping Cough ... wed re 166 7 202 — 
Chicken Pox si ie 55 1 78 1 
Puerperal Fever ... 8 2 8 3 
Relapsing Fever ... 3 — 1 — 
Typhus_... wus 19 3 68 7 
Erysipelas ... 20 _ 23 3 
Anthrax... 4 — 10 — 
Scarlet Fever 1 — 1 — 
Small Pox ... ae 9 3 9 3 
Encephalitis Lethargica sige 1 1 1 1 
Tetanus... sib : — — l 1 
German Measles ... — — 11 — 
Diphtheria 3 l 2 1 
Hydrophobia 1 — 4 & 


268 


The increase in the number of cases and deaths is due chiefly 
to the epidemics of influenza and measles, accounting for 2,096 
cases and 226 deaths. 


4. Vaccination against Smallpox.—The number of vaccinations 
and re-vaccinations performed by the Department during the year 
was 78,500 compared with :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
12,680 16,676 41,080 64,410 23,228 30,996 66,103 


5. Malaria and Anti-malaria Measures.—The number of new 
cases of malaria reported from Government and Voluntary Clinics 
was 1,876, compared with :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
— 8,972 5,296 2,605 1,476 1,454 1,283 


The increase over the previous year was chiefly due to a large 
number of infections at Zerka-Ma’in mineral baths (Madeba Dis- 
trict) and cases from the new settlement in the desert at Azrak 
where marshes are numerous. With the opening of the new motor 
road a very large number of people repaired to the baths before 
adequate anti-malarial measures had been taken. At the Azrak 
oasis there has been a revival of cultivation and a considerable influx 
of Druse and Shishan from Zerka, Sukhneh and Suweilih villages. 
The Beduin have started to cultivate as well and the growing of 
dates is being encouraged. These new arrivals neglected the 
advice of the Health authorities to pitch their tents at a distance 
from the marshes and have suffered accordingly. 

A total of 9,222 children below twelve years of age from dif- 
ferent parts of Trans-Jordan, including the Jordan Valley, were 
examined by the Medical Officers of Health dumnng September, 
October and November, 1933, for enlarged spleen. 


The spleen rate was found to be 3°8 compared with : 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931, 1932. 
Percent. Percent. Percent. Percent. Percent. Percent. Per cent. 
25°3 19-0 14-9 9-5 6-6 5-8 4°5 


The Department of Health carried out routine work in the use 
of larvicides, mosquito proofing of cisterns and other receptacles, 
cleaning and canalising of streams and other water courses, etc. 
The inhabitants in the villages provided the required labour free; 
and the Municipalities provided the labour and oil for municipal 


areas. 


6. Government Hospitals and Clinics. 


The Department maintained Amman Government Hospital, 
capacity 22 beds, the eight-bedded Epidemic and Detention Posts 


269 


at Kerak, Ma’an, Amman and Irbid, the four-bedded Posts at 
Jerash, Tafileh and Aqaba, and the six-bedded Detention Posts at 
the Central Prisons, Amman. The admissions to the hospital and 
these posts during the year numbered 545, discharges 503 and 
deaths in hospital 34, compared with 508 admissions and 29 deaths 
for the year 1932. 


Provision has been made in the Estimates of each of the past 
three years for opening a Government Hospital in Irbid but on each 
cecasion bad seasons and more urgent calls on the public purse 
have made it necessary to delay the-work. With the disappearance 
of the Church Missionary Society Hospital in Es Salt the Govern- 
ment is now faced with the need of establishing a hospital there 
as well. 

The total attendances at the Government clinics and dispensaries 
during the year numbered 132,160, compared with 135,426 in 
1932: 110,921 in 1931; 97,786 in 1930; 80,716 in 1929; and 
74,181 in 1928. 


This large volume of work calls for an increase of staff and an 
increase of funds for medical stores. 


1. Voluntary Hospttals and Clinics. 


The admissions to voluntary hospitals during the year, discharges 
and deaths were as follow :— 


Total admissions.| Total discharges. No. of deaths in 











Hospital. 
Name of Hospital. 
1982. 19388. 1982. 19388. 1932. 1988. 
| 
Church Missionary 449 507 413 473 29 46 


| 
| 
Hospital, Es Salt. | 
The English Hos- 154 93 146 88 9 7 
pital, Amman. | 
The Italian National 428 
Association Hos- | 


505. | 411 471 17 20 
pital, Amman. 





The attendances at voluntary clinics were 21,143, compared with 
20,510 for 1932 and 21,133 for 1931. 


8. Licensing of Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists, Dentists and 
Midwives. 


During the year, seven doctors, a dentist, a pharmacist and two 
midwives were licensed to practise their profession in Trans-Jordan. 


270 
9. Government Laboratory. 


4,323 different specimens were examined at the Government 
Laboratory, Amman, compared with 3,595 and 2,849 in the two 
previous years. 


10. School Medical Service. 


The Medical Officers of Health continued the routine inspection 
of Government and voluntary schools for medical and sanitary ser- 
vices. Eijach year improvements are made in so far as circum- 
stances permit. 3,870 school children were medically examined, 
of whom 898 were suffering from trachoma (23:1 per cent.), and 
108 from enlarged spleens (2°7 per cent.). 2,317 were vaccinated 
against small pox. 283,364 attended the ophthalmic clinics, com- 
pared with 283,928 for 1932 and 263,580 for 1931. The school 
teachers rendered considerable assistance at these clinics. 


INFANT WELFARE. 


Number Registered Total attendance No. of visits by 
. Nurse to the 
during the year. at the Centre. hoses 
Amman Centre a 746 9644 1972 
Es Salt Centre oe 88 940 — 


11. The Department continued to pay the salary of the nurse for 
Amman Centre and to supply drugs and dressings for both centres. 


12. Anti-Rabic Measures. 


_ Twenty-five persons bitten by animals suspected of rabies were 
treated at Government Centres with prophylactic antirabic vaccine 
treatment. Four, with severe bites in the face, three from a mad 
wolf and the fourth from a hyena, developed hydrophobia and died 
in spite of a complete course of treatment. No case of hydro- 
phobia occurred in 1932. 


13. Water Supplies. 


Irbid Water Supply Scheme was nearing completion at the close 
of the year. It has cost so far £P.4,592. At Zerka the building 
of the reservoir and laying of all piping were completed. A reset- 
voir was built on Ein-Shelha in Tafileh town costing the Munici- 
pality £P.45 ; the inhabitants supplied all labour free. Other small 
repairs to wells and springs in a few villages were made with the 
chief object of lessening the chances of water contamination. On 
account of the shortage of rain during last winter the majority of 
the people, especially in north and in Madaba district, had much 
difficulty in procuring water for drinking and other purposes. 








271 
l4. Municipal Public Health Services. 


The Municipalities continued the employment of municipal sani- 
tary Sub-Inspectors who work under the direct control of the 
Medical Officers of Health. 


Those Municipalities which have streams passing through the 
municipal areas, provided the labour for their cleaning and proper 
canalisation. The Government provided all Municipalities with the 
larvicides for use in antimalarial work. Es Salt Municipality has 
completed the construction of public lavatories. 


15. Ltcensing of Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments. 


The number of licences issued or renewed by the Department of 
Health was 1,230 in municipal areas and 689 for villages. 


VII.—_ POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


The figures in the table of statistics for the year 1933 show an 
Increase over the year 1932 in every item but two: this progress in 
the business of the Department was mostly due to the operations 
of the Iraq Petroleum Company. 


2. Posts—The mail services were maintained with regularity 
throughout the whole year and the following improvements therein 
Were made :— 


(1) Motor transport replaced animal transport for the mail 
services of Irbid, Jerash, Madeba, Hosn and Remtha. 


(2) The weekly mail service by train to Ma’an was supple- 
mented by an additional weekly service by motor car. 


(3) The commission on Inland Money Orders was decreased 
from an average of half per cent. to an average of a quarter 
per cent. It is to this reduction that the considerable rise in 
the numbers and value of Inland Money Orders during the 
year may be attributed. 


The large increase in the numbers and value of Foreign Money 
Orders is wholly due to the use made of the service by the employees 
of the Iraq Petroleum Company working on the pipe-line. 


The increase of 42 per cent. in the figures for correspondence has 
not affected the revenue to any great extent and it is believed that 
the period during which the statistics were taken was not a normal 
one. : 


A pictorial set of postage stamps was issued on the Ist February, 
displaying the most important antiquity sites in Trans-Jordan ; 
the frames were designed by the Headmaster of the Arts and Crafts 
School at Amman. The issue is to remain in use for one year only. 


272 


International transit statistics to determine the fees due on corre- 
spondence to each country for foreign mails were taken during the 
period 15th October to 11th November, 1933. 


3. Telegraphs.—As a result of the Telecommunication Con- 
vention held at Madrid in 1932 the rate on urgent telegrams was 
decreased from triple to double the ordinary rate. The Con- 
vention made other minor changes in International Telegraph. 
Telephones and Radiocommunications Regulations and these wil! 
be brought into force in the year 1934. 


4. Telephones.—There is a marked increase in the number of 
private subscribers. 


A direct Trunk Call service with Syria and the Lebanon was 
established as from September, 1933, but the appropriate agreement 
has not yet been concluded. 


5. Engineering.—The lines and exchanges were satisfactorily 
maintained and in addition to the ordinary works of the engineering 
section the following were carried out :— 


(1) Laving a second pair of lines over the route Amman- 
Madeba-Dhiban to complete a direct circuit between Amman 
and Kerak. This enabled the removal of 30 kilometres of 
wire laid on Railway poles from Amman to Zizia and the ~ 
saving of £P.100 per annum which the Department formerly | 
paid to the Railwavs for the use of their Amman-Katrani line. 


(2) Improving the lines to Police posts between Jerash- 
Medwar; MIrbid-Kura; Irbid-Melka; Kerak-Mazar; and 
Amman-Sahab. 


(3) Improving the trunk lines between Amman-Kerak and | 
Katrani-Kerak. — 


(4) Building a metallic circuit for the Police Post at Ghor 
El Nazra’a, 30 kilometres in length, and removing the old 
earth return circuit. The poles of the new circuit were erected 
along the new motor road which has been made from Kerak 
to the Dead Sea. 


(5) Building a metallic circuit 35 kilometres in length beside 
the Dead Sea between the Police Posts at Ghor el Mezra‘a 
and Ghor el Safi. 


At the request of the Department the Chief Engineer of the Posts 
and Telegraphs Department in Palestine visited Amman with a 
view to examining the condition of the telephone service and 
recommending the best and most economical type of exchange to 
replace the present old magneto switchboard. 





273 
TRAFFIO STATISTICS, 1933. 


Increase or 
Item. 1932. 1933. Decrease per 
cent. 

Correspondence (Letters, Postcards, Printed 299,347 427,197 + 42 

Papers, ete.). 
Parcels, Inland ... 2,622 2,990 + 12 
Parcels, Foreign— 

Despatched 323 276 — 165 

Received 2,451 2,535 + 4 
Telegrams, Inland 6,803 7,814 + 16 
Telegrams, Foreign— 

Despatched 3,522 3,898 + lil 

Received sues 3,339 3,665 + 10 
Telephone Subscribers— 

Number re 371 403 + 9 

Kilometres 303 321 + 6 
Telephone Call Offices, anier: 40 41 + $3 
Telephone Trunk Lines, kilometres a 1,235 1,300 + 6 
Telephone Trunk Calls, Inland, despatched ... 83,026 ee 
Telephone Trunk Calls, a + 8 

Despatched ... — 11,093 { 

Received sie — 7,948 
Money Orders, Inland— 

Number sa wae bits 4,422 5,613 + 27 

Value : B ... £P.15,046 21,813 + 465 
Money Orders, ee ere 

Number be 2,738 4,148 + 52 

Value ... , £P.8,419 16,808 + 100 
Money Orders, pore esdivea< 

Number ag 218 257 + 18 

Value ... : re . £P.1,544 1,603 + 4 
British Postal Orders js ue 

Number fe ves 1,304 1,948 + 49 

Value ... £P.857 1,226 + 43 
British Postal Orders seuss 

Number pa bie ta 338 215 — 36 

Value ... % £P.81 151 + 86 
Palestine Postal Onder, paid 

Number ie ae Lint 1,692 2,089 + 24 

Value ... . £P.1,497 1,829 + 22 


VITI.—AGRICULTURE. 


1. The season’s rainfall was approximately half the average, but 
as it was well distributed in most parts of the country a total crop 
failure was averted and in many districts the result was only little 
below normal. 

In the greater part of Kerak and Tafileh the crops were very 
good and large quantities of grain were exported to Palestine, 
but on the eastern slopes of the Jordan Valley and in the un- 
irrigated parts of the Valley itself there was a total failure. The 


274 


drought reduced pastures considerably, causing the loss of many 
animals, whilst the failure of springs and the exhaustion of wells 
brought much hardship in their train. 

The olive crop failed almost entirely, but vinegrowers, in those 


few areas where the harvest was good, earned handsome profits — 


by sales in Palestine. Trans-Jordan produces a very fine type of 
grape and the area of vineyards has been largely increased dung 
the past few years. A considerable proportion of the crop is made 
into raisins by sun-drying. 


2. Interest in the cultivation of fruit trees continues to grow 
and in pursuance of its policy of distributing only grafted trees 
the Department has grafted 50,000 out of the 241,000 fruit trees 
which it has cultivated in its nurseries. These grafts are taken 
from trees which have been imported in many varieties from Italy 
and England and which have, in part, been planted in the Govern- 


ment gardens and in part distributed to individuals on condition — 
that the Government may obtain grafts from them. All grafted — 


trees are now sold at a small cost so that the people who obtain 
them may take more care of them and not merely obtain a number 
of trees because a neighbour has done so. 

Nurseries for fruit trees are maintained at Roseifa, Jerash, 
Madeba and Irbid, and for forest and ornamental trees in Amman; 
a nursery for sub-tropical fruit is about to be opened in the Jordan 
Valley. 

An attempt is being made to create an interest in date-cultiva- 


tion at Azrak and other suitable places and £P.300 is to be spent — 
on bringing suckers of selected varieties from Iraq next spring. — 


Experimental plots at Samar, Suf and Theneyah, covering an 
area of 68 dunums, have been sown with varieties of wheat, barley 
and leguminous crops, and two tons of Renown potato seeds have 
been imported from Scotland and issued for experimental purposes 
at Addesiyeh, Bagoura and Zor el Kattar in the Jordan Valley. 


3. The school gardens (see Section V, paragraph 1) are attract-_ 


ing greater attention as a result of the instruction imparted to 
the school masters, and it is intended in future years to arrange 


for a summer course at the Department’s main nursery at Roseifa — 


to be given to the teachers. 
Each school garden has an area set apart for ornamental and 


another for fruit trees; but unfortunately in this dry year only 


3,000 ont of the 5,500 trees which were planted have survived. 
The drought has also delayed the establishment of poultry runs 


and bee-hives in a number of the gardens which were to be paid 


for from the High Commissioner’s gift; so the only expenditure 
from the gift has been on account of rain gauges which have been 
placed in seven schools in different parts of the country. 


4. The popularity of vegetable cultivation is increasing: this 
year some 22,000 dunums were under cultivation, and it 1s hoped 








275 


to stimulate interest further by growing vegetables in the school 
gardens and distributing seeds and seedlings from that service. 


5. Except for some 200 cases of scabies the country has been 
remarkably free from animal diseases, nor has there been any 
serious visitation of pests or plant disease. 

Over two thousand dogs were destroyed as a preventive measure 
against rabies. 


6. Nejdian butter is now sold at a price 35 per cent. less than 
that of the local butter and Persian butter has disappeared from 
the markets. 

Large numbers of eggs preserved in lime continue to arrive 
from Iraq. There is a local prejudice against poultry-keeping 
which has not yet been overcome. This is regrettable as the 
local egg is large and of good flavour; but there is hope that the 
poultry runs which are to be established in school gardens will 

a good example to farmers. : 


1. Considerable sums of money have been made by cultivators 
by the collection and sale of organic manure; over a thousand 
wagon loads were sent into Palestine by train. 


8. In order to encourage the fishing industry at Aqaba the law 
whereby all fish caught had to be sold by auction and a percentage 
of the price paid to the Government was repealed and a tax of 
5 mils per rotl was imposed in lieu. The industry, however, has 
not revived and fish from the Euphrates is brought through to 
Palestine in the motor cars of the mail contractor. 


_ 9. The reduction in the export of wool by some 50 per cent. 
is attributed to the wastage and poor condition of the flocks and 
to the weakness of the American market. 


10. Hitherto the forests in Trans-Jordan have not been regis- 
tered as Government property as their extent was unknown. Now, 
fo enable the Government to prevent their destruction, they have 

n declared to be under Government protection. This duty of 
“onservation has proved very difficult, for vines thrive in the hill 
“ountry of Ajlun where the best forests are found and cultivators 
Persist in advancing their vineyards into the afforested areas. 

_ The Department of Lands has now begun Land Settlement and, 
th © process, is demarcating and registering the forest areas in 
© name of the Government. 

ee _ process at first met with considerable opposition because the 
ba € feared that every foot of land bearing forest trees would be 
- ee Government property whereas they regard all the land 
a a8 Own. The work is, however, now proceeding more smoothly 
sae a8 been realized that the Government will only claim and 
will cate the more extensive afforested areas and, having done s0, 

cancel its declaration that the whole area is under Government 


276 


protection and thus leave the people at liberty to clear for cultiva- 
tion the remaining tree-covered cultivable patches and uproot the 
scattered trees growing in their fields. 

The conclusion had almost been reached that forest areas could 
not be conserved unless they were enclosed within a fence, a pro- 
cedure beyond the financial resources of Trans-Jordan. But the 
demarcation of forest areas by iron standards of a special colour 
driven into the ground at frequent intervals has revived the hope 
that the State forests can be safeguarded by that means alone, if a 
forest guard 1s appointed to each village where forests exist. 

Intensive patrolling is necessary whilst Land Settlement is pro- 
ceeding, for the people are busy clearing what they can before the 
authorities decide what is to be the property of the State. 

A barren hillside adjoining the Arts and Crafts School on the 
outskirts of Amman which was planted with pines, now, after three 
years, presents a most satisfactory appearance. 


IX.—LANDS. 
1. Survey. 

The work which was begun in 1928 under the Land Demarcation, 
Survey and Valuation Law covering the settled area of Trans- 
Jordan, has been completed. 

The results may be summarised as follows :— 

(a) All village boundary disputes have been settled. 

(b) The land has been valued for the purpose of reassessment — 
and equitable distribution of the Land Tax. 

(c) All State Domain has been recorded, demarcated and — 
surveyed. 

The cost amounts to £P.44,000, or 5 mils per dunum, and the — 
resulting increase in the assessment of Land Tax is £P.10,000. 


The following data has been compiled from the records :—- 


Area surveyed ae ..  « 10,045,095 dunums 
Cultivable area foe eee ... 4,556,007 = 45-4 per cent. 
Number of villages os ... 4650 
Number of fiscal blocks ... ... 8,590 
Gross annual produce of land... £P.1,500,000 
Average annual produce per dunum 
of cultivable area ee ... 3863 mils 
Marks erected vs a ... 382,642 
2. Land Tax. 


Valuation lists have been published for the districts of Ma’an, 
Tafileh, Kerak and Madeba. Appeals have been lodged in respect 
of 51 fiscal blocks out of a total of 1,095. 








277 
3. Land Settlement. 


A Law has been enacted for the settlement and registration of 
nights to land, and the partition of lands*held in common ownership. 

Operations started during the latter part of the year and, consider- 
ing the initial difficulties encountered in training staff and establish- 
ing procedure, good progress is being made. 


There are three Settlement Parties at work with the necessary 
complement of surveyors. 


Owing to the urgent need to divide masha’a lands, it has been 
decided to adopt the method of physical partition on the ground by 
the villagers themselves under close supervision of Settlement 
(ficers, immediately followed by demarcation and survey of 
properties. The intricate and laborious process of computing a 
share prior to demarcation is thus avoided. The provisions of the 
settlement Law preclude any possibility of partition being upset by 
4minority of malcontents. 


The progress of settlement in forest areas is most encouraging 
‘see Section VIII, paragraph 10). : 


Up to the present 8,000 dunums of forest have been recorded as 
State Property. 


The following is a summary of settlement work completed :— 





No. of Area in 
Parcels. Dunums. 
Mafruz Land (Individually 
owned)— 
Schedule of Rights published ... 871 18,363 
Masha’a Land (In communal 
ownership)— 
Schedule of Partition published 757 17,540 
Total ... ae ... 1,628 35 ,903 








4. Land Registry.—5,425 transactions passed through the Land 
Registry and £P.4,068 was collected in fees compared with 3,973 
and £P.3,837 respectively in the previous year. This is the highest 
total yet attained. 


The Torrens system of registration applies to rights recorded 

during settlement, arid to all subsequent transactions and mutations. 

se leaf binders are used in order that the Land Registers shall 
hot, in future, be encumbered with a mass of dead material. 


5. State Domain.—Various holdings of State Domain, mostly 
uncultivated, comprising a total area of 20,300 dunums, were sold 
° encourage cultivation and facilitate building. The proceeds of 
the sale amounted to £P.1,083 whereas the average annual revenue 
from these properties from 1926 to 1932 was £P.47. 

23364 | K 


278 
6. Maps.—The progress of publication of the 1/50,000 scale series 
consisting of 20 sheets has been maintained. Four new sheets have 
appeared, bringing the present issue to eight. 
Sales of the 1/50,000 and 1/10,000 series to the public realised 
£P.41. 


X.—PUBLIC WORKS. 


1. Roads.—Although the only metalled road in Trans-Jordan is 
that which runs from Amman via Es Salt to the Allenby Bridve 
over the Jordan, where it joins the road from Jerusalem, the 
country is served by a satisfactory system of dry weather motor 
roads. 

The majority of these dry weather tracks are well laid out so 
that, were funds available, they could be metalled without change 
of grading or alignment. After heavy rains they become impass- 
able for a time, but this is being obviated in part by soling the 
worst sections and then covering the soling with a thin layer of 
earth. During the current year 6,600 metres have been dealt with 
in this way. 


2. To reach Petra by road the tourist must follow the track 
which runs east of the deep wadi beds and, following the Hejaz 
Railway, lies for the greater part of the distance within uninterest- 
ing desert country. It is the intention of the Government to 
construct an alternative route further west, passing through country 
which 1s cultivable and full of historical interest. The main 
obstacles to the completion of this route are the deep and rugged 
wadis of Hasa and Mojib. That part of the new route from 
Amman through Madeba to Dhiban; the section from Kasr Raba 
to Kerak ; the section from Kerak to Tafileh except for the crossing 
of the Wadi Hasa itself and the section from Tafileh via Shobek 
and Odhra to Ma’an, are already passable. This leaves for com- 
pletion the section between Dhiban and Kasr Raba (a distance 
of 25 kilometres including the Wadi Moyjib), the Wadi Hasa cross- 
ing in part, and 25 kilometres between Shobek and Petra. The 
telephone line, which has already reached Kerak, will follow the 
same route to Ma’an. 


3. The roads from Kerak to the Dead Sea, from Madeba to 
the thermal baths at Zerka Ma’in and from Es Salt to Damieh 
in the Jordan are now all passable to wheels but still need 
considerable improvement. 


4. At Damieh there is a ferry which is maintained by the Nablus 
Municipality. The building of a bridge to replace the ferry |: 
projected by the Palestine Government; and when this is done the 
traffic between Es Salt and Nablus should be considerable. 


5. The reconstruction and re-alignment of the metalled road be- 
tween Amman and Es Salt is nearing completion and the heavy task 


279 


of dealing with the section between Es Salt and the Jordan has now 
tobe faced. During the past ten years many culverts have been 
 plaeed in this section, several kilometres of retaining wall have 
been built and a number of dangerous bends flattened out; but 
the funds available have only permitted the resurfacing of some 
x kilometres out of thirty-five. 


6. The establishment of a police post at Kraimeh, which has been 
built with the assistance of the local inhabitants in the Jordan Valley 
below Ajlun and which is being linked with the main telephone 
system both from the north and from the south, will be followed 
by the construction of tracks fit for wheels which will make the 
valley readily passable from north to south. 


7. Buildings.—The maintenance and improvement of Govern- 
ment buildings has continued so far as the available funds allow. 
Amongst the major works undertaken is the desert fort at Rum 
in the south, which replaces a tented post which the Desert Police 
were obliged to establish ag a base for the control and protection 
of that area. This fort is now connected by serviceable roads with 
Medawara, with Aqaba and with Ma’an via Gueira.. 


The Public Works Department has done certain work on the 
teconstruction of shrines and the maintenance of other buildings 
on behalf of the Waqf Administration. 


__ 8. Water Supplies.—Advice and help have been given in the 
improvement of the water supply in a number of villages and the 
Scheme of Irbid, whereby water is pumped from a spring some 
10 kilometres away, is nearing completion. 


A grant has been obtained from the Colonial Development Fund 
for the establishment of experimental water-boring stations at 
| selected spots. The provision of water at these spots would make 
Possible considerable development in the flock-raising industry in 
| Trans-Jordan and would contribute materially to the well-being 
of the population in general. If the scheme is a success it igs hoped 

that individual flock owners or groups of owners will be en- 
ihe weed to establish their own water stations. The total cost of 

'ne scheme is estimated at £P.6,500. 


Xi. ANTIQUITIES. 


a inspections in the north and central areas have been 
— “attied on throughout the year by all the Inspectors. 


On eulunetion with the American School of Oriental Research, 
and 15 south of Madeba to the Wadi Hosa were partly explored 
ae rie many of them new, were noted. A preliminary 
Quarterly, the discoveries was published in the American School 


K 2 


280 


It has been arranged with the Director of the American School, 
in conjunction with the Iraq American School, that a further 
expedition, with proper scientific equipment and suitable transport, 
shall continue these explorations in 1934. 


2. The Italian Archaeological Expedition, directed by Dr. | 


Renato Bartoccini, continued work on the Amman Acropolis (see 
the Report for 1932, page 231). The Sassanian building has been 
excavated, and conservation arranged. The building, with the 
whole of the northern court, constitutes an interesting monument 
and throws light on the state of the Acropolis during the Ommayad 
period. 

The Institute of Pre-history, Paris, represented by M. René 
Neuville, has explored some of the burial grounds north-east of the 
Dead Sea, in the Jordan Valley, and has partially examined the 
dolmens in the Wadi Odimeh under arrangements made by Dr. 
Stekelis, of the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

The American School of Oriental Research, Jerusalem, has con- 
tinued its campaign, directed by Dr. C. Fisher, of recording the 
architectural monuments at Jerash. 


The Pontifical Biblical Institute, Jerusalem, directed by Pére — 
Alexis Mallon, has worked for its fifth season at Teleilat Ghassul. — 


Part of the Tell is now being scientifically stripped. There are 


four stratifications, of which the uppermost has been removed. — 


The graveyards examined by Dr. Stekelis belong to this culture. 


An expedition of the Franciscan Biblical School, under the 
direction of Peére Seller, began the excavation of the Church on | 


the summit of the lower hill north of Mt. Pisqah or Nebo. The 
result has been most satisfactory, the Church of the 4th and 6th 


century having been found with much mosaic pavement and many © 





inscriptions. The Ghanamat tribe, who were in a bad economic © 


condition, have greatly benefited from the employment given. 


Public security has been excellent and the relations of the expedi- 


tion with the surrounding inhabitants have been most cordial and 
friendly. 


Mikhiyat too, further south, 1s to be excavated by the Biblical — 


School. 


3. The guide book to Jerash prepared by the Department of 
Antiquities has met with general approval and is found a great 
convenience. 


Interest has been drawn to the antiquittes of Trans-Jordan by — 


the appearance in scientific journals and newspapers of articles, 
photographs and notes on excavations and by the supply of 
information generally by the Department. 


The Department of Antiquities is co-operating with the Société | 


Royale Géographique of Egypt with regard to the Trans-Jordan 


section of the map of the Roman Empire which the latter is pre- 
(paring. The Department has undertaken to supply a map marking © 


all Roman roads and sites in Trans-Jordan. 





281 


4. The Amman Museum has acquired a few more small objects, 
mostly of the Bronze Age. The coin collection has been classified 
by the Assistant British Resident, and a catalogue prepared; the 
coms are now on exhibition. 

The Jerash Museum has acquired a small amount of Roman 
glass tovether with the Government’s share of the finds made by 
the American Expedition to Jerash. 


5. The population generally has still to. understand that anti- 
quities are under protection, and finds it hard to resist the tempta- 
tion to snatch stones to build houses on and near ruined sites. 


XTII.—THE ARAB LEGION. 


1. The Arab Legion, which is a Force of 41 officers and cadet 
oficers and 1,016 non-commissioned officers and men, is com- 
manded by a British Officer and is responsible for public security, 
for the maintenance of law and order and for the custody of 
prisoners. 


2. The Desert Area has been divided into two sub-areas, the 
horthern with headquarters at Azraq and the southern with head: 
quarters at Mudawara. 


3. Four new stations or posts have been opened : 


(a) A station in Amman at the entrance to the town from 
the north and north-east. 

(b) A post at Keraimeh in the Jordan Valley between 
Jericho and Jisr Sheikh Hussein. 

(c) A post near the Iraq Petroleum Company’s camp at 
Mafraq. | 

(d) A temporary post to guard the wells at Hazim. 


At Rum, a stone-built fort is being erected to replace the present 

‘amp, and a barrack room and office accommodation of masonry 
have been added at the prison and the Reserve Camp Training 
epot in Amman. 


4. A stone mosque and school for the education of sons and 
daughters of the personnel of the Force, built by prison labour and 
Supervised by enlisted artisans, were opened in November, and 
thirty-five pupils already attend. 

Schools have been opened at the Desert posts of Azraq, Bair 
ind Mudawara for the education of the Beduin Police and children. 


9. No difficulty has been experienced in obtaining suitable 
recruits : & register of several hundreds of prospective recruits is 
Maintained at Headquarters. 


6. Personnel are well clothed and equipped. Except for the 
commissioned officers and men of the Desert Patrol, the native 
ead dress, the kafiyeh and agal, has been abolished and a light 
pith helmet is worn. 

23364 K 3 


282 


7. The following courses of instruction were attended by per- 
sonnel of the Force during the year :— 


(a) Senior Police Officers’ Course, Scotland Yard, London, 
and Course of Study of the Prison Administration of England 
and Wales. 

(b) Machine Gun Course, 2nd Battalion Seaforth High- 
landers. 

(c) Palestine Police School (8 Cadet officers and two non- 
commissioned officers). 

(d) Special Course of Lectures and Instruction in Law given 
by the Judicial Adviser, Trans-Jordan, and the President of 
the Court of Appeal (14 officers and 9 non-commissioned 
officers). 

(e) First Aid (St. John’s Ambulance) (15 men). 

(f) Equitation and Horsemastership (8 officers, 20 non- 
commissioned officers and 150 men). 

(g) Wireless Telegraphy Course, R.A.F. (12 men). 


8. His Highness the Amir reviewed detachments of town police, 
mounted and dismounted urban police and mechanised and 
camelry sections of the Desert Patrol at Amman in November, 
when over 300 officers and men paraded. 


9. The Force Polo Team, first organised in November, 1922, 
had a successful season. 

The Force competed for the first time in the Egypt, Palestine 
and Sudan Shooting Trophy, gaining 18th place against twenty-five 
regular British Regiments and Rifle Clubs. 


10. Criminal Investigation Department. 

In spite of the very poor rainfall last season and the consequent 
increased poverty of the fellahin, no great increase in crime. 
occurred and the roads have remained free from brigandage. 

The Criminal Investigation Department dealt with 4,433 crimes; 
finger prints of 3,280 suspects; and was concerned in 1,117 cases | 
of extradition. 

Of the 4,433 crimes, 53 were murder, 305 wounding, 971 assault, 
2,173 theft, 67 car accidents, 61 smuggling, and 84 entry into 
Trans-Jordan without passports. 


11. The Passport Branch dealt with the following :— 





Application for Nationality Certificates ... ee 423 
Nationality Certificates Issued... sid oF 377 
Naturalisation Certificates Issued ... 5G sac 15 
New Passports Issued ose ve ~ sia 403 
Emergency Visas Issued ... — ... sie .. 282 
Ordinary Visas Issued ee xe be: ea 66 
Return Visas Issued : ie Se 98 
Registration of pore Passports ve .. 1,786 
Endorsements s% bes aos 59 


283 


12. The Legion is responsible for the licensing of all private 
and public vehicles and the following figures indicate the progress 
since 1926 in this respect :— 


Trucksand Motor 


Cars. Buses. Torri Totals. 
orries. Cycles. 
Vehicles licensed in 
1926 ae mn 110 4 16 5 135 
Vehicles licensed in 
1933 ae : 232 32 231 2 497 


13. The Iraq Petroleum Company with its depots and stations 
and a pipe line running across the Jordan through the Ajlun District 
to Mafrak and thence eastwards to the frontier, a total of 331 kilo- 
metres in Trans-Jordan territory, is a source of special responsi- 
bility. Tio cope with it, the establishment of the Legion was 
increased by an officer, an inspector and twenty non-commissioned 
oficers and men of the Rural Police, a Sergeant-Major and seventy 
non-commissioned officers and men of the Desert Police, a clerk 
and one Ford tender with driver. 


This additional personnel is paid, clothed and equipped at the 
expense of the Company. 


Xx0I.—_INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 
AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the name of Trans-Jordan. 


(i) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date. Place of 
signature. 
Syria and Customs Agreement... ... 10.5.1923 Amman. 
Lebanon. 
Palestine ... Transit Agreement... ... 26.9.1928 Jerusalem. Amended 


18.12.1928, Jerusalem. 
27.12.1928, Amman. 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


_ Great Britain Agreement we wees ewe 20.2.1928 Jerusalem. Ratified 
31.10.1929, Amman. 
Nejd ... Hadda Agreement... ... 2.11.1925 Bahra Camp. 
Syria and Provisional Agreement in regard 15.2.1928 Amman. 
Lebanon. to the Transmission of Judicial 
Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


Palestine... Agreement for the Taking of 25.2.1929 Jerusalem. 
Evidence on Commission for 6.3.1929 Amman. 
the purpose of any Commercial 
or Civil Matter. 


Palestine --- Agreement regarding the Inter- 6.3.1929 Amman. 


change of Judicial Documents. 
23364 K 4 


284 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date. Place of 
signature. 
Palestine ... Agreement regarding the Con- 1.10.1929 
; veyance of Corpses from Pales- 
tine for Burial in Trans- Jordan 


and from Trans-Jordan for 

| Burial in Palestine. 

Palestine ... Agreement as to the Circulation 14.10.1929 Jerusalem. 
of Motor Vehicles. 


Syria and Agreementconcerningthesettle- 2.2.1930 Amman. 
Jebel Druze ment of Disputes between 
Beduin of Trans-Jordan and 
Beduin of Syria or the Jebel 
Druze as well as between 
Beduin and non-Beduin of 
the same States. 
Iraq ... Treaty of Friendship ... .. 26.3.1931 Amman. 
Syria and the Agreement establishing Tele- Effect from Ist April, 1932. 
Lebanon. graphic Communication. 


Syria and the Agreement for the reciprocal 20.8.1932 Jerusalem. 
Lebanon. Grant of gratis Visas. 5.9.1932 Beirut. 


Agreement concluded in 1933. 


Saudi Arabia Treaty of Friendship and Bon 27.7.1933 Jerusalem. Ratified | 
Voisinage. 21.12.1933 in Cairo. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 


Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 20.4.1921, 9.10.1922 


having no Sea Coast. Barcelona. (Ratification), — 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit .-- 20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 
Convention and Statute on the Régime of Navigable 20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 


Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Régime 20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 13.11.1908, 21.3.1924. 
Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 


Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.1908. Berne. 


International Opium Convention and subsequent 23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 


relative papers. The Hague. 
International Convention relating to the Simplification 3.11.1923, 29.8.1924 
of Customs Formalities. Geneva. (Ratification). 





Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol § Geneva. 
of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Régime 9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
of Railways, and Protocol of Signature. Geneva. 

Convention and Statute of the International Régime 9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
of Maritime Ports, and Protocol of Signature. Geneva. 


285 
Trtle of Instrument 


Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
- Electrical Power, and Protocol of Signature. 


Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 


International Agreement as to Contagious Diseases of 
Animals. 

International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. (Law.) 


International Locust Bureau. (Denounced) ... 
International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Sanitary Convention 

{international Radio-telegraph Convention 
Universal Postal Convention. (Law.)... 
Agreement concerning Insured betters and Boxes 


Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial Navigation 


International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 
International Convention for the Unification of certain 
Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Conditions of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Field. : 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 


Intemational Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


Intemational Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


Intemational Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 
relating to International Carriage by air. 


Date of 
Signature. 
9.12.1923, 
Geneva. 
24.9.1923, 
Geneva. 


12.9.1923, 
Geneva. 


25.1.1924, 
Paris. 


25.9.1926, 
Geneva. 


20.5.1926, 
Damascus. 


19.2.1925, 
Geneva. 


21.6.1926, 
Paris. 
25.11.1927, 
Washington. 
28.6.1929, 
London. 
28.6.1929, 
London. 


13.10.1919, 
Paris. 


22.11.1928, 
Paris. 

25.8.1924, 
Brussels. 


27.7.1929, 
Geneva. 


2.6.1928, 
Rome. 


30.9.1921- 
31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 


18.5.1904, 
Paris. 


4.5.1910, 
Paris. 


12.10.1929, 
Warsaw. 


Date of — 
Accession. . 


22.9.1925. 
12.3.1926. 
23.5.1927. 
13.7.1927. 
18.6.1927 


18.8.1927. 
(Ends 
31.12.1933). 


25.9.1928 
(Effective 
date). 


9.10.1928. 
15.8.1930. 
3.12.1930. 
3.12.1930. 


11.7.1922. 
(Effective 
date). 


17.12.1930. 


2.6.1931 
(Effective 
date), 


23.6.1931 


(Ratification). 


(Effective 
date 
23.12.1931). 


1.10.1931. 


2.11.1931. 


6.5.1932 
(Effective 
date)s 


6.5.1932 
(Effective 
date). 


14.4.1932. 


286 


‘(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of Application. 
Between United Kingdom 
and 
Albania... 22.7.26 ... co 11.7.27. 
Colombia ... eae. 5.12.30. 
Cuba mA 3.10.04/17.4.30 . 12.12.31. 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24, a 15.7.27. 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Estonia 18.11.25 10.3.27. 
Finland 30.5.24 25.11.26. 
Latvia 16.7.24 7.6.26. 
Lithuania ... 18.5.26 11.6.27. 
17.12.91 
Monaco 27.11.30 “ 6.7.31. 
Austria 3.12.73/26.6.01 ... 18.3.32. 
Belgium 29.10.01 ... sks 
. 5.3.07 
Belgian Congo 3.3.11 1.4.32. 
: 28.6.28 
Ruanda Urundi 2.7.98 
Bolivia 22.2.92 3.3.32. 
Chile .-. 26.1.97 18.3.32. 
Denmark ... . 31.3.73 ... 29.3.32. 
Greece ae 24.9.10 me . 22.4.32. 
Guatemala .. 4.7.85/30. 5. 14) 5 30.3.32. 
Hayti 7.12.74 ... ae 24.2.32. 
Hungary 3.12.73/26.6.01 ... 30.6.32. 
Luxemburg 24.11.80 ... 29.1.32. 
Netherlands 26.9.98 5.4.32. 
Nicaragua ... 19.4.05 ... sis 6.4.32. 
Norway 26.6.73/18.2.07 .. 20.9.32. 
Panama 25.8.06 ... 4.6.32. 
Peru 26.1.04 2.3.32. 
Roumania ... 9/21.3.93... 3.3.32. 
Salvador 23.6.81 18.10.32. 
Siam 4.3.11 7.4.32. 
Spain ee 4.6.78/19.2.89 23.3.32. 
Switzerland . 26.11.80/29.6.04.. 9.5.32. 
13.10.1842 (Article 10) 
‘ : 11.3.1890 
United States of America. 29 4.1901 3.12.25. 
(21.12.1906 
Yugoslavia... Lae ... 23.11.00/6.12.00... w. 30.8.32. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list the Trans- 
Jordan Extradition Law has been applied to the following 
countries :— 


Argentine. Italy. San Marino. 
Ecuador. Liberia. Tunis. 
France. Paraguay. Uruguay. 
*Germany. Portugal. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germans 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has bees 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extraditica 
between Trans-Jordan and Germany on a basis of reciprocity. The arrangement 
came into force on 28th February, 1933. 





287 


/(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which have been applied to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
A pplication. 
Between Great Britain 
and 
Lithuania... ... Agreement respecting Commercial Relations, 24.4.1923. 
6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 10.12.1929. 
Latvia Sls ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 
Poland ae .. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923_... w- 5.6.1925. 
Finland 7 ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 
Austria Sie ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.1926. 
22.5.1924, London. 
Germany ee ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926. 
2.12.1924, London. 
GTeeCe sist .. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3.1927. 
16.7.1926. 
Austria se ... Notes on Trade Marks fess jae w- 2.12.1927- 
13.4.1928. 
Yugoslavia... .. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation,  4.4.1928. 
12.5.1927. 
Spain ses ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.1928. 
31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 31.5.1928. 
Bulgaria Sa ... Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
12.11.1925. . 
Greece... Ss ... Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 21.6.1929. 
Origin, 21.6.1929. (5.7.1929 
Effective 
date). 
Japan ‘ids ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.6.1930. 
3.4.1911, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.1925. 
Egypt see ... Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.1930, 21.8.30. 
Cairo. Prolongation until 16.2.1934 by 
Notes of 16/19.2.1933. 
Spain wee ... Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.1931. 
Companies, 27.6.1924, Madrid. 
Panama ae ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.9.1932. 
25.9.1928. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Tstle of Instrument. Date of 
A pplication. 
Italy ... ees ..« Notes respecting Documents of Identity 13.4.1931. 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.1931. 
France... ve -». Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in 21.3.1923. 


Civil and Commercial Matters, 2.2.1922. 


Country. 


Czechoslovakia 
Belgium 
Germany 
Spain ... 


Poland 


Portugal 


Estonia 


288 
Title of Instrument. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.11.1924. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
21.6.1922. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
20.3.1928. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
27.6.1929. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
26.8.1931. 


Conventions applied in 1933. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
9.7.1931. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
22.12.1931. 


Date of 
A pplication. 
17.2.1927. 


13.3.1925. 


25.11.1929. 


23.2.1931. 


17.10.1982. 


30.4.1933. 


11.10.1933. 


289 


APPENDIX I. 

(i) Report and Balance Sheet of the Palestine Electric Corporation, 
Limited. 

(ii) Report and Balance Sheet of the Jerusalem Electric and Public Service 
Corporation, Limited. 

(iii) Report and Balance Sheet of Palestine Potash, Limited. 

(iv) The Balance Sheet of the Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Company, 
Limited. . 

(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues collected in 1932 and 1933. 


(i) THE PALESTINE ELECTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED. 
(a) TENtH ANNUAL REPporT AND BALANCE SHEET. 
3lst December, 1932. 


Report or Directors ror THE YEAR ENDED 3lst DecemBER, 1932. 


To be submitted to the Ordinary General Meeting of the Corporation, to be 
held at 8, Bedford Square, London, W.C.1, on the 30th day of June, 
1933, at 4.30 p.m. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounte for 
the year ended 3lst December, 1932. 


The Jordan Hydro-Electric Power House inaugurated in June, 1932, has 
operated efficiently and an entirely satisfactory service has been maintained 
throughout the operating area of the Corporation. 


Notwithstanding the considerable reductions in the rates for electrical 
energy introduced as from Ist January, 1932, the gross revenue for the year 
has increased from £P.139,673 to £P.145,512. 


During the year 11,590,350 units of electrical energy were sold, being an 
increase of 2,882,433 units for the year. The total number of consumere 
shows an increase for the year of 3,084, the total as at 3lst December being 
15,113. 


The following figures show the comparative results for the past five 
years : — 


Number of 
Year. Units Sold Consumers Gross Revenue 

in KWH. connected, in LP, 
1928 is oe ... 2,973,701 8,582 79,901 
1929 a + ... 98,634,838 9,303 90,847 
1930 a — ...  §,500,976 10,620 110,747 
1931 fee - ... 8,707,917 12,029 139,673 
1932 oe dia ... 11,590,350 15,113 145,512 


There has been an increase in the load, both industrial and domestic, and 
considerable extensions have had to be planned and executed to meet the 
growing demand for electrical energy. High tension transmission lines have 
been extended by 65 kilometres, making a total of 468 kilometres and low 
tension distribution lines by 59 kilometres, making a total of 294 kilometres, 
the total of high and low tension lines together being 762 kilometres. 


The continued expansion of the demand has made the provision of further 
Plant a matter of urgency. A third turbo-alternator for the Jordan Power 
House has been ordered and will be installed, it is expected, by September, 
1933. Together with the standby fuel power houses, the Corporation will 
then have a total capacity of 32,925 H.P. 


290 


The gross profit for the year including £P.4,328.961 brought forward from 
the previous year amounted to £P.87,831.573 out of which the following 
payments and appropriations have been made, viz. :— 


£P. 
To Depreciation Reserve tat sie sin ose .-- &3,900.000 
To Debenture Interest and Interest on Loans ... ... 25,260.740 


To Preference Non-Cumulative Dividend of 8 per cent. 817.440 
£P.59,978.180 


leaving a balance of £P.27,853.393 which the Directors propose to carry 
forward to next year’s accounts. 

The Directors recommend that the amount of £P.79,486.—part of 
£P.80,.991.689, being surplus realised on the liquidation of the Jaffa Electric 
Company, Ltd., standing to the credit of the Corporation’s Special Reserve 
Account, be capitalised by the distribution of fully paid Ordinary shares of 
the Corporation amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares of the Corpora- 
tion in the proportion of one share for every ten shares held. 


With this object in view and also with the object of bringing the Articles 
of Association into accord with the requirements of the Companies Ordinance 
1929 and to facilitate generally the management of the Corporation, the 
Corporation’s solicitors have completed a revision of the Articles of Associa- 
tion. Special Resolutions adopting these revised Articles and approving the 
Directors’ recommendation—referred to above—regarding the issue of Bonus 
Shares, will be proposed at Extraordinary General Meetings of the Corpora- 
tion, of which notices are given and which will be held immediately after 
the Annual General Meeting. 


In order to provide for the capital outlay made by the Corporation in the 
past year the Directors have, with the consent of His Excellency the High 
Commissioner for Palestine, made an issue of £112,000 6 per cent. Second 
Mortgage Sterling Debenture Stock, being the balance of £300,000 stock 
created in 1931. : 


With the consent of the Lords Commissioners of H.M. Treasury the rate 
of interest on the Corporation’s Guaranteed Debentures has been reduced 
as from lst January, 1933, from 5 per cent. to 4 per cent. 


_ In accordance with provisions of the Articles of Association all the 
Directors, with the exception of the Managing Director, retire from office 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., offer themselves for re-appointment. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors. 
READING, 
Chairman. 


Pinnas RvTENBERG, 
Managing Director. 


£38 98CCHT 


£28'988°SPT 





ZLE° LFS ‘FS eee coe eon eae eee 40948 
souRe 0} po}zreo—xey emoouT PH 
: % prfqns— gold YN Bajeq suvyeg 
0FL°096 SS 
o88'0SL ees eee eee °**PIAJIOII—S89T 
669 110 93 Tee a 
GLB'SLP 3 *079 “8qjBIPIOAO yueg uo piv 
OGL’ 88S‘Ss somnjueqed UO 
> qolezuy “ 
Z08°16L'‘T oe 
6FL'SE6 LI —— 
CFL SERLE «= “*"BJUNODDY SNOPIVA 0} P2qBoo[ly 
000'00T Auedulog Arvipysqng 07 pasreyD 
vo P “8TH ds —8so'] 
a 1G6°2ZL'6T 
062986 '‘S eee eee eee eee 899,7 81070911 
10812 ‘OT wee "** gqsuadxg [BlOUay pus sojIy]Eg 
: Sosusd xg 20YO UopuoT pus eyo pray 
000°006°E8 a “ee saul’ 
UOIssMIsUBIy, pus eTOneIs JaULIOJsUBIT, 
‘sg8no 13.40, O UOIZBIIAI IO} AI 
000°SZE nr eee ee eq Way Mom ‘parmbas you ooueeg 60'26¢‘00 H i0mod sosuodxg [urate 5 cen 
[SPUIUTSIAUT JO UOMwPosIdeq Joy aarasey ‘ quoulaseusyy feo, ‘uring ‘To}elauep 
ZV LIGSPL °° euMlOOU, ArpuNng pus sIO}a~y Jo [wUaYy ‘ABIOUG oI09/q Jo ofeg A 2 Besu0d xq sesnoH JOMOg OL 
"S71Uh “dF , : “ST “ds “spi “ds 
“IN “Id 





‘SEG ‘Tequacoey 48[E ey} pepue veh 04} JO¥ YUNODDY S807 PUB WVOIg (9) 
"CHLINI'T ‘NOLLVYOdaO) OIMLOGTIY ANLLSHIVG FH, 


292 


090°880'S 
000°000°#T 


0Z8°289‘T18 


63P'S28'S0S'T 


“SyyUU “5 


000°000°9 
000°009‘6 


912896863 
692°00T'9 


200°263'8 
893'080'P 


000°T 
¥26'SSI'Ss 
POd'GPLL 
098°292‘S9T 


199°T92‘800‘T 


000°T 


‘SO “Es 


JOpun 10 7900 4e ‘yusUdIndT puv sunjsusny soyfc 


oes ose @JUSUIISIAT] 19930 
BeyavduloD ATeypysqng uy sarvyg 
—! 1809 7D equsuoaQUT 


**""HO ‘ue38As TONGS p ‘equBid Bujyersues 
SBUIPING “PUT : 3800 38 DOIETLE WAY ApAV-[OL 


ee 
spofoid yUeMIdO[IAOp SNOLIVA UO oINI[pusdxy 
eee eee eae eee een een uo 
-82000) 04} TO sosuedxe Joy}0 pu¥ [Vso] ‘so07 
nes *** UOFSBGDTON 942 JO WOFR;sNdDO 

— uorssnUu0g viny 


***MOfSS30U0FD Ot} UPA WOTZDeUGOO UT sosuEd 
“xo [w1eues Buypnypouy sosuedxe ArvuyuMyealg 
eon evo eee ese see "19 ‘SLBA 
“[T8I JO WOFBOPLT}OC]O ‘UO;ZEBL 10} 9300fo1g 


ILZT'9FS ‘OI 


SVLIDQLTL 
LUOOP' LST 


UneH 
—? 4800 9B “*OJ0 ‘ULOQ8AS 0OT9 
-nqiysip ‘syuvid Suryeroues ‘sxuipiing ‘puvy 
—* SULIZqL]T, puv Brey 
: (spooy 0} oOnp syIOM uUeplor 
04 SiIteder jo 4809 Jo wed) OOO'9T' ads Yo 
UdsjUIM B89] “SOIOJS PoyRooTTvuN puyw ‘*oj0 


‘sosuod xo [ulouNs puv UolesysfuTuIpe ‘Zulreo 


-U[SU9 "SOUT UOISSTUIsULI) *SUOT}vIS IOULIOJ 
SUI} “AIOUIOVUL SyIOM OFTMeIpAY ‘syIomM 
Joy quvid ‘ssurpyng ‘pu ‘syiom Arvuyunyjoig 
:@NnOR IOMOT M197 -O1pAH, Uepsor 4sILy 
ao ach "** MOIsss00O,) 9} JO UoMSsmboy 
—93Up 03 amgpusdxy yeqydup 
—: UOLss20U0n UDpLos 


“BLISSEY 





| 


680°166‘08 


000°S26'69T 


L¥S'SLI'S0T 


L89°F99'SS 
000°000‘88T 


000'098 ‘092 


003820908 


000°002‘6S 


000°982'00 


“OY “dF 


x ayoreq} SBUyPLOY 8,W0}9BI0010;) 
‘Ruedi0s gel ue 


04} JO UO}ZEPMD] uo pases: snidins Sajog 
—! oasasey pwroedg 


“DITDUT atay-1a7, 93 fo uorwioesdoq sof sasoeoy 


eee ene ees ete UOLSEIIUND uppso 
Unn sunpsony ut uorwiwedsaq s40f sasoenny 
S10}] pel Arpung 


eee eos °°" @JVIPIBVAGO quvg 


"° sang suopynyd passofaq 


ass we ponssy : ‘0083 Pasjioqjyny 
> (990888 8,°d100 otf} TO oO: @ Aq pamoos 
TIS ssnzusgaq buysars A puoswy "9 
ae ee , Site poursopey—seo7 
penss} pus pesjoqyny 


—(8}9888 8,001}8I0d10H 98q} TO 
esrvyo @ Aq pains) siete fat at! 8 peozyunsendh %G 


*e* -FwaLIU Uj s[TEQ—: see7T 


yous TF JO salgg couDIBJAI 067'0T 
Pigpee- 1g yp estas ATHCIO, 198 260 


qoue LF JO sareys soualsjal_ 000'09 
***goee TZ JO sarvyg ATeUIPIO 000 096 
= Tay 
> BRAD) soy 
"*SaLLITIGVTT 





"ZEGT ‘TequIooE(] 4STE 94} 98 SB yoogg souyeg (0) 


"CHLINV] ‘NOLLVAOdHOD) OLALOTIG ANWSHIVG HY, 


293 


- B8T°S99'08 Boo 8,Auvduroy oq} Aq pepyieo se “repun 888'0L0'8S 


‘ssonpny ‘stunzunosoy pasezs0YyD “SE6T ‘unr YL ‘fv 
‘OO FP TIassny 
‘Auvduioy ey} jo sHOoog 049 Aq uMoUs 
se pue sn 0} OATS suOsMVUYidxs oy} PUB UOsBULIOJU] INO Jo 489q 94} 0} Buppiovoe s1yeyse s,Ausdu0y oy} JO 97838 949 JO AOA JOQLION PUY ONT} B MOUS OF SU OB 
dn uamerp Ajredord gs} yo0ug DULTYG 9AOQe 04} 4B UOlUTdO 94) JO aIV OM G70T ,B10ZD9IIG 9} 0} PUB HIvUIGI BujoZs10) sy} 0} 400fqng ‘ainyspuedxe jo sBuypeoy snojyrea 
Jopun psuosIodde s}UN0DTe 9A0ge oY} Ul pepnyou; useq JALY SIdJA198 O804} JO Qadsal UT Bloquayny “gq ‘IY 0F PsUVAPsS SJUNOUIS Ufez190 OU ‘OZBI ‘199039 WIGS 
0} lojid polepual S0jAIOS JOY pausUIazep oq 0} 490A Bl9aquezny ‘gq “I 0} AIP] Buypuvzsyno ue suyvulel ology, “palnbel oasy 9M YOYA suo[yeuyldxe puv wosZEUIOJU] 
04} [TB Pouyezqo aaBy OMA “YMOJ 4a8 SAOgV bE ‘BEET ‘IIqQUISZII_ 4SI§ OY} PUP “PHT WOHeIOdIOD III oupysajVq oy} JO Jo9yg souyle_ oy} Pezpne cavy OM 
*SHACTIOHAUVHS AHL OL LAOdTY ,SHOLIGAYV 


*‘s}UNODDY ose) U 
poyeiodioouy us0q oavy sefredurog Ar¥Tpysqng JO 82880] Jo HYOIg OU ‘ZEIT ‘soUVUTPIO seFUEduIOD 943 JO LOT “90g 0} JUBNEIG—'sHUDdUOD AuDIprsqns: 0} Li eres 
qa4 you sey YOFYA JO JUNOUIY 9Y} ‘ZZ6T ‘Td V Wosy se XVI, OUIOOUT YR 0} Joofqns s] CAOgE UMOYS SB FUNOOOY BBO] PU FYOIg OY} Jo souNTE_ ONL — ON .s40pIIKT 


‘junjunosoy fry 
. NHOOGNETANAZOVY “¢ 


—siopesuy fo pavog oy; fo frpyeq uO 


9s9"sso'vzo'r 999°889'FZ9'T 
OST'S09's eos eee ase ; puny us pup que yo yep 
eco ee wre ste 800 98 ‘amy-7ay pun Df us puny 





928°996'ZT . | sIeHIOM 8,ATeduUI0H oY} IO} sasNOY UO PeoUvA 
; -P® 693°892'°S' ds Zuypnpuy syunoooy Arpung 
S89°789 88 ee a eet “* «© MUNODY ,slouNsU0D 
$¥9'°9S0 I eon eon one eee sojuedul0; Areppyeqng 
—: sOUuDIDT Tey pup 840}q0T 
; *** geoAO[dula 0} SQOUBAPB 


SIL F8'S eee eee ee 
8L9°69T'S' dF Buypnpuy ‘sunapy up sennpusdzq 





JO 4909 38 ‘asaV-79,, pup vfoH w puny uo s94075) SLOT FS‘ 9S eke iene! TVOL Of} IO} Yd PPV 
813°409 ‘es gQuNoods snoTIVA 0} Pa wofivpoordep T96°Ss8‘? °** [S61 “Oo ITS WO PIeMIO; 3 orq 90 
ero] “9800 4U ‘ajay-7,7 pup Ufo yw sdoyr740 4 —i punovoy s80T PUD TOT 


294 


(ii) JERUSALEM ELECTRIC & PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION, 
LIMITED. 


(a) Rerort or THE D1IRECTORS 


to be submitted to the Members at the Ordinary General Meeting to be held 
at the Registered Office of the Company, Julian’s Way, Jerusalem, 
on Tuesday, 20th June, 1933, at 12 o’clock noon. 

The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
3lst March, 1933. 

The profit for the year, including the balance (£P.4,302.108) brought 
forward from the previous year 1s ... a cae .. £P.26,813.351 
out of which the following payments and appropriations 
have been made :— 





£P. 
Interest on Bank Advances, now repaid ... 963.500 
Transfer to General Reserve ..- §,000.000 
Amount applied in writing down Issue 
Expenses wer one ae st ... 98,499.943 
Dividend on 192,000 7 per cent. Cumula- 
tive Preference Shares for half-year 
to 30th September, 1932 (paid lst Octo- 
ber) less tax es ee a ... §,040.000 
Dividend on 217,000 Preference Shares 
for half-year to S8lst March, 1933 
(paid lst April), less tax ... sis ... §,696.250 
—__—- 20,199.693 
leaving a balance of ... i Si oe sed £P.6,613.658 
which the Directors propose to deal with as follows :— 
In payment of a Dividend on the Ordinary 
Shares of 2 per cent. less tax, amounting 
to bcs is tee ahs 2,295 .000 
leaving to be carried forward to next year’s 
Account... ane ee ees sad ... 4,318.658 
————  £P.6,613.658 





The Company’s mains have been further extended during the year, and 
the increase in the number of consumers continues at a satisfactory rate. 

Further extensions to the Generating Plant are now in hand and will be 
completed in time to meet next Winter’s requirements. 

During the year 25,000 7 per cent, Cumulative Preference Shares and 25,00 
Ordinary Shares were issued and the proceeds applied in liquidating advances 
from the Company’s Bankers and in providing funds for further capital 
extensions. 

In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr. William Shearer an 
Mr. Louis Le Bouvier retire, but, being eligible, offer themselves for 
election. 

The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., Jerusalem, retire and offer them- 
selves for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 


S. O. RicHaRDS0N, 
Secretary. 


Sth June, 1933. 


eu 
ON 


I98°E18'0S'dF 


StS 119'SS 
801'208'> 
‘STU “AS 


E1b'LF0'SS' ds 


SIF LEO'SS 
“Sy]ul “dF 
I9 


UMODP JYSNoIq souveg “ 
quNooo¥ 3sU] WIOlJ soUUeg Ag 


sydiooayq AIpung pue B8uyje1edQ uo sniding Aq 


IS8°S18'9S' dF 
806'6FS‘LT 
SF6'R6F‘S 
000°000‘S 
00¢°896 

“STU “Tz 

SIP LEO'SS dF 
StS L1S‘Ss 
000°0086 
OLT'989'T 
“STU “dF 


(“Buy103g 13 sends [°qz) 


qoousg aouLeg 0} s0URIYg “ 
sosuodxy onssy go Baym ”* 
eAlosoy [elousg) “ 

UBOT FUVY WO 489I0},U]T OL 


“** UMOP pefTeo souveq “ 
"** goog ,810700N([ IOZ WOspAorg “ 
eos 5 wee eee cae quoy XN0 pus ‘moO; BI9STaTON 
-PY Uopucy sof uojsfaord Bujpnjous ‘sesuedxqy JwssUIH Oo], 
"1d 


"SS6L ‘YO1eW, ISTE 0} 180A OJ yUNODOY ssOT PUY yBoIg (9) 


“CHLIWI'T ‘NOLLVHOdHOD BHOLAMAY OTTEOG Y OlULOTIG WHIVsouTl 


296 


“SIUNLUNOIpY PesezsvY ;) ° 
“OO DP TWiwsAAw Seat oun Se 


UALNEAAVO)-CAOG “A ATVAlHOUV 








SSOWOIKT URUVERS AVITIUM 
998°066'868'd3 P9S'086'868 dF 
806°606'ST a : . 
000°0F0 g ee : ee : eee eee eee xvV. 
$89] “Z86T Jaqurajdsg 90S 0} IB 
: “(SY PUsp[Ald soualajolg Wie}U]l ssa7 
806°6KS LI eee eee eee Oe eee DUB “ 
yea 181 8s eee eee ene eee siayutg 48 qsey Cty $98°208'T irs | pore Vv ad pus psi ‘“ 
846'66F'S eee oue eee eee yo 09}9,LA 887 000 000 OT 000°000'S eo a a reok 8 p peppy 
GIG 66ST 000'000°9 ces ve _ paps rod 
° ‘ eae een eos eve —JALBIY [GIvUaf) 
062°896 3 ivaf AuLIMp peppy 
S61 1S9‘ST = ee ae ““"JUNODY WU] Jad SY $89°918'F "** "O48 ‘SaBIVyS pans908 ‘sJ0zIpalg Arpang “ 
—SarByg jo anssy Uo ToyssyUTUIO;) as 000°000°0Z8 SEATS 
STe'Z02'9 “Ma ‘JDUBAPR Ul BzUsUAAT ‘SIOJGaq AIpuNng “ 000°000°SST °° ae ney, ie pred Ajmy 
TSP FP1'O ye ee ire a SUV} UT pus . qovea T'd¥ JO saivyg AIVUIpPIO O00'SST 
‘loBuuvP_ oY} Aq payizz90 se puvy uo saI0j;g “ OOO;00O"ATS pred Amy youve T° gz Jo 
889°686 ee 7 ae UO}}BPaidap ssap ‘4809 SaIVYS SUsIajalg sarqUnNUND % LZ 000'LIS 
qe “aja ‘amyamMy ‘sapyyaA IMO; ‘sfooL, “ . —penssy yordng oF 
999°Z9FL8Z ——— a 
PFT'0L9'91 - ok Ivaf of} BuLMp suoIppy 000°000 00S 
SIP S6LILZ6 °° i - QUNODY sv Jod sy ees . 
—'d}a ‘sIazO FT 000°000 008 *” Youd ['dF JO sorvyg Arvulp1o 000‘00Z 
‘sureyy *AIOUTYO BAL pus quid ‘sBulprn 000°000 008 ose eee see eee youveo lds jo 
‘spueT Buypnyouy ‘4800 48 aInyIpuadxg [eydeg “ BAVYH sUalojalg eappeinuUINyD %2 000‘OOE 
000°000‘09 ate — = "**  WOF#SIDUO) JO 480D AG ne oa ek - os —: OU] papfaAlg 
“aaa “ds “ST “dF 000°000 0039 : co “"* pastsoumyp poring atvys 
“IO \ “BTU * 3 “sTyUr “ds ‘Id 


(‘Buyia3g TF epenba [°dF) 


"SLOT “YI IIE Yooug eouvjeg (9) 


297 


(iii) PALESTINE POTASH, LIMITED. 
(a2) Report or DireEcToRs 


to be presented to the Third Ordinary General Meeting of the Members on 
the 18th day of July, 1933. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report, together with the duly 
audited Balance Sheet of the Company dated 3lst December, 1932, and the 
Profit and Loss Account for the year 1932. 


The period under review represents the first year in the Company’s pro- 
duction of Potassium Chloride and the second year in that of Bromine. 

The whole of the Company’s output of Potassium Chloride during the year 
wes sold at satisfactory prices. ‘he output in 1933 will be increased, and 
it is confidently expected that the cost of production will be lower and the 
prices obtained remunerative. Sales of Bromine which, during 1931, had 
7 poaned to the British market, were extended to certain foreign markets 
in : 

The Profit and Loss Account for the year shows a loss of £3,422 19s. 6d., 
but it must be pointed out that certain items of expenditure which together 
exceed this sum are non-recurring. ; 

The Directors are pleased to be able to report that the rate of development 
and economies in production have exceeded their original estimates. As the 
Company is at present in the development stage of production no provision 
has been made this year for amortization and depreciation of plant and 
machinery. 


Directorate.—In accordance with Article 108 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, The Earl of Lytton, Mr. Harry Sacher and Mr. E. W. D. 

ennant retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election, as does 
also Mr. Robert Szold, who was appointed a Director of the Company by 
the Board during the period under review. 

Certain persons have instituted proceedings against the Company in the 
High Courts of Justice in England, claiming on the strength of an alleged 
igs Turkish Concession that the Company is not entitled to operate 

® Concession. This Action is not likely to come on for trial for some 
rae The Company has throughout been guided by the advice of eminent 
d unsel, but, as the matter is sub judice, it would be improper to make any 
ris statement. The advice which the Directors have received is that 

© Company should succeed in these proceedings. 
Fie Chairman resumed his duties with the Company upon his return from 

anchuria in October, 1932. 


' ‘wditors,—The Auditors, Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co., retire, 
nd, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Lytton, 
Chairman. 
E. W. D. Tannant, 
Director. 


lith J une, 1983. 


298 


-uonpny { sTUDTUNCDOW possssyy) 


” "SUGL ‘YIOT 
“OO 9 IVAINNNG ‘SUNHE HOrmovy oe feopaoy 
*Ausdurog on4 
jo syoog oy) Aq UMOUS sv puv ‘en 07 aoAss suOMVUT{dxe og) puv UO; wULIOJUT INO Jo 490q OT) 0} 0008 sljEye s,Aueduiod O44 JO 93078 O47 JO AOJA 9091100 puy on7, ¥ 


AlQIYXe 07 s¥ os dn aawip Ajredoid gs} yooyg eoUNTEy YONE ‘UoyUsdo MoO Uy ‘oJaIEY} 4D9fqng ‘aopHpaIdep Jo UO;QESTVOUTY JO} SPUUL U90q BV UOPAOId ON ‘perynbaz eavy om 
SUO}JVUB[AxXS PUY TOPVULIOsUI O47 [[¥ POUTe}GO OABY PUL ‘oADgL 4710; 408 SV ‘ZEET ‘19qQUIZ00q IIE Powep “PIT Yswjog oaTWweleq Jo 420qg soUTE O49 PayPpNe oavy om 
“SHBGNEZW HHL OL SHOLITOVY SHL £40 LYOdIY 








> SI SzP‘Oss > ST &3¥'0s 


g OL 198'T eae ese ore eee eee spususonpdory puo ssndoy € 
Z I s6e'F eoo eve eee an ; 7) ‘sefs0y) yuvg “se049uT ée 
"0008S % ‘6261 ‘90V sesueduIOD oY} 











9 6L ZaP‘s go0yg couRTeg 0} a pols Teo oy} IOJ seed | Buyjoq ‘sung =“ JO suOpsTAoId oy} YR} dUNPI00N8 Ul psz¥}8 oq 0} 

OI 81 000'SS =" ** = Sasuedxo SuoRIEeR pu soylesog npop posnber s10,902]1 0} pred Uomereundey jo yuNOUTE OU. —"990N 
se. ne iaqyse ‘junoooy buipysy pun DuunpofnunpE uo TYosg stos Aq n 0. L108 soo tee ee ste guageaud pun uopuoT ur sssuedzy OL 
"S861 ‘ToquIs0O(] 481g Popue IvOA OY} JOJ QUNODDY seOT pus IYOIY (9) 

L 31 8PL°6L83 L 31 8L'6L83 
9 6I 22's sae ate ave coe ep 07 Tee *s00sUT ‘INVANET, ‘d’A'D 
eu} JO} sv0'T Buyjoq ‘yunosoy seo07 pun nfosd “ UMUADY) “NOLLA'T 
II ut a. eres eane pup fy: oe yung 7 ev) - 
5 cc 60°23 aa reo eo re pad etd ' ot a rat i es =“ ~ sifospssag yung “ 
Suyseu & 00 8B ‘puDy uo Teg aes 
6 0 246z:0e%? ————— beer ale one 9 ST 6Z¥'8Z coe SBUYPUSSINGO pus s1O}{ Pol) opel, 
Il $s g0P‘e oon oon eon Ivo 913 & ¥ T9o9 BF ane ae = “=o iat sOOUBADYV és 
Zurmp sfaaing uo amngpusdx™ :ppy ; ae ae ee vee SSO POLO Arpuns 
OL PT 1689S nee ats "*  1S6T ‘Tequieoed 0 0 SLT 68 pense] 
asTg oF dn omgyrpucdxe jo s0u¥"Teq —_—_—__==== 
. poyeooyjvun 943 Buroq ‘yunosop quewdopaaaq “‘ 0 0 ooo‘ooIz °° ss -— ee °** posysOq Ny 
4 9 $8q'S8I ees eee sae eee ese 101390. —:son s00q L yuso 40d 9 6eé 
0} pojnqiyje sosuedxe preyr2A0 jo 0 0 000‘:os ——— 
uopiodoid Burpnypout ‘480g 4v ‘yuewdindy 0 0 000‘02 ial Yous “s— Jo saisyg ATeuypiC 000‘00F 
fupung pup snyosvddp ‘fsouryoopg ‘qunjg “ 0 0 000'083 ane qova [F JO salvyg suUsleyerg 000‘OSS 
9 $ o08‘'6g eos *** TOrj00190 0} PeINqiyye sesuedxe — dp pod Ang pun pense] qondny “‘ 
pvsyleao jo uomlodoid Surpnyour “4yso0g a 
qu ‘shuoppng puv vfwH w puvT proyeeg * 0 0 000‘00%F 
Ir 0 8¥9'ss yee ase “490g QOULTeG 4SR] Jed sy 
—SalByg pred Alyn Jo queurjoyjV 0 0 o00‘e mes ** Youea [TF JO sareyg 000‘s 
eq3 Aq poysyjus ‘siopue, 943 Aq oprm 0 0 000‘22 oa Yovd “ST JO saIVyS AIVAIPIO 000'OFS 
yom Alvuruifjeald oy} [Te Jo yyodeq ey 0 0 ooo‘oze °"* qove LZ Jo saIvyg suUeIIja1q 00008 


puv tog pad ey} Ul syyVg pue sfeIOUTY 


—: pomsoymy 
jO wuoMmoelxe 943 IOy uowssau0g fo jog Ag oe ene) OL, 
"p 8 3 “Pp *g K 2 "Pp *g 3 "p *s 5 
a @) “S861 “IequIcoe”’ 4981S “Jooug souvTe (9) “ad 


‘dH.LINIT HSVLOG ANLLSTIVG 


299 


(iv) THE SYREO-OTTOMAN AGRICULTURAL COMPANY, LTD. 


BALANCE SHEET FoR 1933. 


Assets. Syrian Piasters. Liabilities Syrian Pirasters. 
By cash and de- To share capital 
posits es Ae 5,199, 682-32 (1,600 shares) ... 18,657,560-00 
By assets... wes 696,775-37 To outstanding 
By constructions, debts and C..., 36,917,927-80 
building, drain- 
age, etc. ... aoe 3,153, 352-35 
By debts and cur- ° 
rent accounts ... 1,054,297-83 


By improvement 
works and_in- 


vestments au 23,245-52 
_ By expenses, pro- 
fits and losses ... 30,029,183-41 


_ By _ shareholders’ 
account payable 
on demand ..  10,418,951-00 


Total ...  50,575,487-80 Total ..  50,575,487-80 


AUDITOR’s REPORT. 
At the request of the Board of Directors of the Syreo-Ottoman Agricultural 
— Co., Ltd., based on its resolution adopted on the 10th March, 1932, and the 
3rd March, 1933, I have examined the accounts of this Company and do 
hereby certify that the foregoing statement is a correct abstract of the 
Income and Expenditure for the period ending the 3lst December, 1933, 
as shown by the books audited by me. 


(Sgd.) MowaMMAD Omar AL-BABBAIR, 
7 . Auditor. 
Certified true copy. 


(Sgd.) MowaMMapD Omar BarHuM, 
Managing Director, 
Chairman, Board of Directors. 


Beirut, 10th March, 1934. 


300 
(v) LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION: DUES COLLECTED IN 1932 AND 1933. 


Administration Générale des Phares, 
12, Rue Gaillon, Paris. 


Droits DE PHARES PERCUS EN PaLesTInE PenpantT L’ANNEE 1932. 
Livres Palestiniennes. 





Dues collected 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside Total. 
Palestine 

£P. Mils. £P. Mis. £P. Mils £P. Miles. 
January 464.626 420.441 _ 885.067 
February 625.907 653.149 = 1,279.056 
March 931.498 707.387 — 1,638.885 
April 667.999 488.729 .036 1,156.764 
May... 637.945 495.986 6.247 1,140.178 
June 543.940 494.180 .430 1,038.550 
July 517.312 526.059 2.787 1,046.158 
August ane 626.309 486.792 3.532 1,116.633 
September ... 693.598 517.279 2.807 1,213.684 
October és 663.238 538.655 1.577 1,203.470 
November ... 735.545 630.187 .261 1,365.993 
December ... 814.312 768.572 641 1,583.525 

7,922.229 6,727.416 18.318 14,667.963 





Droits DE PHaRES PERoUS EN PALESTINE PENDANT L’ANNEE 1933. 


Livres Palestiniennes. 








Dues collected 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside Total. 
Palestine 

£P. Mils. P. Mils. £P. Mils £P. Mas. 

January ; 982.428 823.614 — 1,806.042 
February ... 935.427 711.312 .199 1,646.938 
March 1,405.471 777.593 .449 2,183.513 
April 1,260.440 734.129 1.316 1,995.885 
May... 1,054.478 772.650 2.362 1,829.490 
June 853.074 822.390 791 1,676.255 
July 999.309 963.785 1.056 1,964. 150 
August ee 917.237 861.506 2.977 1,781.720 
September ... 1,018.798 1,050.578 .846 2,070.222 
October... 1,159.724 954.510 643 2,114.777 
November ... 1,247.038 845.321 — 2,092.359 
December ... 1,171.364 936.483 .208 2, 108.055 
13,004.788 10,253.871 10.747 23,269.406 


—_ 


APPENDIX II. 


AMENDMENT OF PROVISIONAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN SYRIA AND PALESTINE FOB 
EXTRADITION OF OFFENDERS. 


It is hereby agreed between Monsieur Jean Helleu, Minister Plenipo- 
tentiary, Delegate General of the High Commissioner of the French Re- 
public for Syria and the Lebanon, and His Excellency Lieutenant-General 
Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, High Commissioner for Palestine, acting in 
virtue of the powers which have been conferred upon them respectively 
that the Provisional Agreement for Extradition of Offenders made between 





301 


His Excellency General Gouraud, High Commissioner of the French Re- 
public for Syria and the Lebanon, and His Excellency Sir Herbert Samuel, 
High Commissioner of His Britannic Majesty for Palestine, and signed by 
the said General Gouraud on the 5th July, 1921, and by the said Sir 
Herbert Samuel on the llth of July, 1921, shall be amended as follows :— 


1. The expression ‘‘ The High Commissioner for Syria and the 
Lebanon ’’ shall be substituted for the expression ‘‘ The High Commis- 
sioner for Syria’’ wherever the latter expression occurs. 

2. Article 7 (a) shall be amended by the insertion of the words 
“or in the Lebanon ” after the words ‘‘ charged with an offence com- 
mitted in Syria.’’ 

8. Article 7 (b) shall be amended by the insertion of the words 
‘or in the Lebanon ’’ after the words ‘‘ charged with an offence com- 
mitted in Syria ’’. 

4. Article 10 shall be amended by the insertion of the words ‘‘ or in 
the Lebanon ”’ after the words ‘' a legal enactment in force in Syria’’. 

5. Article 11 (3) shall be amended by the insertion of the words 
‘‘ or of the Lebanon ”’ after the words ‘‘ The Judicial and Police autho- 
rities as well as forces of the Government of Syria’’. 


For the purpose of the application of the said Provisional Agreement, 
the term ‘‘ Syria ’’ and ‘‘ Syrians ’’ shall be deemed to include the State 
of Syria, the Governments of Lattaquieh and of the Jebel Druze and their 
citizens in conformity with Article 1 of the High Commissioner’s Decree 
No. 16/8 dated the 19th January, 1925, regarding Syrian nationality, 
as modified by the Organic Statute of the 14th May, 1930. 


ARTHUR WAUCHOPE. J. HELLeEv. 
High Commissioner for Palestine. Le Ministre Plenipotentiaire 
Délégué Général. 
llth September, 1933. Beyrouth, 23rd September, 1933. 


APPENDIX III. 


CoNVENTION REGULATING THE CONVEYANCE OF MINERAL OILS BY THE ANGLO 
Persran Orn Company LIMITED THROUGH THE TERRITORY OF PALESTINE. 


This convention made the eighteenth day of October, 1933, between the 
High Commissioner for Palestine (hereinafter called ‘‘ the High Commis- 
sioner ’’) of the one part and Anglo-Persian Oil Company Limited a Com- 
pany incorporated in England whose registered office in England is situate 
at Britannic House, Finsbury Circus, in the City of London (hereinafter 
called ‘‘ the Company ’’) which expression wherever used shall be deemed to 
include its assigns or any duly constituted subsidiary or associated company 
or any company which may be recognised under Article XXVI as being 
formed or employed by the Company for the purpose of constructing, main- 
taining or operating pipelines, refineries or works ancillary thereto which 
form the subject of this Convention, of the other part. 

Whereas on the 30th day of August, 1925, a Convention (hereinafter 
called ‘‘ the Iraq Concession ’’, which expression shall include any extension 
or modification thereof) was entered .into between the Government of Iraq 
of the one part, and the Company of the other part, whereby the said 
Government granted to the Company (inter alia) the right to transport 
through Iraq crude oil won either in Iraq or in Persia with the right to 
that end to construct its own pipeline system through Iraq or to enter 
into contracts with any other owners of pipelines for the transport of 
such crude oi] and with the right to import into Iraq free of Customs duties 
all material necessary for the construction and maintenance by the Com- 
pany of pipeline systems and 


302 


Whereas the Company is desirous of the right to transport such crude 
oil from the frontier of Iraq to a terminal port on the coast of Palestine 
by means of a pipeline or pipelines traversing the territory of Palestine, 
and for the purposes of this Convention of erecting and maintaining within 
that territory offices, pumping stations, workshops, stores, storage tanks 
for oil and water, bridges, residences for employees, rail and tram lines, 
aerial ropeways or telferage, roads, rolling stock, overhead or underground 
cable lines, ferries, road, water and aerial transport, aerodromes, electric 
cables (whether overhead or underground), telegraph and telephone lines, 
wireless installations, refineries, tank farms, hospitals, power schemes, oil, 


gas and water lines, either exposed, buried, or submerged, and other | 


works (whether of the kind aforesaid or not) appertaining or auxiliary 
thereto (all of which works are hereinafter collectively included in the 
expression “‘ the undertaking ’’) and 


Whereas the High Commissioner, in consideration of the benefits which 


the country will derive from the undertaking, is desirous of facilitating © 


the undertaking hy the means prescribed in this Convention. 


Now it is hereby agreed between the High Commissioner and the Company 


in the manner following :— 


ARTICLE I. : 
Rights granted to Company. 


The High Commissioner grants by these presents to the Company the 


right (hereinafter called ‘‘ the concession ’’) to construct, maintain, and 
cperate one or more pipelines and all the works ancillary thereto, and to 


do all things necessary for the undertaking, on the following conditions. 


ARTICLE II. 


Duration of Concession. 
The duration of the concession shall be for seventy years from the date 
of signature hereof. 
Submission of plans. 


Before beginning the laying of the pipeline the Company shall submit 
to the High Commissioner plans showing the lands in which the pipeline 


is to be laid and the lands on or over which any pumping station, refineries 
or other works of the undertaking are to be erected, such plans to be of 


character which will enable the High Commissioner to cause the ownership — 


of the said lands to be ascertained. 


Pipeline to terminate in Acre Bay. 


The pipeline shall terminate in Acre Bay, provided that if it be found 


impracticable for the pipeline to terminate in the locality aforesaid it 
shall terminate at such point on the coast of Palestine as may be agreed 
between the High Commissioner and the Company. 


Pipelines to be contiguous. 

If the Company desire to lay more than one pipeline, the pipelines laid 
by the Company shall be contiguous provided that the Company may, if 
it be found necessary to lay pipelines which are not contiguous, lay such 
pipelines after having first submitted such plans as aforesaid and obtained 
the consent of the High Commissioner to lay pipelines in accordance with 
the said plans, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, or delayed. 


Surrender of property at expiration of Concession. 

At the expiration of the concession the rights granted to the Company 
under the Convention shall determine and all the immovable property of 
the Company and all fixtures in Palestine, which property and fixtures fe 
part of the undertaking, shall become the property of the High Commis- 
sioner free of charge, provided that on or before the expiration of the cor- 
cession, should the Company so desire, the High Commissioner undertakes 








303 


to consider sympathetically an extension or removal of the concession on 
terms to be agreed and provided further that the High Commissioner may 
require the Company to remove on the expiration of the concession any of 
the said fixtures, other than the pipeline or pipelines, which the High 
Commissioner may reasonably require the Company to remove. 


Abandonment. 


The Company shall have the right to abandon permanently to the High 
Commissioner all rights hereunder, upon giving three months’ notice in 
sriting of its intention so to do, and this Convention shall absolutely 
determine on the date fixed for such determination in such notice, and if 
such notice be given not later than twenty-five years after the date of 
this Convention the Company shall be entitled, on such determination, to 
remove, free of all taxes and duties, all plant, buildings, stores, material 
and property of every sort, provided that for a period of three months 
from the receipt, of such notice the High Commissioner may purchase the 
same at a price equal to the replacement value at that date, less deprecia- 
tion, which price shall be agreed, or, failing agreement, settled under 
Article XXIV. 


ArticLE ITI. 
Holy Places—Antiquities. 


No works of the undertaking may be erected within the precincts of 
cemeteries, places used for religious worship and places of antiquity as 
scheduled or as defined in the Antiquity Laws or Regulations. Works of 
art and antiquities discovered during construction shall be subject to the 
regulations relating thereto. 


ARTICLE IV, 
Exemption from tax on products. 


No import tax, transit tax, export tax or other tax, or fiscal charge of 
any sort shall be levied on petroleum, naphtha, ozokerite, natura] gases, 
whether in a crude state or any form of derivatives thereof, whether in- 
tended for consignment in transit or utilised for the industrial operations 
of the undertaking. 

Local Marketing. 


If the said products, crude or refined, are marketed locally for consump- 
tion in Palestine or if they are utilised for requirements other than those 
of the undertaking they will be subjected to the same duties and fiscal 
charges, including import dues, as are leviable on similar products in 
Palestine. 

The conditions of the sale of such products in the local market will form 
the subject of an arrangement between the High Commissioner and the 
Company. 


ARTICLE V. 
Customs duties, import dues and facilities. 


The Company shall be entitled to import into Palestine free of Customs 
duties or other importation dues (which duties and/or dues are hereinafter 
collectively referred to as ‘‘ import dues ’’) all stores, equipment, materials 
and other things whatsoever which may be necessary for the works of 
the undertaking and for its transportation purposes, including all equip- 
ment for offices, houses, hospitals or other buildings, which will be the 
property of the Company and used for its operations (all of which stores, 
equipment, materials and other things whatsoever are hereinafter collectively 
referred to as ‘‘ materials ’’). 

Materials imported free of import dues if they should be sold by the 
Company for use in Palestine shall be liable to the import dues leviable at 
the time of such sale on similar materials. 


804 


The Company shall be entitled to re-export free of dues materials imported 
free of import dues, 

In view of the exceptional nature of the undertaking, the High Commis- 
sioner will cause special facilities to be granted to the Company, if necessary, 
for the import of materials at points convenient to the Company, and will 
permit the loading and unloading of ships and the import and export 
of cargo at all times, whether by day or night, and on public holidays. 
The Company for its part undertakes to erect and maintain any special 
buildings that may be necessary for this purpose and to pay the additional 
fees of Customs officials prescribed by regulations. 

All things and materials imported or exported by the Company’s employees 
for their personal use, or imported by the Company for sale to its employees, 
shall be liable to the import dues in force. 

No refund of the duties paid on materials purchased locally by the Com- 
pany will be made, but orders placed by the Company with local merchants 
for materials which under this Convention are exempt from import dués 
shall, on importation, be likewise exempted from import dues; all such 
orders must be notified to the Customs authorities and must be supported 
by a certificate signed on behalf of the Company and approved by the 
Customs authorities, declaring that such orders have been placed for the 
account of the Company, and for the requirements of the undertaking. 


ArticLp VI. 
Port, harbour and other dues. 


The High Commissioner will cause steps to be taken to ensure that the 
Port authorities of the port of Haifa or of such other port as may be used 
by the Company shall afford every facility to the Company and its con- 
tractors for the unloading and handling of cargo. 

The Company shall be entitled to use its own lighters, launches, and other 
craft in the port of Haifa or such other port os may be used by the 
Company for the purposes of the undertaking, and in agreement with the 
Customs authorities to store the materials required for the purposes of the 
undertaking in its own enclosures and sheds. 

Ships owned or specially chartered by the Company shall pay Port dues 
and the Company shall pay cranage, wharfage, lighterage and other harbour 
dues on schedules of special rates to be agreed between the High Commit 
sioner and the Company in the compilation of which schedules regard shall 
be had to the large tonnage of materiale to be handled. 


ArticteE VII. 
Company’s Port: Construction of. 


The High Commissioner will cause to be given every facility for the 
construction, maintenance and use by the Company, should it so desire, for 
the purposes of the undertaking but not for purposes of general trading, 
of a port or ports in the zone adjacent to the pipeline terminal, to be 
fixed in agreement with the High Commissioner. 

The Company may, within the limits of any such port or ports, and in 
agreement with the High Commissioner, lay mooring, guiding and lighted 
buoys, establish shore marks and lights, breakwaters, jetties, wharfs, sub- 
marine loading lines, and may generally undertake dredging works and 
such works of arrangement, conservancy, sanitation, and maintenance 38 
the Company may deem necessary for the efficient working of such port oF 
ports by day or by night. 

The plans for the construction of such port or ports shall, before the 
word of construction is begun, be submitted to the High Commissioner 
and approved by him, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld of 
delayed. 7 


305 


The right of entry or access to such port or ports shall be at the discretion 
of the Company. 

The Company alone shall have the right to levy port, harbour, light, 
wharfage, cranage, or other dues, on ships entering or leaving the Com- 
pany’s porte. These dues shall be fixed in agreement with the High Com- 
missioner, 

Ships using the Company’s port or ports shall pay any lighthouse dues 
which may from time to time be payable. 

The appropriate Government Departments, under arrangement with the 
Company, shall discharge the necessary customs, quarantine, immigration 
services, and police supervision. 

For these, and any other special services rendered, the Company, or 
vessels using the Company’s ports, shall pay on a scale to be agreed with 
the High Commissioner, 

The High Commissioner shall cause anchorage near the Company’s dolphins, 
submarine or submerged loading lines to be prohibited. 


Articts VIII. 
Railway Rates. 


In connection with the construction, maintenance and operation of the 
undertaking, the Company may use the existing railway system in Palestine 
and extensions thereof on a schedule of rates to be agreed between the 
High Commissioner and the Company on the basis that ordinary rates 
will, during the period of laying the pipeline or pipelines, be specially 
reduced in view of the large tonnage and passenger traffic of the Company 
expected to be carried in so far as such a reduction is consistent with 
existing international obligations, and further may provide its own rolling 
stock during the said period if the Railway Administration is unable to 
provide suitable rolling stock or to carry the Company’s traffic without 
unreasonable delay. 


ARTICLE XI. 


Construction of Railway by Company. 


The High Commissioner grants to the Company the right to construct, 
any system of railways required for the undertaking if the existing railway 
system-and extensions thereof do not meet the Company’s requirements. 
The Company undertakes that before proceeding to any such construc- 
tion, other than the construction of a portable service line, it will deposit 
With the High Commissioner, and obtain his approval of, a scheme for 
the construction, maintenance and working of the railway, and that it will 
ee maintain and work the railway in accordance with the said 
scheme, : 

In the event of the Company exercising the right of constructing a 
railway, the railway shall not be used for the public conveyance of 
passengers, animals or goods and the Company shall not, therefore, have 
the rights, nor be subject to the liabilities, of a common carrier in respect 
of the railway, but Government stores and personnel may be carried under 
arrangements and on terms and conditions to be agreed with the High 
Commissioner. 

The High Commissioner shall have the right, if the interests of the 
Public so require, to purchase at a price to be agreed, or failing agreement, 
fixed under Article XXIV hereof, any railway of a gauge exceeding 0-762 
metre constructed by the Company, but on any railway so purchased the 
High Commissioner shall cause all the goods and passenger traffic of the 

mpany to be carried on terms to be agreed between the High Com- 
missioner and the Company. 


306 


Articte X. 
Roads: Use by Company. 


The Company shall have the same rights as the general public to use 
the system of roads constructed in Palestine. 


Construction of: by Company. 


The Company shall not be entitled to any contribution from the public 
revenue towards the cost of construction or maintenance of any roads 
constructed by the Company for the purposes of the undertaking. 


Articte XI, 
Labour. 


The Company undertakes to employ local labour for the purposes of 
the undertaking in Palestine provided that if the supply of suitable local 
labour is insufficient, the High Commissioner will cause special facilities to 
be granted for the admission into Palestine of labour for the purposes of 
the undertaking, upon the condition that, if any such labour is admitted 
for a temporary purpose, the Company undertakes to repatriate, when 
such purpose is accomplished, any persons so admitted who may not have 
obtained the consent of the High Commissioner to remain in Palestine. 

The Company shall have the right so to arrange its labour shifts that 
construction, maintenance and operation of the undertaking may proceed 
by day, by night, and during public holidays. 

During special construction or repair work when large quantities of 
labour may be required as a temporary measure, the High Commissioner 
will cause special facilities to be granted for the free and unhampered 
movement of the Company’s employees, vehicles and materials, whether 
by day or by night, over certain frontier points to be agreed. 


Frontier Crossings. 


Having regard to the special requirements of the undertaking which 
call for uninterrupted operation, the High Commissioner will cause to be 
granted at all times such facilities for the movement of the Company’s 
staff, employees and materials at the agreed frontier points, and will 
favourably consider, and if at all possible will cause to be adopted, any 
measures of reciprocity in this respect which the Company may arrange 
with the Governments of adjoining territories. 

Any extraordinary expense incurred by the Government Departments in 
facilitating such movements at the agreed frontier points will first be 
agreed between the High Commissioner and the Company and will be paid 
by the Company. 

Restrictions. 


The High Commissioner may prohibit, in the interests of public security, 
any person employed by the Company from entering into, or remaining it 
any specified area. 


ARTIOLE XII. 
Taration. 


No property tax, income tax, or any levy or fiscal charge of any sort shall 
be imposed on the Company in respect of its property, employees, the income 
or the turnover of the Company or the operation of the undertaking, save 
in respect of any profits accruing from sales of the Company’s products 
for local re-sale or consumption in Palestine outside the requirements of 
the undertaking, provided that exemption shall not extend to any of the 
Company’s dividends distributed to taxable inhabitants of Palestine or to 
salaries of employees in so far as they may be taxable in Palestine. 








307 


No stamp duty shall be charged on the present Convention or the docu- 
ments annexed thereto, nor on any supplementary Conventions, plans, 
specifications or similar instruments executed with, or submitted to, the 
High Commissioner. 

The Company shall be liable to stamp duty and registration fees for all 
transactions other than those for which exemption is granted under this 
Article. 

To the extent to which the Company shall provide at its own cost 
adequate services within the precincts of the areas acquired for its terminal 
ports, refineries, tank farms, pumping stations, and similar works of the 
undertaking, in connection with and for the purpose of education, police, 
sanitation, water, light and other services ordinarily provided by a local 
authority, the Company shall be exempt from liability to be assessed to 
rates in respect of services so provided, but nothing in these presents shall 
impose on the Company any obligation whatever to provide any such 
service. 

On the other hand, in respect of any installation by the Company in 
Palestine, or of any operations which it may carry out in Palestine, which 
shall not be for the purpose of the working of the undertaking, or shall 
not be justified by the operation of the undertaking, it shall be subject, 
to all obligations to which the general public is subject, and shall be liable 
to all taxes applicable under the laws for the time being in force. 


ARTIOLE XIII. 
Communications. 


The Company shall have the right to set up, maintain and operate a 
telegraph and telephone system (whether overhead or underground) or wire- 
less installation, providing communication between the various pumping 
stations, offices and other establishments of the Company’s undertaking, but 
so that the said telegraph and telephone system and wireless installation 
shall be used exclusively for the purpose of the undertaking and shall be 
subject to the supervision of the High Commissioner and shall not be so 
constructed or worked as to interfere with the working of any telegraph 
or telephone system or wireless installation of the Postal and Military Autho- 
rities in Palestine or of any person or Company for the time being working 
& Concession for telegraphs, telephones or wireless installations. 

A reasonable use of such installations shall, in case of need, be permitted 
to the Government officials responsible for the public safety. 

The Company shall be entitled to use for the purposes of the undertaking 
any public services functioning in Palestine, even if not specifically pro- 
vided for herein, on payment of the charges, if any, ordinarily imposed 
upon other industrial undertakings for the like use of such services, 


ARTIOLE XIV. 
Transport. 


The Company shal] have the right to use any form of transport, whether 
by land, water or air for the movement of its employees or materials, subject 
to the due observance of the laws and regulations governing the use of such 
transport. , 


ARTICLE XV. 
Building construction material 


The Company shall have the right (subject to existing rights) to use for 
_ the purposes of the undertaking, free of charge, available soil, clay, ballast, 
lime, gypsum, stone, and similar substances vested in the High Commu- 
sioner, subject to the payment of such licence fees for quarrying as may be 
in force, 


308 


Timber, wood and brushwood necessary for the purposes of the under- 
taking as far as they may be available and subject to existing rights and 
having regard to the maintenance of the forests may be cut in Government 
forests on the terms and in accordance with the regulations relating thereto. 


ARTICLE XVI. 


Water. 


In agreement with the High Commissioner, the Company shal] have the 
right, subject to existing rights, to sink wells, make dams, catch and con- 
serve surface water, and otherwise to take such measures as are necessary 
to provide water for the purposes of the undertaking without fee or charge 
other than the cost of any land acquired for the purpose in accordance with 
the provisions of Article XVII. 

The Company shall have the right with the consent of the High Con- 
missioner to take such quantities of water from rivers and lakes vested 
in or under the control of the High Commissioner in Palestine as may be 
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the undertaking, provided that, 
in so doing, rights acquired or already granted shall first be satisfied and 
the Company shall not, in any case, deprive the local inhabitants of a 
reasonable supply of water, for household, industrial and agricultural] pur- 
poses and for the watering of animals and the irrigation of land. 

Water in respect of which special rights of user have been granted or 
acquired shall, if the High Commissioner agrees that such water is required 
for the purposes of the undertaking be expropriated in the manner pro- 
vided by law and at the expense in all things of the ‘Company, provided 
that such expropriation shall not, in any case, deprive the local inhabitants 
of a reasonable supply of water for household, industrial and agricultural 
purposes and for the watering of animals and the irrigation of land. 

The Company will take ail reasonable steps to make available for local 
use any waste water from its plants and installations. 

Nothing in this Convention shall exempt the Company from liability to 
pay water rates for water supplied to the Company by any local authority. 


 ArRtiotg XVII. 


Lands: State. | 

The High Commissioner will grant to the Company, for periods which 
shall not be greater than the duration of this Convention, leases of State 
lands which the High Commissioner agrees are required for the purposes 
of the undertaking. | 

The Company shall pay a nominal rent in respect of any such land which 
is leased for the purpose of laying therein the pipeline or pipelines or of | 
erecting thereon pumping stations, tank farms, refineries, and other — 
terminal facilities, or for any accommodation works required during the 
construction period, In all other cases, the Company shall pay a rent based 
on a value of the land leased which is not greater than the value of similar 
land in the immediate vicinity of the land leased. 7 

Lands: Private, 

Lands required for the undertaking and not vested in the High Com — 
missioner shall be acquired by agreement between the Company and the © 
owners thereof. Failing agreement, if the High Commissioner regards the 
acquisition of such lands as being necessary for the purposes of the under — 
taking, such lands will be expropriated in accordance with the provisions 
of the ‘* Expropriation of Land Ordinance, 1926,’’ or such other Expropr!a- 
tion Law as may be substituted therefor, and at the expense in all things 
of the Company. 

Lands thus expropriated shall be registered in the name of the High 
Commissioner and shall be leased to the Company at nominal rents and 
for periods not greater than the duration of this Convention, 








309 


Articte XVIII. 
Security. 


The High Commissioner will cause suitable measures to be taken to secure 
the normal protection of the undertaking and of the Company’s employecs. 


The Company undertakes to construct at its own expense accommodation 
for police forces at points where the High Commissioner agrees with the 
Company that such accommodation is a necessary measure of protection 
owing to the absence or insufficiency of police forces at such points. 


_ During the construction period of the undertaking the High Commissioner 
In arreement with the Company and with the Company’s co-operation will 
cause such special protection measures to be taken as may appear to be 
necessary. 

ARTICLE XIX. 
Share Participation. 

Whenever an issue of shares is offered by the Company to the general 
public, for the purpose of the undertaking, subscription lists shall be 
opened in Palestine simultaneously with lists opened elsewhere. 


ARTICLE XX. 
Company to comply with Companies Ordinance, 1929. 


The Company shall within three months from tho date of this Convention 
comply with Section 248 of the Companies Ordinance, 1929. 


ARTICLE XXI. 
General operation. 


So soon as the Company shal] have come to agreement with the Govern- 
ments of the other territories concerned, the Company shall take all reason- 
able measures to carry out the objects of this Convention, but if on the 
expiration of 10 years from the date of signature of this Convention the 
Company shall not have submitted the plans to be submitted under the 
provisions of Article II the Company shall pay to the High Commissioner 
a licence fee of £P.25 per annum on the first day of January in each year 
until such plans shall have been submitted. 


Protection by High Commissioner. 


The High Commissioner will cause all reasonable measures to be taken 
to facilitate the carrying out of the objects of this Convention in the area 
in which the undertaking is operated, and when entering into, granting or 
confirming any agreement, licence or concession other than this Convention, 
the High Commissioner will protect the rights of the Company acquired 


hereunder. 

The Company undertakes to take every precaution necessary for the 
purpose of preventing the pollution of the soil, air and water in the vicinity 
of its installations. But the High Commissioner recognises that, in certain 
circumstances, a degree of pollution is inevitable by reason of the nature 
of the operations of the oil industry, and will not, therefore, require the 
Company to undertake any measures for the prevention of such pollution 
which the Company cannot reasonably be required to undertake. 


ARTICLE XXII. 


' Damages. 
for any breach of this Convention shall be damages, which 


The penalt 
shall be fixed by agreement, or under Article XX1V hereof. 
L 


30: 23364 


310 
ARTICLE XXITI. 


Force Majeure. 


No failure or omission, whether by the Company or by the High Com- 
missioner or any public “officer, in the observance or performance of any 
of the stipulations, agreements, or conditions herein contained and on the — 
part of either party to be observed or performed shall give rise to any 
claim or demand against any party or in any manner operate to the 
prejudice of such party or be deemed a breach of this Convention, if it be — 
shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the other party that the default has — 
arisen from any of the following causes, namely, act of God, insurrection, 
riots, war, strikes, or lock-outs of workmen, or any other extraordinary or 
‘inforeseeni bireninetaness which may be reasonably considered to be beyond 
the control of either party to this Convention. 


ARTICLE XXIV. 


Arbitration. 


If at any time within the duration of this Convention or, thereafter, any 
doubt, difference or dispute shall arise between the parties hereto concerning 
the interpretation or execution hereof, or anything herein contained, or 1n 
connection herewith, or the rights and liabilities of either party hereunder, 
the same shall, failing any agreement to settle it by other means, be re- 
ferred to two arbitrators, one of whom shall be chosen by each party, and 
an umpire who shall be chosen by the arbitrators before proceeding to 
arbitration. Each party shall nominate its arbitrator within 30 days of 
being requested in writing by the other party to do so. In the event of 
the arbitrators failing to agree upon an umpire, the parties hereto shall, 
in agreement, appoint an umpire, and in the event of their failing to agree. 
they shall request the President of the Permanent Court of Internation:! 
Justice to appoint an umpire. The decision of the arbitrators, or, in the 
case of a difference of opinion between them, the decision of the umpire. 
shall be final. The place of arbitration shall be such as may be agreed 
by the parties, and, in default of agreement shall be London. 


ARTIOLB XXV. 


International Conventions and existing concessions and agreements 
to prevail. 


This Convention shall not be construed so as to impose on the High 
Commissioner any obligation which conflicts with any obligation imposed 
on him by any international Convention nor shall this Convention or any 
Article hereof be construed so as to prejudice, or derogate from, any righis 
or privileges created by any existing concession or agreement by which the 
High Commissioner is bound. 


ARTICLE XXVI. 


Power to assign Convention. 


The Company shall have the right to assign or otherwise dispose of this 
Convention or any interest herein or any of the powers conferred hereby, 
prov ided that the previous consent in writing of the High Commissioner 
shall first have been obtained, such consent not to be unreasonably witb- 
held or delayed. 


Artiots XXVII. 


This Convention shall be interpreted and construed according to - law 
of England and shall be given effect to accordingly. 


311 


ARTICLE XXVIII. 


Marginal Notes. 


The marginal notes of the contents of this Convention are for convenience 
of reference only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of 
the Convention. 


Done in duplicate at Jerusalem on the Fighteenth day of October, 1933. 


Signed by the High Commissioner 
for Palestine in the presence of 


C. G. Eastwoop, 
Private Secretary. 


ARTHUR WAUCHOPE. 


The Common Seal of Anglo-Persian 
Oil Company Limited was here- 
unto affixed in the presence of 


(Sgd.) A. C. Hearn, 
Director, (SEAL.) 


(Sgd.) JNo. CLARK, 
Secretary. 


APPENDIX IV. 
JEwisH Community Reeutations, 1927. 
Order of the Elected Assembly in accordance with paragraph 13 (A). 


1. For the purpose of this Order :— 


‘‘ Rateable unit ’? means a building which is used as a dwelling place 
Including a barrack or such portions of a building as the Local Com- 
munity may from time to time insert in the assessment lists as rateable 
units. 


“Person ’? means a man, woman, Collective Farm, or settlement 
(Kevuzah or Kibbutz). 


“ Occupier of a Rateable Unit ’’ means the person in actual occupa- 
tion of the whole of a rateable unit without regard to the title under 
which he occupies or if a rateable unit is subdivided and lect to lodgers 
Or various tenants the person receiving the rent payable by the 
lodgers or tenants whether on his own account or as an agent for any 
person entitled thereto or interested therein and whether such person 
Ig in actual occupation of any part of the rateable unit or not. 


2.—A. Each Local Community shall levy upon its members and each 
Collective Farm or settlement functioning as a Local Community shall 
°vy upon itself a rate not exceeding 1 per cent of the annual rental 
value to cover the expenses of the Vaad Leumi in accordance with Para- 
ataph 13 (3) (e) (11) of the Jewish Community Regulations, and in accord- 
ance with the budget passed by the Elected Assembly at its session of 
February 29th—March 3rd, 1932, and approved by H.E. the High Commis- 
‘toner for Palestine. 


t B. Each Local Community shall include in its budget the sum allocated 
ary under 2A above and shall pay this sum in instalments in accordance 
the notice which shall be addressed to it by the Vaad Leumi. 


312 


3.—A. Each Local Community shall be authorized to levy a rate or rates 
upon ite members for the purposes enumerated in Paragraph 13 (3) of the 
Jewish Community Regulations, as follows; 

(a2) Education. 

(b) Relief of the poor. 

(c) Care of the sick. 

(d) Provision for orphans. 

(e) Contributions to the expenses of 


(1) the local Rabbinical Offices and Rabbis 

(i1) the local Community and ite Committee 
in accordance with their respective budgets, provided that the rate levied 
shal] not exceed 5 per cent of the annual rental value. 

B. The rate shall be levied for the period of one year, 5692. 

C. The ratepayers shall be the occupiers of rateable units provided that 
if two or more persona in partnership are co-occupiers of a rateable unit 
they shall be jointly and severally lable for payment of the rates, and 
provided further that if the whole of any rateable unit is unoccupied, the 
rate shall not be payable. 

D. The rate shall be assessed and made on the rental value of a rateable 
unit, and the rateable value shall be the rent paid in fact or at which 
the premises might be expected to let for one year. 


E. For the purpose of assessment the Local Community may divide the -- 


area of the Community into zones and classify the rooms in each zone. 
If the Committee of the Local Community assess the value of the units by 
this method, they shall publish a notice setting forth the zones and the 
classification of rooms and the rental value of each class of rooms in each 
zone. 

F. The Committee of the Local Community shall appoint a Special Assess- 
ment Committee for the purpose of assessing the rateable units in accordance 
with Paragraph EK. 

G. The Committee of the Local Community shall notify the occupier of a 
rateable unit at his dwelling place or customary place of business what the 
amount of the assessment is and what sum ie to be paid by him. 

H. Each occupier of a rateable unit shall be entitled to appeal, within 
one month from the date of the receipt of the notice of assessment, to the 
Appeals Committee to be appointed by the Committee of the Local Com- 


munity concerning the assessment of the unit he occupies, provided that - 


such appeal is made in writing and sets forth the reason for the appeal. 
However, the occupier of a rateable unit shall not be entitled to appeal 
concerning the division of zones or the classification of rooms. 

I. The Appeals Committee shall consider each appeal separately and shall 


decide according to the majority opinion. In case the opinions shall be | 


equally divided, the Chairman of the Committee shall cast a second and 
deciding vote. 

J. Payment of the rates, whether or not demanded, shall be made in 
instalments in accordance with the decision of the Committee of the Loca! 
Community at the office of the Local Community or through the Collector 
of Rates, or in any other way decided upon by the Committee of the Local 
Community. 

4. Committees of Local Communities shall be authorized to impose the 
following fees :— 


A. Ritual Killing pf Animals. 


(1) The fee for the ritual killing of cattle or small cattle shall be 
fixed in accordance with weight or per head, as follows :— 


(a) The fee in accordance with weight shall not exceed 50 Mil 
for each local rottle of the front section. 


Z: 
a 
’ 
4 
ak 

f 

ig 
al 
| 


a 
x 
& 


313 


(b) The fee per head shall not exceed £P.1 for cach head of local 
cattle and £P.2 for each head of foreign cattle; the fee for each 
head of small cattle shall not exceed 200 Mils. 

(11) The fee for the ritual killing of fowl] shall not exceed 10 Mils 
per head. 

(iii) The fees for ritual killing shall be paid by the butchers to the 
Committee of the Local Community in accordance with the regulations 
which shall be laid down by the Committee of cach Local Community or 
by the Board for Ritual Killing attached to each Local Community. 


B. Issue of Incences for the Baking or Selling of Unleavened Bread. 


(1) The licence fee to bake unleavened bread shall not exceed Mils 20 
per local rottle of unleavened bread. 

(11) The fees shall be paid by the bakers or sellers of unleavened bread 
to the Committee of the Local Community in accordance with the Regu- 
lations laid down by that Committee. 


C. Grant or Authentication of Certificates in Accordance with the Law. 


(1) The fee for the granting or authentication of certificates to the 
treasury of the Committee of the Local Community. 


Vaap Leumi. 
Jerusalem, March 16, 1982. 


APPENDIX V. 


STATRMENT BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES IN THE HOUSE 
or COMMONS ON THE 14TH JULY, 1933. 


I want to deal with the decision which I have to announce on what are 
known as the French Reports. His Majesty’s Government have now had 
an opportunity of considering carefully the recommendations which the 
High Commissioner has made, after reviewing the comments of the Arab 
Executive and the Jewish Agency, upon the reports of the late Director 
of Development in Palestine. His ‘Majesty’s Government have approved 
the recommendations of the High Commissioner, and action will accordingly 
be taken on the following lincs: First there is the problem of the displaced 
Arabs, and here, I think, the Committee will readily appreciate that there 
i8 a very clear distinction between the tenant occupier and the owner— 
an owner who sells his land freely at his own desire, and a tenant who 
becomes dispossessed on the sale of land by a landlord, even if he receives 
compensation, The two are in a different category. The tribunal appointed 
to investigate the claims of displaced Arabs has nearly completed its work. 
The tribunal decided to admit as entitled to resettlement Arabs who have 
been displaced from the lands which they have occupied owing to those 
lands having passed into Jewish hands, and who have failed to obtain 
equally satisfactory occupation, subject to the following exceptions: First, 
Persons who have themselves sold their land, that is, owners who, of their 
own free will have sold their land; persons who own land elsewhere; persons 
who have found, and are now cultivating as tenants, land other than that 
from which they were displaced; persons who obtained land after the 
sale of that from which they were displaced, but have since ceased to cul- 
tivate it on account of poverty or other reasons; and persons avho were 
hot cultivators at the time of the sale, for example, ploughmen and 
labourers, 

His Majesty’s Government concur in the decision of the tribunal, and 
the Government of Palestine has been authorised to proceed with the 
resettlement of displaced Arab tenants in accordance with the findings of 
the tribunal. 


314 


Colonel Wedgwood: How many? 

Sir P, Cunliffe-Lister: I think up to date 889 families have been registered 
by the tribunal. = 

Colonel Wedgwood: Coming outside those categories? 

Sir BP. Cunliffe-Lister: Yes. The work is not completed yet. We have 
got to deal with the problem of the Arabs who have been displaced, and 
we are all agreed that those who were entitled under that decision of the 
tribunal to resettlement have got to be resettled, but, quite obviously, 
having found that that problem exists, we must take steps to prevent it 
recurring. We cannot be in the position of replacing these landless Arabs, 
whose merits entitle them to resettlement, and not to take steps to prevent 
the same problem recurring in the future. I think that must be obvious. 
The High Commissioner recommends, therefore, and His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment agree, that it is essential to ensure against the recurrence of a similar 
problem in the future, and the Government have authorised the High 
Commissioner to amend the Protection of Cultivators Ordinances so as to 
secure full security for tenants. This will prevent a recurrence of the 
problem. 

I come to the question of land development and the loan. The Committee 
will remember that the late Government in 1930 announced to the House 
that it was their intention to guarantee a loan, but to give much more than 
a formal guarantee, and to provide as a grant-in-aid the interest on that 
loan for a period of years. On the 17th November, 1930, the Under-Secretary 
at that time said :— 

‘‘ His Majesty’s Government have come to the conclusion that to 
achieve the object in view it is necessary to provide for an expenditure 
not exceeding £2,500,000, a large part of which would be devoted to | 
works of a productive character.”’ 

He went on to say :— 

‘‘In view of the present financial situation in Palestine, the only 
way in which a sum of this magnitude can be provided is by means 
of a loan under the guarantee of His Majesty’s Government. During 
the first years of the development scheme it will be necessary to provide — 
from British Votes such annual amounts as may be required to meet 
the interest and sinking fund charges upon the loan.’’—[Orric1iL 
Report, 17th November, 1930; col. 95, Vol. 245.] 

Therefore, His Majesty’s Government in consultation with the High Con- 
missioner have had to review the position in the light of financial conditions. 
both in this country and in Palestine, and His Majesty’s Government con- 
sider that in present financial circumstances it is impossible for the British 
Government to make a contribution at the expense of the British Treasury 
to land development in Palestine such as was envisaged in 1930. The 
financial position of Palestine is sufficiently satisfactory to enable it to 
finance its own requirements. The Government of Palestine has already 
initiated an extensive programme of public works and other measures 
which have the full approval of His Majesty’s Government, and which they 
are satisfied are of substantial value, will produce considerable revenue 
and are necessary in the general interest of the country. It is proposed 
that these works and the resettlement of displaced Arabs shall be to a large 
extent financed by means of a loan of £2,000,000, and His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment are satisfied that the financial resources of Palestine are adequate to 
provide for the service of the loan and afford full security for the capital 
sum required, and that the service of the loan can be met without drawing 
on the surplus balance, which will remain in the Palestine Exchequer, and 
which is also very substantial. 

It will be within the recollection of the Committee that the Act of 19%, 
which my right hon. Friend the Member for Sparkbrook (Mr. Amer’) 
introduced, authorised the British Government to guarantee the Palestine 
Loan of £4,500,000. The object of this guarantee was not to afford & 








315 


grant-in-aid; in fact, the Act provides that the Treasury must be satisfied 
that the Territory can and will raise the necessary revenue to meet the 
interest and sinking fund on the loan. The object was to enable Palestine 
to borrow at a lower rate of interest. The interest and sinking fund on 
this loan have, of course, been regularly met. It is proposed that a similar 
course should be followed on the present occasion, and that the proposed 
loan, as in the case of the £4,500,000 loan, should receive the formal 
guarantee of the British Government. Legislation will, in due course, be 
introduced in Parliament for this purpose. The works which will be 
financed out of the loan have been carefully discussed with the High Com- 
missioner and the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They meet the essential 
economic interests of the country, and will benefit all sections of the 
population. The provisional programme includes new water supply and 
drainage schemes for Jerusalem and Haifa, and a water supply for Hebron; 
a hydrographic survey and provision fer the improvement of village water 
supplies—a matter of tremendous importance—a new Post Office and tele- 
phone exchange for Jerusalem; provision for the capital cost of school 
buildings; also provision for the construction of an oil export dock in 
Haifa Harbour for the use of the Iraq Petroleum Company. Provision will 
also be included for the participation of the Government of Palestine in 
a scheme for increasing facilities for long-term credit for agriculturists, 
Arab and Jewish, with a special appropriation for loans to Arab cultivators 
in hill districts. It is proposed also to carry out much needed improve- 
ments at the Port of Jaffa by utilising the balance of Palestine’s existing 
£4,500,000 loan. In the meantime, the execution of the programme need 
not be delayed, as the Palestine Government can finance any expenditure 
that is required by a temporary resort to surplus balances, which will be 
reinstated when the loan is issued. 

I should add that the High Commissioner has, independently of the 
reports, given effect to a number of measures for the improvement of the 
position of agriculturists which meet many of the minor recommendations 
which are found in the reports. For example, a Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies has been appointed, whose function it will be to educate the 
fellahin in the advantages of co-operation, and to organise village co-opera- 
tive societies. In the bad seasons of recent years, the High Commissioner 
has sanctioned generous remissions of tithe and has authorised the issues 
of loans to cultivators for the purchase of seed, plough oxen and other 
requisites. Energetic measures have been taken to improve the quality 
of stock and seed, and to promote agricultural instruction by means of 
gardens attached to village schools and new Government agricultural 


stations. 


(23364—28) Wt. 91—3194 1125 6/34 P.St. G.7 


ee 


~~ 


gg a om — 





eee 


= 


yess er 





SSS ae eae 


Digitized by 














elon | ee 


. > 

: ne) 

Ke 

° ® 

rN 

— 

oO 

’ O 
7 











