This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 










Issued by the Colonial Office 


- 


REPORT. 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations — 
on the Administration of 


ve PALESTINE AND 
— “TRANS-JORDAN 


for the year 1938 


(Fc Reports for yo36 and 1937 see Non-Parltamentary 
Publications, Colonial No. 129, 1937, and. Colonial 
No. 146, 1938, Price 6s. 6d. each) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED bY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses: 
York House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 1z0 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
26 York Street, Manchester 1; 1 St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff; 
80. Chichester Street, Belfast ; 
oc throngh any bookseller 


1939 
Price 75. Od. net 


Colonial No. 166 


Digitized’ by C. () O Q Ie 
© 


THE LIBRARY 


crass F569 
poor G 79GR 





eiaiieediey Google 


(ee ee 


Issued by thesColosial Office 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND 
TRANS-JORDAN 


for the year 1938 


(For Reports for 1936 and 1937 see Non-Parliamentary 
Publications, Colonial No. 129, 1937, and Colonial 
No. 146, 1938, Price 6s. 6d. each) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON | 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses: 
York House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
26 York Street, Manchester 1; 1 St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff ; 
80 Chichester Street, Belfast ; 
or through any bookseller 


1939 
Price 75. od. net 


Colonial No. 166 


ll 


CONTENTS 
Page 
Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission Vv 
Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its en 
fourth Session fe x1 
Note regarding arrangement of the Report xii 
PALESTINE. 
Introductory ... I 
I. Jewish National Home 59 
II. Autonomous Administration 63 
III. Jewish Agency ‘ 65 
IV. Immigration and Emigration 67 
V. Land Regime... 76 
VI. Nationality : 88 
VII. Judicial System gt 
VIII. Economic Equality ... 103 
IX. Holy Places 106 
X. Freedom of Goascledce 108 
XI. Military Clauses ‘ 109 
XII. International Asvceineate: Gsventions and Treaties 118 
XIII. Antiquities site 125 
XIV. Official Languages ... 128 
XV. Holy Days 129 
XVI. Trans-Jordan 129 
XVII. Labour ... i 129 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufactase of Drugs, Agus and 
Liquors 138 
XIX. Education 142 
XX. Public Health 164 
XXI. Public Finance 182 
XXII. Demographic Statistics 225 
XXIII. Customs, Excise and Trade 233 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 269 
s XXV. Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries 276 
e} XXVI. Public Works and Geology... 290 
a XXVII. Railways : 297 
XXVIII. Co-operative Societies 302 
XXIX. Civil Aviation wee 305 
15774 A 2 


SEP 's 52 yor M 


1380478 


II. 
III. 


iv 
TRANS-JORDAN. 


Introductory 


Autonomous Administration 
Immigration and Emigration 

Lands 

Nationality 

Judicial System 

Economic Equality 

Freedom of Conscience 

Military Clauses 

International Agreements, Conventions and Treaties.. 
Antiquities | 
Labour 


Trade in and Manutactace of aan ruse and 
Liquors 


Education 

Public Health ... 

Public Finance 

Customs, Excise and Trade 

Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 
Agriculture, Forests and Veterinary 
Public Works ... 

Department of Development 

Civil Aviation ... 


APPENDICES. 
7 Palestine. 
Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 


(ii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Cor- 
poration Limited ee ve sige 


(iii) Palestine Potash Limited 


(iv) Palestine Land Development Company 
(Huleh Concessionaires) ; 


(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues collected in 
1938 sin a, — os ire 


Holy Days 
List of Concessions ... 
Map of Palestine. 


Page 
307 
322 
323 
323 
331 
333 
346 
347 
348 
352 
357 
358 


359 
361 
369 
377 
389 
401 
403 
405 
406 
407 


Page 
408 


413 
415 


419 


420 
420 
422 


Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the establishment of the national home of the 
Jewish people ? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the development of self-governing institutions ? 


What are the effects of these measures? 
3. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 


as will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the 
inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 


What are the effects of these measures ? 


Il.—Autonomous Administration. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 


What are the effects of these measures? 


ITI.—Jewish A gency. 


1. Q.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency 
been officially recognized? 


2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administra- 
tion in the past year? 


If so, in what form and in what connection ? 


3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social and other matters? 


4. Q.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


Q.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of 
all Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the 
Jewish National Home? | 


15774 A 3 


vl 


IV.—Immigration and Emigration. 
1. Q.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
Immigration ? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the 
rights and position of other sections of the population? 


Q.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with 
the ‘Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews 
on the land (give figures) ? 

4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures ? 


Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, 
profession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 


Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Regime. 
1. Q.—How have State lands been defined and delimited ? 
2. Q0.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited ? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration 
of real property ? 


VI.—Nationality. 
1. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality Law? 


z. Q.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as 
to facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.— Judicial System. 


I. Q.—When did the new judicial organisation begin to 
operate ? 


2. Y.—What special features does it contain with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee 
of their rights as laid down in Article 9? 


3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure 
respect for the personal status of the various peoples and com- 
munities and for their religious interests ? 


4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs 
been assured ? 


5. Q.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate? 


VIII.—Economic Equality. 


I. 0.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the 
development of the country in respect of public ownership or 
control of any of the natural resources of the country or of the 
public works, services, and utilities? 


_2. Q.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country 
—and if so, under what circumstances? : 


3. O.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names 
and nationalities of the concession holders. 


4. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings 
and the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such 
reports and balance sheets are not available, give all information 
relating to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the 
uses made of profits. 


5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality 
as regards: — 
(a) Concessions ? 
(6) Land tenure ? | 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to 
prospecting) ? | | 
(da) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 
6. Q. What regulations has the Mandatory Power made 


for the application of the clause providing ‘* freedom of transit 
under equitable conditions ”’ ? | 


7. Q0.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? 


If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX .—Holy Places. 


si hea hes: measures have been taken for the assumption 
by the Mandatory of responsibility in connection with 
the Holy Places and religious buildings or sites, including the 
responsibility of preserving existing nights and of securing free 
access to the Holy Places, religious buildings and sites, and the 
free exercise of worship? 


_ 2. Q.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the 
immunities of which are guaranteed ? 


15774 A4 


viii 
X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. QY.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom 
of conscience and religion ? 


2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free 
exercise of any form of worship in the interest of the mainten- 
ance of public order and morals? 


What are the effects of such restrictions? ; 

3. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights 
of communities to maintain their own schools for the education 
of their own members ? 

What educational requirements of a general nature are im- 
posed by the Administration ? 

What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of 
such supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all 
faiths or nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the 
maintenance of public order and good government? 


AXI.—Milttary Clauses. 
I. Q.—What is the form of military organization and train- 
ing ? 
2. Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory? 


What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 


Racial and religious composition of these two forces ? 
3. Q.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 


Palestine to contribute to the cost of maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 


If so, to what extent? 
4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its rights to use the 


roads, railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of 
armed forces and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 


If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged? 


All.—I nternational Conventions. 


1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration? 


2. Y.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against 
disease, including diseases of plants and animals? 


ix 
XIII.—Antiquities. 
Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities accord- 


ing to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


AIV.—Official Languages. 


1. Q.—Have the three official languages been used simul- 
taneously and on an equal footing in legislative and administra- 
tive documents and in the Courts? 


If not, what languages are used? 


2. Q.—Io what observations does the application ‘of this 
system give rise? 


AV .—Holy Days. 


Q.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities ? 


XVI.—Trans-Jordan. 


Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimited and organized ? 


2. Q.—In. what way does the political and administrative 
régime established in this territory differ from the regulations 
laid down for Palestine? 


X VII .—Labour. 


I. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accord- 
ance with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the considera- 
tion of conventions or recommendations of International Labour 
Conferences ? 


2. Q.—Are these conventions. or recommendations being 
carried into effect? 


3. Q.—What other regulations are in force in regard to 
labour ? 


4. Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling 
labour contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both 
on the part of employer and employed, and what powers does 
it possess to prevent any abuses in this respect? 


5. Q.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 
of such legislation? 


X 


A VIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or 
the control of the importation, of the production, and the con- 
sumption of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


AIX .—Education. 


1. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 


Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it 
free? 


2. 0.—What measures have been taken for higher education; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 


3. Q0.—In what language is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


XX .—Public Health. 


1. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health 
and sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases ? 


2. Q.—What is the régime for medical assistance ? 


3. Q.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution 
and what measures have been taken in this matter? 


AALI.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of 
the territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature 
and the assessment of taxes. 


X XII.—Demographic Statistics. 


Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, 
emigration, and immigration. 


X1 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Thirty-fourth 


Minutes. 


Page 59. 


Page 59. 
Page 63. 


Page 63. 


Page 64. 


Page 64. 


Session, 8th to 23rd June, 1938. 


Explanation regarding the increase in the export of 
undressed hides and skins. 
(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 234) 
Table showing re-exports during 1938. 
(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 28) .. 
Information regarding Arab unemployment statistics: 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 4) 
Information regarding progress made with ae inbour 
legislation. - 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 26) Se ‘ 
Information regarding the enforcement of fevisieion 
enacted before the Mandate and which might be 
inconsistent with it. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 11) 
Information regarding the position ae from the 
extension of the privilege of electing to be tried before 
a British Magistrate or before a British majority in the 
District and Supreme Courts. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 12) 
Table of Holy Days showing corresponding Chistian dates. 
(Appendix II to this Report) 
Information regarding the practical efieees ‘of ike: Sale sf 
Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 1935. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 5) ... sis 
Information regarding the appearance of codeine as an 
appreciable import into Palestine during noe 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 9) 
Information regarding contraventions dudes: the Mercian: 
dise Marks Ordinance of 1929. 
(Chapter XIII, paragraph 37) ... 7 
Information regarding the training of Arab iris for the 
teaching profession. 
(Chapter XIX, paragraph 17) 


POINTS RELATING TO TRANS-JORDAN. 


Statistical table relating to trade, public finance and 
population. 
(Chapter XV in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 12) 
Information regarding previous nationality of persons who 
acquired Trans-Jordan nationality. 
(Chapter IV, in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 4) ... 
Information regarding a discrepancy between the quantities 
of certain liquors manufactured by distillers in 1936 
and 1937. 
(Chapter XII in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 6) .. 
Information regarding the nationality of personnel of the 
Department of Health. 
(Chapter XIV, paragraph 1) 
Information regarding the efficacy of the ‘Desert “Mobile 
Health Unit. 
(Chapter XIV, paragraph 19) 


Page 


250 
256 


131 


138 


96 


96 


420 


139 


141 


268 


150 


387 


332 


361 


369 


375 


Xi 
NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the 
Sections of this Report might be arranged in the order of sub- 
jects adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, 
that is, in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the 
Palestine Mandate, namely:— 


I. Jewish National Home. 
II. Autonomous Administration. 
III. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 
2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and 
placed at the end of the Report. 


An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, 
Railways, Co-operative Societies, and Civil Aviation are also 
included in the Palestine portion of the Report. The Section 
relating to Development has been included under Chapter V, 
Land Regime. 


There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. . 


REPORT BY HIS MAJESTY’S GOVERNMENT IN THE 

UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN 

IRELAND TO THE COUNCIL OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 
ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN FOR THE YEAR 1938. 


PALESTINE 
INTRODUCTORY. 


POSITION, ETC. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia 
between Seas 30° N. and 33° N., Longitude 34° 30’ E. and 
35° 30° E. | 

On the North it is bounded by the French Mandated Terri- 
tories of Syria and the Lebanon, on the East by Syna and 
Trans-Jordan, on the South-west by the Egyptian province of 
Sinai, on the South-east by the Gulf of ‘Aqaba and on the West 
by the Mediterranean. The frontier with Syria was laid down 
by the Anglo-French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, 
and its delimitation was ratified in 1923. Briefly stated, the 
boundaries are as follows :— 

North—From Ras en Naqura on the Mediterranean 
eastwards to a point west of Qadas, thence in a northerly 
direction to Metulla, thence east to a point west of Banias. 

East.—From Banias in a southerly direction east of Lake 
Hula to Jisr Banat Ya’pub, thence along a line east of the. 
Jordan and the Lake of Tiberias and on to El Hamme 
station on the Samakh—Deraa railway line, thence along. 
the centre of the river Yarmuq to its confluence with the 
Jordan, thence along the centres of eee the Dead 
Sea and the Wadi ‘Araba to a point on the Gulf of ‘Aqaba 
two miles west of the town of ‘Aqaba, thence along the 
shore of the Gulf of ‘Aqaba to Ras Jaba. 

South.—From Ras Jaba in a generally north-westerly 
direction to the junction of the Neki—‘Aqaba and Gaza— 
‘Aqaba Roads, thence to a point west-north-west of ‘Ain 
Maghara and thence to a point on the Mediterranean coast 
north-west of Rafa. 

West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


AREA AND CLIMATE. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north is 
about 160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less 
than 70 miles, the total area being approximately 10,000 square 
miles inclusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead 
Sea, Lake Tiberias and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore 
comparable with Wales or Belgium. 


2 


3. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring 
deserts of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate 
zones, 1s characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not exces- 
sively hot summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical 
rainfalls accompanied by high, cold winds; frost is rare. But 
the typical climate is varied by the diverse topography of the 
country. In the south and south-west there are wide expanses 
of sand dunes and desert. The remainder of the country falls 
naturally into three longitudinal strips—the maritime plain, the 
mountainous regions (or central highlands), and the Jordan 
valley. Each of these strips, which are more closely described 
below, is climatically distinct. 


The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the 
heat of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by 
the westerly winds from the Mediterranean. In the central 
highlands there is a greater range of temperature both daily and 
‘seasonal, and the maximum temperature is a few degrees lower 
than in the coastal plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in 
Jerusalem and Hebron, and the winter storms are accompanied 
by penetrating winds which necessitate the use of clothing suit- 
able for a cold English climate. 


The Jordan valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat In summer combine to produce most oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 


The maritime plain and the central highlands are both healthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity, is relaxing in 
its effects, while the other, through sudden changes of tempera- 
ture, predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 


4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones . — 
Maritime Central Jordan 
Plain, Highlands, Valley, 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberias. 


Mean temperature ... ... Summer 77°F, 70°F, 83°F. 
Winter 60°F, 52°F. 62°F. 
Mean daily maximum tem- Summer — 83°F. 95°F. 
perature Winter — 60°F. 72°F. 
Mean daily minimum ... Summer — 60°F. 71°F. 
Winter — 44°F. 54°F. 
Absolute maximum tempera- Summer 104°F, 102°F. 114°F. 
ture. 
Absolute minimum tempera- Winter 35°F. 21°F. 34°F. 
ture. 
Relative humidity ... ... Summer 69 55 51 
per cent. per cent. per cent. 
Winter 70 68 64 


per cent. per cent. per cent. 





3 


5. Rainfall is of vital importance in Palestine and any reduc- 
tion in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agricul- 
ture and water conservation generally. The mean volume of 
annual rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east 
of England. 


There are two well-marked periods of precipitation. The 
‘ former rain ’’ in October and November is not usually large; 
during December, January and February, the rainfall steadily 
increases; in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended 
in April. The characteristic winds are the moist west and south- 
west of winter and the dry north and north-west of summer. 
Desert heat is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the 
south or east generally in April and May and occasionally in 
September and October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the south this 
plain has an average width of about 20 miles, but it gradually 
narrows to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the 
hills approach to within a few hundred yards of the sea: Beyond 
Carmel the plain widens again, but in this area it is marshy 
and malarial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the Plain of Esdraelon. To the north of 
that plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the 
Syrian frontier and rising at Jebel Jermak to a height of 

1934 ft. above sea-level; to the south are the mountains of 

amaria and Judea, which in places reach heights little less 
than those of Galilee. Most ae this second stnp of country 
is desolate and stony, but at irregular intervals there occur 
stretches of fertile land capable of deep tillage. 


The Plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture 
than that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile 
and is especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan valley, 
a natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the 
extreme north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 
ay yeaa that level at the Dead Sea, about 100 miles to 
e south. 


7. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, situated in the midst 
of the hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, with 
its modern harbour, in the north at the entrance to the plain 
of Esdraelon; Jaffa, a second port which lies some 4o miles 
west-north-west of Jerusalem; Tel Aviv, which is contiguous 
to Jaffa; and Nablus, the ancient Sichem, in the hills of 


4 


Samaria. Jerusalem has a majority of Jewish inhabitants; in 
Haifa the Arab and Jewish elements are approximately equal 
in numbers; Tel Aviv is an entirely Jewish township of 150,000 
inhabitants. In Jaffa a large majority of the people are Arabs, 
and in Nablus, apart from a small community of Samaritans,. 
all the people are Arabs. 


_ Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem; 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee; and Safad, 
a remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north 
of Palestine. 


THE HIGH COMMISSIONER. 


8. Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., C.1.E., 
D.S.O., High Commissioner for Palestine and Trans-Jordan, 
retired on grounds of health in March, 1938, and was succeeded 
by Sir Harold Alfred MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., 
formerly Governor and Commander-in-Chief, Tanganyika 
Territory. 


CHANGES IN PERSONNEL, 1938. 


From Palestine. 


g. During the year the following left Palestine on retire- 
ment : — 

Mr. M. T. Dawe, O.B.E., Director of Agriculture and 
Fisheries. | 

Mr. K. W. Stead, C.B.E., Director of Customs, Excise and 
Trade. 

Mr. F. Pudsey, Director of Public Works. 

Col. F. J. Salmon, C.M.G., M.C., Commissioner for Lands 
and Surveys. 

Miss M. Nixon, M.B.E., Infant Welfare Inspector. 

Mr. C. E. de B. Biden, Auditor. 

Mr. G. MacLaren, O.B.E., District Commissioner. 

Mr. R. Hedley, Assistant Director of Public Works. 

Mr. P. Noble, District Engineer, Public Works Department. 

Mr. H. W. Simpson, Commercial Manager, Palestine 
Railways. 


Mr. S. Fry, Director of Programmes, Palestine Broadcasting 
Service, Mr. A. Kemp, Chief Telephone Superintendent, Depart- 
ment of Posts and 1 ne and Mr. S. A. Cudmore, Gov- 
ernment Statistician, reverted to their substantive posts in the 
British Broadcasting Corporation, British Post Office and 
Canadian Bureau of Statistics respectively, on the expiration of 
their periods of secondment to Palestine. 


5 


To Palestine. 


The following were the principal appointments made during 
the year:— 

Mr. M. Bailey, O.B.E., Assistant District Commissioner, 
was appointed District Commissioner, Haifa and Samaria 
District. 

Mr. G. Walsh, C.B.E., was appointed Economic Adviser 
to the High Commissioner. 

-Captain C. Wilson Brown, O.B.E., M.C., Director of 
Public Works, Sierra Leone, was appointed Director of 
Public Works. 

Mr. M. J. Flanagan, Auditor, Uganda, was appointed 
Auditor. 

Mr. R. W. B. Belt was appointed Director of Customs, 
Excise and Trade on secondment from the English 
Customs Service. 

Mr. R. W. Hamilton, Chief Inspector in the Department of 
Antiquities, was appointed Director of Antiquities. 

Mr. G. R. E. Foley, O.B.E., District Superintendent of 
Police, was appointed Deputy Inspector General of 
Police. 

Mr. L. A. W. Orr, Registrar of the High Court in Tan- 
anyika Territory, was appointed Chief Registrar of the 
upreme Court. 

Mr. G. E. F. Wood, was seconded from the Canadian 
Government and appointed Government Statistician. 
Mr. C. B. McNair, Deputy Director of Programmes in the 
Palestine Broadcasting Service, was appointed Director 

of Programmes. 

Mr. C. E. V. Buxton, M.C., Colonial Administrative 
Service, was seconded from Kenya and appointed to 
administer the Gaza and Beersheba division of the 
Southern District with the powers and functions of a 
District Commissioner. 


The following, who were formerly administrative officers in 
the territories indicated against their names, were seconded to 
Palestine as Assistant District Commissioners : — 

Mr. C. B. Norman—Kenya. 
Mr. R. C. H. Greig—Tanganyika. 
Mr. K. C. Tours—Gold Coast. 

’ Mr. F. W. G. Blenkinsop—Nigeria. 
Mr. D. Headly—Malaya. 
Mr. E. R. Reeves—Nigeria. 
Mr. I. L. Phillips—Gold Coast. 
Mr. F. D. Corfield—Sudan. 
Mr. G. W. Bell—Sudan. 
Mr.. A. E. S. Charles—Sudan. 


6 


PUBLIC SECURITY. 


10. During 1938 public security in Palestine, particularly 
during the seven months from June onwards, continued to cause 
the administration grave preoccupation. An intensified cam- 
paign of murder, intimidation and sabotage persisted on lines 
similar to those followed by Arab law breakers in 1937; and, as 
in 1937, there were isolated incidents of Jewish reprisals. The 
main difference between the course of events in 1938 and that in 
1937 lay in the gradual development during 1938 of Arab gang 
warfare on organized and to a certain extent co-ordinated lines. 
By the end of the year, as the result of the arrival in the autumn 
of large military reinforcements, this gang organization was first 
dislocated and finally reduced to comparative impotence in the 
field. But in the towns terrorism persisted and the roads were 
still largely unsafe for normal traffic. In fact, the events of 1938 
succeeded in seriously affecting the economic and social life of 
the country to an extent far greater than was the case in 1937. 


11. Summarized Narrative Account of the Events of the 
Year 1938. 


January, 1938. 

During the early part of the month the effect of the vigorous 
action taken in December, 1937, against armed gangs, 
especially in Galilee continued to be felt; but in the second half 
of the month the gangs resumed their activities, particularly in 
the Jenin-Tulkarm area where an ae military action 
against them took place on the 31st. They suffered extensive 
casualties estimated at 30 killed and many more wounded. Two 
British soldiers were killed, and two wounded. 

During the month, particularly in the Jerusalem district where 
constant attacks involving four Jewish deaths were made on 
Jewish traffic along the Jerusalem—Jaffa road, sporadic acts of 
lawlessness persisted in the form of isolated murders, shooting 
at the police and military forces, and attacks on Jewish settle- 
ments. On the roth, Mr. J. L. Starkey, the well-known 
archaeologist, was murdered by a party of armed Arabs on the 
track leading from Beit Jibrin to Hebron. 


February, 1938. 


Although there was a decrease in attacks on Jewish transport 
near Jerusalem, the number of incidents of shooting by small 
armed parties increased, especially during the last two weeks. 
There was also an increase in the number of armed robberies in 
Arab villages by parties of marauders seeking food, money and 
lodging. 

Incidents of personal violence persisted. They were mainly 
directed against Arab villagers of whom two, one a blind man 
and the other a supernumerary constable, were murdered on the 


F ond 


/ 


11th by armed men at Attara village in the Ramallah sub- 
district. Three other incidents deserve mention. On the 16th, 
immediately after the execution at Acre of an Arab condemned 
to death by the Haifa Military Court, an unsuccessful attempt 
was made to shoot a British Assistant Superintendent of Police 
outside the gate of the prison. On the 18th, Squadron Leader 
Alderson, R.A.F., was shot dead, and an Englishwoman driving 
with him was wounded, when his car was ambushed on the 
Haifa—Tel Aviv road near Athlit. On the 28th, the Jewish 
headman of a settlement near Nazareth was shot dead by an 
Arab who was arrested next morning, having been tracked by 
the police dogs from the scene of the murder to a neighbouring 
Arab village. | 

There were no major encounters between the military and 
police and the armed gangs, but acts of armed banditry, 
particularly in Galilee and northern Samaria, increased towards 
the end of the month. | 


March, 1938. 


On the 3rd, there was a heavy engagement west of Jenin in 
which a military force, with aircraft co-operation, engaged and 
dispersed an armed band of between two and three hundred 
Arabs. One British officer was killed and an officer and two 
soldiers wounded. The losses among the band were thirty 
known to be killed and were estimated at twice that number. 
Sixteen prisoners were taken and a considerable quantity of 
arms, ammunition and bombs. 

Six days later contact was established by the army, assisted 
by aircraft, with another band in mountainous country in the 
north of Galilee. It was engaged throughout the day and was 
finally routed, its few remnants escaping over the frontier into the 
Lebanon where four men were captured by French forces. 
During the encounter one British soldier was killed and another 
slightly wounded. Sixteen of the band were killed and one 
captured, while it is believed that further casualties were 
inflicted. : 

These two severe reverses, and the fact that the casualties 
inflicted on the bands included two prominent leaders, had the 
effect of breaking up the bands into small parties and there were 
no further major engagements during the month. 

There was, however, an increase in acts of terrorist violence 
throughout the country, including a series of murders of Arab 
villagers. A British soldier was fatally injured by the explosion 
of a bomb under a railway trolley in the Gaza sub-district, and a 
Palestinian army interpreter with his Arab chauffeur were 
captured by armed Arabs near Acre. Neither was ever heard of 
again. Of the Jewish casualties six, including three women and 
a boy, were murdered when the taxi in which they were 
travelling was ambushed on the Acre—Safad road. 


8 


On the 2ist, a sheikh of the Haram el Sherif in Jerusalem was 
shot and seriously wounded in the Old City. 

Other terrorist activities during the month included a further 
increase in cases of armed robbery by small parties of Arab 
villagers; attacks on Jewish settlements, including Hanuta a 
new settlement near the northern frontier, when one settler was 
kuled; four cases of sabotage of the Iraq Petroleum Company’s 

ipe line in the Plain of Esdraelon; a large number of shooting 
incidents at police and military posts and patrols; and an 
increase in attempts to interfere with railway and telephonic 
communications. 


April, 1938. 

Acts of terrorism increased in their various forms—murder, 
intimidation, sniping, robbery and sabotage. 

The murders of Arab villagers included four headmen 
(mukhtars) and the sheikh of the village of Meirun near Safad. 
Six Arab policemen were surprised by an armed band in 
Samaria and murdered in their billet. Two more Arab police- 
men were shot when a party including the mayor of Nablus and 
a British assistant superintendent of police (who was wounded) 
was ambushed near Nablus; and two others were killed by the 
explosion of a bomb found on a local train near Haifa. Two 
ealnag policemen were killed by the explosion of a second 

mb. 

On the 17th, a bomb was thrown into an Arab café in Haifa, 
killing one Arab and wounding ten others; and on the 2Ist two 
British soldiers were killed when a military patrol was shot at 
in the hills west of Jenin. 

The Jewish casualties included a settler, a labourer in Haifa 
and a supernumerary constable, and three civilians travelling in 
a taxi which was ambushed near the northern frontier. 

There was also an increase in shooting incidents against police 
and military patrols and Jewish settlements; in cases of armed 
robbery in Arab villages and the sabotage and attempted 
sabotage of communications and Government property. For 
the first time for many months damage was done to Jewish 
groves and forests. Finally, the oil pipe line was damaged on 
ten occasions. 

Throughout the month the movements of the bands were 
mainly in small parties and several operations were carried out 
by the military and police to circumvent them. On the night of 
the 16th, in the hills north of Tulkarm, an engagement of con- 
siderable magnitude was fought with a band which was attacked 
and lost 14 men, while four others and a quantity of arms and 
ammunition were captured. Three less important encounters 
with smaller gangs took place—on the Jenin-Nablus road (the 
6th April), near Arara in Samaria (the 8th April) and near 
Beisan (the 21st April), when further casualties were inflicted. 


9 


At the end of the month military searches of two vulages in 
Samaria resulted in the seizure of a number of firearms, ammuni- 
ton, bombs and semi-military uniforms. Thirty-eight Arabs 
were arrested as a result of these searches. 


May, 1938. 

Early in the month there was in increase in the activities of 
armed gangs in Samaria and Galilee, and on the 14th there was 
a major military encounter with a band in the Galilee district in 
which a succession of armed parties were dispersed with losses 
estimated at 38 killed. A quantity of arms and ammunition 
was seized and several arrests made. One British soldier was 
killed and another wounded. On the 2oth, a military and police 
operation was carried out in Galilee and Samaria to occupy a 
number of selected villages in districts where lawlessness had 
been particularly rife. The objective, broadly, was to deny the 
areas in question to the gangs and to restore the control and 
authority of the Civil Government. It was carried out without 
incident and during the rest of the month there was only one 
major encounter when on the 26th the police engaged an armed 
band north of Petah Tikvah, killing six, wounding one and 
capturing a quantity of arms and ammunition. 


There was, however, no diminution of terrorist acts. ZTwenty- 
two Arab villagers were murdered including three mukhtars and 
three women; in two ambushes on the Hebron road three Arab 
police were shot dead and another wounded; and in Haifa an 
Arab, who was the last surviving Crown witness in a case in 
1935 when several Arabs were brought to trial following a bomb 
outrage in a Jewish settlement near Nazareth, was shot dead in 
the Arab market. Also in Haifa, an Arab detective sergeant 
and te Arab police sergeant were shot dead by unknown Arab 
assallants. 


The Jewish casualties included a supernumerary constable in 

a Jewish settlement near the northern frontier which was 
attacked by an armed band, and a civilian in Tiberias who died 
as a result of bomb injuries. 
_ On the 22nd of the month a Jewish pedlar was killed by Arabs. 
in the outskirts of Jerusalem. This murder was followed by a 
series of reprisals in Jerusalem and Haifa on the 24th and 25th 
in which four Arabs and a Russian nun were killed and 13 Arabs 
were wounded. As the result, certain Jews were arrested and | 
sent to Acre detention camp. 

In other directions terrorist activities persisted unabated. 
There was a considerable increase in the number of incidents. 
of shooting at police and military patrols and Jewsh settlements, 
and also of sabotaging Government property, communications. 
and, notably, Jewish-owned crops and trees. The oil pipe line 
was damaged on seven occasions. 


IO 


June, 1938. . 

The terrorist activities were almost a replica of the events of 
the two preceding months as regards acts of violence by Arabs 
against Arabs in the shape of village murders and armed 
robberies. There was also a marked increase in isolated murders 
of Jews, the majority being settlers in the Plain of Sharon and 
northern Galilee; in arson of Jewish crops and property; in 
attacks on Jewish settlements; and in shooting at police and 
military patrols. An Italian priest was killed by armed brigands 
in the Judaean foothills and a British soldier was killed and six 
others wounded by the explosion of a land mine on a country 
track in Samaria. On the 23rd and the two following days, on 
the Jaffa-Tel Aviv boundary, there were a series of incidents 
including bombing, shooting and stabbing in which two Arabs 
and two Jews were killed and 15 Arabs (including seven women) 
and seven Jews (including two women and a child) were 
wounded. 

On the 23rd June, three Jewish youths were kidnapped by 
an Arab band from the old-established Jewish settlement of 
Givat Ada in the Plain of Sharon. Their fate has never been 
definitely ascertained. 

On the 24th the announcement of the confirmation, by the 
General Officer Commanding, of the sentence of death passed 
by the Military Court at Haifa on a Jewish youth led to a 
series of demonstrations before and after the execution both 
in eae and in Tel Aviv, where hostile Jewish crowds had 
to be dispersed by the police. 

During the same period there were a series of short-lived 
strikes in Arab towns in Samaria and Galilee in order to demon- 
strate Palestinian Arab sympathy with their compatriots in the 
Sanjak of Alexandretta. 

Acts of sabotage also increased in number. Considerable 
damage was done to railway and telegraph communications 
without, however, causing any general or lengthy breakdown 
in these public services; the norther frontier fence, ““ Tegart’s 
Wall ’’ (see paragraph 18), was badly damaged on four 
occasions; there was an increase of land mine incidents par- 
ticularly on tracks in the newly re-occupied areas and in the 
Gaza district; and the oil pipe line was damaged 18 times. 
Steps to protect the pipe line resulted in two engagements with 
Arabs, of whom four were killed, three wounded and seven 
taken prisoners. 

No large armed bands were encountered by the army or the 
police despite constant patrolling. A certain number of 
casualties were, however, inflicted on small parties in minor 
encounters. On the 8th, military forces with aircraft assistance 
operated against villages in the southern Carmel hills and in the 
Jordan valley. The bands were dispersed with casualties and 
some arms and ammunition were captured. 


II 


July, 1938. 

The month of July produced a series of major outrages which 
caused death to 100 Arabs and 27 Jews, and injury to 206 Arabs 
and 64 Jews. 


The two worst incidents occurred in Haifa when bombs ex- 
ploded in the Arab fruit market in the centre of the town on the 
6th and the 25th of the month. The casualties were 74 Arabs 
killed and 129 wounded. On both occasions confusion followed 
the explosions and there ensued short periods of rioting and 
violence in which 10 Jews lost their lives and 27 were injured. 
Between these two outrages, also in Haifa on the roth July, a 
bomb thrown at a Jewish bus killed one Jew and wounded 15 
others; and in a street fracas on the 11th two Jews were killed 
and 14 Jews and one Arab were wounded. 


In Jerusalem there were three serious bombing incidents, two 
in the Old City when 13 Arabs were killed and 35 wounded and 
one outside the Jaffa Gate when five Arabs were killed and 25 
wounded. In addition, isolated attacks within the municipal 
area resulted in several Arabs and Jews being killed and many 
more wounded. 


In Jaffa and Tel Aviv on the 4th July one Arab was killed and 
four wounded on the boundary between the two towns; two days 
later in Tel Aviv a bomb, thrown at or from a train as it was 
passing a level crossing, killed a Jewess and injured four Jews; 
and on the 23rd a bomb, which had been placed in an unattended 
motor car in a crowded Jewish street in Tel Aviv, exploded, 
injuring twenty-three Jews, seven of them seriously. 


Elsewhere in the country there was no diminution of acts of 
violence in the form of Arab village murders including two 
mukhtars; fatal attacks on Jewish settlers and Jewish super- 
humeries; shooting at an Arab taxi on the Haifa-Tel Aviv road 
when two Indian Moslems, visitors to Palestine, were killed and 
a third and the chauffeur were wounded; and the assassinations 
of an Arab police inspector in Tulkarm and a sheikh of the 
Haram el Sherif in Jerusalem. 


Apart from these murderous activities, small parties of armed 
men did considerable damage throughout the month by sabot- 
age, concentrating on telephone lines which suffered heavily; on 
the destruction of Jewish trees and crops; and on attempts to 
damage the railways as a result of one of which, on the 28th 
July, the Haifa-Kantara passenger train was badly derailed, 
the assistant engine driver being fatally injured. During the 
first half of the month, the frontier fence was cut and damaged 
three times. As the result of intense defensive patrolling, the. 
oil pipe line was damaged only once during the month. 


12 


_ The succession of attacks, reprisalsand counter reprisals caused 
widespread tension in both Arab and Jewish communities. In 
the Arab towns of Palestine, and also at Amman in Trans- 
porn there were a series of strikes in protest against the 
ombing outrages in Haifa and Jerusalem in which the casual- 
ties had been preponderantly Arab. 

During the month military reinforcements arrived from 
Egypt. They were stationed in Samaria and Galilee and their 
presence produced its effect in a diminution of disorder, par- 
ticularly in northern Galilee, during the last fortnight of the 
month. Military and police activities throughout the country 
concentrated on an intensification of patrolling both by day and 
by night; searches by large forces of extended areas in the 
Samaria and Ramallah districts; and the setting of ambushes 
in connection with the defence of the pipe line which resulted 
in the killing of 17 armed Arab saboteurs and the wounding 
of 10 to 15 more. It is believed that in addition to the above 
casualties, the Arab bands in their various sporadic encounters 
with the troops and police lost at least 50 killed and wounded. 

On the 21st July 53 houses in the village of Baqa el Gharbiya 
were demolished following on a series of shooting incidents in 
the village in the last of which a company sergeant-major of a 
Scottish regiment was killed; and during the area search in 
Samaria, to which reference has already been made, a large 
number of Arabs were detained for identification and interro- 
gation. 


August, 1938. 

During the month sabotage persisted on an enhanced scale. 
The damage to the telephone and telegraph system throughout 
the country was assessed at more than £P.6,000, while six trains 
were derailed. There were also two cases of slight damage to 
the northern frontier fence and the pipe line was twice damaged 
in the Plain of Esdraelon. In addition, there was an intensi- 
fication of sniping attacks on road transport and on the 24th 
and the 25th of the month Jewish transport was heavily attacked 
at Ramleh on the Jerusalem-Tel Aviv road, two Jews being 
killed and five injured. On the 31st an Arab bus conveying 
passengers and mails from Tiberias to Jerusalem was held up 
near Nablus, four bags being stolen by an armed band. 

_ There was likewise no abatement of the attacks on Jewish life 
and property. During the month four Jews were killed and 13 
injured by the explosion of land mines on agricultural tracks 
in the Plain of Sharon; a Jewish lorry was ambushed on Mount 
Carmel, eight men being killed and two women wounded; and on 
the 28th a Jewish settlement near Haifa was attacked and two 
settlers were killed and one wounded. In the Mount Carmel 
incident the troops were quickly on the scene and engaged the 
ambushers, seven of whom were killed and many more wounded. 


13 

There were also two further cases of the kidnapping of Jews 
both on the Haifa-Tel Aviv road. Of the victims three returned 
eventually to their homes, but the fate of the remaining three 
was never ascertained. The kidnapping of Arabs by Arab 
terrorists also continued and during the month at least 50 
Arabs were forcibly abducted by the terrorists. The dead bodies 
of several were subsequently recovered. 


In addition to these outrages, three British subjects serving 
the Crown were murdered. On the 6th Constable Willis, of the 
Palestine Police Force, was shot dead in an Arab bus between 
Nablus and Jenin; on the 13th Captain Howe, of the Royal 
Engineers, was murdered in a traffic hold up between Jerusalem 
and Bethlehem; and on the 24th Mr. Moffat, the acting Assistant 
District Commissioner in Jenin, was fatally wounded by an 
Arab assassin who penetrated to his office. In this case the 
murderer was almost immediately apprehended by troops and, 
in an ensuing attempt to escape, was shot dead. 


Apart from these incidents there were four serious hold-ups. 
On the roth, an armed gang succeeded in robbing the Nablus 
branch of Barclays bank of over £P.5,000; on the 16th, a post 
office employee in Nablus was robbed of a bag containin 
£P.2,000; on the 21st, the Qalqiliya post office was raided and 
£P.36 stolen; and on the 30th, again in Nablus, a bank mes- 
Senger was waylaid and robbed of over £P.200. 


On the roth, a general raid on Hebron town resulted in the 
urban police post, Barclays bank and the post office being 
attacked and extensively damaged. Early in the morning of 
the 25th, in Jaffa, a time bomb exploded in the crowded Arab 
vegetable market. This killed 24 Arabs and wounded 35, and 
immediately large and excited crowds of Arabs collected and 
attacked two local banks and a British grocery store. The 
attacks were repulsed by the police, but noting of a sporadic 
nature Beate | for two days resulting in the imposition of a — 
daylight curfew and in the death of two Arab rioters and the 
wounding of nine others. 


_During the month military and police activities were inten- 
sively pursued. On the 18th, the troops engaged and routed a 
large band in the neighbourhood of the Acre-Safad road and 
armed bands throughout the country suffered at least 131 
casualties in engagements with the troops and police. 


September, 1938. 


During this month the casualties among the British troops and 
police, Jews and Arabs (excluding bandits) reached the for- 
midable total of 188 killed and 156 wounded. In addition, 
rebellious activities, probably encouraged by the crisis in 
Europe, were more widespread than in previous months. In 


14 
almost daily encounters with the troops and police the bands 


are known to have suffered total casualties of at least 311 
killed and a large, though unknown, number wounded. 


The main features of the gangs’ activities were a marked 
increase in the number of Arabs forcibly abducted and in many 
cases subsequently murdered, their studied concentration on the 
destruction of Government buildings and property, and the care- 
fully organized robberies of police armouries in outlying posts. 
In addition, attacks on Jewish life and property continued. 
Between the 2nd and the 7th of the month in the Jaffa, Tel Aviv 
and Lydda districts there were nineteen Jewish and one Arab 
casualities from stabbing, shooting and bomb throwing. On the 
6th, in Tiberias, three Jews were killed and a Jew and an 
Arab wounded by four Arab assassins who were subsequently 
caught by the police. 


On the oth, Beersheba was raided by a large gang which, 
working with great precision, destroyed the wireless post, broke 
into the prison and released the prisoners, and after killing a 
British police sergeant, raided the police station and got away 
with a Lewis gun and a large quantity of rifles and ammunition. 
Later in the month all police and Government buildings in the 
town were set on fire and destroyed. 


On the roth, seven Jewish constables were killed in an am- 
bush on the Gaza-Jaffa road and on the 13th, in Gaza town, 
armed men robbed postal employees of four mail bags, one of 
which contained over £P.1,000. In Beersheba, the Govern- 
ment offices were raided and the armed thieves decamped with 
over £P.150. 

Meantime tension persisted in Jaffa where the troops were 
fired on and police headquarters were bombed. In Haifa there 
was a strike of shops in the Arab market. During the night of the 
_ 13th-14th a large gang raided Bethlehem and destroyed the police 
ae and did considerable damage to the municipal and post 
offices. 


The Arab attacks on road and rail transport also continued. 
A British officer and three British soldiers were killed by an 
explosion of a land mine on the northern frontier road; another 
land mine destroyed a motor car near Beisan, killing three 
Jewish passengers. A Jewish doctor was shot and killed when 
passing in his car through Ramleh where, as a result of events 
in Jaffa, Arab excitement ran very high. On the 16th, five 
trucks belonging to the Palestine Potash convoy were ambushed 
and destroyed on the Jerusalem-Jericho road and two Arab 
employees of the company were murdered; between the r8th 
and the 23rd well-laid land mines in different parts of the 
country were responsible for 12 casualities to British troops 
and nine to Jewish police constables. During the night of the 


T5 
25th-26th, the railway track from Rafa to Lydda was destroyed 


over a distance of 12 kilometres with the result that rail traffic 
to Egypt was suspended for eight days. 


Two major military engagements took place on the 14th and 
15th of the month. On the 14th an armed band attempting to 
ambush a military ration convoy on the Jerusalem-Hebron road 
was heavily attacked by the troops and aircraft and lost sixteen 
killed and five prisoners. On the 15th, troops and aircraft en- 
gaged a strong band north-west of Ramallah and killed a large 
number. In neither engagement was there any Government 
casualties. 


The following day, the 16th, a smaller engagement took place 
in the search of the same area in the Ramallah sub-district and 
five persons were killed and three wounded. One of the killed 
was an important gang leader. | 


October, 1938. 


During the month, the arrival of strong military reinforcements 
brought about an improvement of the security position. The 
Old City of Jerusalem, which had become the rallying point of 
a large number of bandits and from which acts of violence, 
murder and intimidation were being organized and perpetrated 
freely and with impunity, was fully re-occupied by the troops 
on the 19th of the month. This was a successful, organized 
operation of considerable magnitude. On the same date, Acre 
was searched and over roo Arabs detained for investigation. 
On the 25th and the 26th, a large military force combed a 
big area in the Safad-Nazareth-Acre triangle. 


On the 2gth a comprehensive search of Gaza was made, 300 
suspects being removed for examination to Sarafand camp. 
Finally, on the last day of the month, a wide search operation, 
which lasted four days, was conducted by the troops in Jaffa, 
60 ‘‘ wanted ’’ men being detained in custody out of a large 
number of Arabs who were arrested for investigation. 


Elsewhere throughout the country there were constant military 
and police activities, and at least 282 armed men were killed and 
wounded. 


Gang action, however, persisted. On the 1st of the month a 
British police inspector was fatally wounded at Ramallah by a 
band which was later engaged and suffered some 50 casualties. 
On the 2nd there occurred a general raid on the Jewish quarter of 
Tiberias. It was systematically organized and savagely executed. 
Of the 19 Jews killed, including women and children, all save 
four were stabbed to death. That night and the following day 
the troops engaged the raiding gangs. They inflicted at least 
50 casualties, including one notorious brigand leader, in three 
encounters, two north of Tiberias and the third near Safad. 


16 


Three days later on the 6th, the police, troops and aircraft 
engaged another large band near TVarshiha in Galilee inflicting 
some fifty casualties; and on the roth, a gang which had attacked 
a Jewish settlement near Beisan was dispersed into Trans- Jordan 
with a loss of 11 killed, including a well-known local leader. 

On the 2oth, the army engaged and dispersed a gang near 
Tiberias, killing five; on the 21st another gang which had am- 
bushed a military convoy near Nablus was attacked and lost 
19 killed; on the 22nd, aircraft located and engaged a band 
north-west of Jerusalem and inflicted some I0 casualties; and 
on the 29th, near Megiddo a surprise attack by the troops resulted 
in the capture of the president and five members of a so-called 

“ court * 

Meantime, however, terrorism continued without intermission 
throughout the country. The worst outrages were in Jaffa 
where between the 3rd and the 8th there were three Jewish and 
three Arab casualties including two Arab constables. Similar 
excesses, the victims of which were all Arabs, occurred in Acre, 
near Haifa, in Tulkarm, near Gaza, and in Jerusalem; and on 
the oth, the residence of the Assistant District Commissioner in 
Ramleh was broken into and robbed. Also his car was sniped 
as he was returning home. Simultaneously acts of sabotage 
and arson and the sniping of Jewish settlements persisted and in 
Haifa a large number of shops in the centre of the town were 
wilfully set on fire and damaged. In the Yebna district, south 
of Jaffa, considerable sabotage was done to both Arab and 
Jewish orange groves. On the 13th, a cigarette factory near 
Jaffa was destroyed by arson. Also on the 13th, a well-known 
Arab lawyer and municipal councillor of Jerusalem was mur- 
dered in the hills west of Ramallah whither he had been lured 
by an invitation from the gang leader of that area. 

Similar outrages continued throughout the second half of the 
month. In Jaffa there was a series of murders involving Arabs 
and Jews and including Arab and Jewish members of the Police 
force and a well-known Jewish mukhtar; and Jewish transport 
was also freely sniped in the outskirts of the town, involving 
several casualties among passengers. Twice, however, the 
troops were in time to intervene and two rioters were killed, 
four wounded and five captured. Near Jerusalem a Jewish 
engineer was shot dead in his office and on Lake Huleh in the 
north two Jewish constables were killed and six wounded by 
snipers shooting from across the Syrian border. In Haifa an 
Arab detective constable was murdered and the Arab kawass 
of the District Commissioner was shot and wounded and his 
nephew killed by unknown assassins. In Gaza, armed 
Arabs penetrated the Government hospital and killed a woman. 
In Nazareth an Arab was shot dead. In Hebron an Arab con- 
stable was killed. Ina Jerusalem suburb a Jewish milk vendor 
was attacked with an axe and fatally wounded, but of his two 
ageressors one was killed by the police and the other captured. 
On the 27th, the Jewish mayor of Tiberias was shot and fatally 


{7 
wounded in the middle of the town in broad daylight, and on 
the 30th armed men attacked a bank at Hebron and decamped 
with about £P.500. A Jew was stoned to death in the Man- 
shiya quarter of Jaffa on the same day. 


November, 1938. 


As the result of the military search operations in Jaffa from 
31st October to 3rd November, there was an improvement in 
the towns, although there, as elsewhere in Palestine, there was 
a three days’ strike of all Arab shops following the issue of the 
military order restricting motor traffic on the roads except under 
permit (see Policy). 

Meantime, during the first nine days of the month the troops 
continued intensive search activities in the districts. They de- 
tained a large number of Arabs for investigation and captured 
a quantity of arms and ammunition. There were also some 
minor clashes between gangs and the army in the course of 
which 25 of the former were killed, including a well-known leader 
in the Samaria district, and four wounded. 

Isolated acts of violence persisted in Jaffa and its neighbour- 
hood; near Acre; in Haifa; near Lydda; and in Gaza; and 
attacks on Jewish transport continued. In Haifa, the Levan 
bonded warehouse was burnt down and the post office was 
raided, the robbery yielding over £P1,500. 

During the remainder of the month the troops maintained their 
pressure on the gangs by constant searches of areas and villages 
throughout the country. Further large quantities of arms and 
ammunition were captured; a considerable number of suspects 
were detained for identification and investigation; and, acting on 
information the supply of which began slowly to increase, the 
troops and the police organized a series of successful raids. In 
surprise encounters with bands over 100 casualties were in- 
flicted by Government forces, including the killing of three 
‘““ wanted ’’ leaders. On the 13th, a combined force of soldiers 
and police carried out a search of Jericho. A total of 554 male 
inhabitants were checked, of which number II were deported to 
Trans-Jordan and 28 placed in detention under the Defence 
Regulations. In addition, two surprise searches were made in 
Jaffa on the 19th and the 2oth and on the a2ist a strong military 
post was established in Beersheba. On the 25th and the 26th a 
wide military sweep was made in the hill country south and 
south-west of Jerusalem with the object of ridding the area 
of gangs who had been successfully concentrating on the sabotage 
of the Jerusalem-Lydda railway. Finally, a search operation 
was conducted by the troops-in and around Nazareth on the 
14th, during which 40 persons were detained. This local 
“ cleaning-up ’’ operation had a good effect and during the 
month the Galilee District was, on the whole, quiet. 

In spite of these activities, however, terrorism continued in 
the towns and sabotage throughout the country. Jaffa and the 
immediately surrounding country in particular was the scene of 


18 


repeated outrage. The causalties included Arabs and Jews, 
and on the 18th two prominent members of the Defence Party 
were murdered in Lydda. (See Arab Affairs, paragraph 43— 
Fakhn Eff. Nashashibi’s memorandum to the High Com- 
missioner.) In the rest of the country acts of violence continued 
to occur though less frequently than in the Jaffa sub-district, and 
outrages were reported from Haifa where between the 12th and 
the end of the month six Arab and fourteen Jewish casualties 
occurred; from Jerusalem where one of the victims was another 
adherent of the Nashashibi Defence Party; from Nablus, where 
on one occasion the law courts were raided by armed men and 
where another prominent member of the Defence Party was 
murdered in the market; and from near Tulkarm. 


December, 1938. 


During the month, the activities of the bands tended to decline 
but terrorism in towns and villages continued and road transport 
was still being attacked. At the end of the month it was clear 
that, although Government had definitely gained the upper 
hand in the field, the mainly police problem of terrorism in the 
towns was still a grave menace. 


The activities of the troops concentrated on wide searches 
throughout the month. In two cases so-called ‘‘ courts ’’ were 
captured; large hauls were made of arms and ammunition; and 
there was a relentless rounding up of undesirable characters in 
all parts of the country. It was estimated that over one-third 
of the villages in Palestine had been visited during 1938 and 
searched by the army and the police. 


Apart from these search operations, there were several major 
encounters with armed gangs on whom the troops inflicted heavy 
casualties. On the 1st of the month, near Hebron, the gangsters 
suffered 27 casualties; the following day, near Beisan, 15 Arabs 
of a gang, which had murdered three Jewish settlers, were 
killed and five captured; on the 18th, south of Hebron, 30 
bandits were killed and 15 captured and a considerable quantity 
of arms and ammunition was seized; finally, on the roth, Io 
more were killed in an encounter near Tiberias. 


Meanwhile there was no cessation of acts of violence. Attacks 
on road transport persisted and produced several casualties; and, 
particularly in the towns, murders of and murderous attacks on 
individuals were frequent. In Haifa they were sporadic 
throughout the month and in Jerusalem during the period from 
the 23rd to the 31st there were six Jewish and one Arab casual- 
ties. There was also a series of attacks on the persons and 
property of the Nashashibi (Defence Party) family following 
an Arab gathering organized on the 18th by Fakhn Eff. Nash- 
ashibi south of Hebron in support of his memorandum to the 
High Commissioner (see Arab Affairs). 


19 


In Jerusalem two well-known sheikhs were shot and killed. 
One of them had previously survived three attempts on his life. 
Other outrages were reported from Beisan; from Bethlehem 
where a Jewish warder of the lunatic asylum was shot dead by 
armed raiders; from the Plain of Sharon and from Affule and 
Petah Tikvah where casualties occurred from attacks on road 
transport; from Nazareth where a Jewish doctor was wounded 
and an Arab notable who had been a member of the General 
Agricultural Council was shot dead; and from Jericho where a 
member of a well-known Arab family was murdered. 

On the 26th, Mr. Le Bouvier, the British area manager of 
the Ottoman bank, was kidnapped by armed Arabs on his way 
back from the Dead Sea to Jerusalem. He returned unharmed 
after two days in the custody of the gang. On the last day of 
the year a motor convoy escorting Sir Charles Tegart and 
officers of the army and the police was held up by ambush in the 
hilly ravines north of Ramallah on the Jerusalem-Nablus road. 
Mr. G. B. Sanderson, staff officer to the Inspector General of 
Police, was instantly killed when the convoy was fired upon, 
but the rest of the party succeeded in escaping unharmed. 


12. The following is a statistical statement of the number of 
cases of terrorist activities during the year: — 


Front- North- Naza- Nab-  Jeru- South- 


Incidents of violence. 


ttacks and sniping on 





1eY. ern veth, lus. ‘salem. ern. Gaza. Totals. 





police and military ... 198 71 88 2903 125 I4I 70 986 
ttacks and sniping on 
Arab public... ne 6 10 6 19 14 16 3 34 
ttacks and sniping on 
Jewish public... =... «1949 10 = 8233 a 170 
ttacks on transport ... 33 57 24 21 80 118 2 335 
rmed robbery ... .. 8 46 26 94 131 103 39 457 
Iring on Jewish colonies 
and Jewish quarters... 52 189 120 35 83 170 7 O51 
omb throwing ... sides 7 85 61 28 66 63 21 331 
bductions ous wee = 20 32 18 64 62 16 3 215 
ttacks on Arab villages 3 
and houses... («16 10 21: 56 29 21 9 162 
amage to Arab property 3 10 3 16 6 22 I 61 
amage to Jewish pro- 
perty ... sire ws 59 146 47 46 44 125 28 415 
abotage to telephones... 54 84 94 121 135 165 67 12> 
abotage to railways and 
roads ... - aa 35 29 24 62 51 82 58 341 
abotage to other Govern- 
ment property ar 35 10 19 38 40 40 28 210 
otage to I.P.C. pipe 
line. eve io “TS 23 81 —- — —_ = 104 
Assassinations and 
attempts. ak 
‘olice killed and wounded 5 10 —- £8 16 14 2 55 
‘ublickilledand wounded 34 89 28 23=—s«72 74 70 8 375 
Totals... --» 504 950 670 g8I 977 1,233 341 5,708 


| 








20 


13. The total casualties during 1938 resulting from terrorist 
and gang activities were: — 
Kalled. Wounded. 


(a) British. 
British police... oe or ae bts 12 15 
Military i Sut =e mit se 63 200 
British civilians oak sae dose sas 2 I 
Total wats ie site 77 216 
(b) Jews. 
Jewish civilians see saa ay oe 206 318 
Jewish police (regular) ay ait se 8 97 
Jewish police (supernumerary) roe oe 41 63 
Total sia oe wd 255 390 
(c) Arabs. 
Arab civilians ge ous disse bee 454 554 
Arab police (regular) 31 22 
Arab police (supernumerary and “ghaffirs) 18 22 
Total ie ae oe 503 598 


(d) Armed Bands. 


No accurate figure can be given of the number of casualties suffered 
by members of armed bands, but a conservative estimate by the military 
authorities is that about I,ooo were killed by Government forces during 
1938, while about the same number were wounded. It is estimated 
that the actual casualties inflicted were considerably higher, because on 
practically all occasions every effort was made by Arab bands to remove 
and conceal casualties. 


14. Reference is made in the following section of this Report 
(Policy) to:— 


(a) The appointment of the Palestine Partition Commis- 
sion; its visit to Palestine; and the issue on the 9th Novem- 
ber of its Report and of the accompanying Statement by 
His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom. 


(b) The visit to Palestine in August of the Secretary of 
State for the Colonies. 


(c) The Po Hick Cor on the 18th October of Regulations 
made by the High Commissioner under Articles 6 and Io 
of the Palestine (Defence) Order-in-Council, 1937, by which 
pee were given to the General Officer Commanding the 

ritish Troops in Palestine and Trans-Jordan to appoint, 
with the consent of the High Commissioner, military com- 
manders in various districts in the country who would 
assume all the powers and duties hitherto vested in the 
District Commissioners by the Defence Regulations. 





2I 


In addition, the fcllowing further measures were taken relating 
to public security :— 


(1) On rst September, a curfew from 6 p.m. to 4 a.m. 
was imposed on roads in the rural areas of the greater part 
of Palestine. 


(2) On 23rd November, a curfew from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. 
was imposed on all Palestine with the exception of municipal 
and built-up areas. 


(3) On rath October, a system of voluntary identity 
cards for male persons over 16 years of age was instituted. 


(4) On 1st November, an Order was issued under the 
Emergency Regulations prohibiting any male person from 
travelling by motor car or by train in the rural areas in 
Palestine without a pass issued by a Military Commander. 


15. For the purpose of close co-operation between the Army 
and the Police, the police force was placed under the operational 
control of the General Officer Commanding on the 12th Sep- 
tember, 1938. 


16. The system was continued of employing supernumerary 
police to augment the regular police for safeguarding communi- 
cations and the better protection of Government and other 
property and the defence of Jewish settlements. In order to 
distinguish between this personnel and those employed at private 
expense for the protection of private undertakings, the former 
were described as temporary additional police and the ttle 
supernumerary police was reserved for those privately employed. 
The number of temporary additional police employed at the end 
of the year was:— 


(t) For protection of Jewish settlements ... 1,268 (Jews) 
(2) For protection of Railways ... 233 se 422 (Jews) 
(3) For other police dispositions ... avd ... 1,628 (Jews) 


_In addition to this personnel, a force of 240 temporary addi- 
tional police was employed to relieve troops so far as possible 
from static defence duties, and a further 50 ranks were employed 
on special security patrols. Both of these forces were under 
direct military supervision. 


The training of temporary additional police for Jewish settle- 
ment defence and railway protection was undertaken for the 
Most part during the previous year, but during 1938 refresher 
courses were held. The training of the remaining temporary 
additional police was carried out by army instructors so far as 
weapon training was concerned, and otherwise by personnel of 
the regular police force. | 


15774 B 


22 


The Jewish settlement temporary additional police was re- 
organized towards the end of the year with the following prin- 
cipal changes :— 

(i) The force was placed under the direct command of 
the Inspector General acting through a District Superin- 
tendent of Police (Ausilianies) ; 

(ii) The force was divided into ten companies, each of 
which was commanded by a British Police Inspector; 

(iii) Reservist personnel were enrolled as special con- 
stables and were liable for immediate service. 


In addition to temporary additional police employed for 
Jewish suburb and settlement defence, there were also 5,652 
special constables enrolled for employment under arms. Of 

ese an average number of 1,278 performed duty daily. 


The numbers of supernumerary police employed for private 
purposes were :— 
Arabs ... ve = 51 
Jews... ais sors 739 


17. During 1938, 2,543 persons were detained for varying 
periods under Regulations made under the Palestine Defence 
Order in Council and the Prevention of Crime Ordinance, as 
follows:— 





Arabs ... re ... 2,463 
Jews... ie Sade So 
At the end of the year the numbers detained were: — 
Arabs ... aes ws 2,033 
Jews... age sie 36 
Total... ... 2,069 





18. In order to assist in combating terrorism in Palestine, the 
Government had the assistance and advice of Sir Charles 
Tegart, K.C.I.E., C.S.I., M.V.O., from November, 1937, to 
June, 1938, and again from October, 1938, to the end of the year; 
and of Sir David Petrie, C.S.I., C.I.E., M.V.O., from 
November, 1937, to February, 1938. Both these distinguished 
officers had had long experience of police work and criminal 
investigation in India. One result of their mission was the re- 
organization and the reinforcement of the Criminal Investigation 
Department in Palestine (see Military Clauses). In addition, 
effect was given by Government to the following recommenda- 
tions made by Sir Charles Tegart:— 


(1) The construction of a barbed-wire entanglement from 
Bassa on the Acre-Ras en Naqura road eastwards along the 
alignment of the northern frontier to Lake Huleh, and the 
establishment of subsidiary defence works, such as “ pill 
boxes ’’, etc., along its course; 


23 
(2) The peeaen of this fence, with the necessary 
defence works: — 


(a) from Roshpina to Tabgha on the Sea of Galilee, 


(6) from Samakh to the Trans-Jordan frontier on the 
River Yarmuk. 


This was undertaken in order to protect the north-eastern 
frontier. 


These works are designed to prevent the smuggling of arms 
and the entry of undesirable persons into Palestine. 


19. From March onwards, security committees on which the 
Civil Administration, the Police, and the Army were represented 
met almost daily at headquarters in Jerusalem and in the 
districts. 


20. On the ist December, the appointment was made of an 
additional District Commissioner in the Southern District to 
take charge of the Gaza and Beersheba Sub-Districts with his 
headquarters in Gaza. 


During the year further British officers joined the district 
staffs on secondment from other colonial territories and from the 
Sudan. They were posted as Assistant District Commissioners 
throughout the country. 


21. On Ist January, 1938, the strength of the forces of the 
Crown in Palestine and Trans-Jordan was two infantry brigades 
(a total of six battalions) and ancillary units; one squadron and 
two flights of light bomber aircraft; one company of armoured 
cars; and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


This force remained unchanged until mid-July when the situa- 
tion demanded an increase in the force and one armoured car 
regiment, two infantry battalions, and the H.Q. and two flights 
of Royal Air Force Squadron were sent from Egypt. 


Further deterioration in the situation led to additional rein- 
forcements being despatched, from England, and by the 26th 
September a brigade headquarters and three infantry battalions 
had arrived in the country. Almost at once, however, the 
European situation necessitated the return to Egypt of the 
armoured car regiment and two battalions of infantry. 


Subsequently, reinforcements were again despatched to 
Palestine, and by mid-November the forces in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan had increased to two regiments of cavalry; one 
armoured car regiment; one battery and detachment of the 
Royal Horse Artillery; 18 infantry battalions and the neces- 
sary ancillary units; two Royal Air Force Squadrons; an 
armoured car company and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


15774 B2 


24 


The following are the quantities of arms and ammunition 
seized by the military forces in the course of operations and 
searches during the year: — 


Rifles.. She 344 
Pistols and revolvers 146 
Shotguns ae 53 
Ammunition ... 26,000 rounds (approximately) 


In addition, considerable quantities of other warlike material 
and equipment, such as grenades, bombs, explosives, fuzes, per- 
cussion caps, uniforms, etc., were captured. 


During the same period the Police made the following seizures 
of arms, etc.:— 


Rifles.. 5 558 
Pistols and revolvers 388 
Shotguns... ae 65 
Ammunition ... 42,000 rounds (approximately) 


They also captured one sub-machine gun and 238 bombs. 


23. The Military Courts, established in November, 1937, con- 
tinued throughout 1938. Up to the end of the year they had 
tried 382 pes The following is a summary of the sentences 


confirmed by the General Officer Commanding British Forces 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan:— 
Court. 
Sentence. Jerusalem. Haifa. Total. 

Death sentences _.... oe a 20 34 54 
Life imprisonment ... — sn 25 13 38 

I2 years imprisonment... se I — I 

10 years imprisonment ... or 14 15 29 

7 years imprisonment __... — 5 4 9 

5 years imprisonment _... eee 17 7 24 

4 years imprisonment 2 2 4 

3 years imprisonment 7 4 Il 

2 years imprisonment 9 6 15 

18 months imprisonment . I — I 

I year imprisonment 4 3 7 
Under 1 year imprisonment 7 5 12 
Acquitted 81 60 I4I 
Bound over ... 20 13 33 
Finding reversed 2 I 3 

215 167 382 


Fifteen juvenile offenders were directed to serve their sen- 
tences in reformatories. 


One accused person was found ‘“‘ not guilty ’’ on the grounds 
of insanity. 


24. During the year, the control of the Press continued to be 
exerted under the Press Ordinance and the Defence Regulations 
made under the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council. 


25 
25. Local newspapers, daily and weekly, were penalized as 
follows :— 
No. of Total 


Name. suspensions. period. Cause. 
I. Avabic Press (Dailies). 

“Al Difa’a”’ the I 3 weeks Publication of matter 
likely to endanger 
public peace. 

“ Falastin ”’ ee bas 3 a és is 

“Al Jamia al Islamiya ”’ 2 4. ty; a 

‘“‘Al Sirat al Mustaqim ”’ I 3 months ie 

“‘Al Lahab ” bas se I 1 month Publication of a false 


report. 
Two official warnings were given to “‘Al Difa’a ’’ and one to “‘Al Akhbar.” 
II. Hebrew Press (Dailies). 


‘* Hatzofeh ”’ eee seid I 2 weeks Publication of matter 
likely to endanger 
public peace. 

‘* Davar ”’ i aus I 2 a 

‘* Haboker ”’ ie ar I 1 week Publication of a false 
report. 


Three official warnings were given to ‘‘ Davar ”’ and two to “ Haboker.”’ 


Ill. The Palestine Post (published in English)—Five official warnings were 
given to this paper. 


26. Weekly journals published in the country were suspended 
as follows: — 


No. of Total 


Name. suspensions. period. Cause. 
“Palestine and Trans-Jordan ’”’ 2 g months Publication of matter 
(published in English). likely to endanger 
public peace. 
“Arab News Agency ”’ (published I 6 Ca, PP 
in English). 
“Al Lahab ”’ (Arabic) a I 3 » 
“ Al Nafir’’ (Arabic)... — I a ny ‘i 
“ El Carmel el Jedid ’’ (Arabic) I 6, ie 
‘“ Al Iqdam ”’ (Arabic) ... dats I 6 ,, - 
‘“ Sawt el Sha’ab ”’ (Arabic) I I year ‘i 
“ Hayarden ”’ (Hebrew)... I 3 months - 
“ Haolam ’’ (Hebrew) I 2 s re 


An official warning was given once to “* Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan ’’. : 


Iwo official warnings were given to ‘‘ La Terre Sainte ’’, a 
monthly paper published in French and Spanish in Jerusalem 
by the Franciscan Order. 


27. Newspapers published in neighbouring countries were ex- 
cluded from Palestine under section 20 (1) of the Press Ordi- 
nance, as follows: — 


Syrian newspapers on 13 occasions. 
Lebanese newspapers on 15 occasions. 
Egyptian newspapers on 12 occasions. 
15774 B3 


26 


28. The High Commissioner made use of the powers conferred 
by Regulations 11 and 12 made under the Palestine (Defence) 
Order in Council, 1937, as follows:— 

(a) A censorship of outgoing foreign Press telegrams was 
enforced from the 13th July to the 1st September and from 
the 8th September to the 31st December. 


(b) International trunk telephone calls to and from 
Palestine were restricted to an approved list of subscribers 
from the 29th August to the 31st December. 

(c) Certain pamphlets, books and manifestos were pro- 
hibited. 

(d) A Censor’s order of the 25th August prohibited the 
local Press from publishing any accounts of or comment on 
the activities of armed gangs or terrorists or of military 
and police operations except those contained in official 
communications to the Press. This Order was still in force 
at the end of the year. A regulation (11 (c)) under the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, was published 
on the 7th December requiring the editors of newspapers to 
publish such communications textually and in full or an 
abbreviated version thereof containing all the relevant facts. 


POLICY. 


29. On the 4th January, 1938, a Command Paper regarding 
policy in Palestine was issued by His Majesty’s Government 
simultaneously in London and Jerusalem. It contained the 
text of a despatch dated the 23rd December, 1937, from the 
Secretary of State for the Colonies to the High Commissioner for 
Palestine announcing the decision of His Majesty’s Government 
to send to Palestine a commission, later known as the Palestine 
Partition Commission, and setting out its terms of reference. 
The text of the Command Paper is attached to this section as 
Appendix “‘ A’’. 

Later, appointments were made to the Commission as 
follows :— 

Sir John Woodhead, K.C.S.I., C.I1.E.—Chairman. 

Sir Alison Russell, K.C. | 
Mr. A. P. Waterfield, C.B. 

Mr. T. Reid, C.M.G. | 
Mr. S. E. V. Luke—Secretary. 


The Commissioners reached Jerusalem on the 27th April, and 
during their stay in Palestine, which ended on the 3rd August, 
they held 55 sessions, two of which were in public, toured the 
country extensively and visited Trans-Jordan where nine days 
were spent. No Arab witnesses came forward to give evidence. 


Members. 


27 
Their Report, a summary of which is attached to this section 
(Appendix “‘ B ’’), was presented to Parliament by the Secre- 
tary of State for the Colonies on the 9th November, and was 
published simultaneously in London and Jerusalem together 
with a statement on Palestine by His Majesty’s Government 
(Appendix ‘‘ C ’’). 


30. The Report and the Statements (Appendices ‘‘ B ’”’ and 
“C ’’) were debated in both Houses of Parliament later in 
November. The text of the opening speech in the debate by 
the Secretary of State for the Colonies in the House of Commons 
is appended (Appendix ‘‘ D ’’). 


31. The Secretary of State for the Colonies paid a visit to 
Jerusalem on the 6th and 7th August. 


32. Two important regulations made by the High Commis- 
sioner under the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, 
were promulgated in October. 


The first (Control of Police), which was made on the 17th 
October under Article 6 of the Order in Council, gave effect to 
the decision reached in September (see Public Security para- 
graph 15) whereby the Palestine Police Force was made subject 
to the general or specific direction and control of the General 
Officer Commanding the British Forces in Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan (Appendix ‘‘ E ’’). 


The second regulation (Military Commanders), which was 
made on the 18th October, empowered the General Officer 
Commanding to appoint, with the consent of the High Commis- 
sioner, Military Commanders in the various districts who would 
assume all the powers and duties hitherto vested in the respec- 
tive District Commissioners by the Defence Regulations 
(Appendix ‘‘F’’). The District Commissioners themselves 
became the political advisers of the Military Commanders. 


On the same day, the 18th October, a Military Commander of 
the Jerusalem District was appointed by the General Officer 
Commanding; and on the roth October, four similar military 
appointments were made affecting the Samaria, the Haifa and 
Galilee and the Southern Districts and the Jordan Valley within 
the boundaries of Palestine. 


IMMIGRATION. 


_ 33. From the beginning of August, 1937, Jewish immigration 
into Palestine was conducted according to the policy stated in a 
Command Paper presented to Parliament by His Majesty’s 
Government in July, 1937 (vide Appendix ‘‘B ’’ on page 41 
of the Annual Report for 1937), whereby as an interim measure 
a total Jewish immigration in all categories of 8,000 persons was 
15774 B4 


28 


eat Nee for the eight months’ period from August, 1937, to 
arch, 1938, provided that the economic absorptive capacity 
of the country was not exceeded. 


34. The policy of His Majesty’s Government from April, 1938, 
was embodied in a despatch No. 248 of the roth March, 1938, 
addressed by the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the 
High Commissioner, the text of which is reproduced in full in 
Appendix “*G ”’. 


35. In accordance with this policy, the High Commissioner 
authorised the admission of the following aggregate numbers of 
immigrants (Jewish and non-Jewish) in the several categories 
for the six monthly periods commencing the Ist April, 1938, and 
the 1st October, 1938, respectively :— 


Category as defined in Six-monthly period Six-monthly period 
Rule 4 (1) of the commencing commencing 
Immigration Ordinance. 1st April, 1938. 1st October, 1938. 
A (i) 2,020* 2,020 
A (ii) Nil Nil 
A (iii) Nil Nil 
A (iv) 20 20 
A (v) 20 20 
B (i) 10 10 
B (il) 200 200 
C 1,150 1,150 
D 
(Dependants other than wives 
and minor children) sae 250 1,450 
* 600 of these certificates were subsequently converted into certificates in 
Category D. 


+ Later 30 of the certificates in Category A (i) were converted into 
certificates in Category B (11) (persons of religious occupation). 


36. Jewish immigrants to the number of 12,868 were registered 
during the year. Of these, 1,753 were capitalist immigrants 
whose dependants numbered 1,722, 2,537 were students whose 
maintenance in an approved educational institution is assured, 
2,573 were persons coming to employment whose dependants 
numbered 1,662, and 2,565 were dependants of residents of 
Palestine. 


37. The Palestine Government has continued to take measures 
to check illegal immigration through the agency of His Majesty’s 
Consular Officers abroad, by control arrangements at the ports 
and frontiers and by the employment of special preventive 
forces by land and sea. 

Illicit immigration through the northern frontier is being more 
effectively controlled as the result of the construction of the 
frontier fence and frontier road and the employment of a special 
force of police in this area. 

The improvement of the existing control of illicit immigration 
by sea by the establishment of an organized coast guard service 
was under consideration at the end of the year. 





29 


38. Seven hundred and fifty-two persons, including 103 Jews 
who entered Palestine surreptitiously during 1935, were later 
detected, sentenced to imprisonment and recommended for de- 
portation. Seven hundred and thirty-three deportations were 
carried out during the year, comprising 30 Jews and 703 other 
persons. 

Seven Jewish and twelve other travellers were deported for 
overstaying their period of permitted stay in the country. In 
Seon: 1,III persons were summarily deported to Syria and 

gypt. 

Towards the close of the year illicit immigration of Jews from 
countries of Central and Eastern Europe appeared to be on the 
increase, doubtless as a result of the further deterioration in the 
political, social and economic situation of Jews in those countries. 


39. Germany (including Austria) has displaced Poland as the 
principal country of Jewish immigration into Palestine. The 
proportion of Jewish immigrants from Germany rose to 52 per 
cent. of the total Jewish immigration in 1938. Poland furnished 
25 per cent. of the total number of Jewish immigrants. There 
was also a noticeable increase in the proportion of Jewish immi- 
grants from Czechoslovakia. 


ARAB AFFAIRS. 


40. Apart from the major issues dealt with in the Policy 
section there were few developments of note in Arab affairs in 
Palestine during 1938. This was mainly due to the absence 
from the country of the majority of the political leaders, some 
of whom had been deported in October, 1937, while orders pro- 
hibiting the re-entry of others into Palestine were maintained 
throughout the year. In addition, as the result of local terrorism 
Many others, the majority of whom belonged to or were in 
sympathy with the National Defence Party (see the Annual 
Report for 1937, paragraph 63), left the country in the interest 
of their personal safety. 


41. In the second week of October a congress which assembled 
under the name of ‘‘ The World Parliamentary Congress of 
Arab and Moslem Countries for the Defence of Palestine ”’, 
held its sessions in Cairo. It passed a series of resolutions against 
the Balfour Declaration and Jewish immigration into Palestine 
and also elected a permanent committee, three of whose members 
had been members of the former Arab Higher Committee (see the 
Annual Report for 1937, paragraphs 50 and 51). 


42. Immediately afterwards — also in Cairo—an Arab 
Women’s congress was held in support of the Palestine Arab 
Cause, 


30 

43. In November, after the publication of the Report of the 
Woodhead Commission and the statement of His Mayjesty’s 
Government in the United Kingdom (see “‘ Policy ’’), Fakhnri eff. 
el Nashashibi, a near relation of Ragheb Bey el Nashashibi, the 
leader of the National Defence Party, submitted a memorandum 
to the High Commissioner in the course of which, claiming to 
speak on behalf of the ‘“‘ 75 per cent. of the interests of the 
country ’’ and “‘ much more than half of the Arabs of the 
country ’’, he condemned terrorist methods. 


44. In December an order was issued for the release from the 
Seychelles of the five Arab leaders who were deported from 
Palestine in October, 1937 (see the Annual Report for 1937, 
pages 20 and 21, paragraphs 50 and 51). This decision was 
made public in London and Palestine on the 7th December in 
the following terms :— 


‘“ On 23rd November the Secretary of State for the Col- 
onies informed the House of Commons that invitations to 
attend the proposed discussions in London regarding Pales- 
tine had been sent to the Governments of Egypt, aig Saudi 
Arabia and Trans-Jordan and to the Jewish Agency. 
Acceptances of these invitations have now been received by 
His Majesty’s Government, and the King of the Yemen has 
also been invited to send a delegation to attend. His reply 
is shortly expected. 


“Simultaneously in order to facilitate the nomination of 
the Arab delegates from Palestine itself, His Majesty’s 
Government have decided that full facilities to attend the 
discussions should be available to the Arabs selected to pro- 
ceed to London to represent Palestine and that these facilities 
shall apply equally to those Arabs who are at present de- 
ported or excluded from Palestine. In pursuance of this 
decision and after consultation with the High Commissioner 
for Palestine His Majesty’s Government have ordered the 
release of those Arabs who are now detained in the Sey- 
chelles. Effect will be given to this Order as soon as trans- 
port can be arranged from Mahé. 

‘* The release of these persons is final. 


‘* Should their services be required at the discussions in 
London, they will be available for selection as the represen- 
tatives of the Arabs of Palestine and will enjoy full liberty 
of movement subject only to the stipulation that they will 
not be allowed to return to Palestine where under the 
present circumstances their admission is regarded as un- 
desirable ’’. 


45. Up to the end of 1938 the representatives of the Arabs of 
Palestine to attend the proposed discussions in London had not 
been finally selected. 


31 

46. The Commission referred to in paragraphs 52-3 on pages 
21-2 of the Report for 1937 continued to control the finances of 
Moslem Awgaf in Palestine. The method of exercising that 
control has, however, been modified as it was found that the 
Supreme Moslem Sharia Council and Awgaf officials were pre- 
pared to co-operate with the Commission. A modus vivends 
was agreed upon between the Commission and the Supreme 
Moslem Sharia Council under which the Council was permitted 
to resume a considerable degree of control over Moslem Awgaf, 
subject to the reservation to the Commission of certain specific 
powers necessary for the proper control of the financial affairs 
thereof. 


SUPREME MOSLEM COUNCIL. 


47. During 1938 the Supreme Moslem Council and the Awqaf 
Administration maintained the essential wakf services in so far 
as funds and the disturbed state of the country permitted. 


The Dome of the Rock. 


Some work was carried out on the restoration of the marble 
panels on the exterior of the Dome of the Rock. Certain tem- 
porary measures designed to prevent the penetration of rain into 
the walls were also taken in order to preserve the structure until 
proper restoration of the whole of the exterior can be carried out 
on the basis of a scheme which is being prepared by the experts 
from Egypt who are advising the Supreme Moslem Council on 
the conservation of Islamic monuments in Palestine. 


Repairs to Al Aqsa Mosque. 


In the Annual Report for 1937 (page 27), detailed reference 
was made to the dangerous faults observed in the structure of 
the Mosque of Al Aqsa. Early in 1938 a further examination re- 
vealed that the position was serious. The Supreme Moslem 
Council therefore scught the advice of Mr. W. Harvey, a dis- 
tinguished English engineer who had been summoned to 
Palestine to report on the condition of the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre. They also secured the assistance of Egyptian 
Government engineers who were specialists in the conservation 
of mosques and Islamic monuments in Egypt, and under their 
direction the work of shoring up the eastern portion of the 
Mosque was undertaken. Later in 1938 this work was inspected 
by an experienced Egyptian engineer who reported that it re- 
moved any immediate danger to the eastern portion of the build- 
ing. He advised, however, that the restoration of the central 

rtion of the Mosque should be undertaken without delay. 
Pnis has been put in hand. 


32 


The Haram es Sherif. 


A number of minor urgent repairs were executed on various 
other buildings in the precincts of the Haram es Sherif at 
Jerusalem. 


Hebron. 


At Hebron the Great Mosque (Haram el Ibrahim) was ex- 
amined by the Egyptian engineers who are drawing up a scheme 
for enlarging iheearai as the available space is often insuffi- 
cient to accommodate the worshippers who attend on major 
religious festivals. Funds, however, are not at present avail- 
able for the execution of that scheme as priority must be given 
to making the Mosque of Al Aqsa safe. 

Certain minor works have, however, been carried out in the 
Haram el Ibrahimi at Hebron, e.g., the lead covering on the 
roof has been repaired to stop the infiltration of rain water into 
the arches and walls which, if it had continued, might have 
caused serious damage to the structure itself. 

A sum of £P.500 has also been provided for a number of 
urgent minor repairs which have been put in hand. 


Nablus. 


At Nablus work continued, albeit slowly, owing to lack of 
funds, on the new “‘ El Nasr ’’ Mosque. 


Jaffa. 


At Jaffa a sum of £P.2,000 was provided for the installation of 
proper sanitation and drains in two of the principal mosques. 


JEWISH AFFAIRS. 


48. During the first eight months of 1938 the interest of the 
ee community was focused on the investigations of the 

alestine Partition Commission, before whom evidence was 
given by the Jewish Agency and other Jewish bodies including 
representatives of the Revisionist (New Zionist) Organisation 
and the Agudat Israel. 

Official Zionist opinion on the question of partition, as well as 
that of the Jewish public generally, was sharply divided and did 
not follow normal party lines. The abandonment of the par- 
tition proposal by His Majesty’s Government, while a disappoint- 
ment to certain sections of Jewish opinion, served to unite 
Zionist parties on the question of policy in Palestine. 


49. The increased severities exercised against the Jews in 
Germany aroused considerable feeling amongst Palestine Jewry 
and the proceedings of the Evian Conference for dealing with 
the international refugee problem were followed locally with 
keen interest. Dr. Ruppin, a member of the Executive of the 


33 


Jewich Agency, attended the Evian Conference. The local 
ewish community contributed generously to funds for the 
settlement of German Jews in Palestine. 


50. The strained relations between the official Zionist bodies 
and the Revisionist (New Zionist) Organisation showed no 
improvement during the year. Collections on behalf of the Re- 
demption Fund (Kofer Hayishuv), which was instituted under 
the auspices of the Vaad Leumi to provide funds to assist in the 
cara of Jewish outlying settlements, were actively opposed 

y the Revisionists, on the grounds that members of their 
organization had not been allowed to co-operate in the measures 
taken for the defence of Jewish settlements. These disputes 
resulted in a few breaches of the peace. 


51. Negotiations were still in progress at the end of the year 
for the amalgamation of the committee of the local Jewish com- 
munity of Tel Aviv established under the Religious Communities 
(Organization) Ordinance with the Municipal Council of Tel 
Aviv. Amalgamation of the corresponding bodies was com- 
aes in the case of the newly established Municipal Council of 

etah Tiqva. 

New local councils were elected in Rishon le Tsiyon, Hertse- 
liya, Ramat Gan and Raanana. 

Local town planning commissions were established in the 
Jewish settlements of Ramat Gan and Bnei Beraq. 


52. Lhe establishment of a temporary landing ground for aero- 
planes was authorized in September on Government land north 
of the River Auja, adjoining Tel Aviv. A passenger and mail 
service plying deal between Tel Aviv and Haifa and Beirut 
was inaugurated by Palestine Airways. 


53- Negotiations were continued for combining all Jewish 
citrus co-operatives under a single organization, with a view 
to centralizing arrangements for the disposal of the citrus crop 
and eliminating uncontrolled exports of citrus fruits but no 
agreement was reached for the 1938-9 citrus season. The 
negotiations were still in progress at the end of the year. 


54. Ihe Jewish Agency carried out a census of Jewish whole- 
sale and retail distribution trades. 7,103 retail and 423 whole- 
sales stores were enumerated, representing a capital investment 
of £P.7,780,000 and affording employment to 19,910 persons. 


55- Since the opening of Tel Aviv Lighter Harbour, increased 
interest has been shown by the Jewish public in the possibility of 
maritime developments, and a school of navigation and marine 
engineering was opened at the Hebrew Technical Institute at 
Haifa at which 41 students are attending. 

A local Jewish shipping company which is carrying out 
coastal trade in the eastern Mediterranean in two small cargo 
vessels manned by Jewish crews is expanding its activities. 


34 


56. The award of an honorary Order of the British Empire 
to Mr. I. Rokach, the Mayor of Tel Aviv, was among the Birth- 
day Honours conferred by His Majesty the King. 


57. Professor A. H. Fraenkel, of the Faculty of Science, was 
appointed by the Senate as Rector of the Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem. 


58. Dr. Emil Schmorak was appointed member of the Pales- 
tine Executive of the Jewish Agency in charge of trade and in- 
dustrial affairs in place of the late Dr. F. Rotenstreich. 


ECONOMIC AFFAIRS. 


59. Ihe revised estimate of revenue for the financial year 
1st April, 1938, to 31st March, 1939, excluding grants by His 
Majesty’s Government, is £P.4,123,000 compared with the 
original estimate of £P.4,343,435, a decrease of £P.220,435. 
The principal decreases occur under the heads tor Customs 
(£P.90,000) , Licences and Taxes (£P.145,000), and Fees, etc. 
(4P.26,000). There were increases, however, under the heads 
for Posts and Telegraphs (£P.24,000) and Interest (£P.12,000). 
The revised estimate of grants by His Majesty’s Government is 
£P,1,811,980. These grants comprise £P.200,000 for the Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force, £P.18,000 for Hydrographic Survey, 
£P.13,980 from the Colonial Development Fund and 
£P.1,580,000 in respect of the reimbursement of emergency 
expenditure on security. The revised expenditure is estimated 
at £P.5,765,000 as compared .with the original estimate of 
£P.5,445,760, an increase of £P.319,240 due to the increased 
expenditure on Police and Prisons service (£P.361,000), the 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force including extraordinary works 
£P.45,000) and Posts and Telegraphs including extraordinary 
£P.9,000). Expenditure for compensation for loss of life and 
injury caused an increase of £P.56,000 on the vote for Miscel- 
laneous, and there was an increase of £P.108,000 in the estimate 
of the deficit on the Railways, due partly to decreased traffic and 
partly to repairs of damage caused by sabotage. On the other 
hand there were decreases amounting to £P.259,000 on other 
heads. 

The revised estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year 
ending the 31st March, 1939, therefore, show a surplus of 
£P.170,000; and it is anticipated that, even after accounting 
for the anticipated depreciation of investments at the 31st 
March, 1939, the general revenue balance will be slightly higher 
than at the rst April, 1938, when it amounted to £P.2,400,838. 
It will be necessary, however, to provide in the Estimates for 
1939-40 for considerable revotes of emergency expenditure on 
security measures which were approved during 1938-9, but were 
not completed in that year. 


35 


60. During the calendar year 1938 a total number of 15,263 
immigrants entered Palestine as compared with a total of 12,475 
in 1937, 31,671 in 1936, and 64,147 in 1935. The number of 
Jewish immigrants with a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards in 
1938 was 1,753 as compared with 1,275 in 1937, and with 2,970 
and 6,309 in 1936 and 1935 respectively. The total value of 
imports (excluding military stores) decreased from £P.15,435,000 
in 1937 to £P.11,566,000 in 1938; and the total value of exports 
decreased from £P.5,814,000 in 1937 to £P.5,020,000 in 1938. 


6x1. The number of dunums of land sold in 1938 was approxi- 
mately 70,000 valued at £P.2,952,556, as compared with 103,000 
dunums valued at £P.4,388,556 in 1937. 


62. The estimated value of investments in buildings in 1938 
was £P.1,800,000 as compared with £P.3,000,000 in 1937, 
£,P.4,000,000 in 1936 and £P.7,000,000 in 1935. 

63. New areas planted with citrus trees amounted to 1,500 
dunums in 1938 as compared with 1,500 dunums in 1937, 
20,000 dunums in 1936 and 28,000 dunums in 1935. 


64. During 1938 the number of new local companies registered 
totalled 163, with an authorized capital of £P.1,173,597 as com- 
pared with 207 and an authorised capital of £P.909,000 in 1937; 
while 52 companies increased their capital from £P.1,384,579 to 
£P.2,258,251. At the 31st December, 1938, the currency in 
circulation amounted to £P.5,509,I134 as compared with 
£P.4,829,134 at the 31st December, 1937, and £P.5,741,134 
at the 3rst December, 1936. Deposits with banks and the 
leading local co-operative societies at the 31st December, 1938, 
amounted to £P.17,650,000 as compared with £P.16,000,000 at 
the 31st December, 1937, and £P.16,600,000 at the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1936. 

65. Revenue receipts, which towards the end of 1935 began to 
reflect the uneasiness aroused by the political outlook in Europe, 
continued to fall throughout 1936-7 owing to the after effects of 
the disturbances in that year. Though they showed a slight 
increase in 1937-8 over the previous year, they fell short of the 
estimate for the year and were still considerably below the level 
of 1935-6. It is expected that revenue receipts for 1938-9 will 
show a further decline. Customs receipts, which for the 12 
months ended December, 1935, had maintained an average of 
£P.239,000 a month fell in 1936 to an average of £P.168,000 a 
month, and although the monthly average showed a slight im- 
provement in 1937, when it stood at £P.178,000 it dropped in 
1938 below £P.146,000. The genera] uneasiness and uncer- 
tainty as to the trend of events in Palestine to which reference 
was made in the Reports of the preceding two years continued to: 
discourage new developments in trade and industry. Credit 
facilities were curtailed in 1930 and continued to be restricted 
throughout 1937 and 1938. The number of companies that went 


36 


into voluntary liquidation in 1938 was 28 as compared with 27 
in 1937 and with 17 in 1936. Winding-up Orders were issued in 
1938 in respect of two companies with estimated assets of 
£P.6,000 and estimated liabilities of £P.12,000 as compared with 
seven companies in 1937 with estimated assets of £P.93,500 and 
estimated liabilities of £P.187,500. The number of Receiving 
Orders issued in 1938 was 82* representing estimated assets of 
Z£P.98,000 and estimated liabilities of £P.166,000 as compared 
with 60 Orders issued in 1937, representing estimated assets of 
£P.37,000 and estimated liabilities of £P.93,000. 


66. Reference was made in paragraph 83 of the Introductory 
Chapter to the 1937 Report to meetings held between represen- 
tatives of the Egyptian and Palestine Governments with a view to 
improvement of the trade relations between the two countries 
under the terms of the Trade Agreement with Egypt. The pro- 
posals which were formulated as a result of these meetings, and 
which involve reciprocal tariff concessions in respect of agricul- 
tural products of both territories are now under consideration by 
the respective Governments. 

67. The question of the revision of the Syria Palestine Customs 
Agreement of 1929 so as to bring it more into accord with de- 
velopments in recent year in Palestine’s trade and industry has 
been under active consideration during 1938. Preliminary 
negotiations were opened with the Haut Commissariat in Beirut, 
and in September, 1938, the Palestine Government gave six 
months’ notice of the termination of the Agreement to take effect 
from the 1st March, 1939, under Article 20 of the Agreement. 
As later it became clear that the negotiations for a new Customs 
Agreement could not be concluded by the rst March, 1939, the 
period of the notice of termination of the existing Agreement was 
extended with the consent of the Haut Commissariat until the 
Ist June, 1939. 

68. Mention was made in paragraph 85 of the Introductory 
Chapter to the 1937 Report of proposals by the Citrus Trans- 
portation and Marketing Committee for the enactment of legis- 
lation designed to improve the standard of ships carrying citrus 
fruit from Palestine. The shipping interests have since been 
consulted in regard to the proposed legislation, and in view of 
their representations it has been thought desirable to obtain the 
advice of the Board of Trade before the final proposals for 
legislation of this character are formulated. 

69. The General Manager of the Jaffa Citrus Exchange again 
made visits to European countries during 1938 with a view to 
securing a relaxation of trade and currency restrictions which 
are an obstacle to the development of the Palestine export trade 
in citrus fruit. 
liabilities. : 


37 


As a result, additional facilities were secured in respect of 
citrus exports to Denmark, Hungary, Roumania, Poland and 
Yugoslavia. 


70. Under the Trade Agreement between the United Kingdom 
and the United States of America which was signed in November, 
1938, Palestine will receive most-favoured-nation treatment in 
the United States and will benefit in the British market from all 
the concessions extended to American produce. 

The chief concessions by which Palestine may profit are those 
in respect of canned grape fruit, canned grape fruit juice and 
canned orange juice which will be accorded duty free entry 
to the United Kingdom. 


71. The manufacture of citrus juices in Palestine is expand- 
ing, exports of fruit juices (chiefly citrus fruit juices) having 
increased from £P.9,928 in 1937 to £P.17,220 in 1938. 

72. The Government of Brazil has, on the representations of 
His Majesty’s Government under the terms of the Notes ex- 
changed between the two Governments in London on tIoth 
August, 1936, accorded most-favoured-nation treatment to goods 
produced or manufactured in Palestine. 


73. The railways have suffered severely from the disturbed 
state of the country and from the decrease in commercial and 
industrial activities, particularly in the building trade. ; 

A local committee was set up towards the end of the year to 
examine, aS an emergency measure, the possibilities of effectin 
temporary economies during the prevailing critical period, wi 
a view to reducing the railway deficit. The committee has sub- 
mitted its Report: a number of its recommendations for 
economies have been adopted and will be given effect in the next 
financial year and others are receiving consideration. 


74. In view of the increasing importance of the trade and in- 
dustry of the country, the Palestine Government have created a 
new post of Economic Adviser to the High Commissioner. Mr. 
G. Walsh, C.B.E., who has been appointed to this office, has 
also assumed the Chairmanship of the Standing Committee for 
Commerce and Industry, the advisory body consisting of official 
and non-official representatives which was set up in 1928 to 
advise Government on questions affecting trade and industry. 
In addition to the Chairman, the Standing Committee now con- 
sists of four official members and six unofficial members repre- 
sentative of the commercial and industrial interests of all com- 
munities. 

75. The principal new industrial enterprise initiated in 1938 
was the establishment at Haifa of a large oil refinery by Con- 
solidated Refineries Limited. The construction of the works, 
which is expected to be completed in 1940, is affording employ- 
ment to about 2,000 workmen. 


38 


Other new industrial enterprises include factories for the 
manufacture of matches, electrical apparatus, textile printing, 
tapestries, margarine and flour, and the cutting and polishing 
of diamonds has been commenced on a small scale. 


96. In accordance with recommendations of the Standing 

Committee for Commerce and Industry, local industry was 
given further assistance by the impositioin of protective tariffs 
on certain articles which are produced in Palestine, by exemp- 
tion from import duty of a number of raw materials, and by 
the grant of customs drawback in cases where exemption from 
import duty of the raw material was impracticable. The in- 
dustries benefiting from these measures included cotton textile 
manufacture, cutting and polishing of diamonds and other 
precious stones, manufacture of rivets and denatured alcohol, 
and other minor industries. 


AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND LAND. 


77. The year 1938 was abnormal and on the whole unfavour- 
able to agriculture. The wheat crop, as the result of an attack 
of rust, was the lowest for many years, the yield being only 
about 44,000 tons of very poor quality, as compared with 127,420 
for 1937. On the other hand the barley and leguminous crop 
yields were generally satisfactory and the melon and olive crops 
were particularly good, thus compensating in some degree for the 
failure of the wheat crop. 


78. The activities of the Department of Agriculture were 
severely restricted owing to the disturbed state of the country, 
and nearly all the agricultural and horticultural stations were 
attacked and in some cases destroyed by armed bands. As the 
result it eventually became necessary to close down all the 
stations except three. 


79. As regards education and propaganda, the publication of 
the agricultural supplement to the Gazette was continued and 
weekly “‘ talks to farmers ’’ were broadcasted throughout the 
year by the Palestine Broadcasting Service. They appeared to 
be a popular feature. 


80. The year was favourable for stock raisers, but the activi- 
ties of the veterinary service also had to be curtailed owing 
to the disturbed state of the country. Towards the end of the 
year the majority of the animal quarantine stations, poultry 
stations and apiaries were closed. 


81. £P.2,342 was allocated under the scheme for the issue of 
loans for the development of the hill areas, but owing to prevail- 
ing conditions and the difficulty of obtaining adequate security 
it was eventually decided that the issue of these loans should be 
suspended. 


39 


82. Citrus exports for the season 1937-8 were even higher than 
the record crop of the previous season and the general condition 
of shipments arriving on the markets abroad was much 
improved. 


83. The fishing industry also suffered from the prevailing 
insecurity which discouraged the investment of capital; but 
although the number of fishing licences showed a slight decrease 
during the year, there was an increase in the number of fishing 
craft registered. 


84. The work of the Department of Forests was continued 
under difficulties. Fifty-four plantations covering 22,400 
dunums were formed by private persons and institutions during 
the season, and one new forest reserve was proclaimed, bringing 
the total number of reserves up to 278 with a nominal area of 
740,639 dunums. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


85. On the 4th February, 1938, the High Commissioner, Sir 
Arthur Wauchope, officially opened the new automatic telephone 
exchange at Tel Aviv. 


86. On the 24th March, Lord Lloyd and Colonel Bridge of the 
British Council visited Haifa in the course of their tour to en- 
quire into educational facilities for British children in the Near 
and Middle East. The British Council subsequently made a 
grant of £P.1,000 per annum towards the elementary education 
of children of British birth and allegiance resident in Palestine. 


87. On the 17th June, 1938, the High Commissioner, Sir 
Harold MacMichael, officially opened the new General Post 
Office building in Jerusalem and the Jerusalem automatic 
telephone exchange. 


88. On the 21st December, the High Commissioner officially 
opened the new Government Hospital at Haifa. 


89. Through the instrumentality of the Haifa branch of 
Rotary, the Palestine Society for Crippled Children was enabled 
to open a clinic in Haifa. A panel of doctors has been formed 
who place their services at the disposal of the clinic when re- 
quired. Jewish, Moslem and Christian children are being 
treated in the clinic. Free treatment is given to poor children. 


40 
APPENDIX “A.” 


Despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the High 
Commissioner for Palestine.* 


Downing Street, 
23rd December, 1937. 


SIR, 


IT have the honour to inform you that His Majesty’s Government in the 
United Kingdom have had under consideration the Statement of Policy in 
Palestine issued in July last (Cmd. 5513), and the conclusions to be drawn 
from the resolutions on the subject which have been passed first by the 
House of Commons and subsequently by the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission and the Council and Assembly of the League of Nations. A 
memorandum containing relevant extracts from the Statement of Policy 
and the resolutions in question, and containing also extracts from Ministerial 
statements, is enclosed for convenience of reference. 


z. I feel that it is necessary to emphasize certain implications of the 
acceptance in principle by His Majesty’s Government of the recommenda- 
tions contained in Part III of the Report of the Royal Commission, + and to 
dispel if possible, the uncertainty which appears to exist in some quarters 
with regard to the course of action which His Majesty’s Government have 
in view. 


3. In the Statement of Policy His Majesty’s Government have expressed 
their general agreement with the arguments and conclusions of the Royal 
Commission and their opinion that a scheme of tripartite division is the 
best and most hopeful solution of the problem. In view of the public 
attention that has been devoted to criticism of certain features of the 
tentative plan of partition which is outlined in Part III of the Report of 
the Royal Commission, I wish to make it clear that His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment are in no sense committed to approval of that plan, and in particular 
that they have not accepted the Commission’s proposal for the compulsory 
transfer in the last resort of Arabs from the Jewish to the Arab area. 


4. In the opinion of His Majesty’s Government the discussions at Geneva 
justify the undertaking of the further investigations required for the draw- 
ing up of a more precise scheme expressed in greater detail. The final 
decision cannot be taken in merely general terms, and the further enquiry 
will undoubtedly provide the necessary materials on which, when the best 
possible scheme has been formulated, to judge of its equity and 
practicability. 


5. As you are aware, it has been announced that a further special body 
will be appointed to visit Palestine, and to submit to His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment, after consultation with the local communities, proposals for a detailed 
scheme of partition; and that it will be the task of this body to advise in 
due course as to the provisional boundaries of the proposed Arab and 
Jewish areas and of the new British Mandated area, and also to undertake 
the financial and other enquiries for which the Royal Commission recom- 
mended that a Financial Commission should be appointed. The functions 
of this new body will be to act as a technical Commission, that is to say, its 
functions will be confined to ascertaining facts and to considering in detail 
the practical possibilities of a scheme of partition. 


* Published separately as Cmd. 5634. — ¢ Cmd. 5479. 


4I 


6. The terms of reference of the technical Commission will be as 
follows :— 

‘‘ Taking into account the plan of partition outlined in Part III of 
the Report of the Royal Commission, but with full liberty to suggest 
modifications of that plan, including variation of the areas recom- 
mended for retention under British Mandate, 


And taking into account any representations of the communities in 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan— 


(i) to recommend boundaries for the proposed Arab and Jewish 
areas and the enclaves to be retained permanently or temporarily 
under British Mandate which will— 

(a) afford a reasonable prospect of the eventual establish- 
ment, with adequate security, of self-supporting Arab and 
Jewish States; 

(b) necessitate the inclusion of the fewest possible Arabs and 
Arab enterprises in the Jewish area and vice versa; and 

(c) enable His Majesty’s Government to carry out the 
Mandatory responsibilities the assumption of which is recom- 
mended in the Report of the Royal Commission, including 
the obligations imposed by Article 28 of the Mandate as 
regards the Holy Places; 


(ii) to examine and report on the economic and _ financial 
questions involved in partition upon which decisions will require 
to be taken, including— 

(a) the allocation so far as may be necessary between the 
various areas of the public assets and public debt of Palestine 
and other ‘ financial obligations legitimately incurred by the 
Administration of Palestine during the period of the Mandate ’ 
referred to in Article 28 thereof; 

(b) means to ensure that the financial obligations referred to 
above will be fully honoured in accordance with Article 28 of 
the Mandate; 

(c) the administration of the railways, ports, postal, tele- 
graph and telephone services; 

(d) currency arrangements; 

(e) customs administrations and tariffs; 

(f) the budgetary prospects of the various Administrations 
to be established; 

(g) the preservation of the rights of civil servants in accord- 
ance with the provisions of Article 28 of the Mandate; 

(h) the treatment of industrial and other concessions; 

(i) the possibility of voluntary exchanges of land and popula- 
tion, and the prospects of providing by works of land develop- 
ment room for further settlement to meet the needs of persons 
desiring to move from one area to another; 

(7) the provision of effective safeguards for the rights of 
religious or racial minorities in the areas to be allocated to 
Arab and Jews respectively; including the protection of 
religious rights and properties.” 


7. If, as a result of the investigation of the technical commission, which 
will undoubtedly occupy many months, a scheme of partition is regarded 
as equitable and practicable by His Majesty’s Government, it will be ce- 
ferred to the Council of the League for consideration. If the scheme is 
approved by the League Council, a further period will be required for the 
establishment of new systems of government under mandate in the areas 
concerned and, if the necessary consent is forthcoming, for the negotiations 
of treaties with a view to the eventual establishment of independent States. 


It may also be necessary, in the light of the Commission’s report, for His 


42 


Majesty’s Government to give further consideration to the suggestion of 
the Permanent Mandates Commission that the Arab and Jewish areas 
should be administered temporarily under a system of ‘‘ cantonisation ”’ 
or under separate mandates. It is obvious, therefore, that, for some time 
to come, any action taken will be only of an exploratory nature. 

8. I will communicate with you further in due course on the subject of 
the personnel of the Commission and its procedure. 


I have, etc., 


W. ORMSBY GORE. 


High Commissioner, 
General Sir Arthur Wauchope, 
G.C.M.G., K.C.B., C.I.E., D.S.O., 
etc., etc., etc. 


APPENDIX “ B.”’ 
Partition Commission. 


SUMMARY OF REPORT. 
1. Only the briefest description of the main conclusions is possible in 
this summary. 
2. In their report the Commission examine three plans of partition, A, B 
and C, besides certain Jewish proposals. 
PLAN A. 


3. In plan A, which is the Royal Commission’s plan with the boundaries 
adjusted for purposes of defence, the figures of population and land are— 


Population. 
Arab State 
(Including Jerusalem and 
Beersheba Jewish State. Nazareth 
sub-district). Enclaves. 
Arabs oe% ve 485,200 294,700 221,400 
Jews ds eee 7,200 304,900 80,200 
Total population ... 492,400 599,600 301,600 
Land (in dunums). 
Avab State 
(excluding Jerusalem and 
Beersheba Jewish State. Nazareth 
sub-district). Enclaves. 
Arabs. Jews. Arabs. Jews. Arabs. Jews. 
Citrus land ... 26,600 1,300 78,600 135,900 37,900 8,900 
Other land ... 6,981,300 35,700 3,776,100 1,004,300 1,466,700 69,900 
Total land ... 7,007,900 37,000 3,854,700 1,140,200 1,504,600 78,800 


By their terms of reference the Partition Commission are required to 
recommend boundaries which will necessitate the inclusion of the fewest 
possible Arabs and Arab enterprises in the Jewish State and vice versa. 

A plan for a Jewish State in which there will be nearly as many Arabs 
(295,000) as Jews (305,000) and four-fifths of the land will be owned by 
Arabs is plainly inconsistent with this requirement, unless there is a 
reasonable prospect that the problem thereby created can be solved by 
exchange or transfer of most of these Arabs to the Arab State. It was 
a fundamental assumption of the Royal Commission’s plan that this could 
and should be done. The Partition Commission find, however, that this is 


impossible. 


43 


Further, they find that Galilee should not anyhow be included in the 
Jewish State, because— 


(a) The population is almost entirely Arab and the land almost 
entirely owned by Arabs: its inclusion would, therefore, be plainly 
inconsistent with the Commission’s instructions. 

(6b) The Arabs will resist inclusion in the Jewish State by force. 
The use of force to compel this homogeneous body of 90,000 Arabs 

, to accept Jewish rule cannot be justified. 

(c) Even if their resistance were crushed, pacification would only be 
temporary and Galilee would remain a running sore in the body of the 
Jewish State. 


The Commission therefore reject plan A. 


Pian B. 


4. Plan B (map 9g) is plan A with the exclusion from the Jewish State 
of Galilee and the small and predominantly Arab area at the southern 
extremity of the Jewish State. 


The Commission recommend that the latter area should be included in 
the Arab State, but the majority of them reject the rest of plan B, 
because— 

(a) Galilee cannot be placed under Arab control without endangering 
the security of the Jewish State. 

(b) Its retention under Mandatory control is open to strong objection 
because the Arabs of Galilee would thereby have to be denied their 
independence in order to ensure the security of the Jewish State. 

(c) Haifa, the only deep-water harbour in Palestine, could not be 
included in the Jewish State without serious detriment to Ajrab 
interests. Similarly it could not be included in the Arab State without 
serious detriment to Jewish interests. 

(d) Even with the exclusion of Galilee and the area in the south from 
the Jewish State, the number of Arabs in that state would still be 
very large, 188,000 Arabs as compared with 300,000 Jews. 

(e) In the portion (excluding Haifa) of the Jewish State which runs 
from Haifa east to Beisan and then north to the Palestine frontier, 
the Arabs are in a majority, the Jews only forming 24 per cent. of the 
population. The Commission consider that a plan of partition which 
brings under the political domination of the Jews large numbers of 
Arabs in an area where the Jews are not already in a majority, will be 
opposed by the Arabs and will not lead to peace. 


JEwIsH PROPOSALS. 


5. The Commission reject certain Jewish proposals for the inclusion in the 
Jewish State of part of Jerusalem, and of certain other areas outside the 
Jewish State is outlined by the Royal Commission. 


Pian C. 


6. The majority of the Commission put forward plan C as the best they 
have been able to devise. 


Map ro of plan C shows Palestine divided into three parts— 
(1) a northern part to be retained under mandate; 
(11) a southern part (the Negeb) to be retained under mandate; 
(iii) a central part to be divided into an Arab State, a Jewish State 
and the Jerusalem Enclave. 


The argument for plan C is summarized thus— 
(1) The northern territory cannot be partitioned without injustice 
to either Arabs or Jews, nor can it be handed over intact to either side. 


44 


(ii) It is impossible to hand over the Negeb to the Jews, and unfair 
to the Jews to hand it over to the Arabs while any reasonable prospect 
remains of Jewish settlement therein without prejudice to the rights 
of the existing inhabitants. 

(iii) Both these territories must, therefore, be retained under 
mandate. 

(iv) Only the central part, therefore, can be partitioned. Here the 
boundaries of the Arab and Jewish States and the Jerusalem Enclave 
will be identical with those in plan B except for slight changes across 
the Carmel Ridge, and on the Negeb boundary. 


The political future of both the Northern and Southern Territories must 
be clearly defined so that both races may know under what form of 
government the inhabitants will live henceforth. The Mandate for the 
Northern Territory should continue in being till both races in the territory 
agree to ask that it should be surrendered and the territory be given its 
independence either as part of an existing Jewish or Arab State or as a 
separate Palestinian State. By ‘‘ agreement ’’ is meant that the majority 
of one race in the territory must agree with the majority of the other. 

But Haifa and Acre can only be granted independence provided this can 
be done safely considering the special responsibilities of the Mandatory 
for the protection of the Holy Places and the new states against external 
aggression. 

In the Southern Mandated Territory, also, no independent state should 
be set up in opposition to the wishes of the minority, unless the minority 
is so small that its wishes ought not to be allowed to prevail, and the 
Mandate should continue for at least ten years. The Occupied Area (ex- 
plained below) will anyhow not be made an independent state if the 
majority of the Bedouin, assuming their numbers and territorial disposition 
are much as at present, object. 

The Arab inhabitants of both the territories will, therefore, have a 
binding assurance that they cannot possibly be placed under the political 
domination of the Jews against their will. 

The Jerusalem Enclave will, as proposed by the Royal Commission, 
be retained under a permanent mandate. 

The figures for the land and population under plan C are— 


Arab State. 
Arabs. - Jews. Total. 
Population... we 444,100 8,900 453,000 
Land (dunums) ... 7,329,700 _ 63,800 7,393,500 
Jewish State. 

Population... dig 54,400 226,000 280,400 
Land (dunums) ... 821,700 436,100 1,257,800 
Mandated Territories. 

Population... eee 502,800 157,400 660,200 
Land (dunums) ... 6,160,200 811,500 6,971,700 


Jewish Settlement in the Mandated Territories under Plan C. 


7. To control Jewish acquisition of and settlement on the land in the 
Mandated Territories, the Commission recommend that— 


A.—The Northern Mandated Territory. 

(1) The Mandatory should be empowered to prohibit the transfer of 
land to any person in any part of the Mandated Territories, and in 
Galilee should immediately prohibit the transfer of land by a non- 
Jew to a Jew, but not Jewish residence. 





45 


(ii) After ten years this prohibition should be reviewed but not with- 
drawn or relaxed unless Arab opinion favours such action. 


(iii) Haifa and Tiberias and any other urban area approved by 
Government should be declared ‘‘ free areas ’’ in which the transfer 
of land to Jews should not be prohibited. 


(iv) Elsewhere the transfer of land to Jews should be prohibited 
except— 


(a) Transfers with Government approval for the consolidation of 
existing Jewish holdings, etc. 
(0) Any other transfers respecting which Government are satisfied 
that— 
(1) there are possibilities of closer settlement on the land; 
(2) adequate provision has been made for the resettlement of the 
cultivators; 
(3) save where Government are satisfied that conditions make 
it impracticable, any surplus land resulting from closer settlement 
will be shared equitably between Jews and Arabs. 


(v) Government should be prepared to spend additional sums on 
agricultural development and agricultural research, experiment and 
education. While this expenditure, funds for which it is proposed 
should be provided by His Majesty’s Government, would benefit both 
Arabs and Jews, its primary object would be to facilitate Jewish 
settlement. 


(vi) Surplus agricultural land which may be made available as the 
direct result of such development schemes should be shared equitably 
between both Arabs and Jews. 


B.—The Jerusalem Enclave. 


_ All these recommendations apply to the Jerusalem Enclave except that 
It will probably not be necessary to create a ‘‘ prescribed ’’ area such as 
Galilee. The urban area of Jerusalem should be declared a free area. 


C.—The Southern Mandated Terntory. 


This area should be divided into an Unoccupied and an Occupied Area, 
the latter being the portion which the Bedouin tribes are accustomed to 
cultivate, and the former the rest. 


(i) Unoccupied Area. 


This should where necessary be declared a public domain and leases of 
such parts as Government think fit granted to a Jewish company for 
development. 


(ii) Occupied Area. 

This should for the present be declared a prescribed area in which Jews 
would be prohibited from acquiring land. 

The survey and settlement of this area should be undertaken as quickly 
as possible. 

The goodwill of the Bedouin should be obtained before experiments are 
undertaken for the purpose of developing this area, and they should be 
shown that they themselves will be the first to benefit by development. 
When this has been done, the Jews should carry out the greater part of the 
experiments with Government approval. 


If closer settlement should prove possible, the quantity of surplus land 
should be estimated in consultation with the Bedouin and the Jews. 
The Bedouin, considering their exceptional poverty, should have the 


first claim to benefit from the improvements in order to provide them with 
a reasonable standard of living, 


46 


As soon as Government are satisfied that the reasonable needs of the 
existing inhabitants will be met, the prohibition on the Jewish acquisition 
of land should be withdrawn. 

If the Bedouin from the outset oppose development, the experiments 
should be carried out by Government themselves. When the results of the 
experiments are available, the matter shouid be re-examined and it s 
hoped that the Bedouin will change their attitude on realising that other- 
wise they cannot expect money to be spent on improving their position. 


8. The Commission recommend that, provided that the Arabs will co 
operate, His Majesty’s Government should provide funds for agricultural 
development within the following Emits— 

(i) on non-recurrent expenditure such as grants for development 
whatever form in the Mandated Terntories, including the Huleh con 
cession scheme, not exceeding 41.000.000° 

(ii) on recurrent expenditure on agricultural services, including land 
settlement operations in the Southern Mandated Terntory, not exceed- 
ing {75,000 a vear for Io vears. 


Immigration into the Mandated Termitonies under Plan C. 


9. Immigration into the Mandated Territories should be regulated thus— 

(i) The rate of immigration shou!d be decided upon political, social, 
and psychological, besides econcmic considerations. 

(ii) Among intending immizrants from outside Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan preference should be given to Jewish immigrants. 

(ini) Persons of whatever race habitually residing m the rest of 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan should be free to enter the Mandated 
Territories for short or casual visits but not to reside habitually therem 
without Government permission. Permission to reside habitually 
should be granted to such persons within the limits of an “ intra 
Palestinian '’ quota, with preference to Arabs wishing to leave the 
Jewish State. : 

‘iv’ Article 4 of the present Mandate should not be reproduced i 
the new Mandate, but before fixing the immigrant quota the Yar 
Gatory sheuid consult with renresentatives of both Arabs and Jews 
and with expenenced opinion ‘independent of Government and both 
Taces. 


re 


Budectary Prospects under Plas C. 
10. The Roval Commissicn proposed that the Jewish State should make 
sidvention to the Arab State. The Partition Commission that 
sca a stipalation would be unwise and likely to provoke resentment 
They doubt whether it could prudentiy be made the foundation of @ 
permanent settlement. 2 as 
The forecasts of revenue and expenditure show that on the existing 
standards of administration and withcut making any provision for defence 
the budgetary prospects under plan C will be— 
(i) For the Jewish State a surplus of about £P.600.000. t 
uli) For the Arab Stare (including Trans-Jordan) a deficit of abou 
£P.O1o.000, 
(iii) For the Mandated Terrteries a deficit of £P.460,000. 
The financial position ef the Arab State will be no better under el 
conceivable plan of partition. It is on.v the Jewish contributions to tax 
revenue that have enabled Palestine to balance its buasets, 


i] 


4" 


7 ich will 
The Commission cannet therefore recemmend boundaries eae by 
attonl a reasonable prospect of the eventual establishment of a selt-suppo ¥ 


ng Arab State. }f partition is carmed out Parliament must be 
to provide the necesuimy financial asxstance from U 
A capital pavment af ¢:.oco aww as proposed by the 


not reemmended. Lf assistance takes the form 


Ce? wok € : aia ee 


47 


fanancial control will be necessary, and the Arab State could not then be 
called self-supporting. The United Kingdom must also provide the means 
of balancing the Mandated Territories’ budget, including the proposed 
cost of development. Altogether partition would cost the United Kingdom 
say {1,250,000 annually, whereas the Jewish State would have an annual 
surplus of say {600,000, excluding the cost of defence in either case. The 
result would be much the same under any conceivable plan of partition. 


Customs and Tariffs under Plan C. 


Ir. (a) The Arab State cannot survive economically without access to 

the markets of the Mandated Territories for the sale of its agricultural 

- produce. Access to the Jewish State also, although not essential, would 
be advantageous. 


(5) If the Jewish State is to provide employment for additional immi- 
= grants in large numbers it must expand industrially and it cannot do so 
- without an assured market larger than can be provided within its own 

territory. It must therefore have an outlet for its manufactures in the 
Mandated Territories. An outlet in the Arab State also, although not 
essential, would be advantageous. 


-- (c) The interests of both states demand that the three areas should con- 
- Stitute a single customs union, but this, though advantageous, is not 
essential to the Mandated Territories. 


-: (dad) A customs union would give the Jewish State an assured market in 
- the whole of Palestine and Trans-Jordan, and it would be reasonable to 
+ require that state in return to enter into a financial arrangement which 
., would improve the financial position of the Arab State. Any such arrange- 
~- ment would tend to reduce the charges which partition must impose on 


— 


the British Exchequer. 


(e) But a customs union between a mandated territory and an inde- 
pendent state or states would create serious constitutional difficulties. His 
Majesty’s Government could not be expected to approve a scheme which 

— would deprive them of the right to insist on changes in the fiscal policy of 
: any member-state which they may think necessary, on revenue grounds, 
_ as a condition of their continuing to vote assistance to enable that member 

to balance its budget. A customs union between the Mandated Territories 
and the Arab and Jewish States would therefore be impossible except under 
conditions which would be inconsistent with the grant of fiscal independence 
to those states. 


CONCLUSION. 


12. Apart from political considerations, the question whether partition 
is practicable or not concerns chiefly finance and economics. Taking into 
account the latter considerations, the Commission conclude that if they 

- were to adhere strictly to their terms of reference, they would have no 
alternative but to report that they were unable to recommend boundaries 
for the proposed areas which will give a reasonable prospect of the eventual 
establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish States. 

P But they do not believe it would be in accordance with the wishes of 
His Majesty’s Government or with the public interest that they should 
end their enquiry with a purely negative conclusion. 

; They therefore put forward a suggestion for a modified form of partition, 

“which they call economic federalism. Under this both states would be 

_ required, as a condition of the surrender of the Mandate, to enter a customs 

, union with the Mandated Territories in which the fiscal policy would be 
determined by the Mandatory after consulting both states. The customs 
revenue would be collected by the Mandatory, and the net surplus after 

meeting certain common charges would be distributed between the three 

«areas according to an agreed formula, subject to periodic review. The 

~ Commission suggest that initially each area’s share should be one-third. 


48 


To enable the Arab State to balance its budget without subjecting it to 
external financial control, it should receive a supplementary share out of 
the share of the Mandated Territories, under conditions which will entitle 
it to share in any expansion of customs revenue resulting from an increase 
of prosperity in the rest of Palestine. This arrangement could be extended, 
if desired, to cover internal communications—railways, posts and tele- 
graphs—thus removing certain obvious administrative difficulties consequent 
on partition. While this arrangement withholds fiscal autonomy from the 
Arab and Jewish States it seems to the Commission, subject to certain 
reservations, to form a satisfactory basis for settlement, provided His 
Majesty’s Government are prepared to accept the very considerable 
financial liability involved. 


Note of Reservations by Sir Alison Russell. 


In a note of reservations Sir Alison Russell, while agreeing that plan A 
is unacceptable, considers that plan B is preferable to plan C. 

He holds that a Jewish State of the small size proposed in plan C is not 
in accord with the obligations to the Jews. 

He agrees that the financial position of the Arab State under plan B is 
much the same as under plan C, and that under plan B there is no reason- 
able prospect of the eventual establishment of a self-supporting Arab State. 


Note of Reservations by Mr. Reid. 


%n a note of reservations Mr. Reid, while agreeing that plan C is the 
best that can be devised under the terms of reference, considers that both 
plans B and C are impracticable. He classifies his reasons under the 
following heads: (a) absence of consent, (b) absence of equity, (c) absence 
of security, (d) dismemberment of Palestine, and (e) absence of solvency. 


APPENDIX C. 


Statement by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom. 


1. The Royal Commission, presided over by the late Earl Peel, published 
its report in July, 1937, and proposed a solution of the Palestine problem 
by means of a scheme of partition under which independent Arab and 
Jewish States would be established while other areas would be retained 
under mandatory administration. In their statement of policy following 
upon the publication of the report, His Majesty’s Government in the 
United Kingdom announced their general agreement with the arguments 
and conclusions of the Royal Commission, and expressed the view that a 
scheme of partition on the general lines recommended by the Commission 
represented the best and most hopeful solution of the deadlock. 


2. The proposal of the Commission was framed in the light of the 
information available at the time, and it was generally recognized that 
further detailed examination would be necessary before it could be decided 
whether such a solution would prove practicable. This proposal was sub- 
sequently discussed in Parliament and at meetings of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission and the Council and Assembly of the League of 
Nations, when His Majesty’s Government received authority to explore 
the practical application of the principle of partition. A despatch of 23rd 
December, 1937, from the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the High 
Commissioner for Palestine*, announced the intention of His Majesty’s 
Government to undertake the further investigations required for the draw- 
ing up of a more precise and detailed scheme. It was pointed out that 
the final decision could not be taken in merely general terms and that 
the further enquiry would provide the necessary material on which to 


* Cmd. 5634. 


49 


judge, when the best possible partition scheme had been formulated, its 
equity and practicability. The despatch also defined the functions and 
terms of reference of the technical Commission who were appointed to 
visit Palestine for the purpose of submitting in due course to His Majesty’s 
Government proposals for such a detailed scheme. 


3. His Majesty’s Government have now received the report of the 
Palestine Partition Commission who have carried out their investigations 
with great thoroughness and efficiency, and have collected material which 
will be very valuable in the further consideration of policy. Their report 
is now published, together with a summary of their conclusions. It will 
be noted that the four members of the Commission advise unanimously 
against the adoption of the scheme of partition outlined by the Royal 
Commission. In addition to the Royal Commission’s scheme, two other 
schemes described as plans B and C are examined in the report. One 
member prefers plan B. Two other members, including the Chairman, 
consider that plan C is the best scheme of partition which, under the 
terms of reference, can be devised. A fourth member, while agreeing 
that plan C is the best that can be devised under the terms of reference, 
regards both plans as impracticable. The report points out that under 
either plan, while the budget of the Jewish State is likely to show a sub- 
stantial surplus, the budgets of the Arab State (including Trans-Jordan) 
and of the Mandated Territories are likely to show substantial deficits. 
The Commission reject as impracticable the Royal Commission’s recom- 
mendation for a direct subvention from the Jewish State to the Arab 
State. They think that, on economic grounds, a customs union between 
the States and the Mandated Territories is essential and they examine the 
possibility of finding the solution for the financial and economic problems 
of partition by means of a scheme based upon such a union. They 
consider that any such scheme would be inconsistent with the grant of 
fiscal independence to the Arab and Jewish States. Their conclusion is 
that, on a strict interpretation of their terms of reference, they have no 
alternative but to report that they are unable to recommend boundaries 
for the proposed areas which will afford a reasonable prospect of the 
eventual establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish States. 


4. His Majesty’s Government, after careful study of the Partition 
Commission’s report, have reached the conclusion that this further 
examination has shown that the political, administrative and financial 
difficulties involved in the proposal to create independent Arab and Jewish 


States inside Palestine are so great that this solution of the problem is 
impracticable. 


5. His Majesty’s Government will therefore continue their responsibility 
for the government of the whole of Palestine. They are now faced with 
the problem of finding alternative means of meeting the needs of the 
difficult situation described by the Royal Commission which will be con- 
sistent with their obligations to the Arabs and the Jews. His Majesty’s 
Government believe that it is possible to find these alternative means. 
They have already given much thought to the problem in the light of 
the reports of the Royal Commission and of the Partition Commission. It 
is clear that the surest foundation for peace and progress in Palestine 
would be an understanding between the Arabs and the Jews, and His 
Majesty’s Government are prepared in the first instance to make a deter- 
mined effort to promote such an understanding. With this end in view, 
they propose immediately to invite representatives of the Palestinian 
Arabs and of neighbouring States on the one hand and of the Jewish 
Agency on the other, to confer with them as soon as possible in London 
regarding future policy, including the question of immigration into Pales- 

tine. As regards the representation of the Palestinian Arabs, His Majesty’s 
Government must reserve the right to refuse to receive those leaders whom 
they regard as responsible for the campaign of assassination and violence. 


50 


6. His Majesty’s Government hope that these discussions in London may 
help to promote agreement as to future policy regarding Palestine. They 
attach great importance, however, to a decision being reached at an early 
date. Therefore, if the London discussions should not produce agreement 
within a reasonable period of time, they will take their own decision in 
the light of their examination of the problem and of the discussions in 
London, and announce the policy which they propose to pursue. 


7. In considering and settling their policy His Majesty’s Government 
will keep constantly in mind the international character of the Mandate 
with which they have been entrusted and their obligations in that respect. 


APPENDIX “ D.”’ 


Speech by the Secretary of State in the House of Commons. 
(24th, November, 1938). 


I should like to preface my statement to-day by thanking hon. Members 
in every part of the House for the patience and restraint with which they 
have watched growing each month the unhappy situation in Palestine. 
I know how easy it would have been for them to have badgered the 
Colonial Secretary at Question Time or to have drawn angry attention 
to this or that aspect of the matter on Motions for the Adjournment. 
But hon. Members have refrained from doing these things. It is not be 
cause they are indifferent to what is going on in Palestine. The House is 
conscious of its responsibilities in Palestine, as it is of its responsibilities in 
any other part of the world. I think hon. Members have, perhaps, re 
frained from doing these things because they appreciate the special diff 
culty and delicacy of the situaton with which we are faced in that country. 
I hope that I may appeal to hon. Members this afternoon, when we are 
about to enter into discussions with representatives of the Arabs and the 
Jews in London, to conduct this Debate with such a wise judgment that 
no word which is spoken here shall prejudice the chance of these dis 
cussions bearing at last the fruit of an Arab-Jewish agreement. 


During the last few months a constructive political effort to ease the 
situation in Palestine has not been possible. It was unfortunate, but it 
was inevitable. We had to await the presentation of the Woodhead 
Commission’s Report, and so our attention has been concentrated on 
the mere physical effort to restore law and order in that country. During 
the idle summer days, when there was little work for labourers to do in 
the fields, a campaign of assassination and violence, waged by terrorists, 
grew into something like an organised and widespread Arab revolt against 
British authority. The powerful military and police forces which are now 
at the disposal of the Government are steadily and surely re-establishing 
the authority of the Government throughout the land. A few weeks 
ago they cleared the old city of Jerusalem of the rebels. The authority 
of the administration has been re-established in Jaffa. Without any 
blowing of trumpets the walls of Jericho have been re-occupied by our 
troops. Gaza is once more a place where the writ of the Government runs, 
and this week hostile elements have been driven out of Beersheba. Steadily 
and painfully the process of restoration is going on throughout the country. 


We all know that certain interested propagandists have been levelling 
many foul charges against the conduct of our troops. I see a good 
many things in the Colonial Office, but I have never seen any evidence m 
support of these charges. On the contrary, the whole world know that 
the re-cccupation of the old city of Jerusalem a few weeks ago was an 
example of the way in which British troops can with perfect humility, as 
well as perfect success, conduct a delicate military operation in the midst 
of a civilian population. But the real problem in Palestine is not a 
military problem but a political problem. Our troops can restore order; 


51 
they cannot restore peace. The Government have to do that; this House 
has to do that. There is nothing so easy as to state the problem in 
Palestine. It was done brilliantly in the pages of the report of the Peel 
Commission. There is no need to alter a word or a comma in the analysis 
of the problem as it is made in that remarkable State document. 

Palestine is a tiny country; spiritually it is great. In its spiritual quality 
it has no peer among the countries of the earth; it guards some of the 
Holy Places of three of the world’s great religions. But physically it is 
tiny. Its soil is very fertile and bears rich fruit, but much of the land is 
rocky or hilly, and much of it is desert. That is the nature of the small 
stage on which a great tragedy is being played to-day. There are two 
protagonists in the field. First of all there are the Jews. Nearly 2,000 
years ago their home was Palestine, but since then they have been dis- 
persed, scattered over the face of the earth. They are a countryless people, 
but during the last 20 years many of them have been hastening back 
to Palestine under the terms of the Mandate, endorsed by more than 50 
nations, under which the administration of the country was entrusted 
to Great Britain. I do not think that any one can justly say that during 
these years Great Britain has not been fulfilling her obligation to facilitate 
the immigration of Jews into Palestine. 

Since 1922 more than 250,000 Jews have entered Palestine and settled 
there. Their achievement has been remarkable. They have turned sand 
dunes into orange groves. They have pushed ever further into waste land 
the frontiers of cultivation and settlement. They have created a new city, 
housing to-day 140,000 souls, where before there was only bare sea-shore. 
There is no knowing where their achievement might end if Palestine were 
empty of all other populations and could be handed over to them in full 
ownership. The Jews are in Palestine not on sufferance but by right, 
and to-day, under the lash of persecution in Central Europe, their eagerness 
to return to their own home land is multiplied a hundredfold. The tragedy 
of a pecple who have no country has never been so deep as it is this week. 
The sympathy of our own countrymen, their anxiety to do everything they 
can to help the persecuted Jews has never been so firm as it is to-day. 
But I hope that we are not going to allow our horror at the plight into 
which these people have been thrown to warp our cool and just judgment 
on the difficult problem of Palestine to-day. 


I must utter this word of warning. When we promised to facilitdte the 
establishment of a national home for Jews in Palestine, we never antici- 
pated this fierce persecution in Europe. We have made no promise that 
that country should be the home for everyone who is seeking to escape 
from such an immense calamity, and even if there were no other population 
in Palestine, its rather meagre soil could not in fact support more than a 
fraction of those Jews who may wish to escape from Europe. The problem 
of the refugees in Central Europe cannot be settled in Palestine. It has to 
be settled over a far wider field than that. Palestine, of course, can make 
its contribution; it is making a contribution to-day. At the present time, 
despite the disturbances, Jewish emigrants are going to Palestine week after 
week at the rate of about 1,000 a month. The Jewish Agency naturally, 
in the light of recent events, are now anxious that the rate of immigration 
shall be greatly increased. I saw two representatives of the Agency on Mon- 
day and they spoke to me about it. I asked them to let me have their pro- 
posals complete in every detail. Those proposals reached me this morning, 
and they will, of course, receive at once my most careful consideration, 
and I shall consult about them with the High Commissioner in Jerusalem. 
But I must in all honesty say this: the Government have often been 
charged with having no policy in Palestine, or else they have been charged 
with having a policy and then wobbling on it, changing their mind. The 
pris adc announced a short time ago what the next definite stage in 
ts policy would be. That is a policy of discussions with Arabs and Jews 


52 
in London, and we are going to abide by that conference. We cannot do 
anything now which might prejudice the chance of those discussions ending 
successfully. It is in the best interests of the Jews themselves that future 
policy in Palestine should as far as possible be based on a wide agreement. 


The second people who are involved in this bitter controversy in Palestine 
are the Arabs. They have lived in the country for many centuries. They 
were not consulted when the Balfour Declaration was made, nor when the 
Mandate was framed, and during the post-War years they have watched 
with occasional angry protests this peaceful invasion by an alien people. 
They have watched the buying up of their lands, they have watched 
Jewish settlements spreading ever further over the countryside. They 
have been compelled to recognise the superior energy and skill and wealth 
of that wonderful people; and the Arabs are afraid. In 1933, 30,000 Jews 
came into Palestine; in 1934 42,000 Jews came into Palestine; and in 1935 
the number was 61,000. The Arabs wonder when a halt is going to be 
called te this great migration. They wonder whether a halt is ever going 
to be called to it, and they fear that it is going to be their fate in the 
land of their birth to be dominated by this energetic, new-coming people, 
dominated economically, politically and commercially. If I were an Arab I 
would be alarmed. If we are ever to have an understanding of this 
problem, if we are ever to play our part in finding a happy solution for 
it, we must be able to put ourselves in the shoes not only of the Jews but 
of the Arabs. | 


I know that a great many people regard this Arab agitation as the mere 
protest of a gang of bandits. Of course it is true that many of these Arabs 
who have taken part most eagerly in the troubles are cut-throats of the 
worst type. Their massacres of the innocents at Tiberias, and on a score 
of other miserable battle-fields, have disgraced their cause. It is true also 
that many of those who are associated with them have been terrorised into 
that association. But there is much more than that in the Arab move- 
ment. I think that this House, which is so capable of a generous under- 
standing of other peoples, ought to recognise that many in the Palestinian 
Arab movement are moved by a genuine patriotism. However wrong they 
may be, however misguided they may be, however disastrous their policy 
may be, many of them have felt compelled to take the risk of laying down 
their lives for their country. 


I know that that is not the whole story. There is a great deal else 
that has to be said if the description of the situation is to be complete and 
just. There is one set of facts especially, of great importance, that I must 
mention. Those who conceived 20 years ago the possibility of facilitating 
the establishment of a Jewish National Home in Palestine were moved by 
a great idea, and already in these first 20 years that idea has been trans- 
Jated into a wonderful act of creation. But I do sometimes wonder 
whether all of the authors of this great creative act were fully informed 
of the situation even at that time, in 1917, 1918 and 1919.. I sometimes 
wonder whether ‘they knew then that there were already living between 
the Jordan and the Mediterranean Sea more than 600,000 Arabs. Certainly 
I do not think they could know that as a result of the coming of the British 
administration, with the coming of the Jews and because of the coming of 
the Jews, that Arab population would increase rapidly. The Jews brought 
with them money and development work provided extra livelihood. 
Modern health services, which were extended not only to Jews but to 
Arabs, gave the individual a further lease and security of life. Since 1922 
the Arab population in Palestine has, scarcely at all by migration from 
outside and almost entirely by natural increase, gone up from something 
over 600,000 to 990,000 persons. Perhaps I should add that it is calculated 
that the total of 990,000 Arabs in Palestine to-day will have become 
1,500,000 Arabs within 20 years from now. 


ig 2480 4 Oe eR a 


53 


That remarkable and significant set of facts leads to two reflections. In 
the first place I think it must upset at any rate some of the calculations 
about how many Jews could be settled in Palestine without prejudicing the 
rights and position of the Arab population. But, as I say, there are two 
sides to that state of things. The other side is this: The Arabs cannot 
say that the Jews are driving them out of their country. If not a single 
Jew had come to Palestine after 1918, I believe the Arab population of 
Palestine to-day would still have been round about the 600,000 figure at 
which it had been stable under Turkish rule. It is because the Jews who 
have come to Palestine bring modern health services and other advantages 
that Arab men and women who would have been dead are alive to-day, 
that Arab children who would never have drawn breath have been born 
and grown strong. It is not only the Jews who have benefited from the 
Balfour Declaration. They can deny it as much as they like, but materi- 
ally the Arabs in Palestine have gained very greatly from the Balfour 
Declaration. 

I know that it is useless to press that argument on the Arabs. They 
are deaf to the argument, they are blind to the spectacle of a gradually 
improving standard of life for their people, because they are thinking of 
something else. They are thinking of their freedom and they are afraid 
that, if this process goes on, then at last they will have to surrender to the 
political over-lordship of the enterprising, hardworking, ever-increasing cit1- 
zens of the Jewish National Home. I say that we British people ought to be 
the last people in the world not to understand the feelings of the Arabs in 
this matter, because we too would sacrifice material advantages if we 
thought our freedom was at stake. We cannot put the Jews under the 
domination of the Arabs in Palestine, but also, unless we can remove that 
Arab fear that they are going to be put under the domination of the Jews, 
we shall have to face a suspicious and hostile people over a great area of 
the Near East, and we shall find that we have to lock up a great part of 
our Army in Palestine indefinitely. 


Therefore, we have most solemn obligations to both peoples in Palestine. 
On the one hand. we are pledged to facilitate Jewish immigration into 
Palestine under suitable conditions and to encourage close settlement of 
Jews on the land; and on the other hand, we are pledged to see that the 
Tights and position of the Arab population are not prejudiced. How can 
we reconcile justly and peacefully those two obligations? That is the 
problem that we have to solve. That is the riddle for which we have to 
find an answer. What is the answer? The Peel Commission, with 
uresistible logic, recommended that the country should be partitioned, that 
the Jews and the Arabs should be, to a certain extent, kept apart, that the 
ambition of each of them to enjoy self-government should be satisfied in 
different areas of Palestine, while the Holy Places were kept in an 
enclave still under mandatory control. This House never committed 
itself to that policy. The Government accepted it in principle as the most 
hopeful solution to the deadlock which had arisen, but admittedly the 
practicability of the principle had to be further investigated, and the 
Woodhead Commission went out to Palestine for that purpose. 


For three months they lived dangerously in the city of Jerusalem, they 
toured the whole country, always with their escort of armed men, they 
went about their business with great courage, and they went about it also 
with great thoroughness. A short while ago they presented their report. 
That report makes it clear that partition, as proposed by the Peel Com- 
mission, is impracticable. That report makes it clear that if we were 
to divide Palestine into a Jewish State and an Arab State and a Mandated 
area, then the Jewish State would have a great surplus in its budget every 
year, but year after year the budgets of the Arab State and the Mandated 
Territory would show a great deficit. The Commission therefore reported 
that under the terms of their reference they were unable to recommend 


15774 C 


54 


boundaries for the proposed areas which would afford a reasonable prospect 
of the enventual establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish States. 
I think that is itself a remarkable tribute to the achievement of the Jews. 
[t is impossible, without the continuous aid of the Jews, for people living 
in Palestine beyond the Jewish settlements to maintain the standard of 
government and the social services to which they have become accustomed. 

But that state of affairs also kills the proposal for the dividing up of 
Palestine into two sovereign States, and His Majesty’s Government lost 
no time in accepting the position. A part of Palestine is not to be 
handed over to control by the Jews, another part is not to be handed 
over to control by the Arabs; the Government have declared that they 
will continue their responsibility for the Government of the whole country. 
We have adopted, if I may say so, a motto, a policy, which my right 
hen. Friend the Member for Epping (Mr. Churchill) said that he would 
make a present of to me when I met him in the Lobby shortly after I 
had assumed my office as Colonial Secretary. He muttered to me, as he 
passed one afternoon, ‘‘ Not partition, but perseverance.’’ We have got 
to find the alternative means of meeting the needs of the unhappy situa- 
ticn in Palestine. I receive a great deal of help in my study of the prob- 
lem from numerous correspondents. Scores of letters pour in, many of 
them containing solutions to this problem. I do not remember any two 
letters which suggested exactly the same solution. Many of the letters 
offer no solution at all; their writers merely cry in desperation, ‘‘ Is there 
any solution to this appalling problem? ’’ 

Of course, there is a solution, but I do not think that it ought to rest 
on the Government alone to find that solution. It ought to rest also on 
the two other parties who are concerned in this matter, the Arabs and 
the Jews. They have both got a contribution to make; they have both 
got to make concessions to the other. If they would only be willing to 
do that, then peace and prosperity would return to both peoples in Pales- 
tine. I know that it is going to be exceedingly difficult to break down 
the hard bitterness which has naturally grown up on each side during 
months of violence and bloodshed. It may be that one’s idealism is run- 
ning away with one in supposing that any agreement is possible at the 
present time. But the Government attach so much importance to an 
understanding between the Jews and the Arabs that they are prepared to 
make a supreme effort to achieve that understanding. It is not impossible 
for ordinary Jewish and Arab people to live contentedly side by side in 
Palestine. Many of them have been doing so in numerous communities in 
Palestine right through these distressing times. Nor is it impossible for 
Jewish and Arab leaders to reach agreement together. There was a 
moment, 20 years ago, when that not only seemed possible, but seemed 
to have been actually accomplished. Dr. Weizmann, on behalf of the 
Zionist Organisation, crossed the River Jordan and met the Emir Feisal 
in his camp in the desert, surrounded by his Arab hosts, and in due course, 
after some months, those two men signed an agreement about Palestine. 
It is to that sort of relationship between Arab and Jew that we want to 
go back. 

So the Government have proposed that discussions should take place in 
London. They will probably be, in the first instance, discussions between 
the Government and the Arab representatives and discussions between the 
Government and the Jewish representatives, but we hope that they will 
develop before long into a discussion between all three parties meeting 
round a common table. The Government will, of course, enter those dis- 
cussions bound by its obligations under the Mandate to Jews and to Arabs, 
bound by its duty to Parliament, and to the other members of the League 
of Nations, and to the United States of America; but we shall not seek to 
prevent either the Arab representatives or the Jewish representatives from 
offering arguments as to why the Mandate should be changed. The dis- 
cussions will be full, frank, and free; and therefore, I am sure the House 


55 


will not expect me to say more at this stage about the policy which the 
Government itself will pursue in the course of those discussions. I hope 
that it will be possible for the discussions to start in London within the 
next few weeks. If they cannot start before Christmas, I hope they will 
start at the very latest at the beginning of January, for it is imperative 
that the present uncertainty should be brought to an end as soon as 
possible. It is of the highest importance that policy should be formulated 
aud clearly declared. For that reason, if the discussions in London do 
not yield some kind of understanding between the three parties within a 
reasonable period of time, then the Government will itself take full respon- 
sibility, in the light of its examination of the question, following the Peel 
and Woodhead Reports, and in the light of the discussions themselves, for 
fomulating and declaring future policy. 

Hon. Members in this House in these days have to deal with a great 
variety of political problems. Each day they crowd upon us, but I always 
feel conscious that there is something about Palestine which distinguishes 
its problem from any of the others. The others are essays in the art of 
goverrment—the most difficult of all the arts. When I attempt to deal 
with them I, naturally, like other hon. Members, feel a lively human 
interest and even fascination in them. In the possession of those qualities 
this Palestine problem yields nothing to any other. Its complexities make 
it the supreme test of our capacity to govern. But there is more to it 
than that. When I turn to the Palestine problem 1 feel a certain awe and 
reverence. J cannot remember a time when I did not hear about 
Palestine. I cannot remember a time when I was not told stories about 
Nazareth and Galilee, about Jerusalem and Bethlehem, where was born 
the Prince of Peace. This House, in its long history, has had placed in 
its keeping many noble trusts, but it has never had a trust so sacred as 
that of restoring peace and good will in the Holy Land. 


APPENDIX E. 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 
REGULATIONS MADE BY THE HIGH COMMISSIONER UNDER ARTICLE 6. 
In exercise of the powers vested in him by Article 6 of the Palestine 


(Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the High Commissioner has made the 
following regulations :— 


1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Control of Police) 
Regulations, 1938. 

2. In the exercise of the powers and duties conferred on him by the 
Police Ordinance the Inspector-General of Police shall be subject to the 


general or specific directions and control of the General Officer Command- 
ing the Forces. 


By His Excellency’s Command, 


W. D. BAaTTEeRSHILL 
Chief Secretary. 
17th October, 1¢38. 


APPENDIX F. 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 
REGULATIONS MADE BY THE HiGH COMMISSIONER UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND 10. 


: In virtue of the powers vested in him by Articles 6 and 1o of the Pales- 
a (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the High Commissioner has made 
€ following regulations : — 


1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Military Commanders) 


Regulations 
tions, 193 6. 1938, and shall be read as one with the Emergency Rcgula- 


15774 C 2 


56 


2.—(1) The General Officer Commanding may, with the consent of the 
High Commissioner, appoint for any area or place a military commander 
who shall be responsible in such area or place for public security and in 
any area or place in which a military commander is appointed the District 
Commissioner shall in all matters relating to public security become and 
act as a political adviser to the military commander. 


(2) Where a military commander has been appointed all the powers 
and duties vested in the District Commissioner by the Defence Regulations 
in respect of that area or place shall become vested in the military com- 
mandcr and may be exercised by him within the area or place for which 
he has been appointed, and upon such vesting the District Commissioner 
shall cease to exercise within the area or place for which the military 
commander has been appointed any of the powers or duties vested in him 
by the Defence Regulations: Provided that nothing in this regulation shall 
affect anvthing done by the District Commissioner under the Defence 
Regulations prior to the publication of this regulation and anything so 
done shall until revoked, amended or varied have full force and effect as 
if this regulation had not been made. 


By His Excellency’s Command, 


W. D. BAtTTERSHILL 
Chief Secretary. 
18th October, 1938. 


APPENDIX ‘G.” 


Palestine. Downing Street, 
No. 248. roth March, 1938. 
SIR, 


I have the honour to inform you that His Majesty’s Government have 
recently had under consideration the question of the procedure to be 
adopted for the regulation of Jewish immigration into Palestine on the 
expiry of the special restrictions which have been imposed for the eight 
months period August, 1937, to March, 1938, in accordance with the terms 
of paragraph 6 of the Statement of Policy of July last (Cmd. 5513). 


2. I desire, in the first place, to explain the grounds on which His 
Majesty’s Government felt it necessary to propose, in the Statement of 
Policy, that Jewish immigration during the eight months period August, 
1937, to March, 1938, should be subject to an overriding maximum of 
8,oo0. You will be aware that in Part II (Chapter X) of their Report the 
Royal Commission recommended that a “‘ political high level ’’ of Jewish 
immigration should be laid down by His Majesty’s Government and that 
the high level for the next five years should be fixed at 12,000 per annum. 
But Part II of the Report presupposed the continuance in operation of the 
existing Mandate, and its major recommendations have not yet been 
adopted by His Majesty’s Government, who came to the conclusion that 
the best and most hopeful solution lay in a scheme of partition on the lines 
recommended in Part III of the Royal Commission’s Report. 


3. It was clear that the decision of His Majesty’s Government in favour 
of the policy of partition could not be translated into action until after a 
further period of investigation and preparation, and it became necessary to 
consider the question of the steps to be taken to regulate Jewish immigra- 
tion during the interim period. In Chapter XXII of their Report the Com- 
mission dealt with the transition period ‘‘ in the immediate future :f tt 
should be agreed to terminate the Mandate and establish a treaiy system 
on a basis of partition.’’ For this period the Commission proposed that 





57 


instead of the ‘‘ political high level ’’ there should be a territorial restriction 
on Jewish immigration. ‘‘ No Jewish immigration into the Arab area 
should be permitted. .... The volume of Jewish immigration should be 


determined by the economic absorptive capacity of Palestine less the Arab 
area.”’ 


4. The Commission had not, however, made any recommendation with 
regard to the contro! of immigration during the immediate interim period 
between the issue of the Statement of Policy and a final decision with 
regard to partition. As the prospective boundaries of the Arab and Jewish 
areas could not be predicted and must remain uncertain until a decision 
has been taken on the Report of the new Commission which will shortly 
visit Palestine, it was not practicable to adopt the procedure recommended 
by the Royal Commission in respect of the ‘‘ transition period ’’ to which 
they refer in Chapter XXII of their Report. 


5. Seeing that the declared object of their policy, as set out in the White 
Paper of July last, was a scheme of partition under which Jewish immigra- 
tion would be confined to a limited area, His Majesty’s Government felt 
that it was impossible, during the interim period of preparatory investiga- 
tion, to allow immigration to be determined by the economic absorptive 
capacity of the whole of Palestine, and that a temporary and admittedly 
arbitrary restriction of immigration was inevitable. It was in accordance 
with this view that an overriding limit of 8,oo0 immigrants was laid down 
for the eight months August, 1937 to March, 1938, and powers for this 
purpose were conferred upon the High Commissioner by the addition of 
a new section (54) to the Immigration Ordinance. 


6. Section 5a of the Immigration Ordinance, which empowers the High 
Commissioner to prescribe the maximum aggregate number of foreigners to 
be admitted to Palestine as immigrants during any specified period, to 
prescribe categories and to fix the maximum number of persons to be 
admitted in respect of each category, expires on the 31st March, 1938, 
‘for on such later date as the High Commissioner in Council, with the 
approval of the Secretary of State, by notice in the Gazette may appoint ’’. 
After full consideration, His Majesty’s Government have decided that there 
has been no such change in the situation since August as would justify 
withdrawal from the High Commissioner of the powers of prescription con- 
ferred upon him by Section 5a, and that the validity of this section should 
be extended for a further period of twelve months. If, at the end of that 
period, it is still considered essential that the High Commissioner should 
retain these additional powers, the necessary legislation will be enacted. 
At the same time, His Majesty’s Government desire to make it known that 
it is their intention, once the boundaries of the various areas under an equit- 
able and practical scheme of partition have been defined and so long as 
the existing Mandate continues in operation, that the entry of Jewish 
immigrants shall be regulated, so far as concerns the non-Arab areas, by 
the principle of economic absorptive capacity. 


7. Consideration has also been given to the question of the specific 
application after the 31st March next of the powers conferred by Section 5a 
of the Immigration Ordinance. This section is purely permissive, and His 
Majesty’s Government have decided that in the first instance the power 
of prescription should be exercised by the High Commissioner for a period 
of six months only, from April to September, 1938, leaving open for later 
consideration the procedure to be adopted after that date. 


8. As regards the restrictions to be imposed, the attention of His 
Majesty’s Government has been drawn to various representations received 
from the Jewish Agency and from other sources; and they realise that there 
is considerable force in the contentions which have been submitted in 
favour of the more generous admission, on economic grounds, of persons 


15774 C 3 


58 


of independent means and, on grounds of humanity, of the class of de- 
pendant defined in Section 2 (1) of the Immigration Ordinance, that is to 
say, wives and children of immigrants. 


g. With these considerations in mind, and with a view to diminishing 
to some extent the element of arbitrariness which is involved under present 
temporary arrangements while at the same time avoiding any considerable 
change in the total rate of immigration, in the immediate interim period, 
His Majesty’s Government have decided that the following procedure shall 
be adopted for the six months April-September, 1938 :— 


(a) Persons of independent means. (Category A(i)—capital of 
£1,000.) 

His Majesty’s Government have decided that 2,000 shall be fixed as 
the maximum number of immigrants of this category. There will, 
however, be no objection to the admission, if you see fit, within this 
quota, of ten pensioners (Category A (iv) and twenty agricultural 
settlers with capital of not less than {£500 (Category A (v)), whose 
admission was recommended by your predecessor. Categories A (1i) 
(members of professions with capital of £500) and A (iii) (persons skilled 
in trades or crafts with capital of £250) will remain closed. 

(6b) Students. (Category B (iii).) 

' Students as defined in Category B (iii) that is to say, ‘‘ any student 
whose admission to an educational institution in Palestine and whose 
maintenance is assured until such time as he is able to support him- 
self ’’, will be admitted without numerical restrictions, subject to 
compliance with the conditions imposed in the Immigration Regula- 
tions. Categories B (i) (orphans) and B (ii) (persons of religious 
occupation) will remain closed. 


(c) Labour immigrants. (Category C.) 

I understand that, according to estimates prepared by the Govern- 
ment of Palestine, Arab unemployment in seven selected towns 
amounted to 21,000, and Jewish unemployment (combining whole and 
part time unemployment) amounted to 12,000 on the 31st December 
last. In the circumstances, it is obvious that at the present time the 
admission of additional immigrants of the labour class is not justifiable. 
His Majesty’s Government have, however, approved of your fixing 
a quota of 1,000 for this category on the understanding that it will 
be left to you to decide, in the light of economic circumstances, 
whether any labour immigration shall be permitted during the six 
months period, and if so, when and to what extent. 


(d) Dependants. (Category D.) 

Near dependants, as defined in Section 2 (1) of the Immigration 
Ordinance, that is to say, wives and children, both of new immigrants 
and of immigrants who have already entered the country legally, will 
be admitted without numerical restriction subject to proper inquiry 
and investigation. As regards other dependants (parents, etc.), a 
quota of 200 will be allowed in order to meet individual cases of 
exceptional hardship. 


10, I shall be obliged if you will take such legal and administrative action 
as is necessary to give effect to these decisions. You may furnish the 
Jewish Agency with a copy of this despatch, which should also be published 
in the Gazette. 


I have, &c., 
W. ORMSBY GORE. 
Sir Harold MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., 


High Commissioner for Palestine, 
Jerusalem. 


59 


|.—JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


I. The affairs of the Jewish community during 1938 continued 
to be largely dominated by the state of insecurity and by the 
uncertainty which existed in regard to the political future of 
Palestine. The slackening in commercial, industrial and building 
activity during 1936 and 1937 which had resulted from the 
disturbed state of the country showed no signs of abating until 
the end of the year when the economic situation slightly 
improved. This was reflected in a decrease in the numbers of 
Jewish unemployed, which were lower in the last quarter of 
1938 than those reported in the corresponding period of 1937 
or in the first half of 1938. 


2. During 1938, 12,868 Jews were registered as immigrants 
of whom 2,573 were working men and women (with 1,662 
dependants), 3,475 including dependants were of the capitalist 
category (persons with £P.1,000 and upwards) and 2,565 were 
dependants of residents of Palestine. 


Seventeen thousand, nine hundred and eighty-eight Jews 
acquired Palestinian citizenship by. naturalisation, including 
wives and children who became Palestinian citizens through the 
naturalisation of their husbands or fathers or mothers. 


The Jewish population was estimated to be approximately 
420,000 at the end of the year, equivalent to about 30 per cent. 
of the settled population of the country. 


3. During the year, 27,280 dunums of land were purchased. 
by Jews from non-Jews at a cost of £P.174,802, as compared 
with 29,367 dunums at a cost of £P.392,916 in 1937 and 18,146 
dunums at a cost of £P.158,826 in 1936. 

The land in the ownership of the Jewish National Fund 
reached a total of 420,000 dunums, equivalent to about 32 
per cent. of the area in Jewish ownership. The Fund completed 
the afforestation of an area of 1,600 dunums during the year. 


.4. The following grants-in-aid were made by the Palestine 
Government towards the expenditure of the Jewish community 
upon various services of a public character during the financial 


year 1938-9:— 
Education: 
Grant-in-aid to the schools of the General 
Council (Vaad Leumi) (recurrent services) ... 49,591 
do. (capital grant) oe 7,500 
Health: 
Contnibution to Jewish health services— 
(2) Tuberculosis hospital, Safad... re 1,700 
(5) School hygiene Bas a es 2,041 
(c) Infant welfare work se we ve 1,771 
(z2) Tel Aviv hospital (recurrent service) ... 6,841 
Grant to Hebrew University Hospital ey 3,100 


15774 C4 


60 


Agriculture : LP. 
Grant for citrus research by the experimental 
station of the Jewish Agency ee 3,000 
Grant to Jewish Agency for experimental 
fruit growing at Kiryat Anavim ... 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farming 
experiments ... a 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for research ; 2,950 
Grant to Hebrew University for field mice 
investigations... : 200 
Grant to Hebrew University for ‘spirochaetosis 180 
Miscellaneous : 
Grant-in-aid to the Municipal Corporation of 
Tel Aviv for open spaces ... a a 5,000 


5. The Budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
ilies Community of Palestine for the year ended the 3oth 

eptember, 1938, provided for an estimated revenue of 
f#,P.161,318 and an estimated expenditure of £P.160,470, the 

rincipal heads of expenditure being Education: £P.135,790, 
Health: £P.6,439, Social Services: £P.9,347, Rabbinical 
Council: £P.2,115, and Administration: £P.5,819. 


At the request of the General Council, the High Commissioner 
approved an Order of the Elected Assembly made under the 
Jewish Community Rules, increasing the maximum rates to 
be levied by a local community on its members from 6 per cent. 
to 8 per cent. of the annual rental value for the services of the 
local community and from 1 per cent. to 2 per cent. of the 
annual rental value for the expenses of the General Council. 


6. During the year October, 1937-September, 1938, the Jewish 
Agency expended the following amounts on its activities on 
behalf of the Jewish settlement in Palestine: — 


£P. 
Agricultural colonization i ah oe 200,000 
Labour ... sels sak I51,000 
National s astitation i scentity oer sis 90,000 
Investments mate San ee sate sal 55,000 
Immigration Mae bs ue sha a6 37,000 
Education.. us ae ce a 31,000 
Settlement ji Cannan jews re ee ee 23,000 
Health... ae bis oe ae as 17,000 
Administration ... oe — xis see 15,000 
Repayment of loans Se oo ee sos 47,000 


The Central Bureau for the Settlement of German Jews in 
Palestine expended a sum of £P.186,000 in 1938 on the settle- 
ment of immigrants from Germany and Austria. The total 
expenditure of the Bureau since 1933 amounts to approximately 
three-quarters of a million pounds. 


61 


7. Fourteen new Jewish agricultural settlements were estab- 
lished in 1938 on a total area of 32,000 dunums and with a 
population of 1,200 persons. Of the 3r new agricultural settle- 
ments established during 1937 and 1938, 12 are in the coastal 
plain, 12 in the Jordan valley and the remainder for the most 
part in the Southern District. Twenty-five of these settlements 
are established on land belonging to the Jewish National Fund 
and a sum of approximately £P.140,000 has been expended 
by the Jewish Agency on their colonisation during the past 
two years. 

The Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association established 
two new settlements in Galilee and continued its activities in 
ae eae of its existing settlements in Samaria and 

ee. 


8. The Central Bank of Co-operative Institutions issued loans 
during 1938 to the amount of £P.406,085, of which 98 per cent. 
were granted to Jewish agricultural and rural co-operative 
societies. The turnover of the Jewish co-operative societies 
engaged in agricultural production and marketing amounted 
to about two and a half million pounds. 


9. Further improvements were introduced at the Tel Aviv 
Lighter Harbour by the Marine Trust, Limited, including the 
enlargement of the lighter basin, and the provision of two 
additional transit sheds. 

The landing of passengers and immigrants was authorised 
by Government and about 16,500 passengers were landed at 
the harbour. 

The amount of cargo handled at the port increased from 
124,000 tons in 1937 to 196,500 tons in 1938. It is estimated 
that in the 1938-9 citrus season approximately two million cases 
of citrus fruit will be exported through Tel Aviv. 

Over a thousand workmen are now employed in the port and 
its subsidiary activities. 

to. The number of Jewish children attending schools increased 
during the year ending the 30th September, 1938, from 67,273 
to 71,376 (36,474 boys and 34,902 girls). Seventy per cent. 
of the Jewish pupils attended Vaad Leumi Schools, and the 
remaining thirty per cent. attended public and private schools 
outside the Vaad Leumi school system. 

The attendance at the schools and educational institutions of 
the Vaad Leumi was as follows: — 


Kindergartens nea bie ne ae me 7,503 
Elementary Schools... ens = we ws 36,685 
Secondary Schools ... ne Ba ve sess 4,599 
Teachers’ Training Colleges ths see as 702 
Technical Schools, Agricultural Colleges, etc. ... 431 





Total Beas wits .2s 49,920 





62 


The total budget of the Hebrew public system in 1937-8 was 
£,P.397,231 which was derived from the following sources : — 





£P: 

Local Bodies ae on ae foe ws 181,481 
School Fees ... ie oe site ahs wes 138,932 
Government grant ... sia he sth er 46,600 
Jewish Agency a ee ae sca . 25,000 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association te 3,504 
Other bodies Shs or dees eae ere 1,654 

Total sii £P.397,231 





rz. At the end of the academic year 1937-8 the staff of the 
Hebrew University of Jerusalem comprised 118 members, 
including 31 professors and 27 lecturers. 


The number of students enrolled was 734 (of whom 196 were 
women) as against 779 in the preceding year: 683 were under- 
graduates of whom 462 were in the Faculty of Humanities, 
223 in the Faculty of Science and 4g research students. 


Seventeen students in the Faculty of Humanities graduated 
with the degree of M.A. and the degree of M.Sc. was granted 
to eight students in the Faculty of Science. 


Through the generosity of the French Government a lecture- 
ship in French was established in the Faculty of Humanities, 
and an important collection of French books was donated by 
the French Government to help in the study of the French 
language. 


A chair of Social Philosophy has also been established. 


The aggregate expenditure for the financial year 1937-8 
amounted to about £P.109,000. 


12. New Jewish industrial undertakings established during 
1938 included factories for the manufacture of margarine, 
printing of fabrics, diamond cutting, manufacture of electrical 
supplies, pencils, and the construction of lighters and small 
boats. 


Further assistance was given to local industries which are 
largely or entirely in Jewish hands by the grant of exemption 
from import duty on raw materials and by the increase of 
import duties for protective purposes. 


These included protective duties on rivets, tehini, cotton tex- 
tiles, and crown corks. The importation of denatured alcohol 
was prohibited. 


The raw materials exempted from import duty included 
artificial silk staple fibre, seed waste and slug pearls, and 
precious and semi-precious stones. 


63 


Il.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


During the year under review the activities of Municipal 
Corporations and Local Councils were considerably affected by 
the disturbed state of the country. The resulting economic 
depression and difficulties encountered in the collection of 
municipal rates and taxes adversely affected the revenues of 
local authorities, so that only essential public services were 
maintained and the execution of a number of works had to be 


postponed. 


2. The following Municipal By-laws were issued by Municipal 
Corporations during the year: — 


Demolition of dangerous buildings _... --» (Tel Aviv) 
Entertainment fees dat (Tel Aviv) 
Construction of roads, jootways, and pave- 
ments ... be wae ... (Tel Aviv) 
Slaughter house fees ae wikes ..» (Jaffa) 
Pensions regulations _... me ... (Jafta) 
Regulation of stationary vehicles ... (Jaffa) 
Advertisements ... (jatia) 
Cleansing of drains and cesspits ... (Jaffa) 
Prevention and abatement of nuisances ... (Petah Tiqva) 
Protection of plants... sas ... (Petah Tiqva) 
Licensing of bicycles and tricycles buh ... (Petah Tiqva) 
Pensions regulations... seal ie ... (Lydda) 
Water supply... is Site sibs ... (Lydda) 
Water supply... ae a at ... (Ramleh) 
Pensions regulations ais sh ~— ... (Ramleh) 
Licensing and control of dogs ... ake ...  (Hazfa) 
Number of houses ne sits sets ... (Haifa) 
Pensions regulations... state ae ... (Haifa) 
Bathing by-laws... si oie Ma ... (Haifa) 
Pensions regulations sa ... (Acre) 
Grazing and keeping of animals es .». (Acre) 
Preservation of streets . ous (Khan Yunis) 
Pensions regulations... (Khan Yunis) 
Demolition of dangerous buildings ... (Khan Yunis) 
Pensions regulations ... ie ire ... (Majdal) 
Weights and measures ... se = ... (Majdal) 
Water rate ; ies ne Sa (Gaza) 
Pensions regulations gis owe dive ... (Gaza) 
Preservation of streets ... are siete ... (Gaza) 
Stree t trade oe ahs sae (Jerusalem) 
Pensions regulations... site ee ... (Jerusalem) 
Street name plates dds i ... (Jerusalem) 
Advertisements ... hs sas mass ... (Jerusalem) 
Protection of plants... pies wes + eee ~=( Jerusalem) 
The following By-laws were issued by Local Councils :— 
Construction of roads ... ae bs ... (Bat Yam) 


Construction of footpaths Bat Yam) 


( 
Licensing of bicycles and tricycles ... (Kfar Saba) 
Closing of shops ... = ve de w. (Kfar Saba) 
Entertainment fees “ ve ... (Raanana) 
Construction of roads (Raanana) 


64 


Entertainment fees __... oe eug ... (Hertsliya) 
Closing of shops ... fats aie ese ... (Bnei Braq) 
Construction of roads ... an eee ... (Bnei Braq) 
Protection of plants... a8 =e ... (Rishon-le-Zion) 
Entertainment fees oe aes sag ... (Rehovot) 
Protection of plants... _ ... (Ramat Gan) 
Licensing of bicycles and tricycles SoG ... (Faluja) 


3. The High Commissioner found it necessary to appoint 
Commissions under the Municipal Corporations Ordinance to 
perform the duties of the Councils and to administer the 
municipal affairs of Jaffa, Lydda and Jenin where the Corpora- 
tions had become inoperative owing to the disturbed situation 
in the country. 


In Haifa the Municipal Commission which was appointed by 
the High Commissioner in 1936 continued in office throughout 
the year. 


4. The municipal area of Tel Aviv was enlarged and new 
Presidents and Councillors were elected for the Local Councils 
of Ramat Gan, Raanana, Hertsliya and Rishon le Zion. 


5. Public parks were opened in Petah Tiqva and Ramat Gan. 


6. Electricity was introduced into Gaza during the year. The 
Mayor was dismissed by the High Commissioner under 
section 52 of the Municipal Corporations Ordinance in 
December. 


7. Essential municipal services such as improvement of 
drains, water-supply and repairs to roads and pavements were 
carried out in Acre, Beisan and Nazareth, and the construction 
of municipal offices and stables at Beisan was completed during 
the year. 


8. At Safad a number of dangerous buildings were 
demolished and a road leading to the Government Hospital in 
the town was constructed and metalled. The municipal garden 
and slaughter house road is being metalled. 


9g. The Mayor of Tiberias was murdered in October and one 
of the Municipal Councillors was appointed in his place in the 
succeeding month. 


10. In September, the High Commissioner appointed Mustafa 
Bey Khalidi, C.B.E., a Moslem Arab and formerly Puisne 
Judge of the Supreme Court, to be Mayor of Jerusalem in 
succession to Dr. Hussein Khalidi who was deported to 
Seychelles in 1937. 

11. The High Commissioner also appointed during the same 
month a British Government Officer as acting Town Clerk of 
Jerusalem. 


12. The Municipal Commissions for Hebron and Ramallah 
continued in office throughout the year. 


65 


lil.—JEWISH AGENCY. 


1. The representations of the Jewish Agency to Government 
during the year principally concerned the question of Jewish 
immigration into Palestine. Prior to the quota period commenc- 
ing the 1st April, 1938, the Jewish Agency again urged the 
restoration of the principle of economic absorptive capacity for 
the regulation of Jewish immigration into Palestine, maintaining 
that any arbitrary restriction of Jewish immigration was incon- 
sistent with the international obligations of the Mandatory 
Power under the Mandate. The Agency also stressed the 
adverse effect which the departure from the principle of economic 
absorptive capacity in the previous quota period had exercised on 
the economic and political situation in Palestine. 


After consideration of these and other representations the 
policy adopted by His Majesty’s Government was described in 
a despatch to the High Commissioner dated the roth March, 
1938, which was published for the information of the public. 
The full text of this despatch is reproduced in Appendix G to 
the Introductory Chapter. 


2. Following representations by the Jewish Agency in regard 
to the inadequacy of the quota of 250 for dependent relatives 
other than wives and children in the six-monthly period com- 
mencing the rst April, 1938, 600 certificates from the quota for 
capitalists which were unused were subsequently transferred to 
the quota for dependants. In the subsequent quota period 
commencing the 1st October, 1938, provision was included for a 
quota of 1,450 for dependent relatives other than wives and 
children, including the 600 additional certificates authorized at 
the end of the previous quota period. 


3. Representations were also made by the Jewish Agency for 
the admission of 5,000 Jewish children from Germany either as 
dependent immigrants or as students. His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment examined this and other requests for increased facilities for 
the admission of Jewish immigrants into Palestine in the light of 
their policy which had then been announced of holding discus- 
sions with Arab and Jewish representatives on the question of 
future poly in Palestine, including immigration. Having ex- 
amined the matter from this point of view, His Majesty’s 
Government reached the conclusion that they would not be 
justified in acceding to these requests for increased immigration 
facilities as the effect of any alteration in the existing rate of 
immigration might prejudice the position regarding one of the 
principal subjects for discussion in London. 


_ 4- Representations were made by the Jewish Agency regard- 
ing the Medical Practitioners (Amendment) Bill, 1938. 


™~ 


66 


The Bill provides for the amendment of section 4, 4A and 4B 
of the Medical Practitioners Ordinance in consequence of the 
provisions having been declared by the Court to be ultra vires 
the Palestine Citizenship Order, 1925. The Court held 
that the provisions in this section in so far as they discriminate 
in favour of Palestinian citizens by birth or by naturalizaton 
before the ist December, 1935, were ulira vires Article 8 
of the Palestine Citizenship Order, 1925, the object of 
which was to ensure that there should be the same law for all 
Palestinian citizens, no matter how or when their nationality was 
acquired. The Bill abolished the distinction between the two 
categories of applicants and, for the purpose of limiting the num- 
ber of practising licences to a prescribed maximum for any one 
year placed all applicants on an equal footing, no matter how or 
when their Palestinian nationality was acquired. The Jewish 
Agency requested that there should be no restrictions in the grant 
of medical licences to Palestinian citizens and alternatively that 
the enactment of the Bill should be postponed until the end of 
1939. In the interests of the medical profession Government 
considered it essential that the Bill should be enacted without 
delay so as to enable the number of medical licences to be con- 
trolled and to prevent further overcrowding of the profession. 
In prescribing the maximum number of licences for 1939 the 
amendment of the Ordinance was taken into account. 


5. The Jewish Agency submitted applications for the exemp- 
tion from import duty of certain raw materials and for the im- 
position of protective tariffs on a number of commodities which 
are being manufactured in Palestine. 


6. The Jewish Agency also submitted a memorandum in re- 
gard to the proposed revision of the Syria-Palestine Customs 
Agreement, which is being considered in connection with the 
negotiations proceeding with the French authorities in Syria and 
the Lebanon. 


7. Representations were also made by the Jewish Agency in 
regard to the employment of Jews in public works and in the 
railway and port services. The share of Jewish labour in public 
works amounted to approximately 26 per cent. of the total wage 
bill of the Public Works Department. 

Asaresult of the abnormal conditions prevailing in the country, 
it has not been possible to adhere to the arrangements made by 
Government in previous years in regard to the allocation of a 
fixed proportion of public works to Jewish labour. 

Amongst other public works Government entrusted to Jewish 
‘labour the completion of ‘‘ Tegart’s Wall ’’ on the northern 
frontier, construction of a police post on the northern frontier 
and part of the work of improving and asphalting the north 
frontier road. 


67 


In addition, Jewish labour was employed in the completion of 
the following works started in 1937: the construction of the 
Raanana-Miskeh road, police station and police married quarters 
at Tel Aviv, and the new Government hospital in Haifa. 


Arrangements have also been made to allocate the contract for 
railway porterage in the railway stations in the Jewish towns of 
Tel Aviv and Petah Tiqva to a Jewish contractor, in order that 
Jewish labour might be employed on this work under suitable 
conditions. Customs porterage in Tel Aviv railway station has 
been allocated to a Jewish contractor for a similar reason. 


8. The Jewish Agency continued to co-operate with the 
military and police authorities in all matters relating to the 
defence and security of Jewish settlements. A large force of 
Jewish temporary additional police and special constables 1s 
employed in the protection of Jewish quarters in towns and of 
Jewish settlements. The Jewish Agency assisted in the recruit- 
ment of suitable candidates for these duties. 


IV.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1. The numbers of persons in the several classes recorded as 
having entered or left Palestine during 1938 and distributed by 
“racial ’’ or ‘‘ national ’’ declarations are as follows:— 


Arrivals. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
(a) Residents returning after a 
period exceeding one year 1,586 1,035 401 150 
(6) Residents returning after a 
period not exceeding one 
year sie iy ve 95,269 22,537 62,596 10,136 
(c) Immigrants ... ss 12,134 11,437 355 342 
(d) Exempted persons 1,281 4 I 1,276 
(e) Temporary visitors... 73,782 10,239 44,429 19,114 
(f) Transit travellers 9,239 680 2,328 6,231 
Total 193,291 45,932 I10,110 37,249 
Departures. 
(a) Residents departing for a 
period exceeding one 
year - see me 1,811 1,095 298 418 
(6) Residents departing for a 
period not exceeding one 
year nae aoe .. II1,263 27,334 73,134 10,795 
(c) Temporary visitors... 71,288 8,728 44,089 18,471 
(d@) Transit travellers ... 9,055 690 2,358 6,007 
Total 193,417 37,847 119,879 35,691 
Net increase (-+) or decrease (—) 
of population due to recorded 
migration me : —126 +8,085 —9,769 +1,558 


68 


2. The numbers of persons recorded as having entered 
Palestine during 1938 and arriving by the several means of trans- 
port are as follows: — 


Sea. Land. Air. 
Total arrivals 44,242 146,288 2,761 
Temporary visitors ... 12,947 59,491 1,344 
Immigrants ees 11,831 1,541 43 
Residents returning after a period exceeding 
one year I,239 333 , 14 
Residents returning after a ‘period not ex- 
ceeding one year ... 16,283 77,873 1,113 
Transit travellers 1,942 7,050 247 


The numbers of persons recorded as having departed from 
Palestine during 1938 and leaving by the several means of trans- 
port are as follows: — 


Sea. Land. Air. 

Total departures 30,251 153,987 3,179 
Temporary visitors ... I1,O12 58,793 1,483 
Residents departing for a period exceeding 

one year 1,455 336 20 
Residents departing for a epeuied: mot ex- 

ceeding one year ... : 21,587 88,273 1,403 
Transit travellers 2,197 6,585 273 


3. Of the persons who entered Palestine prior to the end of 
1938, as travellers, 1,848 were registered as immigrants. Of 
these, 1,427 were Jews and 421 were non-Jews. 


Including exempted persons, the total number of immigrants 
registered during the year was thus 15,263 of whom 12,868 were 
Jews and 2,395 were non-Jews. 


4. The recorded volume of Jewish immigration and emigra- 
tion in 1938 and previous years is as follows : — 
Jewish persons 








Jewish persons recorded 
vegistered as as leaving 
Year. immigrants, permanently. 
1920-1924 ... 42,784* 5,476 
1925-1929 ... 57,022 18,501 
1930-1934 ... 91,258 2,345 
1935 61,854 396 
1936 29,727 773 
1937 10,536 889 
1938 12,868 1,095 
Total 306,049 29,475 








* The records begin in September, 1920. 

t No figures are available for Jewish emigration in 1920, 1921, 1932, 1933 
and 1934. The census in 1931 revealed that the actual number of Jewish 
emigrants was larger than that revealed in the migration records. 


69 


5. The countries of previous residence of immigrants regis- 
tered in 1938 (i.e., of persons arriving as immigrants or as 
travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) were as 
follows : — 


Country of previous residence. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Total tmmigrants registered ... 15,263 12,868 473 1,922 
Total Europe ... ae ae 13,675 12,056 2 1,617 

Austria (now Germany 2,526 2,510 — 16 

Belgium ... : : 50 47 — 3 

Bulgaria seis 21 21 — — 

Czechoslovakia ... 424 414 — 10 

Danzig do aes seis 108 108 — _ 

Denmark a6 ee ae 5 4 — I 

Eire aus vee wes at I — — I 

Esthonia... St eo cee 10 10 — — 

Finland ... a oe ine I I — — 

France ... hs ee he 120 69 I 50 

Germany a8 Bus oP 4,309 4,223 I 85 

Great Britain ... ooh oe 1,388 76 — I,312 

Greece ... se ae ahs 46 20 — 20 

Hungary... se oe yr 72 71 — I 

Italy bes _ axis 23 243 167 — 76 

Latvia... ee eR oe 130 129 a I 

Lithuania me du 2 160 160 — — 

Netherlands... se fee 71 67 — 4 

Norway ... sate Seale sas I I — — 

Poland Sue =e — 3,279 3,269 — 10 

Rumania _ sis sats 526 519 — 7 

Spain... se a we 7 4 — 3 

Sweden ... wae ae wig 6 5 — I 

Switzerland Sars foe sae 43 37 — 6 

U.S.S.R. (Russia) Say oe 71 71 = _ 

Yugoslavia ase os one 49 42 I 7 

Other countries of Europe _... 8 5 — 3 
Total Asia... eee ws: 1,046 593 344 109 

Aden... se si abe 15 15 — — 

Afghanistan... ee ve 53 53 — — 

cane ine sie se eee 6 6 — — 

yprus — 2 

India - 6 — d J 

Tran 39 35 — 4 

Iraq... be ee sas 84 77 2 5 

Syria and Lebanon ... ee 419 48 309 62 

Trans-Jordan ... a Bie 26 — 25 I 

Turkey ... ae i sing 39 32 I 6 

Yemen .., 5a st see 319 319 — — 

Other countries of Asia 2 2 — — 
Total Africa a ne ue 298 89 64 145 

Abyssinia se os ma I — ee I 

Sypt... bes oe oe 254 52 63 139 

Morocco ... ea aa ate 5 4 — I 

Sudan... be ues see 3 — — 3 

Tripoli... a, II Io I — 

Tunis... oe a of I I _ — 

Union of South Africa cee 23 22 — I 


€r countries of Africa dus — — — — 


7O 


Country of previous residence. Total. Jews. Avabs. Others. 
Total America et ne Bo4 220 112 62 46 
Canada ... Sie he sot 8 3 I 4 
United States of America a I21 94 4 23 
Argentine sis en ae 7 3 2 2 
Brazil... ae ae he II — 10 I 
Mexico ... ae aise ee 3 — —_ 3 
Other countries of Latin America 70 12 45 13 
Australia ids its sitie ‘hs 8 8 — — 
New Zealand... a ae ee 4 = ~— 
Undefined... fag its aes 12 10 I I 


6. The following table illustrates the changes in the principal 


sources of Jewish immigration : — 
Proportion per 100 Jewish immigrants 
coming from all countries in years 
Country of previous ‘vesidence. 1922-1929. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


All countries... wane ate 100 100 100 100 
Poland ... oe ae is 46 41 35 25 
Russia... ss gee sa 20 2 3 I 
Germany 0 ons see — 27 34 52* 
Rumania Sak ioe ae 6 5 3 4 
Lithuania and cod new 5 3 2 I 
United States of America a5 3 I 2 I 
Others... diet : as 20 21 21 16 


* Including Austria. ‘ 


7. Persons granted visas for Palestine are liable to be refused 
admission on arrival at the frontier if the Immigration Officer is 
not satisfied that they are persons who may lawfully be admitted 
to Palestine. The numbers of persons so refused admission in 


1938 and previous years are as follows: — 
Number Number refused | 


Total refused admission per | 
Year. entrants. admission. 1,000 entrants. 
1932 <a ..» 100,679 253 3 
1933 ae ... 141,478 1,505 II 
1934 ees ... 176,681 045 5 
1935 bes we = 230,643 831 4 
1936 in wes 147,932 315 2 
1937 os sue “240/270 588 3 
1938 ie ... 193,291 229 I 
8. The numbers of immigrants by sex registered in 1938 are as 
follows :— 
Race. Total. Male. Female. 
Jews ... ie ... 12,868 6,448 6,420 
Arabs ... ies ee 473 193 280 
Others... vas es 1,922 1,499 423 


These figures indicate that Jewish women formed 49-9 per 
cent. of the Jewish immigrants registered in 1938. According to 
the census taken in 1931, Jewish women formed 49-5 per cent. 
of the Jewish population of Palestine. 


71 
9. The age groups of immigrants registered in 1938 (i.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or of persons arriving as 


i aa and subsequently registered as immigrants) are as 
ollows : — 


Age groups. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Total... ws 15,263 12,868 473 1,922 
O- 4 sas a 661 502 98 61 
5-9... a 632 545 47 40 
10-14 ae ia 949 837 76 36 
15-19 ae sat 2,514 2,310 103 Iol 
20-24 sas bes 2,492 2,021 41 430 
25-29 ne as 2,621 1,876 38 707 
30-34 gis eae 1,346 1,026 30 290 
35-39 aie eet 892 765 15 II2 
40-44 ote a 740 681 12 47 
45-49 wee ae 584 549 8 27 
50-54 ses as 497 467 2 28 
55-59 wwe at 461 443 3 15 
60-64 ee eis 401 386 — 15 
65-69 ae ad 234 228 — 6 
70-74 ns abs 148 145 — 3 
75 and over ce gI 87 — 4 


10. The change in the relative proportions of Jewish immi- 
grants over and under the age of 35 years during the last six 
years is indicated by the following figures: — 


Under 35 years Over 35 years 


Year. per cent. per cent. 
1933 se sai site 79°9 20°1 
1934 nik re eis 75°7 24°3 
1935 aie ieee oa 71°22 28°8 
1936 iat ee wii 68-5 31°5 
1937 Naa sad sat 68-5 3I°5 
1938 iat i en 70:9 29°I 


11. The numbers of immigrants by sex and conjugal condition 
registered in 1938 are as follows: — 





Conjugal condition. Jews. Arabs. Others. 

Males : 

Persons ... -_ ae 6,448 193 1,499 

Unmarried bas sae 3,057 161 1,402 

Married ais 2,651 31 93 

Divorced a see 40 I 3 

Widowed oie sie 100 _ I 
Females - 

Persons 6,420 280 423 

Unmarried . 2,584 ‘98 229 

Married ... 3,365 176 182 

Divorced 54 — — 


72 


12. The numbers of immigrants by previous occupation regis- 
tered in 1938 are as follows: — 





Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Occupation. “ 
~ 
8 
= 
Total persons in all 
occupations... 8,140 
Total persons in specified 
occupations... 6,153 
Agriculture, Forestry and 
Fishing my , 962 
Mines and Quarries fu I 
Manufacturing Industries : 
Textiles a — 15 
Leather works ss II 
Wood works ... sds 78 
Metal works ... ae 45 
Ceramics ; £38 4 
Chemical products = 4 
Food products... ose 37 
Dress and toilet ite 93 
Building a I14 
Industries relating to 
literature and artistic 
trades a bie 40 
Transport... “ae siete 40 
Commerce es oe 941 
Other trades wae zie 5 
Clerical Service ... 150 
Public Officials, Police and 
Army 1,185 
Professions | and Liberal 
Arts: 
Religion nem so 158 
Law... sue ve 76 
Medicine : 
Physicians, eee 131 
Dentists abs 31 
Medical attendants. 30 
Education bite nad 48 
Architects, engineers .. 52 
Arts... 6 
Other liberal professions 38 
Domestic service.. 11 
Insufficiently described 
occupations... 606 
Students (16 ai and 
Over)... .. | 1,241 
Persons of no men 802 


Occupation or 
of unknown 
occupation, 
Minors and 
Dependants children | 1,185 


women —_— 











73 


13. Immigrants registered in 1938 belonged to the following 
categories defined in the rules under the Immigration 
Ordinance :— 


Categories. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
A (i) Persons with {£P.1,000 and 
upwards... 1,771 1,753 8 Io 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (i) oe ve 1,731 1,722 I 8 


A (ii) Members of liberal professions 
with a capital of not less 
than {P.500 — — — — 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (ii)... — _ — — 
A (iii) Skilled artisans with a capital 


of not less than {P.250 ... I I — — 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (ili)... siete I I — — 
A (iv) Persons of minimum income 
of {P.4 a month ... ee 37 34 — 3 
A (v) Persons with a capital of not 
less than {P.500 ... sie 7 7 — — 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (v)... acs II II — — 
B (i) Orphans onere to institu- 
tions : I — I — 
B (ii) Persons of religious occupa: 
tions “ ive 227 2 15 210 
Dependants of persons in 
category B (ii)... 5 I 2 2 
B (iii) Students whose maintenance 
is assured ... 2,629 2,531 52 46 
C Persons coming to cemploy- 
ment »  — - 2,765 2,573 45 147 
Dependants of persons in 
category C 1,701 1,662 14 25 
D Dependants of residents of 
Palestine... 3,079 2,505 329 185 


Persons exempted from the 
provisions of the Immigra- 
tion Ordinance... eas 1,297 5 6 1,286 


Total os ws. 15,263 12,868 473 1,922 


14. The fluctuations in the number of Jewish immigrants with 
a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards during the last seven years is 
shown by the following figures: — 


Proportion per cent. of 


Year, Number. total Jewish tmmigrants. 
1932. ‘cs wes 727 8 
1933 ens sbe Sa 3,250 II 
1934 seis ie ks 5,124 12 
1935 is ats see 6,309 Io 
1936 is sei ae 2,907 10 
1937 sis eines why 1,275 12 


1938. a ag 1,753 14 


74 


15. The fluctuation in the number and proportion of de- 
pendants among Jewish immigrants during the last six years is 


as follows: — 
Proportion per cent. of 


Year. Number. total Jewish wmmugranis. 
1933 oak ee ao 15,653 52 
1934 oe ses oe 24,472 58 
1935 sae ee eae 37,739 61 
1936 oe sei ae 17,658 59 
1937 wae ae oes 6,230 59 
1938 cas 5,962 46 


16. The numbers of immigrants, apart from dependants, 
authorized under labour schedule during 1938 as compared with 
previous years are as follows : — 


Certificates for 
Jewish Agency and 

Schedule Pertod. departmental 
reserve. 
April-September, 1933 Sos Sa ae 5,500 
October, 1933—March, 1934... a oe 5,500 
April-September, 1934 ge iy we 6,200 
October, 1934—March, 1935... Be dank 7,500 
April-September, 1935 ae — ae 8,000 
October, 1935—March, 1936... ae eee 3,250 
April-September, 1936 ne sus “2% 4,500 
October, 1936—March, 1937... sibs se 1,800 
April—-July, 1937... e Sa eae 770 
October, 1937—March, 1938 — ak 1,780 
April-September 1938 aie oe ee 1,150 
October, 1938—March, 1939 1,150 


17. The immigration certificates ae the labour schedules 
approved during 1938 were issued under special conditions as 
to age, sex, conjugal condition and skill in accordance with 
the following specifications : — 


October, 
April— 1938- 
Specification. Total. September, March, 
1938. 1939. 
By age.—18-35 years oes dio ahs 965 345 620 
18-45 years : ; “an 140 40 Ioo 
Any age above 18 years . seu - ER, EO5 765 430 
By sex.—Men fps ve ily bs g00 300 600 
Women _.... aoe am if 250 100 150 
Either sex... wag ve .2. 1,150 750 409 


By method of selection.— 
Skilled workers nominated by indivi- 
dual employers (part A)... 350 250 100 
Skilled workers required by individual 
employers (part B) . — — =< 
Skilled workers, relatives of residents 


of Palestine (part C)... 180 — 180 
Workers selected by the > Jewish Agency 
(part D) ¥ 970 400 570 
Jews and 
Non-Jews. Jews. Non-Jews. 


Workers approved by the Department 
of Migration (part sae as aac aes 
reserve) : 800 500 300 


75 


18. The distribution of certificates granted to the Jewish 
Agency by conjugal condition was as follows :— 
October, 
Apnil- 1938 
September, March, 


Specification. Total. 1938. 1939. 
Married men... sie dee ate 575 200 375 
Unmarried men... ide os ak 325 100 225 
Unmarried women tt re aise 250 100 150 
Unrestricted as to conjugal condition... 350 250 100 


19. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers 
have standing instructions to facilitate the return of any Turkish 
citizen of Palestinian birth who wishes to come back to Palestine. 
Among the facilities given are the grant of visas for Palestine, 
without reference to the Department of Immigration, to these 
persons and to their wives and minor unmarried children, and 
of affidavits in the place of the passports ordinarily required, 
if these latter are not available. In short, these persons and 
their dependants are not obliged to carry out the formalities and 
to satisfy the conditions normally imposed upon foreign 
es or immigrants to Palestine, or to pay immigration 
ees. 


20. The numbers of persons entering Palestine as travellers 
(temporary visitors ant transit travellers) for limited periods 
who remained illegally in Palestine in 1938 and previous years 
la the authorised period of temporary residence are as 
ollows : — 

















Proportion of travellers 


Numbers of entering October, 1937- 

Numbers of travellers September, 1938, and 

travellers remaining remaining illegally at the 

Year. entering. sllegally. end of 1938 per thousand 


travellers entering in 1938. 





Jews. Non-Jews. 





* The negative Sign implies that the population of Jewish illegal immi- 
apt who have abused the facilities granted to travellers actually in Palestine 
© 31st December, 1936, declined by 132 persons. 


76 


21. Ihe numbers of persons deported in 1938 and previous 
years for immigration and other offences are as follows : — 


Year. Total. Jews. Non- Jews. 
1934 ... ee wi 2,407 772 1,635 
1935... on sant 2,445 293 2,152 
1936 ... — as 2,039 152 1,887 
1937 ... a ne 2,375 157 2,218 
1938 ... Si as 1,950 46 1,904 


22. It is not possible to give an adequate analysis of migration 
to and from Palestine in each calendar year at the time at 
which this report is prepared. Such an analysis is dependent on 
proportionate and other statistics which cannot be completed 
until some months after the closure of the immigration account 
for each year. 


V.—LAND REGIME. 


With a view to accelerating land settlement in conformity 
with the recommendations of the Royal Commission, considera- 
tion was given to the question of the amendment of the Land 
(Settlement of Title) Ordinance to provide for the simplification 
of settlement procedure. 


2. The Rates and Taxes (Exemption) Ordinance, which pro- 
vides for certain exemptions from municipal rates and urban 
and rural property taxes, was enacted in June, 1938. 


3. Consideration is being given to the amendment of the 
Urban Property Tax Ordinance with a view to simplifying the 
procedure prescribed. 


4. An investigation into the area of land held by Jews and 
non-Jews was carried out and the figures were brought up to 
date. The village statistics, based mainly on taxation records, 
were also revised and will shortly be ready for printing. 


5. Inquiries into the area under citrus plantation were con- 
tinued during the year, and the result of these inquiries will be 
embodied in the rural property tax rolls for 1939-40. 


State Domains. 


6. The examination and inspection of State Domains had 
virtually to be suspended owing to the disturbed conditions in 
the country. 


7. A detailed statement, together with a valuation, of all 
known State Domains was prepared. The valuation was based 
on the records of purchases, sales, leases and taxation assess- 
ments and revealed a value of some £P.2,597,000, including 


77 


the Harbour Reclaimed Area Estate at Haifa, but excluding 
_ the considerable areas of State Domains which are dedicated 
to the use of the public or occupied by Government for public 
purposes. 


8. A total area of 19,489 dunums of land was adjudicated to 
Government at land settlement during the year. This figure 
cannot, however, be taken wholly as an addition to the known 
State Domains as some of the land included was regarded as 
State Domain prior to land settlement. 


9. Any estimate of the total area of State Domains can only 
be of doubtful accuracy as experience has shown that attempts 
made by Government to sell, lease, or exercise other rights of 
ownership over State Domains which have not yet been settled 
are frequently opposed by individuals who dispute the title. 
These disputes, although based sometimes on the flimsiest pre- 
texts, result in years of litigation during which a claimant, who 
meanwhile has entered into possession, cannot be evicted. This 
unsatisfactory state of affairs is being gradually remedied by 
the acceleration of land settlement. 


10. The area of State Domains for which certificates of regis- 
tration under the Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance have 
been issued is 303,950 dunums. 


in During the year 305 agreements and leases were con- 
cluded. ; 

_ There are in addition 54 long-term leases which were entered 
into previously and are still in force. 


12. A number of State Domain buildings were damaged or 
destroyed by incendiarism. So far as it has yet been possible 
PP wae the damage done is estimated to amount to about 

-0,000. 


Valuations. 


13. Forty-one valuations, mainly in connection with the 
expropriation of private property for defence and other public 
purposes, were made during the year. 


14. An examination under the Land Valuers Ordinance was 
held in March. Thirteen out of 22 candidates passed and were 
granted licences. Four applicants for licences were found to 
be qualified without examination. 


The number of licensed land valuers at the end of 1938 was 43. 


Land Settlement. 


15. The Sub-District of Nazareth was declared a Settlement 
Area in February, 1938, and Settlement Offices were opened in 
Nazareth, Gaza and Acre. 


78 
16. Notices of Settlement were published during the year in 
46 villages, comprising an area of 407,836 dunums. 


The Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance has now been 
applied to a total of 230 villages in the following Settlement 
Areas :— 





No. 

Jaffa Settlement Area su les Sid 45 
Ramleh Settlement Area ... _— ee 54 
Gaza Settlement Area siete nas Sus 49 
Haifa Settlement Area yak uae ies I5 
Tulkarm Settlement Area ... cis ee 43 
Jenin Sub-District ... ss ai ie 2 
Safad Sub-District ois : 2 
Jerusalem Sub-District cee Sigs I 
Jericho Sub-District I 
Tiberias Settlement Area ses ; 2 
Nazareth Settlement Area ... ae tes 12 
Acre Sub-District ... Sas aes bes 4 
Total 230 





17. The following is a summary of the work completed 
1938: — 


In Mafruz In Masha’ Total 
(a) Claims recorded :— land. land. number. 
No. of Claims, original ws» 16,322 35 16,357 
(6) Disputed Claims :— 
Number of disputed claims out- 
standing at end of 1937 ... 13,083 353 13,436 
Number received during 1938... 2,440 159 2,599 
Number settled during 1938 ... 4,130 79 4,209 
Number outstanding at the end 
of 1938 ae .. 11,393 433 11,826 


(c) Land Cases :— 
Total number of actions a 





at end of 1937 . dase an as 1,365 
Total number ifs actions added during 
1938 sos ie cas oe ae 805 
2,170 
Total number of actions decided 
during 1938 :— 
(a) by judicial settlement of 
disputes . , bes 694 
(b) by amicable agreement im- 
plemented by Judicial decision 265 
959 





Number of actions Oye aera at the 
end of 1938 Ss 1,211 


Number of actions cepted ‘a fie 
Land Courts on appeal — = 124 


79 


Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules Published :— 





No. of 
Registered 
Blocks. 


Schedules Published. 


i 
Mafruz Land— 
Schedules of 
Rights : 


Masha’ Land— 
Schedules of Par- 
tition ... ae 
Total number of 
Schedules pub- 





No. of 
Parcels. 


Covering 
No. of total area. 
Schedules. Metric 
dunums. 
144,090 
9 1,000 
9 145,090 





18. The following is a comparative statement of the area 
completed to date under settlement operations: — 












June, 1928, to 
December, 1930... 
During 1931 Sue 
» 1932 
» 1933 
» 1934 
» 1935 
» 1936 
» 1937 
» 1938 


Total 





2, 


Preliminary Investigation. 


Claims. 





Metric dunums. 


212,992 
255,947 
358,303 
479,195 
355,732 
196,119 
138,276 
118,236 
191,046 


305,846 


Final Investigation. 


Recording of Claims and | Settlement of Claims and 
publication of Schedules of | publication of Schedules of 
Rights and of Partition. 


Metric dunums. 


142,799 
138,387 
167,293 
334,139 
283,464 
298,549 
127,246 
189,244 
145,090 





1,826,211 


_ 19. Land Settlement field work and the hearing of cases were 
impeded during the year by the unsettled conditions. 


20. The Land Settlement field parties working in Kafr Lam, 
Haifa Sub-District, and in Faluja, Gaza Sub-District, were 
attacked by armed men and the tentage, equipment and some 
records were destroyed by fire. 


ee Early in October the Settlement Offices in Acre, Tulkarm 
<a Gaza, including the field staffs, were withdrawn to Haifa, 
azareth and Jaffa respectively. The only main Settlement 


8o 


Offices whose activities were not restricted were those in Haifa 
and Jaffa, but the field staff of the latter was withdrawn and 
the former had only one party operating in Shefa ‘Amr. 


Land Settlement Fees. 


22. The following is a statement of registration, survey and 
court fees arising out of Settlement :— 
(a) During the year 1938 
Payable. Collected. 
£P.2,947 £P.2,755 
(b) From beginning of Settlement, 1928, to end of 
December, 1938 
Payable. Collected. Outstanding. 
£P.56,815 £P.35.738 £P.21,077 


Urban Property Tax. 


23. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance was applied during 
the year to Affula in the Nazareth Sub-District, thus bringing 
the number of towns to which the Ordinance apphes to 29. 


24. Revision and assessment operations which were begun in 
1937 for the tax year 1938-9 were carried out as follows :— 
Original assessment operations were completed in Affula 
and in the extended areas of Nazareth, Jaffa and Tiberias. 
Quinquennial revaluation in accordance with section Ig (6) 
of the Ordinance was carried out in the urban areas of Petah 
Tiqva, Rehovot, Rishon le Tsiyon and Majdal. 
Annual revision operations were carried out in the follow- 
ing 24 urban areas:— 


Jerusalem, Jaffa (including Tel Aviv, Bat Yam and 
Sarona), Gaza, Beisan, Tulkarm, Tiberias, Ramleh, 
Lydda, Shefa ’Amr, Khan Yunis, Nablus, Hadera, 
Beit Sahur, Nazareth, Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, 
Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala, Ramat Gan, Ramallah, 
Haifa and Acre. 


25. The rates of urban property tax remained unaltered, 
being Io per cent. of the net annual value. 


26. Exemption from payment of the tax was granted on house 
property occupied by registered owners of which the net annual 
value is less than :— 


{£P.z0—in the urban areas of Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa. 

£P.13—1in the urban areas of Tulkarm, Tiberias and Nablus. 

£P.10—in the urban areas of Acre and Affula. 

£P.7—in the urban areas of Beisan, Gaza, Ramleh, Lydda, Nazareth, 
Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Petah Tiqva, Rishon le 
Tsiyon, Rehovot, Majdal, Hadera and Ramat Gan. 

£P.4—in the urban areas of Beit Jala, Ramallah, Khan Yunis and 
Shefa ’Amr. 

£P.2—in the urban area of Beit Sahur. 


81 


27. Assessment operations in respect of the tax year 1939-40 
were begun and are still in progress. As the result, however, 
of the state of unrest, assessment operations were suspended 
early in October in all urban areas with the exception of 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel Aviv and Haifa. 


28. The urban property tax records and other records in 
Tespect of the Beersheba and Tiberias Sub-Districts were 
destroyed by arson during the year and arrangements are 

g& made to recompile them. 


Rural Property Tax. 


29. The aggregate area of all the tax categories under the 
Rural Property Tax Ordinance, 1935, totals 13,580,895 dunums. 


-30. Annual revision of the tax in respect of areas brought 
under cultivation was made during the year. In addition 37 
new industrial buildings were valued and found to have a net 
annual value of £P.3,244. 

Eight hundred and eighteen Notices of Development of Land 
were submitted. 


31. Supplementary Rural Property Tax Rolls, showing the 
revised tax categories of the land by reason of development, 
were posted for 311 blocks in 129 villages. 


32. To these alterations in the tax category of the land 19 
objections were submitted and dealt with by official valuers, 
ten being admitted and nine refused. 


33. A redistribution of the tax on 843 blocks was made in 
cases where changes had been made in the tax category of the 
land on account of development. The area of citrus was revised 
and redistribution of the tax was carried out for 274 blocks 
which were settled during the year under the Land (Settlement 
of Title) Ordinance. 


34. A further reduction in the rate of tax on land planted 
with citrus was granted during the year. This resulted in 
Teducing the tax payable on citrus from £P.224,000 to 
£P.107,280 for the year 1938-9. 


35. The following is a statement of the amount of rural 
property tax due on the ist April, 1937, collected during 
1937-8, and outstanding on the Ist April, 1938:— 

£P. 








£P. 
es assessment as at 1.4.37 Sis ois sie 451,725 
eéss—— 

Heductions ag es Sh: bd we = 448, 735 
xemptions ba ve es sie ws 129,835 

178,570 

Amount payable. ane wae i us ig 273,155 

Collections during 1937-38... wn. seen 130,460 


Amount outstanding on 1.4.38 a6 ae w» £P.142,695 


82 


Tithes. 
36. The Commutation of Tithes Ordinance is still applicable 
to the Beersheba Sub-District and the Huleh Concession Area. 
37. The total aggregate commuted tithe payable and collected 


in these two areas during the tax year Ist April, 1937, to 31st 
March, 1938, was as follows :— 





A ssess- Remis- Out- 
ment. stons. Collections. standing. 
£P. PRs £P. £P. 
Beersheba Sub-District 8,940 —- 95 8,845 
Huleh Concession Area... 1,235 310 335 590 
Total... £P.10,175 310 430 9,435 





38. The following is a summary for the whole country of 
the amount of arrears outstanding on the 1st April, 1938, and 
the amount collected during the period 1st April to 31st 
December, 1938:— 


Outstanding on Ist April 1938 __... Sa yee 144,800 
Remissions during period 1.4.38 to 31.12.38 ae — 3,600 
Collected during period 1.4.38 to 31.12.38 sees hid 3,860 
Balance outstanding on 1.1.39 ae a ese eos 137,340 


Land Registration. 


39. The decline in the value of agricultural land, referred 
to in paragraph 43 on page 76 of the Annual Report for 1937, 
continued and was marked particularly in land distant from 
the main groups of Jewish settlements. As in the previous year 
there was a tendency for building sites, except those in the 
centres of the larger towns, to depreciate. 


40. In the Beersheba Sub-District Jewish companies and 
individuals completed the registration of previously unsurveyed 
land which they had already purchased by contract, and at the 
end of the year some 60,000 dunums in that Sub-District were 
registered in the name of Jews. This land is in scattered parcels 
and not in solid blocks. 


41. Jewish interests purchased land in the neighbourhood of 
Lake Huleh and the head waters of the River Jordan, on the 
northern frontier near Hanuta, and near Beisan. In other 
districts Jewish purchases registered were either in completion 
of old contracts or in order to round off blocks. 


42. Areas amounting to 27,280 dunums of land were pur- 
chased by Jews from non-Jews during the year at a total cost 
of £P.174,802. 

The corresponding figures for previous years were :— 


Year. Dunums., £LP. 
1935 .-- ere 72,905 1,699,121 
1936 ... Ree 18,146 158,826 


1937 ... ee 29,367 392,916 


83 
43. During the year, 855 settled parcels were divided or com- 
bined and became 5,643 new parcels. In the year 1937, 794 
settled parcels were divided and became 6,745 new ones. 
In the non-settled lands, 3,644 new parcels were created as 
the result of partition and parcellation. 


44. The total number of transactions registered during the 
year was 30,574 as compared with 42,009 for the previous year. 

Fees amounting to £P.142,381 were collected as compared 
with £P.208 ,323 in 1937. 

45. The registration of titles settled under the Land (Settle- 
ment of Title) Ordinance amounted during the year to a total of 
338 blocks and 13,332 parcels in the various land registries. 


Ghor Mudawwara Land Agreement. 


46. Sales by transferees under the terms of the original Ghor 
Mudawwara Land Agreement of 1922 continued during 1938. 
Eighty-seven parcels owned by transferees and representing an 
area of 3,745 dunums were redeemed and sold during the year 
and the total price, with accrued interest, was paid in full. The 
amount collected was £P.7,711. 


47. An attempt was made by persons who had signed the 
revised agreement to dispose of their land, notwithstanding that 
one of the conditions of the revised agreement was that the 
owners should not dispose of the land for 30 years from the date 
of execution. The Director of Land Registration refused his 
consent to this transaction and his refusal was upheld by the 
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council to whom the transferees 
oo when their application had been rejected by the High 

ourt. 


Surveys. 


48. Early in the year armed bands destroyed several survey 
camps by fire. A number Of original records were destroyed 
and instruments stolen. 

ese acts in the open country necessitated the withdrawal 
of field parties to the larger towns. 
al’? During the year a revised edition of the catalogue listing 
the maps and publications up to rst October, 1938, which 
are available for sale to the public, was produced. 


e 50. Twenty candidates entered for the land surveyors’ licence 
Xamination of whom seven passed. 


SI. Rules were made under the Survey Ordinance involving 
ne revision of existing rules concerning licensed surveyors, and 
eatding the provision of property marks at the time of regis- 
ation of property. 
Tnangulation. 


F oe ork was continued on the major extension towards the 
Palen frontier, with a view to linking up the Egyptian and 
sine triangulation systems. 


84 


53. Five new topocadastral points were fixed for the Beer- 
sheba topographical surveys over an area covering 300 square 
kilometres. 

Precise Levelling. 

54. The southern circuit of 245 kilometres (Jerusalem— 
Ramleh—Gaza—Beersheba—Hebron—Jerusalem) was _ com- 
pleted with a closure of 75 millimetres. 


Tertiary Levelling. 
55. Levelling of trigonometrical points used in the water 
resources survey was completed in the area in which wells were . 
investigated. 





Special Levelling. 

56. Parties withdrawn from rural areas were able to carry 
out town levelling in Nazareth, totalling 31-3 kilometres and — 
in Hebron totalling 35-4 kilometres. This levelling will form — 
the basis of contour surveys of each of these towns. 


Magnetic Variation. 


57. Observations were made with a ‘‘ Connolly ’’ standard — 
compass at II stations, during the year. — 


Topographical Surveys. 
58. The topographical survey, started last year in the Beer- er 
sheba Sub-District, was completed during the year. pe 


59. A car and compass traverse of 600 kms. was made © 
between Beersheba and ’Aqaba to bring up to date the motor — 





roads and tracks for the 1:250,000 sheet Palestine (South). ae 
60. Progress of Cadastral Survey. — 
Average 
Category No. of Avea No. of area 
of Land. blocks. dunums. parcels. per 
parcel 
Te es eee 
dunums ___ 
Mafruz (divided lands) 173 98,600 3,506 28.1 
scale I: 2,500. —~ 
Mafruz (divided lands) 135 21,220 8,195 2.6 
' scale I: 1,250. ES 
Built-on areas... aie 2 80 138 Pf ges. 
scale 1: 625. | ed 
— 
~~ 
Total ... ates | 310 119,900 | 11,839 | = 
an 





In addition, 403 blocks covering an area of 177,000 dunum — 
were surveyed, but examination was not completed. 


/ 


pt. 


CADASTRAL SURVEY 
PROGRESS OF SURVEY FOR SETTLEMENT PURPOSES 1938. 







Jan, 











Nov. 


Dec, 











No. of Blocks No, of Blocks 
6300 6300 
6200 — 6200 
6100 6100 
6000 ———— 6000 
5900 5900 
5800 5800 

S777 S788 
5700 ae a 5700 
5600 5600 
ey pe me 
Peet re ees ae 5200 
4300 4900 
ee (ie pay | ee ae hace 
eo ——_}——— rene 
4400 4400 
Cornett eee Sie i ececenn 
eee [Bre liminary ——s nae 
ee - 
4000 ie 9) = 4000 
BG gery aoe om ce 20 Lae SHOE 
vote oe eet i oe ee 3800 
SOG ois. Sy (eae eeee oa eee ie 
3600 fa e. a Sea ' 3600 
3400 wes 3400 
Seek = oe 3300 
So) ee ay, he ell 3200 
SI ca ee 3000 


Survey of Palestine, Jaffa 1938, 


Digitized by Google 


9 oN WVXDVIG 


85 


61. 744 preliminary block plans containing 32,332 parcels 
covering an area of'262,592 dunums with schedules of reputed 
Owners and areas were issued to the Land Settlement Branch. 


62. Sixteen blocks covering an area of 2,410 dunums were 
re-surveyed, as it was found that the original scale of survey of 
parcels held in common ownership was too small for the accurate 
evaluation of the areas of the parcels which the settlement officer 
subsequently allotted to individual owners. 


63. Final plans of 358 blocks, to which settlement decisions 
had been fini were submitted for registration. They con- 
tained 4,836 parcels covering an area of 170,421 dunums. 


Urban Surveys. 


64. The following are particulars of re-surveys carried out in 
closely developed areas 


Urban area. Scale. Dunums. 
Haifa... ies Wg I: 1,250 
Haifa (extensions)... ar: Det naVSES 
Jaffa—Tel Aviv ..» 11625 and 1: 1,250 270 


65. Field revision of large-scale plans for urban assessment 
purposes was completed in 12 towns and villages. 

Urban assessment plans amounting to 820 were revised and 
issued for assessment under the urban property tax. 


Land Registration Surveys. 


66. The number of plans examined and dealt with at head- 
quarters was 1,422 covering an area of 54,816 dunums. 


67. In connection with the survey of State Domains 20 plans, 
covering a total area of approximately 400 dunums, were pro- 
duced during the year. Owing to unsettled conditions this work 
was confined to the large towns. 


68. Mutations in settled areas to the number of 659 were dealt 
with during the year making a total of 5,035 since the beginning 
of settlement. 

Citrus Revision. 


69. A revision of the areas under citrus was carried out during 
the year in seven villages, all new groves and the dates of their 
plantation being recorded. 45,000 dunums were revised at a 
total cost of 4 mils per dunum. 


, Mapping and Publicatons. 

70. A conventional sign sheet in Hebrew for use with the 
I:100,000 scale maps will shortly be available. 

71. A revised edition of the 1:250,000 scale layered map was 
printed showing new roads and a number of new settlements 
with the district and sub-district names and boundaries over- 
printed in red. 


15774 D 


86 


Index to Villages and Settlements. 


2. The three 1:150,000 scale sheets showing village bound- 
arles were reduced by photography and printed for official use 
as one sheet, scale 1:250,000, with the district and sub-district 
boundaries and names overprinted in red. 


73. A second sheet similar in style to the administration map, 
covering southern Palestine from Beersheba to ’Aqaba and 
portions of Trans-Jordan and Sinai, is being compiled. A plan 
of Petra will be inset. 

Motor Mab. 


74. The ninth edition was published early in the year. 


Development. 


Resetilement of Displaced Arab Cultivators. 


75. A disastrous attack of rust, which severely injured the 
wheat crop, caused yet a further setback to the displaced Arab 
cultivators who have been settled on irrigated land in the Beisan 
Sub-District. The settlers are, however, being encouraged to 
persevere and they are gradually coming to rely less on financial 
assistance from Government than formerly. . The progress made 
by those settlers who were transferred in 1936 from irrigated 
to rain farmed land was satisfactory and they started to pay off 
the arrears of their loans. Most of the settlers from the Abu 
Qandil tribe are making good progress, are contributing reason- 
able amounts towards debt payments and are satisfied with their 
conditions and prospects. (See Report for 1937, page 81, 
paragraph 75.) 

76. The Wadi Hawarith Arabs are progressing and give 
indications of adopting intensive cultivation to a greater extent. 


77. Birket Ramadan still presents a serious problem, and 
endeavours continue to be made to persuade the owners to adopt 
methods of cultivation which will prevent the marsh from revert- 
ing to its condition before it was drained. Remedial works were 
carried out by the Department of Health in the marsh area in 
connection with anti-malaria measures. 


78. Observations made on the run-off of rain water during the 
rainy season of 1937-8 (see Report for 1937, page 81, para- 
graph 79) confirm the conclusion arrived at in previous years 
that the percentage running off is abnormally low. During six 
days of fairly continuous rain amounting to 146 millimetres, the 
run-off from the catchment area of the Wadi Sarar at Motza 
was equivalent to only 26-4 millimetres or 18 per cent. of the 
rainfall over the catchment. The percentage of run-off from 
the same catchment for the whole rainy season was 7-8 per 
cent. The run-off from catchment areas in the western eke: 
of the same wadi, containing less hill area and debouching 


87 


on the plains, gave even lower figures. A catchment area on 
sad plain land gave slightly less than 4 per cent. run-off. 

ese figures are particularly interesting in connection with the 
suggestion frequently made that storing flood water in Palestine 
is practicable. During the year arrangements were made to 
establish three additional observation stations, of which two 
have actually been completed. The disorders prevented readings 
being taken at four stations erected during the previous year, 
while one station was destroyed by an exceptionally high flood 
in November. A map showing the catchment areas of Palestine 
has been prepared and will be published shortly. 


79. A geo-hydrological report on underground and surface 
water (see Report for 1937, page 82, paragraph 82) is under 
preparation and will be completed soon. 


80. The observation of the underground water levels at a 
series of well stations was continued. At two out of the 27 
stations observations had to be suspended and three new 
stations were established. The utility of these observation 
stations is evident as affording proof of the adequacy of the 
underground water resources to meet the expanding exploita- 
tion to which they are subjected. 

While the results of attempts to find satisfactory underground 
water in hitherto unexplored areas, which have been made in 
connection with the hydrographic survey of southern Palestine 
and the lower reaches of the Jordan valley, proved disappoint- 
ing, private enterprise was successful in the foot-hills of the 
Jordan valley north of Beisan and in the foot-hills overlooking 
Lake Huleh. A small supply was also struck in an unexpected 
quarter, namely on the western slope of the Galilee hills at 
Hanuta and further supplies have been tapped near Karkur on 
the coastal plain. (See Report for 1937, page 82, paragraph 81.) 


81. Work on water settlement operations was suspended at the 
end of October owing to the disturbances. By that time, how- 
ever, data had been compiled regarding water nghts in, and 
distribution of, all springs in the neighbourhood of and south of 
Beisan. This data will form the nucleus of future water 
settlement. 

Regular monthly gaugings of the discharge of these springs 
were taken from October, 1937, to October, 1938. The contour 
survey, contemplated in 1937, was also completed with the 
exception of a small area which was left unfinished when the 
field work had to be suspended. (See Report for 1937, page 82, 
paragraph 83.) 

82. The hydrographic survey of southern Palestine and the 
Jordan valley, referred to on page 82, paragraph 84 of the 1937 
Report, was started in February, 1938, and continued until the 
end of August when it had to be closed down owing to the 
disturbed state of the country. 


15774 D2 


88 


By that time 21 bores (including five bored in connection with 
the water resources survey) were completed, of which five were 
in the Jordan valley and 16 in the Gaza-Beersheba sub-districts. 
Ten bores, of which two are in the Jordan valley and eight in 
the Gaza-Beersheba area, were uncompleted in August and 
were carefully sealed with a view to future operations. A full 
geo-hydrological report on the work done is under preparation, 
but from the results of the survey up to the date when it was 
suspended in August, it can safely be said that the Gaza- 
Beersheba area 1s not one in which it is possible, as has some- 
times been suggested, to sink a bore at random and obtain sweet 
water. On the contrary, even when sites are chosen after pro- 
longed geo-physical experiments and geological investigations, 
75 per cent. of them prove to be complete failures. The presence 
of abundant sweet water in the coastal sand dunes seems likely 
to be confirmed, and there is always the possibility that water 
may be found in the Turonian-Cenomanian formation which 
has not yet been tested. This water, however, would be at 
great depths and from indications obtained in other parts of 
Palestine, the quality, even if water exists, may well prove to 
be too saline for irrigation purposes. The general conclusion 
which has been reached as a result of the survey is that in far 
the greater portion of the area no improvement in agriculture 
which is dependent on irrigation is to be anticipated. 


A well with some 40 metres of underground channelling has 
been constructed at Asluj (Beersheba Sub-District) aud the 
results show possibilities of useful, if limited, development in 
areas similarly situated by means of the construction of such 
wells or of chains of wells following the practices in Cyprus and 
in India. Two sites for flood diversion weirs were selected in 
the Beersheba area. The stream beds and the irrigation areas 
to be served by the weirs were surveyed and contoured, but the 
construction of the weirs could not be begun owing to the 
- disturbances. 


Much of the underground water discovered during the survey 
was Of a salinity higher than that of any saline water hitherto 
used for intensive cultivation in Palestine, but field and labora- 
tory experiments have been started in the hope that it may still 
be usable for certain crops under certain soil conditions. Here 
also the field experiments had to be discontinued. 


VI.—NATIONALITY. 


1. The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, and 
of a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine 
amending Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the 
Report for 1925; and the text of the amending Order in Council 
of 193I was printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


89 


2. The qualifications for naturalization are: two years’ 
residence in Palestine out of the three preceding the date of 
application, good character, adequate knowledge of English 
or Arabic or Hebrew, and the intention to settle in Palestine. 
In special cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant 
naturalization even if the prescribed period of residence has 
not been within the three years preceding the date of application.: 
The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. 


3. The total number of persons to whom naturalization 
certificates were delivered in 1938 compared with those in 
previous years is as follows: — 


Applications Certificates 
submitted. delivered. 
Total ... “us sn 60,831 53,696 
1925-1929 ee eas 20,168 15,551 
1930-1934 ai ws 7978 8,161 
1935 — sat ak ,007 5,994 
1936 ee ee aan 5,444 4,941 
1937 aoe ges eae 12,194 9,925 
1938 sais As _— 9,040 9,124 


18,259 persons acquired Palestinian citizenship in 1938, in- 
cluding wives and children who became Palestinian citizens 
through the naturalization of their husbands or tathers or 
mothers. 


4. The decline in the number of applications in 1938 may be 
attributed to the disturbances in Palestine which made travelling 
difficult, prevented many prospective applicants engaged on 
security duties from submitting their applications and, in some 
cases, caused applicants to defer their applications on grounds of 
economy. 


5. The race and previous nationality of the persons 
naturalized in 1938 were as follows: — 


Pey cent, 
Number. of Jews 
A. Jews :— naturalized. 

Total ... sist ... 17,988 I0o 
Polish... a ..» 6,630 37 
German ... wes) 4415 25 
Rumanian 1,099 6 
Russian ... 552 3 
Other... 3,099 17 
Stateless 2,193 12 

B. Non- Jews :— 

Total ... 271 100 
Turkish ... 92 34 
Syrian... 40 15 
Egyptian me jae 17 6 
Other... ote 122 45 


In 1937 the proportions of applicants who were Polish and 
German subjects were 43 per cent. and Io per cent. respectively. 
15774 D3 


go 


6. The passport services granted by the department in 1938 
as compared with previous years are shown in the following 
table : — 


Service. r936. 1937. 7938. 
Total ... _ ‘3 34,689 46,798 40,324 
Palestinian passports issued ... 9,039 15,267 15,593 
Palestinian passports renewed... 3,626 3,830 2,568 
Palestinian passports endorsed 3,141 4,156 2,971 
Certificates of Identity issued... 398 572 448 
Return visas granted ... wes =: 14,567 18,306 13,649 
Other visas granted ... ua 2,484 2,633 3,501 
Identity and Travel documen 
issued ... a ak us 416 621 364 
Identity and Travel documents 
renewed ae cai ae 59 70 7 
British passports issued sere 429 575 537 
British passports endorsed or 
renewed se es ake 463 741 685 
Registration of British subjects 
and of retention of Canadian 
domicile id 67 27 I 


7. The number of Palestinian passports granted during 1938, 
namely 15,593, was the largest number ever issued in one year 
since the creation of the department. | 

In spite of the disturbances, large numbers of Palestinian pass- 
ports were sought by Palestinian Arabs who (a) were no longer 
able freely to cross into Syria and the Lebanon as a consequence 
of the wire fence; or (b) who left Palestine for Egypt, Syria and 
the Lebanon and other countries on account of the disturbances 
in Palestine; or (c) who wished to travel to Trans-Jordan for 
admission to which passports are now needed by Palestinian 
citizens. 


8. Since 1926, when Palestinian passports were first printed, 
some 117,500 have been issued of which some 110,500 have been 
issued in Palestine and 7,000 have been issued by His Majesty’s 
Consuls abroad. 


g. The following numbers of changes of names were registered 
in 1938 as compared with previous years: — 


1933... wa © 2E1 1936... ..» 682 
1934... <x <@g12 1937... ... 1,427 
1935. bs 793 1938... ... I,O17 


The majority of these changes are made by Jewish immigran‘s 
from Europe adopting Hebrew names on the acquisition of 
Palestinian citizenship. 


ro. Consideration is still being given to the amendment of the 
Palestinian Citizenship Order 1925, with a view to giving effe:t 
to the recommendation in Chapter XV, paragraph 12, of the 
Report of the Royal Commission in regard to the position of 
persons born in Palestine who acquired on birth, or sul- 
sequently, and still possess Turkish nationality, but who we:e 
habitually resident abroad at the time at which treaty nationality 
was imposed in Palestine by the above Order. 


el ee ee 


or 
ViIIl.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Legislation. 


The following were the most important Ordinances enacted 
during the year 1938:— 

Water Survey Ordinance.—This Ordinance makes pro- 
vision in respect of the discovery and raising of under- — 
ground water in Palestine and vests the High Commissioner 
with powers incidental thereto. 


Huleh Concession (Boundanes) Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance defines certain areas in connection with a concession 
for the drainage and reclamation of the lands known as 
the Huleh area and provides for certain matters in con- 
nection therewith. 


Town Planning (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance amends the principal Ordinance mainly in order to 
enable the town planning authorities to exercise a stricter 
control over the appearance and use of buildings. 


Loans (Recovery of Interest) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
provides that the interest recoverable upon certain loans 
may exceed the amount of the principal, notwithstanding 
the provisions of the Ottoman Law. 


Playing Cards Excise Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
regulates the manufacture of playing cards in Palestine and 
prescribes an excise duty thereon. 


Civtl Procedure Ordinance.—This Ordinance is con- 
sequential to the enactment of Rules of Court entitled 
“Civil Procedure Rules, 1938,’’ and declares that the 
Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure, with the exception of a 
few articles thereof, shall cease to have effect in Palestine 
in proceedings in any court other than a Magistrate’s court. 


Rates and Taxes (Exemption) Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance make provision for the exemption from municipal 
rates, and from rural and urban property tax, of property 
of various descriptions of which the main categories are 
property occupied and used by the Government, property 
occupied by consular officers, and property used for 
religious, charitable or educational purposes. The Ordi- 
mance incorporates specifically the exemptions hitherto 
enjoyed by institutions or bodies by virtue of treaties, 
firmans, decrees and other provisions of the Ottoman 
regime, and it provides for the future exemption of certain 
further categories of property. 


Ou Mining Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals, and 
re-enacts with considerable amendments and additions, the 
law relating to prospecting and mining for oil, hitherto 


15774 D4 


92 


contained in the Mining Ordinance (Cap. 94) and confines 
the scope of that Ordinance to prospecting and mining for 
minerals other than oil. 


Agricultural Fertilizers Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
provides for the protection 2: agricultural fertilizers against 
adulteration. 


Advocates’ Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals, and with 
certain amendments re-enacts the provisions of, the 
Advocates’ Ordinance (Cap. 2), mainly in view of the 
establishment of a Law Council under the Law Council 
Ordinance, 1938. 


Law Council Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides for 
the constitution of a Law Council which is charged, tnter 
alia, with the duties of enquiring into the conduct of 
advocates, and of persons permitted to practise before the 
Moslem religious courts, alleged to have been guilty of 
unprofessional conduct; the control and supervision of the 
Jerusalem law classes and the Palestine law examination; 
and the issue of certificates to persons possessing the 
necessary qualifications entitling them to be inscribed on 
the roll of advocates or on the roll of persons permitted 
to practise before the Moslem religious courts under the 
Advocates’ Ordinance, 1938. 


Anglo-Iranian Oil Conventions Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance validates certain conventions entered into between 
the Government of Palestine and the Anglo-Iranian Ol 
Company, regulating the conveyance through Palestine of 
mineral oils and the refinement thereof. 


Trade Marks Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals, and 
re-enacts with considerable amendments, the trade marks 
law of Palestine hitherto contained in the. Trade Marks 
Ordinance (Cap. 144). 


Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance (No. 2).—This 
Ordinance provides for the grant of pensions to the 
dependants of officers who have died as a result of injuries 
attributable to serious and widespread disturbances in 
Palestine at more generous rates than those provided in 
the principal Ordinance. 


Police (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance pro- 
vides for the grant of pensions to the dependants of 
members of the Palestine Police Force who have died as 
a result of injuries. attributable to serious and widespread 
disturbances in Palestine at more generous rates than those 
provided in the principal Ordinance. 


93 


| Bankruptcy. : 

2. Prior to the enactment of the Bankruptcy Ordinance, 1936, 
the bankruptcy law in force was that contained in the Ottoman 
Commercial Code, a code based on French law, under which 
the bankruptcy administration was vested in the four District 
Courts of Palestine. | | 

Under the Ottoman Code the Court, on adjudicating a person 
bankrupt, appointed what was known as a Juge Commissaire, 
generally a judge of the court itself whose duty it was to super- 
vise the bankruptcy. Under him he had a Syndic, i.e., the 
trustee, and a secretary to the bankruptcy. The Syndic was 
elected by the creditors and his appointment was confirmed by 
the court. Generally he was the lawyer who had applied for 
adjudication in bankruptcy. The secretary was practically in 
all cases a clerk of the court. These three officers were paid 
out of the assets of the bankrupt. 

The Bankruptcy Ordinance which repealed the Ottoman Law 
of Bankruptcy was enacted on the 24th January, 1936, but 
did not come into operation until the 15th August, 1936. From 
the date of the Ordinance coming into operation until the end of 
1938 there have been 150 bankruptcies. 

e following figures give a rough indication of the number 
of bankruptcies from the year 1929 to the date of the coming 
into force of the Bankruptcy Ordinance : — 


Year. Number of bankruptcies. 
1929 sue ae sud ie ns IO 
1930 ae sae ai 38 ee 33 
1931 ws sie ea mr es 22 
1932 Pe ae set ais ie 10 
1933 me or sie ar ig 9 
1934 oes x se 7 sie 13 
1935: eee ou she aes si 17 
1936 (to 15.8.36) 23 


The following figures furnish a tabular view of the total 
amount of insolvency in the years 1936 to 1938:— 
No. 





Year. Assets. Liabilities. 
P. £P. 
1936 (as from 15th August, 1936) 6 8,193.627  22,272.397 
1937 eae ve ae 37,308.961 93,411.621 
1938 oheee saad on 84 165,388.715 203,599.783 
150 210,891.303 319,283.801 





. In 106 cases trustees were 5 ares: and the administration 
in bankruptcy was supervised by the Official Receiver. In 35 
cases the Official Receiver is acting as trustee. __ 
104 public examinations were conducted during the year. 
se were divided as follows :— 
Jerusalem es. ea oon se 35 
Tel Aviv and Jaffa... isi es 64 


94 


Nineteen applications for the approval of compositions pro- 
posed by debtors with their creditors were heard by the courts. 


In 16 cases debtors undertook to pay from 25 to 35 per cent. 
of their debts. In one case the debtor undertook to pay 45 per 
cent. of his debts and in another case the debtor undertook to 
pay 100 per cent. of his debts. 


Three companies went into liquidation during the year. The 
total liabilities and assets of these companies were as follows : — 


£ P. 
Liabilities eas bis we =: 20,381.594 
Assets... ve ee ws  16,110.639 


The Official Receiver was acting as liquidator of eight com- 
panies at the close of the year. 


Outside liquidators were appointed in the case of 16 liquida- 
tions and these act under the supervision of the Official Receiver. 


The revenue for the year 1938 in respect of liquidations and 
bankruptcies was £P.956. The revenue would have been much 
higher but for the fact that under present economic conditions 
it is difficult, if not impossible, to realize assets, and when assets 
are realized they bring in a quarter of their value. The amount 
of fees collected 1s thus reduced. 


Four bankrupts were prosecuted for offences under the Bank- 
ruptcy Law and the director of one company was publicly 
examined. 


On the 15th December, 1937, the registration of partnerships 
previously carried out by the District Courts was transferred 
to the Registrar of Companies. There are 4,705 partnerships 
registered in Palestine. During the year 1938, 233 partnerships 
and three limited partnerships were registered and the revenue 
for the period was £P.704. | 


Companies. 


3. During the year, 163 Palestinian and 17 foreign companies 
were registered, bringing the total number of companies regis- 
tered in Palestine to 1,743. Fifty-two companies increased their 
share capital during the same period. 


The revenue collected during the year in respect of registra- 
tion fees amounted to £P.9,464 as compared with £P.23,154 
collected during the previous year. 


Changes in Constitution and Jurisdiction of the Courts. 


4. The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order.—Under 
this Order Magistrates’ Courts were established in Tel Aviv, 
Petah Tiqva and Rehovot. There was a Magistrate’s Court at 
Tel Aviv prior to the promulgation of this Order, but it was 
part of the Magistrate’s Court of Jaffa. 


95 


5. The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order (No. 4) 
was necessitated by the closing of the District Court of Nablus 
for reasons of security. This Order vests increased jurisdiction 
in the District Court of Haifa and the Land Court of Haifa 
in order to include the area over which the District Court of 
Nablus and the Land Court of Nablus exercised jurisdiction. 
This Order also established a Magistrate’s Court in Affule. 


6. Orders under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction 
Ordinance, 1935.—For reasons of security a number of Magis- 
trates’ Courts had to be closed and Orders under section 4 of 
the above Ordinance had to be made transferring the jurisdiction 
of these courts to Magistrates’ Courts in the larger towns. 


Rules of Court. 


7. The following Rules of Court were made by the Chief 
Justice during the year: — 


The Archives (Amendment) Rules make provision for the 
destruction of old records of District, Land, and Magistrates’ 
Courts, on application being made to the Chief Justice. 

The District Courts (Summary Trials) Rules prescribe a 
uniform procedure for the conduct of the trials, otherwise 
than upon information, of persons by district courts. 

The Civil Procedure Rules.—These rules (made as a 
result of the enactment of the Civil Procedure Ordinance, 
1938) define in a comprehensive manner the procedure for 
civil matters in the Supreme Court sitting as a Court of 
Appeal, District Courts, Land Courts and Special Tribunals. 
They replace the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure and the 
various rules of procedure which have been made since the 
inception of the civil Government. 

The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules make provision for 
the exemption from court fee on the copy of the record of a 
preliminary inquiry furnished to any accused person com- 
mitted for trial under section 18 (2) of the Criminal 
Procedure (Trial Upon Information) Ordinance. These 
rules also provide for exemption from fee on the attestation 
of the signature to a recognizance of a young offender and 
exemption from filing fee on a recognizance in respect of a 
young offender. 

The Foreign Tnbunals (Evidence) (Amendment) Rules 
were designed to remove a doubt as to whether or not a fee 
kr payable to an Examiner acting under the principal 
rules. 

The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules (No. 2) give an 
appellate court power to exempt an appellant who alleges 
poverty from the payment of court fees on being satisfied 
that such appellant has reasonable grounds of appeal and 
that the allegation of poverty is true. These rules also 
abolish the fees formerly payable in respect of the filing of 
a notice of appeal in a criminal case. 


96 


Work of the Courts. 


8. The entries of new cases for the early part of the year 
showed a general increase as compared with the year 1937, but 
as the political situation deteriorated the entries of new civil 
cases and the prosecution of offenders decreased. In the month 
of September it became necessary to close the District and Land 
Courts of Nablus and a number of Magistrates’ Courts in isolated 
smaller towns. Three Magistrates’ Courts (Nazareth, Bethlehem 
and Beersheba) were destroyed by fire and minor robberies of 
cash and stores took place in others. The jurisdiction of the 
courts which had to be closed was transferred to the courts of 
larger towns. Towards the end of the year however, the 
Magistrate’s Court of Gaza was reopened and it is anticipated 
that a number of others will be reopened early in 1939. 


g. When the territory was divided into areas under the control 
of Military Commanders in the month of October, 1938, the 
civil courts continued to sit, the Military Commanders rendering 
every assistance to this end. 


10. Although the number of new cases entered decreased 
during the latter part of the year the prevailing conditions pre- 
vented the courts from disposing of the cases which were in 
arrears. 


1z. At the thirty-fourth session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission, Baron Van Asbeck raised the question of the 
enforcement of Ottoman legislation which might be found to be 
repugnant to the Mandate. It is in fact the case that the 
Supreme Court of Palestine sitting as a Court of Appeal has 
held that, in view of the fact that Article 17 of the Palestine 
Order in Council referred only to Ordinances and not to Ottoman 
laws in force on the 1st November, 1914, it had no power to go 
into the question whether such laws were repugnant to the terms 
of the Mandate and that, even if such laws were repugnant, 
they remained in force. There are, however, no Ottoman laws 
in force in Palestine which are repugnant to the Mandate. In 
the case referred to by Baron Van Asbeck, the Supreme Court 
held that the particular law referred to was not repugnant to the 
Mandate but in any event the Ottoman Penal bode has now 
been repealed and replaced by a Code based on English law. 
Furthermore, the High Commissioner has power to declare 
Ottoman laws no longer to have effect in Palestine and he would 
no doubt exercise that power in cases where an Ottoman law 
in force in Palestine was found to be repugnant to the Mandate. 


12. The Permanent Mandates Commission also desired that 
some reference might be made to the position arising from the 
extension of the privilege of electing to be tried before a British 
Magistrate or before a British majority in the District or 
Supreme Courts. Election in favour of trial before a British 


97 


Magistrate is fairly common but figures are not available. The 
law does not provide, however, for the constitution of a District 
Court or Court of Criminal Assizé (Supreme Court) with a 
British majority. Provision exists for an accused person to make 
application for trial by a British Judge of the District Court 
sitting alone and there is a similar provision in respect of the 
Court of Criminal Assize. Five of such applications have been 
made in respect of the Court of Criminal Assize since the year 
1935. The Court of Criminal Assize consists of (a) the Chief 
ear or a British Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court, (b) a 

ritish Puisne Judge or British Judge of the District Court, and 
(c) a Palestinian Judge. It has therefore always a British 
majority. 

13. Criminal Assizes.—Sittings of the Court of Criminal 
Assize were held at regular intervals. 


14. Municipal Courts.—These Courts exist only in Tel Aviv, 
Gaza and Acre, and sit only as Criminal Courts. 5,982 cases 
were entered in the Municipal Court at Tel Aviv during the year. 
5,951 were decided and 131 cases were pending at the close of 
the year. 


No cases were entered in the Municipal Courts of Acre and 
Gaza. 


15. Magistrates’ Courts.—42,225 civil cases were entered in 
these Courts, and 44,332 were decided; 2,464 were pending at 
the end of the year. 

The number of criminal cases entered was 37,760; 38,416 
were decided, and there were 667 pending at the end of the year. 


16. District Courts.—The total number of cases entered in the 
District Courts showed a decrease of 532 in comparison with the 
previous year. 


The following table shows the total number of civil and 
criminal cases entered in the last five years: — 


Civil Criminal 
Year. Entered. Entered. 
1934 oe aor vet oe 2,403 2,338 
1935 ee dete — see 2,300 1,769 
1936 nee “8 aes wes 1,586 1,683 
1937 ae ae ee tat 2,140 1,803 
1938 2,351 1,060 


The following table sets out the number of civil and criminal 
cases decided and pending in the last five years: — 


Civil Civil Criminal Criminal 
Year. Decided. Pending. Decided. Pending. 
1934 sag ee 2,403 512 2,338 130 
1935 oe re 2,169 643 1,788 III 
1936 wid w. - 1,607 622 1,686 108 
1937 ree nee 24339 595 1,737 190 


1938 er a. 2,276 670 1,152 98 


98 
These statistics show a decrease in the number of cases decided 


during the year. This is due to the closing down of a number 
of courts throughout the ccuntry. 


17. Land Courts.—Cases entered in these Courts during the 
year under review numbered 414; 528 were pending at the end 
of the previous year; 527 were decided and there were 415 
pending at the end of the year. 


18. Supreme Court.—Civil appeals to the number of 47 were 
pending at the beginning of the year; 261 were filed during the 
year; 279 were decided and the number of appeals pending at 
the end of the year was 29. 

Eleven criminal appeals were pending at the beginning of the 
year; QI were lodged during the year; 99 were decided; and at 
the end of the year there were three appeals pending. 


19. Court of Criminal Assize.—Eight cases were pending from 
the previous year; 28 cases were entered during the year; 35 
cases were decided and one case was pending at the end of the 
year. 


20. High Court.—Nine cases were pending from the previous 
year and 70 cases were entered during the year. Seventy-seven 
cases were decided and two cases were pending at the end of the 
year. 


The 77 cases which were decided may be classified as 
follows :— 


(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus proceedings, 
under Section 6 (a) of the Courts Ordinance, Cap. 28... 
(z) Petitions under Section 6 (b) of the said Ordinance in 
execution matters ls i sag ane ees 
(3) Other petitions under sub-section 6 (b) for orders directed 
to public bodies ... wie 7 ne = ze 
(4) Petitions under Section 6 (c) relating to change of venue 
of trials sas save due she ane nes 
(5) Other petitions not coming within the above sub-sections 


Total 


Inline 8 Be 


21. Special Tribunal.—No cases were pending at the begin- 
ning of the year; two cases were entered, one of which was 
decided, leaving one case pending at the end of the year. 


22. Revenue.—The revenue of the courts during the first three 
months of the year showed a strong upward tendency but later 
receipts dropped considerably and the total revenue of the courts 
was £P.144,034 aS compared with £P165,904 in 1937, and 
£P.145,075 in 1936. 

23. Advocates.—No complaints of such a nature as to move 
the Chief Justice to constitute a court of discipline were received 
against any practising advocate. 


99 


24. Law Reports.—Arrangements were completed for ihe 
completion and publication of reports of leading cases decided 
in the Courts of Palestine. 


Religious Courts. 


25. Moslem Community.—In the Moslem Religious Courts 
11,766 cases were decided during the year, including 121 appeals. 
The Sharia judges issued 5,250 deeds of marriage and 751 
decrees of divorce. £P.3,650 were collected in fees. 


26. Orthodox Community.—The Ecclesiastical Courts of the 
Orthodox Patriarchate sat in Jerusalem and in Acre, Jaffa, 
Haifa, Nazareth and Gaza. The revenue from fees during the 
year amounted to £P.225. The cases disposed of numbered 
370 of which 8 were heard on appeal. The majority of the cases 
were concerned with matrimonial matters and the administration 
of estates. Seventeen cases affected change of religion. 


27. Jewish Community.—The Jewish Rabbinical Courts heard 
the number of cases shown in brackets:—Jerusalem (including 
a Court of Appeal) (309), Jaffa-Tel Aviv (2,111), Haifa (207), 
Safad (65), Petah-Tiqva (206), Hadera (46), Rishon-le- 
Tsiyon ny Ein-Ganim (9), Affule 54 Nahlat-Ganim (10), 
Kfar Saba (82), Zichron-Yaakov (18), Tiberias (15), Rehovot 
(18), Pardess-Hanna (16), Kiryath Yoseph (27), Bnei-Brak (228), 
Raanana (44), Nathanya (aay . 

28. Synan Orthodox Community.—The Court of this com- 
munity disposed of eight cases: six were concerned with matri- 
monial affairs, and two with succession. 


29. Armenian Patriarchate.—The tribunal of this Patriarchate 
heard 11 cases during the year, concerning wills, succession, 
guardianship, divorce and alimony. 

30. Latin Community.—During the year, 86 cases were heard 
by the Latin Ecclesiastical Courts concerning succession, 
guardians, wills and matrimonial matters. 


Cases Pending, Entered and Decided during 1938. 


A Supreme Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.2.38. during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Civil ... — ae 47 261 279 29 
Criminal _ ies II gI 99 3 
Totals ... he 58 352 . 378 32 
B High Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 


I.2.38. during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Totals ... a8 — 9 70 77 2 


I00 





C Court of Cnminal Assize. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
I.I.38. during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Totals ... 8 28 35 I 
D Spectal Tnbunal. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
I.1.38. during year. during yeay. 31.12.38. 
Totals ... — 2 I I 
E Distinct Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
I.1.38. during yeay. during yeay. 31.12.38. 
Civil ... 595 2,351 2,276 670 
Criminal 190 1,060 1,152 98 
Totals ... 785 3,411 3,428 768 
F Land Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.38. during yeay. during year. 31.12.38. 
Totals ... 528 414 527 415 
G Magistrates’ Courts. 
Cases Summanily Dealt with. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.7.38. during year. during year. 37.12.38. 
Civil ... eis ou 4,571} 42,225 44,332 2,464 
Criminal 1,323§ 37,760 38,416 667 
Totals ... ane aes 5,894 79,985 82,748 3,131 
t Figure of 4,402 shown in 1937 report was incorrect. 
§ Figure of 1,245 shown in 1937 report was incorrect. 
H Municipal Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.38. during year. during year. 31.1%2.38. 
Totals ... re sae 100 5,982 5,951 . 131* 


* 3 cases pending at Gaza—court temporarily closed. I case pending at 


Acte—court temporarily closed. 


10I 





1801 | pousuersr 


— zl6‘¥ 


— Cob‘z1 
zl6'1S 6z0‘gt 
G6r — 
ovi1‘z £g09'1 


— 1S 


blz Lyz 


TEASE) = poususre’) 


S16'bS | Leftls | vEebb 


EgoQ'rh 
vs 
9gS‘t 


[AID | Pousussrsy 


‘LE6I ‘9661 


IQg1‘z6 
L¥g‘€1 


got ‘oz 
o1f‘oS 


69L‘1 
of 


*SEO6r 


CE1‘gS 


Lxrr‘vs 
ZOE ‘I 
oot ‘z 
I 

QII 
L6z 


“180tD — [ fousuers’) 


$99‘98 
Col‘Sr 
gib‘bz 
ber‘ br 


gtt‘z 


LE1 


"PEOI 


PoLl‘€S 








$1030] 


: sjueLIeM Teroods 
sutpjoy soyVeNsiseyyy 
er0}9q posieqos suosisg 
gyno.) pediorunyy 

S}INO*) ,S9}BIISIZEW 

ae SHU) puey 
s}MOD PUIASIC 

ee * Teunqizy ferseds 
“azissVY [eUTUILI-) JO 2.1N0Z 

= se zN0D qstH 
qano7) omaidns 





18419 








“SPANO SHOLsaY UvYZ soYJo BUYNSIYT Us SjNoD Yo us Spvaddy FuLpnjoUT “pasquT sasv] f 


I0Z 








6vy'Lb 96¢‘ZS S{PIOL 


6L9‘F — zL6‘b ane sjuvliem peroods 
suIpoy =s_—s SaVEISISL IW 
a10}aq pesieyo suosisg 

99'S — 660‘Z1 $}.1n0*) ediorunyy 

00S ‘99 ZQQ‘'IS gbb'gt $}.INO*) ,Sd}zeI}SIBeY 


36 — 


= syINoy puey 
LEL‘t 6££‘Z 989‘I 


SHINOD FOLYSICT 
* yeunquy, Tetoads 


ty — gh "azIssy [CUIUILIZ) JO NOD) 
— £6 , 31n0D YI 
oLt Gzs yinoy suraidng 


pousuetAD | “pratD pours | “parg = | pours 


eee rN fe a 


*LEOI 








"SPANO SNOIdYay UYY, 494]0 BUNISIID Ut Sj4noy ]]v ut Swaddp dutpnjauy ‘“paproaq sasv) ¥ 


103 


L_ Persons charged before officers holding’ special magisterial 
warrants in all Palestine. 


1935 ee seis i ae wars sie 13,647 
1936... aa ua re ase es 4,972 
1937. eee “ee bis - ae as 4,879 
1938... oes cat ie ve Sod 2,796 


ViIII.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


1. The safeguarding of the economic interests of the com- 
Paty is constantly the pre-occupation of Government as 
ollows : — 


(a) The railways, posts, telegraphs, telephones, ports and 
roads are in public ownership and administered by Govern- 
ment Departments. 


(6) Haifa Harbour and the Oil Dock were constructed 
by a Government Department. 


(c) All water supplies are administered by the Munici- 
palities or by the Local Councils concerned. 

Note.—The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was completed 
early in 1936 by a Government Department, employing a special staff. 
It is now operated by the Public Works Department and the distribu- 
tion within the city is administered by the Jerusalem Municipality. Asa 
result of this new supply, the price of water to the consumer has been 
reduced from 80 mils to 50 mils per metre cube. 


(d) The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been abolished. 
(e) All mineral resources are Government property and 
may only be exploited by private peat in accordance 
with the provisions of the Mining Ordinance. 
(f) Other Palestine Ordinances cover the control of:— 
(1) Fisheries, forests and game. > 


(2) The cultivation, manufacture and sale of tobacco 
or liquor. 


(3) The manufacture and sale of salt and matches. 
(4) The export of fruit. 

(5) Mewat (waste) lands. 

(6) Companies. 


(g) Measures are being taken to carry out a cadastral 
survey and a settlement of title to land. 


2. It has not been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services and 
utilities. Paea bidet Agency is, however, a large shareholder in 
the Palestine Electric Corporation; and the Palestine Economic 

Orporation of New York, the Directors of which are non- 

donist Jews co-operating with the — Agency, has a con- 
siderable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


104 


3. A complete list of concessions and the names of the 
concession-holders is appended to this report (Appendix III). 


4. The latest balance sheets of the several companies holding 
concessions are furnished as an appendix to this report 
(Appendix 1). 

5. Provisions are made to secure economic equality under 
different headings as follows: — 

(a) Concesstons— 

(xr) All concessions granted by Government for the 
exploitation or development of the natural resources 
of Palestine or public services include time-limit 
clauses, in the interests of genuine and expeditious 
development, affecting the commencement of the work 
and the expiry of the concession. 

(2) Concession rights may not be assigned without 
the consent of Government which may also take over 
undertakings in the event of war or of other similar 
emergency. 

(3) At the end of the term of the concession, the 
undertakings and all their assets and effects revert to 
Government. 

(4) The concessionnaires’ accounts are, by right, open 
to the inspection of Government which may also invest 
in the capital of the Company. 

(5) All leases of State Domain Lands specify the 
right of Government to resume possession of the area— 
wholly or in part—for public utility purposes. 

(6) The employment of local labour by concession- 
naires is adequately safeguarded. 


(6) Land Tenure.—The Palestine Government has re- 
moved the Ottoman prohibition against a foreign corpora- 
tion holding land and has abolished the special Ottoman 
tax upon immovable property owned by corporate bodies. 
All foreign bodies, whether individual or corporate, may 
hold land in Palestine upon the same terms as any Palesti- 
nian individual or corporate person. 

(c) Mining Rights (in particular, Rules in regard to Pro- 
specting).—Economic equality is secured by the provisions 
of the Mining Ordinance, 1925, and the Oil Muning 
Ordinance, 1938 (see paragraph 40 of Chapter XXVI, 
Public Works and Geology), which, inter alia, prevent 
speculative ‘‘ tying-up ’’ of undeveloped mineralised areas 
by prospectors. 

(d) Fiscal Regime (Direct and Indirect Taxation). 


(e) Customs Regulations (Imports, Exports, Transit). 


Note.—For reasons of convenience these two headings are take 
together. 


105 


. There is no economic discrimination either in the Fiscal 
Regime or in the Customs Regulations of Palestine. 

Pnior to the War, certain foreign charitable, religious and 
educational institutions, enjoyed under the Ottoman Law of 
Silhi 1281 A.H. and various firmans, special privileges in 
noes of import duty, State and municipal taxation and 
titles. 

These privileges have been maintained in toto by the 
Palestine Government, but no fresh privileges of this nature 
have been granted. . 

Otherwise foreign nationals are liable to the same taxa- 
tion, State or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. 

Save for slight exceptions, which will disappear in the 
course of time, taxation on immovable property is now of 
two kinds only: — 

(x) The Urban Property Tax, which is a rate on net 
annual value in all towns and is assessed by committees 
on which the public and the Government are repre- 
sented in equal proportion. 3 

(2) The Rural Property Tax, which is a tax per 
dunum of land in all rural areas. 

The Ottoman Law of Professional Tax (Temetiu), which 
was assessed only upon Ottoman subjects and not upon 


foreigners, has not been applied by the Palestine Govern- 
ment. 


6. The Palestine Government has agreed to extend certain 
facilities, including the landing, warehousing and transhipment 
of goods and a certain degree of manipulation, in free zones 
which will be set up in the port of Haifa. These free zones will, 
of course, be under general Governmental control and subject to 
such prohibitions or restrictions as to importation into Palestine 
as are required by inter-national conventions or local needs. 

Officials of the foreign Government concerned will be allowed 
to take charge of all processes within the zones and will be 
granted reasonable concessions in respect of local taxation. 


The Government of Iraq is specially interested in these 
developments. 


7- The Bon Voisinage agreement executed between the High 
Commissioner for Syria and the Lebanon and the High Com- 
missioner for Palestine on the 2nd February, 1926, was amended 
during the year to provide for the collection of taxes imposed by 
the two Governments on estates and properties contained within 
the limits of one village whose lands are crossed by the frontier. 


Notes: 


(x) Owing to the unsettled conditions there was little develop- 
ament in mining during the year. , 


106 


(2) The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was com- 
sieed in 1936 and, with the exception of a few interruptions 
through sabotage of the pipe line or floods, it worked satis- 
factorily during the year. 

(3) Consideration continues to be given to the provision of 
water supplies in the following towns in Palestine, but in each 
case the financial difficulties are serious : — 


Jaffa. Beit Jala. 
Tel Aviv. Ramallah 
Haifa. Bireh. 
Bethlehem. 


(4) An agreement was concluded in 1937 with the concession- 
naires of the Tiberias hot springs under which the springs were 
leased to them for a period of 60 years. 

(5) A topographical and hydrographical survey of Lake Huleh 
basin was carried out in 1936. 

(6) The development of the Dead Sea Concession proceeded 
satisfactorily. 

(7) The Palestine Sulphur Quarries, Ltd., continued work 
during the year, and 1,215 tons of sulphur were produced. 


(8) The Palestine Electric Corporation completed the con- 
struction of a 30,000 kw. steam-driven station at Tel Aviv. 
This station, to a capacity of 24,000 kw. was put into operation 
in August, thereby raising the total installed generating capacity 
of the Corporation’s plants to 76,398 kw. The Corporation 
continued to extend its system steadily, and during the year 265 
plans for transmission and distribution line extensions and seven 
power station and sub-station extensions were approved by 
Government. The total units generated during the year exceeded 
105,000,000 kilowatt-hours. The construction of a transmission 
line to Gaza was completed and the town is now receiving 
electricity from the Corporation’s supply. 


(9) The Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation 
continued to extend and reinforce its transmission and distri- 
bution systems, 22 plans for extensions having been approved 
during the year. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES 


Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem. 


I. Minor repairs to the roof of the Basilica of the Nativity 
at Bethlehem have been undertaken by Government. 

The Orthodox Community have not modified their attitude 
in regard to the incidence of the cost of these repairs, and main- 
tain their claim to pay the whole of the expense involved. 
(See paragraph I on page 102 of the Report for 1937.) In 
pursuance of this claim they decline to contribute towards the 
joint deposit account. 


107 
The annual cleaning of the Basilica was postponed this year 
at the request of the Orthodox Patriarchate. 


A decision has been given by Government in connection with 
the dispute between the Latin and Orthodox Communities re- 
garding the use of certain parts of the Grotto of the Nativity 
on the coincident occasion of the festivals of the Latin Epiphany 
and the Orthodox Christmas. Both communities have submitted 
a formal protest in writing against Government’s decision. 


Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre, Jerusalem. 


2. The Easter ceremonies were celebrated without any 
untoward incidents. 


Government gaye a decision in connection with the dispute 
between the two hereditary Moslem janitors of the Basilica in 
regard to their respective claims: to the exclusive right of seal- 
ing the Tomb on the Orthodox ceremony of the Holy Fire. 
This decision was to the effect that the representatives of both 
families should jointly and simultaneously seal the Tomb. 


The restoration of the mosaics in the Calvary Chapel has 
been completed by the Latin Community. 


The restoration of the Chapel of St. Helena, which was ap- 
proved by the Archaeological Advisory Board in 1931-2 is in 
process of execution by the Armenian Community. This restora- 
tion necessitates inter alia the repairing of the roof and dome 
of the Chapel. The roof and dome form a part of the Deir es 
Sultan, the exclusive ownership of which is claimed by both 
the Coptic and the Abyssinian Communities. In view of this 
standing dispute, in conformity with Article 13 of the Mandate 
and penne ae appointment of the Special Commission en- 
visaged in Article 14, Government will undertake the necessary 
Tepairs from public funds. The Abyssinian Community has 
acquiesced in this decision but the Coptic Community has pro- 
tested and requested that these repairs should be carried out 
by them and at their own cost. 


In view of the dangerous structural condition of the fabric 
Government closed the Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre to the 
public before the Western Easter Week. It was subsequently 
decided to carry out certain urgent repairs at the expense of 
the three principal communities, in order to secure the stability 
of the building pending the consideration of a scheme for its 
permanent restoration. This work is now proceeding. 


E! Haram es Sharif. 


3. A number of minor urgent repairs were executed on various 
other buildings in the precincts of the Haram es Sharif at Jeru- 
salem. (See section on the Supreme Moslem Council in the 
Introductory Chapter, paragraph 47.) 


108 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


1. There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious 
observance throughout Palestine. 


. The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescrip- | 


tions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows:— 


‘* All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of 
conscience, and free exercise of their forms of worship 
subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals. 
Every religious community recognised by the Government 
shall enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs of the com- 
munity sbicct to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order 
issued by the High Commissioner.”’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change 
of religious community is regulated by the Religious Community 
(Change) Ordinance and is directed to secure that there will 
be public notification of the change of legal status which 1s 
involved. 


An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to 
make regulations for the organization of any religious community 
which applies therefor. Separate regulations are to be made 
in each case suited to the special circumstances and organiza- 
tion of the community concerned. The regulations may provide 
for the constitution of councils or boards of the community, 
which shall have juristic personality, and may confer on them 
power to impose contributions and fees for communal purposes 
ea shall be recoverable in the same way as municipal taxes 
and fees. 


The only regulations of this kind which have so far been made 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish ey which 
contain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion 
to Jews who wish to hold aloof from the established community. 


Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, 
so as to allow every labourer to enjoy in freedom of 
conscience, that weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, 
subject to technical exigencies or considerations of emergency; 
and a six-day working week is general in such works. The 
precise method of securing this end depends on the kind of 
work to be done, the period fixed for its completion, the locality 
in which it is to be carried out, and the difficult racial and 
religious elements of the labour employed on it. The matter 
is usually susceptible of adjustment by the District Commis- 
sioner concerned, in consultation with the undertaker or con- 
tractor responsible for the work, and, if need be, with the 
religious head of the community affected. 

There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual craftsmen, 
who can do their work in their own time. 


109 

As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.) undertaken by 
Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours 
to avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour un- 
avoidable to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions 
as might encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All 
Government officers are granted the weekly at of rest observed 
by the religious community to which they belong. But in the 
case of certain departments, such as the Railways, Post and 
Telegraphs, and Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff, the 
racial distribution of technical skill, and the essential continuity, 
for example, of watch and ward duties, entail the consequence, 
in some centres, that some employees shall perform essential 
services on their weekly day of rest. 


2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done 
Py dows and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the 

ailing Wall Order in Council, which was printed in Appendix 
I to the Report for 1931.* 


3. The registration of schools is required by the Department 
of Education and granted subject only to compliance with 
sanitary requirements of the Department of Health. The 
establishment of schools in Palestine by communities or private 
organisations or individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 


The Education Ordinance ensures the rights of communities 
fo maintain their own schools for the education of their own 
members. All teachers are required to register their names and 
certain particulars with the Education Department, but except 
for this formality there is-no restriction on the free exercise of 
the educational profession in a private school, that is, a school 
hot receiving assistance from public funds. Private schools, 
other than those private schools exempted by the High Commis- 
sioner on the ground that only religious instruction is given, are 
subject to inspection by certain officers of the Departments of 
Education a | Health. No changes in the curriculum or internal 
management of a private school established or maintained by 
a oe association may be required by the Department of 

ation. 

The ‘full text of the Education Ordinance was given in 
Appendix I to the 1932 Report. ft 


i A draft Ordinance to amend the existing Fundamental 
AW of the Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem is under con- 
sideration by Government. 


. X!I.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 
estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prisons 
Ice in 1938 was £P.1,034,852. 


. Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial Nc. 75, 1932. 
t Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 82, 1933. 


IIo 


a- ROE Oe Se TTT EL a TT a 








L to | °° “+ seo T 
— |v | °° ao1ares suosiig OE] 
9010,J soOg ey] 


Oo] 4 by a wl woly|/ols ry | & 

Pi) PTELT] ELEL ETS ET IEE 2 lg le ize isle 
2 S. = o z S > ” 2/2 /"1¢ "|e 12] es 
- rae 2 | 3 P/F |: 
= 3 3: 
"9401351449 ‘SUDYStAYS) ‘suDs} 

“$1449 
"SyUDYT 42410 "s40jagsuy "849210 | 





—:Jepun se sem ‘Qf61 ‘Iaquis09q JSIE 9Y} UO YWsUANS OUT 


IIr 


2. Compared with the previous year the establishment of the 
Police Force was increased by the following officers and other 


District Superintendents re oe ar 4 
Financial Assistant... as oes sais I 
Deputy Superintendents ee vat ane 4 
Assistant Superintendents... ve ... 16 
British Inspectors bas iG sie os 35 
Assistant Inspectors ... — oh ue: “ae 
First British Sergeants set be ... I0Qg 
Second British Sergeants... dis ... I8I 
British Constables... sas ae ... 1,569 
Palestinian Corporals ... es A ve 2 
Palestinian Constables aos Ki is 7 


The increases were mainly required for combating the inten- 
sified campaign of sabotage, attacks on individuals, and attacks 
on isolated police stations and posts which started in June; 
and for the rehabilitation and maintenance of security in urban 
areas. 


3. In order to ensure close co-operation between the army 
and the police, the Force was placed under the operational 
control of the General Officer Commanding the British Forces 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan on the 12th September, 1938. 


4. Apart from injuries sustained by personnel in the 
discharge of their duties, the health of the Force was satisfactory 
throughout the year. 


5. One hundred and sixty-two British and 241 Palestinian 
ranks passed the proficiency pay examination. 


6. There were 100 British and 80 Palestinian recruits in train- 
ing at the beginning of the year, 1,177 British and 107 Palestinian 
recruits were accepted during the year, and of these 1,119 
British and 168 Palestinians were posted to districts. 


7. In the higher language examination 47 British personnel 
passed in Arabic and nine in Hebrew; and in the lower language 
examination 107 passed in Arabic and 42 in Hebrew. 


8. Twelve new wireless telephony stations were put into 
service during the year in the northern frontier and adjoining 
police posts. Twelve vehicles of the police force fleet were 
equipped with transmitting and/or receiving apparatus, making 
a total of 20 vehicles so Fitted, 


g. The number of messages dealt with by the wireless tele- 
graphy service is rapidly increasing in volume, and the main- 
tenance of the service for the purpose of public security has now 
become a vital necessity. Over three and a half million words 
were handled during the year, in addition to wireless telephonic 


IIZ 


work. The large volume of traffic was due primarily to the 
general reliability and certainty of wireless as compared with the 
overhead telephone trunks which are subject to sabotage. 


to. Although the holding of first-aid instructional classes was 
interrupted by the state of the country, the number of personnel 
who qualified in first-aid tests held by the Order of St. John of 
Jerusalem showed an increase over 1937, being 172 as compared 
with 84. 

On numerous occasions throughout the year first aid was ren- 
dered by members of the Force to wounded and injured members 


of the public, and in many cases it was instrumental in saving 
life. 


11. Road Traffic.—Vehicular traffic declined in volume during 
the second half of 1938 owing to restrictions which it was neces- 
sary to impose in view of the intensified campaign of violence 
throughout the country. 


During the last six months of the year the control of traffic 
was practically abandoned as public security demanded the 
employment of every available police officer on duties connected 
with the suppression of disorder and the defence of Government 
property. 

The number of accidents on roads showed a slight decrease 
over last year. The following is a comparative table: 

1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Fatal road accidents ... 153 129 105 97 
General accidents wes = «1,527 1,109 1,126 950 


12. Crime.—At the beginning of the year the Criminal Inves- 
tigation Department was considerably expanded and subsidiary 
branches were formed in all districts. In the principal towns of 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel Aviv and Haifa, British Assistant Super- 
intendents of Police were posted to the district Criminal Inves- 
tigation Departments. 


13. District Criminal Investigation Departments now work 
directly under the Deputy Inspector General (C.I.D.) but main- 
tain close liaison with the officer in charge of the district in re- 
gard to all matters of intelligence affecting that district. 


14. It is the intention that under this system district Criminal 
Investigation Departments, apart from providing experts for the 
investigation and prosecution of important cases, shall be 
capable of taking independent and immediate action on infor- 
mation obtained. 


15. The expansion of the Criminal Investigation Department 
included the establishment of small police posts consisting of 
British personnel at places of entry on the frontiers. 


113 


The Criminal Investigation Department is under the command 
of a Deputy Inspector General, and the staff consists of one Dis- 
tnct Superintendent, five Deputy Superintendents, thirteen 
Assistant Superintendents, 38 Inspectors, two Assistant Inspec- 
tors, 107 non-commisioned officers and 306 constables. 


The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are to 
prevent and detect crime by the collection of information and 
evidence and by investigation in collaboration with the district 
police; to watch and report upon political movements; to re- 
press seditious activities; to maintain criminal records, finger- 
prints and photographs; to examine the regular organs of the 
Press and seaicaal pamphlets with a view to action in case 
of seditious, inflammatory or pornographic articles; to prevent 
the smuggling of arms, drugs and the entry of illegal immi- 
grants; to scrutinize applications for naturalization, to arrange 
deportations and eeatitions to maintain liaison with aUUNa 
priate departments and authorities in Egypt, Syria, Trans- 
Jordan, India, ‘Iraq, Cyprus and Europe; and to maintain the 
Closest appreciation of the state of public security from the 
political and criminal points of view. 


16. In a year which was in most respects highly abnormal 
there car. be no common basis of comparison between crime 
statistics for 1938 and those of the previous years, especially as 
a large number of offences which in ordinary times would be 
tned summarily became, under the Defence Regulations, indict- 
able offences. As the result, the figures for 1938 show a con- 
siderable increase in the number of indictable offences and a 
corresponding decrease in non-indictable offences. 


























ra 1934. I935: 1936. 1937. 
Indictable offences ... ee 2,172 1,753 3,971 2,653 
Non-indictable offences... 8,454 | 10,525 | 11,502 | 14,399 
Crime :— 
Murder and Manslaughter 109 115 254 192 
Attempted murder — 122 II5 508 250 
Robbery ... a er 32 32 122 221 
Theft by breaking into 
premises ae oP 337 858 1,194 935 
Animal theft ... —... 499 393 463 543 
Agrarian offences... my 425 443 688 439 






Police dogs continued to give valuable service in the detection 
of crime. The dog section of the force was expanded. Two 
more trained dogs and four trained bitches were purchased 

nng the year. One more dog and bitch were also under 
aati the end of the year. Two dogmasters from the South 
Africa Police were seconded to Palestine for the purpose of 


114 


organizing and assisting in police dog work. A dog unit was 
established in northern Palestine at Affula and new buildings 
and quarters were constructed there. The opening of this unit 
greatly increased the efficiency of the section. Dogs can now 
arrive at the scene of a crime in any part of the country within 
two hours of being requisitioned. Out of a total number of 183 
cases in which dogs were employed during the year, they were 
successful in 59 cases. 


17. One person was extradited from Palestine to Syria and 
six to Trans-Jordan. Ten were extradited from Syria, eight 
from Trans-Jordan, two from French Morocco and one from 
Cyprus. 


18. Criminal Records Office.—The Criminal Records and 
Fingerprint Bureau now holds 52,147 dossiers of convicted 
criminals: 3,978 were opened during 1938. Fingerprint iden- 
tification slips received for search numbered 8,741 and in 2,471 
cases previous convictions were traced. In seventeen cases 
criminals were directly identified from fingerprints left on the 
scene of crimes. 


Work proceeded during the year in the classification and filing 
of individual fingerprints of habitual burglars and housebreakers. 
There are now 3,600 prints classified and indexed. 


During the year, 2,463 Arabs and 80 Jews were detained 
under the Defence Regulations or the Prevention of Crime 
Ordinance for various periods. 


19. Communism.—Communist activity continued to engage 
police attention and surveillance. Of eight communists prose- 
cuted, six were convicted and two acquitted; 53 were dealt with 
under the Defence Regulations, seven were deported and one 
left of his own accord and was prohibited from returning. Thir- 
teen orders of exclusion of undesirables were made during the 
year. 


20. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners was satisfactory. 


At the end of the year there were 27 inmates in the criminal 
lunatic section and fourteen prisoners under treatment in the 
tubercular ward of the Central Prison at Acre. 


Sixty-one prisoners escaped from central prisons, jail labour 
companies and lock ups, of whom 12 were recaptured. 


Under the Penal Labour Ordinance, 3,266 prisoners were re- 
leased and employed on work of public utility. No wages were 
paid to them for this work. The figure shows a decrease of 
2,209 aS compared with the previous year. 


The convicts in the central prisons are employed on carpentry, 
basket-making, tailoring, weaving, printing, black-smithy, shoe- 
making and the repair of mail bags. The prisoners receive no 
payment for their work. 


1I5 


The number of prisoners in custody on the 31st December, 
1938, was as follows: — 








Detained under 
vegulations made 
Convicted. Awaited under the Palestine 
trial. (Defence) Order 
an Council. 
Central Prison, Jerusalem 332 gI 6 
Central Prison, Acre re 380 49 137 
Jail Labour ta ag No. I, 

Nur-Esh-Shams . : 329 — — 
Female Prison se ; 31 2 4 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups 18 5 103 
Southern District Lock-ups 27 57 24 
Gaza District Lock-ups ... 6 38 I 
Northern District Lock-ups 14 59 3 
Nablus District Lock-ups ... 40 189 34 
Nazareth District Lock-ups 12 10 20 
Frontier District Lock-ups... 9 — 6 
Acre Detention Camp Ses 47 — 824 
Athlit Detention Camp .... 26 — 269 
Sarafand Detention Camp... 2 — 424 

Totals ... i 1,273 500 1,855 








The distribution of sentences was as follows: debtors, 8; up 
to three months, 114; three to twelve months, 155; one to five 
eae 443; five to fifteen years, 460; over fifteen years, 17; 

a 74; capital punishment, 2. 
During the year, 1,297 debtors were imprisoned as compared 
with 1,258 in the previous year. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


21. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force including 
a reserve at the 31st December, 1938 was 1,177 made up as 
ollows : — 





























% 
g | § | 
N ~ d K S 
clea 33 
‘a n % . 
2) 2)] 8] 6)/88! § |] 
Sj} 2/8 | BI] SS; FS 
= S S XS 1G Q w 
Officers... e 12 — I 58 
Warrant Officers — a2 _ 7 
N.C.Os. and 
Troopers 384 41 20 | 946 
Totals ... 396 41 21 | 1,011 
Reserve Officers... — — — I 
Reserve N.C.Os. 
and Men 102 — 6] 165 
Grand Totals ... 498 41 27 |1,177 





116 


22. Recruits enlisted during the year numbered 214, of whom 
14% were Circassians; 40 Arab Christians; 26 Arab Moslems; 
4 Jews; and 3 Egyptians and Sudanese. 


23. Ninety men were discharged on termination of contract 
or otherwise, and 20 of these enrolled in the reserve. One 
hundred and ninety-two other ranks, time-expired, have been 
re-engaged for a further period. One man deserted from the 
Force and another was tried by Court Martial. 


24. Regulations governing the award to members of the 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force of a Long Service and Good 
Conduct Medal were enacted during the year. 


25. Ihe general health of the Force was good. Four hundred 
and sixty-seven cases were treated in the Frontier Force hospitals 
and seven in Government and other hospitals. 


The incidence of malaria was high. There were 246 cases, 
132 of which were primary cases. This comparatively large 
number is due to the fa¢t that the troops have been performing 
constant patrol work during the year in the highly malarious 
area of the Jordan valley. 


26. All units of the Force were a ed on active operations 
and in aid of the Civil Power in Palestine, and to a lesser 
degree in Trans-Jordan throughout the year. : 


27. Owing to active operations, it was only possible to carry 
out cadre classes of instruction, recruit training, and the annual 
musketry course. The programme of co-operational training 
with the Royal Air Force was carried out only in part. Four 
tactical exercises only were held in the Northern and Southern 
Districts. Collective training had to be cancelled owing to the 
situation in Palestine. 


28. The annual courses for rifles, machine guns, and light 
automatics again revealed a satisfactory standard in weapon 
training. 


29. The progress of educational classes was satisfactory at the 
beginning of the year but later, however, owing to the situation 
in Palestine the classes were much depleted. 


The educational standard of personnel in the Force is as 
follows : — 

rst Class. 2nd Class. 3rd Class. Ilittevates. Total. 
: 30 274 283 253 840 

In addition, there are 113 well educated personnel including 
43 who command foreign languages. 


Thirty-nine soldiers passed examinations to a higher grade 
during the year. 





117 
Of the 214 recruits enlisted during the year— 


20 were well educated prior to joining the Force. 
6 had a knowledge of a foreign language. 

I passed 1st class examination. 

20 passed 2nd class examination. 

92 passed 3rd class examination. 

75 are illiterate. 


Iwo classes in English have been formed for local officers 
and senior non-commissioned officers and for signal personnel 
whose knowledge of English is below the standard required. 

Three British Officers passed the Army preliminary examina- 
tion in Arabic. 

30. Owing to the disturbances in Palestine the Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force Reserve was mobilised as a reinforcement and 
took over guard and camp duties thereby releasing nearly all 
Regulars for employment on active service. 

During the year the following mobilisation orders for 
reservists were issued :— 


In March eee ‘eis sei 58 were called up. 
In June bea bine ee 62 were called up. 
In September Sis os 51 were called up. 


A further three troopers were embodied on discharge from 
Colour service and transferred to the Reserve. 

Out of a total of 174 reservists, 163 have served with the 
Force since they were called up and this number remained 
embodied at the end of the year. 


31. The approved estimates of expenditure of the Force for 
the financial year 1938-9 amount to £P.257,927 including 
£,P.38,905 for extraordinary works and the approved grant-in- 
aid from the Imperial Government amounts to £P.187,000. 


32. The animal strength on 31st December, 1938, was four 
hundred and seventy-four horses and eleven mules. During 
the year, 79 remounts were purchased in Trans-Jordan and 
Palestine, the average price paid was £P.27. 

The health of the horses has been good throughout the year. 


33- Horse Breeding Scheme.—The Force now possesses— 


Three thoroughbred Arab stallions ; 
Four country-bred Arab stallions ; 
Nine specially selected mares ; 
Sixteen Yearlings. 


As in previous years, the country-bred stallions and mares 
have been with squadrons doing ordinary troop work. 
_During the year, 300 mares belonging to the Arab Legion, 
civilians and tribes, were served. 
The popularity of the breeding scheme continues, and 
demands by Mukhtars of villages and Sheiks of tribes for horses 
to stand at stud are increasing. 


34. Thirty-three 1314” Chevrolet trucks and three Ford V.8 
Station wagons were ordered during the year. 
15774 E 


118 


Xil.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 


AND TREATIES. 


CA) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syria 


Egypt 
‘Iraq 


Syria 


Syria... 
Trans- Jordan 


Egypt 
Egypt 
Egypt 


France 


France 
Great Britain 


Greece 
‘Iraq oe 
Switzerland 


Palestine. 


(1) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum... 


Amendment 


Date of Signature. 


7.8.22, Ramleh. 
11.7.21, Palestine. 
15.7-21, Syria. 
10.1.24, Palestine. 
28.1.24, Syria. 
11.9.33, Palestine. 


23.9.33, Syria. 


(11) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Agreement to facilitate commer- 
cial relations between Egypt 
and Palestine. 

Exchange of Notes ee 

Special Customs Agreement to 
facilitate commercial relations 
between ‘Iraq and Palestine, 
Exchange of Notes 14.12. i 

Customs Agreement ie 


Amendment 
Transit Agreement _ 


(111) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Convention concerning the Re- 
ciprocal Enforcement of Judg- 
ments. 

Agreement concerning the Meas- 
ures to be applied for the Con- 
trol of Dengue Fever. 

Arrangements for the Transit of 
Palestinian Pilgrims through 
Egyptian Territory. 

Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of Palestine 
on the one part and by France 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

Parcel Post Agreement ... ies 

Agreement between the _ Post 
Office of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Ireland and 
the Post Office of Palestine for 
the Exchange of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement : 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement 


18.8.36 
(Effective date). 


18.8.36. 


14.2.37 
(Effective date). 


4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 
22.10.35, Jerusalem. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 

Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


28.12.33, Cairo. 
(Effective date). 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 
14.3.27, Jerusalem. 
21.3.27, Beirut. 
21.10.38, Jerusalem. 
3.11.38, Beirut. 
31.3.36/19.6.36 
10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


13.3.36/28.3.36. 
29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 


119 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 
Syria... 
Syria 
Syria 
Syria... 
Syria... 
Syria and the 

Lebanon. 
Syria... 
Syria 
Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Palestine—cont. 


Name. 
Agreement concerning the Im- 
portation of Antiquities. 
Agreement to provide for the Dis- 
tribution of certain Receipts 
from Animal Tax. 
Parcel Post Agreement 


Money Orders Agreement — 
Agreement regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 
Agreement for the Reciprocal 
Grant of Gratis Visas. 
Agreement relating to the Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 
Agreement to facilitate the move- 
ment of certain animals from 
one territory into the other for 


purposes of grazing and watering. 


Agreement relating to the Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Convey- 
ance of Corpses from Palestine 
for Burial in Trans-Jordan and 
from Trans-Jordan for Burial 
in Palestine 

Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to Regulate the Service 
of Judicial Documents between 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


United States of Convention regarding the Rights 


America. 


of the Government and Nation- 
als of the United States of 
America in Palestine. 


(ui) OTHER AGREEMENTS—cont. 


Date of Signature. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 

Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 
17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 


20.8.32, Jerusalem. 
5.9.32, Beirut. 
18.9.35, Jerusalem. 


2.10.37, Jerusalem. 
2.10.38 (Renewed 
for one year). 


16.6.38 

(Effective date). 
25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 
1.10.29. 


16.7.34 (Amended 

24.8.35/1.9.35)- 
28.11.34, Amman. 
13.12.34, Jerusalem. 

Amended. 

11.4.38, Amman, 
30.4.38, Jerusalem. 
3.12.24. 


CB) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


International Convention prohibiting the Use of 
White (Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufac- 
ture of Matches. 

International Convention relative to the Protec- 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Opium Convention and _ subse- 
quent relative papers. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copy- 
right Convention signed at Berlin on the 


13.11.08. 
15774 


Date of Date of 
Name. Signature. Accession. 
26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
Berne. 
13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
Berlin. 
23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
The Hague. 
20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
Berne. 
E2 


120 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and 


Name. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navi- 
gable Waterways of International Concern. 
Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- 

national Concern. 

Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 
matters). 

International Convention relating to the Simpli- 
fication of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Railways and Protocol of Signature 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electric Power and Protocol of 
Signature. 

international Agreement as to Contagious 
Disease of Animals. 


International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Ex- 
ploration of the Mediterranean Sea. 

International Convention for the unification of 
certain rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 


Convention relating to the Regulations of Aerial 
Navigation and Additional Protocol of May, 
1920. 

International Convention relating to Inter- 
national Exhibitions. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 


International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protec- 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of 
Foreign Arbitral Awards. 


Conventions—cont. 
Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.2, 9.10.22. 
Barcelona. (Ratification). 
12.9.23, 23.5-27. 
Geneva. 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
Geneva. 
3.11.23, 29.8.24. 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
25.1.24, 13.7.27. 
Paris. 
21.6.26, 9.10.28. 
Paris. 
26.4.29, 19.12.29. 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31. 
Brussels. (Effective 
date). 
24.4.26, 4.12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date). 
13.10.19. 11.7.22 
(Effective 
date). 
22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
Paris. 
19.2.25, 25.9.28 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 26.5.31. 
Geneva. 


I21I 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and 


Name. 


International Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick 
in Armies in the Field. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of 
the Traffic in Women and Children. 

International Agreement regarding False Indica- 
tions of Origin on Goods. 


International Convention for the Protection of 
Industrial Property. 


European Broadcasting Convention 


International Convention for Mutual Protection 
against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for Sanitary Control 
of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


Universal Postal Convention 


Agreement concerning Insured Letters and 
Boxes. 

Convention for the Unification of certain rules 
relating to International Carriage by Air. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connection with Bills of Exchange 
and Promissory Notes. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Cheques. 


International Convention relating to Taxation 
of Foreign Motor Cars. 
International Convention for the Regulation of 
g. 


Conventions—cont. 
Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
27.7.29, 23.6.31. 
Geneva. (Ratification) 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
18.5.04, 6.5.32 
Paris. (Effective 
4.5.10, date). 
Paris. 


30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 
Geneva. 


6.11.25 12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 
6.11.25, 12.9.33 
The Hague. (Effective 
date). 
19.6.33, 15.1.34 
Lucerne. (Effective 
date). 
25-7-34 3-535: 
Athens. 
12.4.33, 1.8.35. 
The Hague. 
9.12.32, 24.5.35- 
Madrid. 
20. 3-34, 1.1.35. 
Cairo. 
20.3-.34,; 1.1.35. 
Cairo. 
12.10.29, 3.3-35- 
Warsaw. 
7.6.30, 16,10.36. 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
19.3.3I, 16.10.36. 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
30.3.31. 29.4.36. 
24.9.31, 17.2.37 
Geneva. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
~ Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Date of Signature. 


Between United King- 22.7.26 
dom and Albania 


26.6.1901 
Belgium . 29.10.01 ... 
Belgian Congo 5.3.97, 
poems 318.23 and 
2.7.28 
15774 


Date of Application. 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


E 3 


I22 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine—cont. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of Application. 
Bolivia ... 22.2.1892 18.2.28. 
Chile 26.1.1897 13.1.28. 
Colombia 27.10.1888 5.12.30 (Effective date). 
2.12.29. 
Cuba 3.10.1904 12.12.31(Effective date). 
17.4-.1930. 
Czechoslovakia II.11.24, ze 15.7.27. 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Denmark 31.3.1873 esd 10.2.28. 
Ecuador 20.9.1880 19.1.28. 
Estonia 18.11.25 ... 10.3.27. 
Finland... 30.5.24 25.11.26. 
Germany 14.5.1872 and 17.8.30 (Effective date). 
10.12.1928. 
Greece ... 24.9.10 19.4.28. 
Guatemala wes 4-7-1885 ... I1.9.29. 
Hayti .) 712.1874 13.1.28. 
Hungary .. 3.12.1873 and 25.4.28. 
26.6.1901. 
18.9.1936. 
‘Iraq 2.5.1932 ... 15.6.33 (Effective date). 
Latvia ... 16.7.24 7.6.26. 
Liberia ... 15.12.1892 16.10.28. 
Lithuania 18.5.26 29.3.27 (Ratification). 
Monaco 17.12.91 and 5-7.31 (Effective date). 
27.11.30. 
Netherlands 26.9.1898 27.1.28. 
Nicaragua 19.4.1905 12.1.28. 
Norway 26.6.1873 13.12.29. 
18.2.1907. 
Panama 25.8.1906 24.1.28. 
Paraguay 12.9.1908 16.1.28. 
Peru... 26.1.1904 16.1.28. 
Poland 11.1.1932 12.3.34 (Effective date). 
Portugal 17.10.1892 23.6.34 (Effective date). 
20.1.1932. 
Roumania 21.3.1893 II.1.29. 
San Marino ... 16.10.1899 19.7.34 (Effective date), 
San Salvador ... 23.6.1881 ... 8.8.30 (Effective date). 
Siam 4.3-I9II ... . 27.2.28. 
Spain 4.6.1878 and 13.2.28. 
19.2.1889. 
Switzerland 26.11.1880 19.9.29. 
29.6.1904. 
19.12.34. 
United States of 22.12.31 ... 24.6.35. 
America. 
Yugoslavia 6.12.1900 1.11.28. 


In cana to ties countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 
list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has been applied to the following 
countries :— 

Argentine. Mexico. 
France, Tunis. 


Italy. Uruguay. 


tye 


wt 


ne 


a 


123 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Date of 
Country. Name. A pplication, 
Between the 
United King- 
dom and 
Bulgaria Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.29. 
12.11.25. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23... ws 5.6.25. 
Egypt Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.30, 11.6.30. 
Cairo. 
Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of... 16/19.2.33. 
Prolongation until 16.2.38 by Notes of... 13/14.2.37. 
Finland ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.26. 
14.12.33. 
Finland ... Convention regarding the Suppression of 13.10.33. 
Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 
into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 
Germany Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.26. 
2.12.24, London. 
Greece Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 21.6.29, 
of Origin, 21.6.29. 5-7-29 
(Effective 
date). 
Greece Treaty of Commerce and Nawigation, 23.3-27. 
16.7.26. 
Hungary... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 9.7.29. 
23.7.206. 
Japan Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.6.30. 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 
Latvia Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.24. 
22.6.23, London. 
Lithuania Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 24.4.23. 
tions 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 
Exchange of Notes 28.11/10.12, 1929, 10.12.29. 
modifying this Agreement. 
Netherlands Trade Agreement, Exchange of Notes, 1.1.36. 
18.11.35, London. 
Panama ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2/19.9.32. 
P 25.9.28. 
oland Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.24. 
26.11.23. 
P Trade Agreement, 27.2.1935 24.7.35- 
ortugal Notes on Flag Discrimination in Portu- 14.10.33. 
Spai guese Ports, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 
Pain Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.31. 
Spai Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 
aa Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.28. 
Waion 31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 
Africas South Commercial Agreement, 30.8.35, Pretoria 
: Supplementary Agreement, 10.3.36, Cape >1.7.35. 
Yugoslavia Town. 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.28. 
12.5.27. 
15774 E4 


124 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Name. 


Belgium ... ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
21.6.22, London. 

Belgium ... ... Supplementary Convention regarding 
Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 4.11.32, Brussels. 

Czechoslovakia ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.11.24. 

Czechoslovakia ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
15.2.35, Prague. 

Denmark ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
29.11.32, London. 

Estonia ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
22.12.31, London. 


Finland ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.8.33, London. 
France ... ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
2.2.22, London. 
Extension to French Colonies and Terri- 
tories under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 


1.8.33. 

Germany _,.. Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
20.3.28. 

Hungary ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 


in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
25-9.35, Budapest. 

Italy... ... Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certifi- 
cates and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 
25.1.29. 

Italy si ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
17.12.30, London. 


Italy bas ... Notes respecting Documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.3r, London. 
Lithuania ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 


in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
24.4.34, Kovno. 


Netherlands .... Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 

Netherlands  ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 


in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
31.5.32, London. 


Date of 
A pt lication. 
13.3.25 
(Effective 
date). 
27.6.35 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 
date). 
5:1.37 
(Effective 
Date). 
27-3-34. 
(Effective 
date). 
11.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
27.6.35 
(Effective 
date). 
22.3.23 
(Effective 
date). 
20.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
25.11.29 
(Effective 
date). 
25.60.37) 
(Effective 
Date). 


11/25.8.30. 


25.8.32 
(Effective 
date). 


13.4.31. 


29.6. 37 
(Effective 
Date). 

1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 

23-5-34 
(Effective 
date). 


2 ee 


125 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine—cont. 


Date of 


Country. Name. | Application. 
Norway ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 14.11.31 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
30.1.31, London. date). 
Poland ... . Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 17.10.32 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
26.8.31, Warsaw. date). 
Portugal Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 30.4.33 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
9.7.31 London. date). 
Spain . Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 23.2.31 
in Civik and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
27.6.29, London. date). 
Sweden .., .° Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 23.2.31 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
28.8.20, London. date). 
Other Treaties concluded in 1938 which apply to Palestine. 
Yugoslavia . Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 20.11.38 
in Civil and Commercial Matters (Effective 
date). 


Xiil.—ANTIQUITIES. 


I. During the year licences were issued for archaeological ex- 


cavations, soundings or clearances at the following sites: — 


(a) Tell esh Shunt, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(b) Tell al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), by Mr. Gordon Loud 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(c) Khirbet Minyeh, by Dr. Puttrich-Reignard for the 
Goerres-Gesellschaft, Freiburg, and the Islamic Depart- 
ment of the Berlin State Museum. 

(2) Khalasa, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly for the British 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(e) Tell el-‘Ajjul, by Dr. Margaret Murray and Dr. Ernest 
Mackay for the British School of Egyptian Archaeology. 

(f) Tell Duweir, by Mr. Charles Inge for the Wellcome- 
ies Archaeological Research Expedition to the Near 

ast. 

(2) Latrun, by Mr. P. L. O. Guy for the British School 
of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

h) Balata, near Nablus, by Professor E. Sellin and Dr. 
Steckeweh for the German State Institute of Archaeology. 

(t) Sheikh Abreik, by Dr. B. Maisler for the Jewish 
alestine Exploration Society. 

(j) Isbeita, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly for the British School 


of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 


126 


(k) Ain Karem, Church of the Visitation, by the Reverend 
Father B. Bagatti for the Custodia di Terra Santa. 


(1) Bethlehem, Ard el Baten, by Miss D. M. A. Bate for 
the Wellcome-Marston Archaeological Research Expedition 
to the Near East. 

(m) ‘Auja el Hafir, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly for the 
British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(n) Khirbet al-‘Uraimeh, by Dr. Herman Junker for the 
Goerres-Gesellschaft. 


2. Excavations by the Department of Antiquities were con- 
tinued at the Citadel in Jerusalem and at Khirbet el Mefjir, near 
Jericho. In addition, some research has been undertaken into 
the history of the North Wall of Jerusalem and the Damascus 
Gate. 


A number of registered historical sites have been demarcated 
in connection with land settlement. 


3. The Palestine Archaeological Museum was opened to the 
public on 13th January, 1938. The portions opened were the 
tower hall, south gallery, students’ gallery, south and north 
octagons and south room, including the exhibitions of the Stone 
and Bronze Ages, Greek and Roman sculpture and coins of 
Palestine, together with special temporary exhibitions of the 
Samaria ivories, Hebrew epigraphic material, the Megiddo gold 
and ivory hoard, and the Omayyad sculpture and architecture 
from the Department’s own excavations at Khirbet el Mefjir, 
A sale desk was installed in the Tower Hall where all the 
Department’s publications can be _ purchased, including 
specially prepared series of postcards, and the maps issued by 
the Department of Surveys. Considering the disturbed state 
of Palestine the attendance of the public for the first five months 
of the year was satisfactory. By May the number of visitors 
was approching 1,500 a month. Later, however, the number 
of visitors decreased until October when the museum had to be 
occupied by the military forces and closed entirely to the public 
for two weeks. Under the circumstances many of the projects 
which would normally have been put in hand during the first 
year after opening have inevitably been postponed. The 
unpacking and preliminary sorting of material from the im- 
mediate post war years were completed by the end of the year. 


2,150 new acquisitions were inventoried. 


The detailed card catalogue was continued. All antiquities 
in the students’ gallery, i.e., of the Stone and Bronze Ages, 
were so catalogued, and many of those selected for exhibition 
in the north gallery and north octagon, i.e., of the Iron Age 
and later periods. Work was commenced on the subject 


127 


catalogue, i.e., a second version of the card catalogue but 
arranged according to periods, types and forms instead of 
inventory numbers. 

Shelf cards were prepared for the galleries which have been 
arranged. They provide, for the convenience of staff and 
students working in the offices, an index of the objects on every 
shelf and in every drawer in those galleries. 

An illustrated pamphlet was issued advising visitors how 
best to use the museum (a) if they can come once only; (b) if 
they can pay repeated visits. 

A beginning was made with the repair of the mosaics which 
have been lifted and brought to the museum from time to 
time, and with their preparation for exhibition. For this 
purpose the services of a mosaic expert were obtained. 

The Keeper visited museums and excavations in Synia, 
Turkey, Greece and Cyprus in order to keep in touch with the 
most recent work being done in those countries, particularly 
in the prehistoric and classical periods, and for purposes of 
research. 


4. During 1938 205 books—excluding periodicals—com- 
prising 273 volumes—have been acquired, of which 22 have 
been presented. Among the principle acquisitions were Prisse 
d’Avennes, L’art Arabe and the volumes so far published of 
Pope’s Survey of Persian Art. 

Thirteen periodicals have been added to the number of those 
regularly received. Six of these were obtained by exchange 
against the Quarterly. The total number of periodicals re- 
ceived in that way is one hundred and five. 


1,569 books have been borrowed by members of the staff, 
833 by the public. 
All catalogues have been brought up to date. 


5. Work on the records collection has been continued, includ- 
ing new entries on sites discovered during the year and new 
material on sites already known. Twenty-five volumes have 
been added to the collection which now contains 123 volumes 
on Palestine and 8 on Trans- Jordan. 


A new schedule of historical sites and monuments is being 
prepared, to replace the schedule published in 1929. Work on 
the general bibliography for all Palestinian sites has been 
continued. A classified subject index to records has been pre- 
pared for the entries under A. (16 volumes); the index is on 
the loose-leaf card system and includes photographs of the 
objects indexed. 


6. Volume VII (1937) and Volume VIII (1938) of the 
Quarterly have been published. Volume IX is in the press. 


128 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


1. The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance 
with Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows: — 


‘* All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of 
the Government and all official notices of local authorities 
and municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the 
High Commissioner, shall be published in English, Arabic 
and Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates 
and discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to 
any regulations to be made from time to time, in the 
Government offices and the Law Courts.”’ 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to 
the use of English, Arabic, and Hebrew in the Law Courts was 
more exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows : — 


‘“In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a tn- 
lingual area, every process, every Official copy of a 
judgment, and every official document shall be issued 1n the 
language of the person to whom it is addressed, and 
written and oral pleadings shall be conducted in any of the 
three official languages. The Legal Secretary may from 
time to time issue rules* restricting the languages of pleading 
in any Court or class of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 

‘‘In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court 
shall, and in any other area may, accept a declaration and 
register a document in any of the three official languages.”’ 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, 
Haifa and Jaffa, and also the District of Jaffa and the Sub- 
Districts of Tiberias and Safad. The recognition of the three 
languages in the Courts involves some complication in the 
hearing of cases, and occasionally trials are protracted. The 
rules have, however, on the whole worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occuring in certain aegis tase colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and 
committees, and departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic and Hebrew. 


4. Arabic and Hebrew characters continued to be used in 
transmitting inland telegrams. 


* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


129 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognized as holy days by the 
various communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix II 
to this Report. 


2. During the examination of the Annual Report for 1937, the 
Permanent Mandates Commission requested that the correspond- 
ing Christian dates should be added to the tables of holy days. 
These dates have been shown in the tables as they occurred 
during the year 1938; but it should be explained that they vary 
each year according to the Moslem and Jewish calendars. The 
ar now given cannot therefore be ‘regarded as annually 
uniform. 


XViI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
See separate section on Trans-Jordan, page 307. 


XVii.—LABOUR. 


1. The international labour conventions applied to Palestine 
are set out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 


1933. 


2. Since January, 1938, statistics of the number of persons 
on pay rolls, the number of man-days of employment afforded 
during each month and the amounts of pay rolls have been 
collected by the Government Statistician from 15 employing 
departments of the Government, from 24 municipal corporations 
and from 339 private manufacturers, each employing ten or 
more labourers, in twelve different branches of industry. The 
present investigation covers about 50,000 ae with a2 
total pay roll of about £P.300,000 a month. The recorded 
totals of these items, together with index numbers, are published 
ina monthly employment and pay rolls bulletin. 


The present sample of employment is not sufficiently repre- 
sentative to -be taken as adequately illustrating the general 
employment situation of the country. For one thing, employ- 
ment by Government is at present over-represented in the 
sample; for another, private employment is defective in that 
it does not cover the important building industry, or the road 
fransport industry, or employment in trading and financial 
institutions. The lack of statistics of employment in the building 
industry causes the sample to be heavily weighted with the 
more stable manufacturing undertakings, and the published 
figures for the first nine months of 1938 are remarkable for 

€ stability they reveal rather than for any violent fluctuations. 
tis hoped to include in the bulletin statistics in respect of the 

§ and transport industries in the near future. 


130 


Employment by Government departments showed a sharp 
rise in March, the last month of the financial year, followed 
by an even greater drop in April. Thereafter there was a 
gradual rise. In September, the index of man-days worked 
(January =100), which had reached 114 in March and declined 
to 95:2 in April, had risen to 103-4. The monthly average 
number of persons given employment in the so-called employing 
departments of Government was 26,815 during the first nine 
months of the year. The fluctuations in total municipal employ- 
ment revealed by the returns are not very wide, the total 
number of persons given employment in each month remaining 
in the vicinity of 5,000. The index of man-days worked in 
municipal employment (daily average) reached its peak in 
June, at 111:2. There was a high point in March (104-0) 
followed by a fall to 96-1 in April, this figure being the lowest 
of the year. 


The reporting private manufacturers employed a monthly 
average of 16,295 persons during the first nine months of the 
year. On the whole their reports indicate a falling off m 
employment during that period. The index of man-days worked 
per day (January=100), remained in the vicinity of roo until 
May, fell thereafter by about ten per cent., and in September 
stood at 88-8. The individual groups, textiles and leather, 
showed higher figures in September than in January; printing 
and stone crushing showed declines of about ten per cent. The 
greatest decline of all was in wood-working where the index 
in September stood at 69:3. The following table gives the 
index numbers of daily average man-days worked in the twelve 
industrial groups during the period February-September, 1938 
(January=100). The daily average of man-days is derived by 
dividing the total number of man-days worked during the month 
by the total number of days in the month; the index is therefore 
not corrected for rest days and holidays which vary from one 
community to another. 





Index number of datly average man-days worked 
(January 1938 = 100.) 





Industry. 
Feb Mar Apr May 

Food ... ... | 105°7 | 109-1 | 93°4 | 88-6 : ; | 87°5 
Tobacco ae 92:6 | 105:0 | 101-3 | IoI:2 . . “I 89°8 
Textiles ... | 127°3 | 148-8 | 150°5 | 156°7 : . -5 | 103°3 
Clothing ... | 113°9 | 129°9 | 132°3 | 128°4] I11°9 | 94°5 | 87°7 | 8g°1 
Metal ... ... | 103°8 | 93:5 | 97°0| 94°9| 86:8 | 80°6| 81-6] 76:1 
Wood ... | 107° | 98-9 | 77°! 75°4 77°1 66°3 | 67°5 | 60°3 
Leather ... | 122-3 | 137°9 | 153°4 | 148°5 | 100-0 | 84:5 | 100-0 | 108-7 
Printing we. | L00°2 99'7 96°5 94°90 | 92:6} 91°6| 93:9 | 97°5 
Paper and 

stationery ... | 101°8 | 106°5 | 95°3 | 106°0 | 101-8 | 87-7 | 1024] 92°4 
Chemicals... |] 95°3 | 105°8 83°7 | 105'1 80:5 | 74:8 | 83-6 | 85*4 
Stone, etc. ... | 104°8 | I100°4 95°4 96:4 86-8 83-2 93°4 | 98-0 
Miscellaneous 102°0 89:2 99°4 99°7 96:2 93°3 92°9 go'5 





131 


3. The establishment of a revised index of cost of living, 
to include rent and clothing as well as food and fuel, is stil 
under consideration, but the family budget enquiry predicted 
in previous reports has not yet been undertaken by the Govern- 
ment Statistician for financial reasons. Plans that do not involve 
any material increase in expenditure are being made for the 
revision of the present index number. 


The present index number, which is constructed from the 
retail prices of food commodities and fuel collected at the 
middle of each month and based on January, 1922 (=100), 
had an average value of 57-6 in 1938 as compared with 59-1 
in 1937, 56-4 in 1936, 53°4 in 1935 and 53-8 in 1934. The index 
fell in the first part of 1938, reaching its lowest point (55:9) in 
May. Thereafter it rose until it reached a maximum of 61-4 in 
November, when retail prices were temporarily at abnormally 
high levels due to the transport strike. In December the index 
fell to 58-3. It must be emphasized that the index is defective 
and therefore lacks the significance that attaches to similar 
indices in other countries. 


4. Statistics of Arab unemployment are very difficult to secure. 
Apart from the difficulties inherent in the attempt to collect 
statistics from a population which is not organized for economic 
purposes of this type, the large number of small craftsmen work- 
ing on their own account for whom a decline in business activity 
may mean hardship without actual total loss of employment 
makes for great practical difficulty in the application of the 
definition of unemployment. 


_ Asystem of quarterly estimates of Arab unemployed workers 
in seven towns and of the number of villagers coming to these 
towns in search of work was in operation in 1937. This system 
was extended in 1938 to include a total of eighteen towns. 
Attempts were also made to improve the reporting scheme by 
More careful definitions and by specifying occupations in more 
detail. The district officers who supply the quarterly figures, 
usually after consultation with mukhtars, municipal authorities 
and representatives of the various occupations, were requested 
to form estimates of the total number of wage earners in each 
Occupation in their towns and to ascertain how many of these 
wage earners were unemployed at the end of each quarter. In 
the directions issued as a guide to district officers, a ‘‘ wage 
farmer ’’ is defined as any person who normally works in any 
Capacity for salary or wages. Employers, workers on their own 
account and unpaid family workers are not considered as ‘‘ wage 
farers."" An unemployed worker is defined as any wage 
‘amer who is both able and willing to work but is at the time 


o! the investigation unable to find employment at the prevailing 
Tates of pay. 


132 


Owing to the disturbed conditions of the country it was not 
possible thoroughly to check the returns sent in or to provide the 
necessary guidance and supervision for the officers concerned 
with making the estimates. Nevertheless the returns indicate 
the existence of a serious problem of unemployment among 
Arabs in almost all towns; the numbers of unemployed are 
highest in occupations connected with building—quarrymen, 
stone dressers, masons and carpenters—and also in transport 
(particularly in Jaffa), shoemaking, tailoring and weaving. 


5. [he measurement of unemployment among Jews was de- 
rived from the monthly reports on the registration of unemployed 
workers submitted by the General Federation of Jewish Labour 
and by four smaller labour organizations. These organizations 
are believed to comprise the vast majority of the Jewish wage 
earning population of Palestine. 

Despite lack of uniformity in the systems of registration 
adopted by the various reporting labour organizations, the 
figures supplied by them gave a useful indication of the fluctua- 
tions in Jewish unemployment throughout the year. 


6. One of the difficulties encountered in estimating the extent 
of Jewish unemployment was connected with the trade unions’ 
practice of rationing employment among their members by the 
introduction of part-time work. The numbers of persons re- 
corded as wholly unemployed sometimes failed to show the real 
burden and hardship involved in under-employment. 

However, the rationing of employment and the unemploy- 
ment benefits given by the unions were strong inducements for 
regular registration. 


7. The average daily registration of unemployed Jewish 
workers with the reporting unions in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and 
Haifa reached nearly 4,500 in December, 1937. During the 
first half of 1938 unemployment was steadily increasing, chiefly 
because of the decline of activities in building and the allied in- 
dustries. From July, 1938, a downward trend was in evidence, 
the average daily registration in these three towns having de- 
creased from 6,500 in June to 4,500 in November. 

These figures include workers who applied for work at the 
labour offices of the reporting unions, but they do not include 
those labourers working part time who are engaged in permanent 
or semi-permanent work and divide among themselves the avail- 
able work. 

The rise in the volume of employment of Jewish labour was 
mainly caused by the recruitment of a large number of super- 
numerary policemen, by the employment of labour in the con- 
struction of roads and the erection of military barracks and by 
the considerable reduction of the number of Arabs employed 
in orange groves belonging to Jews. 

8. At the end of November, 1938, about sixty per cent. of the 
persons registered as applicants by the urban labour offices of 
the reporting unions consisted of building workers and unskilled 


133 


men, about fifteen per cent. were industrial workers of either 
sex, and nearly a quarter consisted of unskilled women workers, 
servants, clerks, members of liberal professions, etc. 

Workers changing jobs and new immigrants were also covered 
by the union system of registration. 

g. In the Jewish settlements of the maritime plain where Jew- 
ish hired agricultural labour was concentrated, the same trend 
of unemployment was observed, though seasonal factors in- 
fluencing the labour situation were also in evidence. 

In the early spring, the height of the citrus export season, all 
agricultural workers were busy. The seasonal unemployment 
began to be felt in April and reached its peak in June, when the 
number of rural workers registered as unemployed exceeded 
4,000. Beginning from July both seasonal works and the 
exodus of bs from the Jewish orange groves brought about 
a continuous decline in Jewish rural unemployment. In 
November the picking of oranges was started, and large numbers 
of unemployed workers were transferred from the towns to the 
villages. The number of Jewish rural workers out of employ- 
ment was estimated in November, 1938, at about 500. 

10. In spite of the efforts to reduce unemployment by trans- 
ferring unemployed able bodied workers to rural areas, there 
remained a hard core of unemployed workers, who could not 
be transferred either owing to incapacity for hard physical work 
or because the added expense of separation from their families 
would more than outweigh the increased income from regular 
oe over their present income from part time work and 
Telief. 

11. The net total of collections of the unemployment fund of 
the General Federation of Jewish Labour, principally derived 
from contributions by members of that organization, was stated 
to have reached £P.142,000 at the end of 1937 and £P.189,750 
at the end of November, 1938. Although the main purpose of 
the fund is to increase the sources of employment by supporting 
works of construction and other works undertaken by workers’ 
Insitutions and by various public bodies, a considerable part of 
the monies collected was allotted for direct financial aid, for the 
Organization of the supply of food and medical aid and for other 
social needs of unemployed workers. The amounts allotted by 
the administration of the unemployment fund for aid to unem- 
Ployed workers in this manner reached £P.42,000 in the first 
eleven months of 1938 and totalled £P.94,650 from January, 
1930, to the end of November, 1938. The remainder of the 

nds collected were mainly invested in the support of works of 
construction and similar works. The Bitzur Co. Ltd., which 
was established early in 1936 for the purpose of increasing the 
sis of employment and which co-operated with the unem- 
Poyment fund, had invested £P.335,000 up to the end of 
inits ember, 1938. The total cost of works promoted by the 

al Investments of that company during the last three years 
“xceeded £P.goo,000. 


134 
12. There has been a decline in building activities since the 
autumn of 1935, which is illustrated by the following figures of 
monthly average floor areas of building for which permits were 
rae by the municipalities of Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel Aviv and 
aifa. 


Square metres 
1933 _ San iors ae ies sens ee 65,138 
1934 ae ve set ee ee a5 ee 88,672 
1935 ses es ios oe fos ied 86 IOI, 192 
1936 side re a ns ee sat 2 62,387 
1937 ww stele sot ae ai ates 48,115 
1938 (January to November) ... wae 29,110 


The number of Jews employed in residential building and in 
public works at the end of 1938 was less than two-thirds of the 
corresponding number in 1935. 


13. As in the preceding two years, short time in industnial 
undertakings was a common phenomenon. 

The number of Jewish wage earners in manufacturing 
industries was stated to have been 19,540 in 1936 (according 
to the census of Jewish industry taken by the Jewish Agency 
for Palestine). At the end of 1937 the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour estimated the total number of industrial workers 
at 21,500, including unemployed. The number of unemployed 
industrial workers registered by the trade unions in Jerusalem, 
Tel Aviv and Haifa reached 1,100 in January, rose to 1,300 
in July and declined to goo in October and to 550 in November. 


14. The number of additional Jewish workers absorbed in 
1938 is believed to have been about the same as in 1937. The 
total number of Jewish wage and salary earners is estimated 
at about 95,000 at the end of 1938 (not including small holders 
and members of communal settlements). here was no 
appreciable change in the distribution of the Jewish wage- 
earning population by towns and villages. The following com- 
parative table illustrates the growth of the number of Jewish 
workers in Palestine and its distribution by towns and villages. 


Number of Jewish wage and salary earners in Palestine. 




















Estimated by the 
Censuses of Jewish labour carried out by the General 
General Federation of Jewtsh Labour. Federation of 
Jewish Labour. 
March, End of 
1926. 1930. 1937. 1938. 
Per Per Per Per 
cent. NO: cent. wee cent. No. cent. 
Total ... | 22,509 | I00 | 23,554 100 | 90,063 100 | 95,000 | 100 
In towns 4 18,067 80 | 16,545 70 | 63,283 70 | 68,000 72 
. 69,000 
In villages... 4,442 20 7,009 30 | 26,780 30 | 26,000 28 


135 


These figures do not include members of smallholders’ settle- 
ments and communal settlements established by Jewish workers. 
The growth of the working population of the settlements of this 
type was recorded as follows : — 

According to census of Jewish labour in 1926 2,678 


According to census of Jewish labour in 1937 14,059 
Estimated at the end of 1938 se Sys 16,000-17,000 


15. Nine workers’ settlements were established in 1938, 
making a total of 29 new agricultural settlements established 
since January, 1936. Most of these settlements were established 
in the northern district of Palestine. 


16. The income of the workers’ agricultural settlements was 
affected by the decline in the prices of some agricultural products 
and by the decrease in the sales of milk. The members of these 
settlements made efforts to reduce the cost of production and 
were active in extending the systems of irrigation. 


_ 17. Since the end of 1935 there has been a constant decline 
in the wage rates both of Arab and Jewish labour. The down- 
ward movement of wage rates continued in 1938. 

During the year ending September, 1938, the weighted index 
number of daily wage rates* of Arab labour showed a decrease 
of 7-3 per cent., while the weighted index number of wage rates 
of Jewish union labour showed a decrease of 2-4 per cent. 

the Arab industries wage rates declined in building, wood 
works, metal works and in the manufacture of oil and soap and 
temained stationary in the printing industry. 

In the Jewish industries wage rates declined in construction 
and in the allied industries and remained stationary in printing, 
in textiles and in the manufacture of soap and cigarettes. : 

Since the autumn of 1934 the index number of Arab wage 
Tates has shown a decrease of 18-8 per cent., while in the case 
of Jewish labour a decrease of 13°2 per cent. in wage rates has 
taken place. 


_ 18. Wage rates of Arab agricultural labour showed a decline 
In 1938. The wage rates of Jewish agricultural labour also 
showed a decrease of I:g per cent. in March, 1938, as compared 
with the rates in March and September, 1937; no further decline 
In wage rates was reported during the summer season and the 
winter months of 1938. 


1g. While the practice of part-time employment and of 
curtailed hours of work which had been introduced in 1936, 
was continued in 1938, no change occurred in the normal hours 
of work or in other conditions of work except wages. 


20. The description of the state of organization of the Arab 


trade unions contained in paragraphs 17 and 18 at page 129 of 
the report for 1937, is applicable to the year under review. 


* General weighted index numbers of daily wage rates constructed by the 
Office of Statistics. 


136 


The reports on labour disputes show that the Arab unions were 
less active in demanding the improvement of the conditions 
of work in 1938 than in the preceding years. 


21. The activities of the Central Labour Office, established 
at Tel Aviv in 1937, continued in 1938. The number of disputes 
arising out of the distribution of work between the various 
labour organizations diminished considerably as compared 
with previous years. 


22. Seventy-six labour disputes caused by demands of an 
economic nature came under notice during the year, including 
two disputes in which there was no actual stoppage of work. 

The particulars of labour disputes recorded in each of the 
last five years are shown in the following table. 

1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
1. Total number of labour disputes 
which came under notice ‘as 49 60 20 53 76 
2. Causes of disputes : 
(a) Disputes over wages, hours of 
work and _ conditions of 


work . 23 36 10 19 20 
(b) Disputes over. - discharge of 
workers ee 4 8 I 12 12 


(c) Disputes over employment of 
union labour and distribu- 


tion of work .. 8 7 6 13 19 
(dq) Disputes caused by irregular 
payment of wages ... I 3 2 4 20 
(e) Disputes arising out of the 
race of the workers ie i 12 4 I 3 = 
(f) Other causes . : I 2 — 2 5 
3. Settlements of disputes which were 
concluded each year :— 
(a2) Number of instances where . 
the workers were successful 27 33 13 16 52 
(6) Number of instances where 
the workers failed ... ie 15 12 5 12 6 
(c) Number of i cs settle- 
ments es 6 13 2 21 17 
4. Number of strikes and (ecient in 
progress ... 4I 57 15 44 72 
5. Number of wiotlers mivelved : in 
strikes and lockouts me .. 2,051 3,648 956 6,305 1,876 
6. Number of man-days lost in strikes 
and lockouts see .. 17,273 28,415 11,625 21,167 14,149 
7. Number of disputes whens no stop- 
page of work was caused by the 
workers employed at the estab- 
lishment under dispute .. es 8 3 5 9 2 


23. The total number of disputes recorded in 1938 showed 
an increase as compared with the preceding year. This increase 
should in part be attributed to the increase in the volume of 
information on labour disputes secured by the Office of Statistics. 
The total number of workers involved and the aggregate amount 
of man-days lost were less than the corresponding figures in 


1937. 


137 


Of the total number of 1,876 workers involved in strikes and 
lockouts, 1,588 were Jews who lost 12,149 man-days and 288 
were Arabs who lost 2,000 man-days. Arab labour was involved 
only in two disputes of an economic nature. The number of 
disputes over wages, hours of work and collective agreements 
was proportionally less than in the preceding two years. There 
was am increase in the number of disputes caused by irregular 
payment of wages. There were also four cases of a type which 
was infrequent in previous years. These were disputes caused 
by demands for the regulation of the distribution of work among 
rationed employees. 


No disputes arising out of the racial principle of employment 
came to notice. 


24. In some disputes officers of the district administration 
or representatives of the Jewish Agency and other Jewish public 
institutions intervened with a view to effecting a settlement. 
Many disputes were settled by arbitration. 


25. In June, 1938, the High Commissioner directed that the 
following employments should be added to the schedule of 
occupation in respect of which the employers are liable under 
the Workmen’s Congestion Ordinance, 1927: 


(a) Transport by sea in vessels registered in Palestine, 
to include any person employed on board any such vessel. 
(b) Fishing in vessels registered in Palestine—not, to 
include such members of the crews of fishing vessels who 
are remunerated wholly or mainly by shares in the profits 
and are not members of a registered co-operative society. 


_ Prior to 1938, the following employments had been scheduled 
in rules made under the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 
1927. 
(1) Building operations, installation of gas and electricity. 
fe Transport by railway and motor vehicles. 
* Blasting, boring, excavation, quarrying and mining. 
(1v) Manufacturing operations in which mechanically 
driven power is used. 
(v) Generation and distribution of electricity, water 
_ supply, the laying and maintenance of telegraph and tele- 
phone lines, public drainage schemes. 
(vi) Construction and maintenance of roads. 
(vi) The handling of goods at docks, quays, wharves or 
warehouses within the area of a port. 
(viii) The handling of goods on lighters, at shipside and 
on board ships, when within the area of a port, by persons 
other than members of a ship’s crew. 


26. Except the regulation mentioned above, no labour legis- 
lation was enacted or published in the form of bills in 1938. 
The draft Ordinances which were published as bills in 1935 
and 1936, namely the Masters aS i Servants Ordinance, the 


138 


amended Employment of Women and Children Ordinance and 
the amended Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, are stil 
under consideration by Government. 

The principles of the proposed labour legislation were set 
out in paragraphs 24-8 of Section XVII in the Report for 1936. 

No progress has been made in the introduction of new labour 
legislation, as owing to the situation in Palestine it has not 
been found possible to arrange for sittings of the Labour 
Legislation Committee. 


XVIII.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 
Arms. 


1. The following is a comparative table of seizures of firearms 
and ammunition effected during 1937 and 1938:— 


1937: 1938. 
Type. Service- Unservice- Service- Unservice- 
able. able. able. able. 
Rifles oe ue a 1,239 15 530 28 
Sub-machine gun... re — — I = 
Pistols and revolvers ee 1,461 29 356 32 
Shotguns ... wa ge 144 8 52 13 
Bombs and grenades _ 105 14 212 26 
Rifle ammunition, rounds’ 19,216 — 36, 396 _ 
Pistol and revolver ammu- 
nition, rounds ... sae 5,141 — 5,604 == 


In addition to the above, the military forces seized during 
1938, 344 rifles, 146 pistols and revolvers, 53 shotguns, and 
approximately 26,000 rounds of ammunition. Considerable 
quantities of other warlike material and equipment such 4s 
grenades, bombs, explosives, fuzes, percussion caps, uniforms, 
etc., were also captured. 


Licensed Firearms. 


2. The following table gives details of licences issued during 
1937 and 1938:— 


1937. 
Police 
District. Pistols 
Rifles. and Shotguns.| Rifles. 
Revolvers. 
Jerusalem... 37 300 705 
Northern ... 27 647 1,950 
Southern ... 6 40 1,146 
Nablus... 20 49 437 
Nazareth ... 16 143 456 
Gaza sae 48 IO 173 
Frontier ... — — — 
Totals ... 154 1,189 4,867 





139 
.  Inaddition to the above, 24 licences for air-guns were issued. 


2. The figures for the Nazareth and Gaza districts are incom- 
‘a as the records belonging to these districts were destroyed 
y terrorists during the year. 


i 


~ _ 3. During the year, 284 persons were convicted under the 
- Firearms Ordinance and Defence Regulations for the illicit 
~ possession of firearms and ammunition. 


Liquors. 
,. 4. The variation in the number of factories licensed to manu- 
’ facture intoxicating liquors and spirits during the past five years 
was aS follows :— 
1933. 1934 =: 1935 1936 1937 1938 

















. Spirits se ae 16 15 16 16 17 17 
Wines a ies 15 15 14 14 15 - 13 
Beer ... ae sas — —~ I I I I 

Total “eg; = SE 30 31 31 33 31 











Their output was as follows:— 


Other 
Year, Wine. Arak. Beer. Cognac. Spuits. 
(tives). (lutves of (litres). (litres of (litres of 
alcohol). alcohol). alcohol). 
1933. 1,629,125 38,307 — 121,292 686,989 
1934 ws = 2,378,922 41,855 — 203,495 853,681 
; 1935 wae 2,619,980 51,611 242,600 295,539 1,012,598 
~ 1936... 2,257,556 58,540 1,954,786 187,593 1,070,234 
' 1937+. 3,393,569 58,985 1,830,245 364,876 948,298 
"1938... 3,053,580 0,696 1,723,041 173,845 858,997 
Imports and Exporis* 
Commodity. Imports. Exports. 
Lttres. Litres. 
Beer a a es es, 625,690 aoe 
: Wines... er oat na 55,521 760,386 
; Arak wg as 16 884 
Cognac and Brandy ... ae 5,889 23,511 
Other Spirits... es ks 53,822 5,380 


* Excluding imports by military and N.A.A.F.I. 


de The abnormal and disturbed conditions which prevailed 
curfee 1937 and 1938, and in particular the imposition of 
con ew for lengthy periods in towns and villages throughout the 

airy and the extraordinary security measures that had to be 
. ‘1, again rendered it impossible to assess the practical effect 
1935, application of the Sale of Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 


140 


6. Incidence of Drunkenness during 1937 and 1938. 








1937. 1938. 
Number of persons convicted. Number of persons convicted. 
ute On two | On three One ies Once | On two | On three Jou 
OCCASIONS.|OCCAStONS.| ee only. |occastons.\occastons. ni 
i i | rn | | ——_ | 
Moslems 355 12 4 3 153 II 2 1! 
Christians 68 I — ~— 27 — — — 
Jews... 53 I — — 24 — — 
Totals... | 476 14 4 3 204 II 2 I 


7. The distribution of cases of drunkenness among the various 
police divisions during 1938 1s shown hereunder : — 


On two On three On four 
Division. occasions. occastons. OCCASIONS. 
Jerusalem Urban 
Jerusalem Rural 
Hebron ols 
Haifa Urban 
Haifa Rural 
Acre 
Jaffa... aie 
Ramat Gan... 
Tel-Aviv 
Ramle 
Nablus 
Jenin 
Nazareth 
Tulkarm 
Safad 
Tiberias 
Gaza 
Beersheba 
Rehovoth 


oe) 
vletml ene eater s 





Pe Ae a aah pets 


Totals ses 204 II 











Drugs. 


8. The traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs is governed 
by the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 1936. 


International Opium Convention. 


The number of import certificates for dangerous drugs granted 
during the year was 108. 


" 
bee 


141 
Actual imports were as follows : — 


Kgs. 

Medicinal Opium _... Sle ste oe 4°500 
Opium in the form of preparations ses ... 10°582 
Morphine _... uae ee ae we - 1357 
Diacetylmorphine O'12I 
Cocaine “as bag mp se ..  -2*840 
Eucodal a a a Bre = ves = O° OOL 
Dicodide O'II9Q 
Dilaudide 0°025 
Acidicone aa ath said wed ws. 0°009 
Codeine or es ae ais oe ... 14°880 
Dionine ae assis _ wale laa as 1-052 
Indian Hemp in the form of galenical preparations 

(tinctures and extracts) ... San as wee 0° 350 


g. During 1936, under the new Ordinance which brought 
dangerous drugs legislation into line with the latest recommenda- 
tion of the International Opium Commission, wholesale com- 
pounding chemists were for the first time permitted to import 
codeine and dionine for compounding pharmaceutical prepara- 
tions made by them. The increase of codeine imported during 
1936 and 1937 largely represents the working stocks of manu- 

facturers. The import for 1938 of codeine was 14 kilogrammes. 

It will be noticed that in general the import of dangerous drugs 
was below the average of previous years. This was mainly due 
to the depressed and unsettled conditions prevailing during the 
year. 


ro. Notwithstanding their strenuous duties, the police main- 
tained vigilance in suppressing the traffic through Palestine to 
Egypt of narcotic drugs. The following table shows seizures 
of narcotic drugs during the last three years : — 


Year. Hashish. Opium. Cocaine. Others. 
kilogrammes. kilogrammes. grammes. ktlogrammes. 

1936... w+ = 45°624 QI*007 7 ner 

1937 ac .-. 75°190 154°856 471 — 

1938. sees 92227 109°1I5 — II +000 


Sixty-one persons were prosecuted in connection with illicit 
traffic in narcotic drugs of whom 46 were convicted and 10 were 
awaiting trial at the end of the year. Fines ranged from 500 
mils to £P.100 and terms of imprisonment from one week to two 
years. The fines imposed amounted in the aggregate to 

£P.125,500 mils. 


Anti-Narcotic Measures. 


Ir, The measures taken by the police for the suppression of 
traffic in narcotic drugs include supervision of the movements of 
known drug dealers, employment of agents to collect informa- 
ion, exchange of information with other Governments, patrol- 
ny laa and searches of vehicles and animals en route 


142 


With a view to preventing the smuggling of narcotic drugs 
into Palestine by ocean-going steamers, Customs guards and 
members of the port and marine police are posted on all ships 
entering the ports of Jaffa and Haifa during their period of stay. 
Lighters, motor launches, and fishing vessels are closely ex- 
amined; and lightermen, stevedores, other port workmen, and 
the crews of visiting craft are carefully searched on coming 
ashore. The baggage of incoming passengers is examined by 
the Customs authorities. Prompt advance information in regard 
to suspected ships or individuals coming to Palestine is passed to 
the Customs authorities by the Criminal Investigation Depart- 
ment of the Palestine Police. 


Cd 


X1IX.—EDUCATION. 


The normal programme of expansion of Arab elementary 
education initiated in 1933, and suspended in 1936-7, was 
resumed in 1937-8. 


The percentage of applicants who could be admitted to 
Government schools, both in towns and villages, remained at 
about 50 per cent. 


The Hebrew public system continued to expand in 1937-8, 
notwithstanding the disturbances and the unfavourable economic 
situation. The following is a comparative table for two years :— 









1936-37. 1937-38. 








Schools. 











Pupils, | Schools. 
Arab Schools :— 
Arab Public System (Govern- 
ment) Schools it ine 
Other schools :— 
Moslem schools 
Christian schools 


49,400 






14,052 
24,046 


Total—Arab Schools 


Jewish Schools :— 
Hebrew Public System (Va’ad 
Leumi) Schools we Ss 
Other schools ... 


47,288 
19,985 
Total—Jewish Schools 67,273 


Grand Total 145,420 





Under the term Christian Arab schools are included all those 
maintained by foreign missionary bodies. 


143 


The 87,498 pupils in Arab schools (62,322 boys and 25,176 


gts) comprise 62,706 or 71-7 


r cent. Moslems (48,890 


boys 


tn. 
r and 13,816 girls), 22,904 or 26-2 per cent. Christians (12,246 


boys and 10,658 girls), 1,048 or 1°2 per cent. Jews (498 boys 


i and 550 es), and 840 or 0-9 per cent. others (688 boys and 


wee The 71,376 pupils in Jewish schools (36,474 boys and 34,902 


‘At. girls) include 4 Moslems and 17 Christians. 


2. The Education Ordinance, 1933, was amended to enable 


v’- Jand, and not only buildings, to be registered in the name of a 


local education authority free of charge. The rules under the 
Ordinance were also amended to enable the Director of Educa- 


tion, or a medical officer of health, to ask an applicant for the 
registration of a school to submit plans of the premises. 
Educational films were added to the free list under the 


Customs Tariff and Exemption Ordinance. 


exceptions, Palestinians. 


3. The number of classified officers employed by the Depart- 
ment in December, 1938, was 1,126, against 1,072 in December, 
1937. Fourteen were Bnitish and the rest, with very few 


4. The expenditure by the Department of Education in the 
school year 1937-8 on education services was approximately 


as follows: — 
(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Avab and Hebrew). 
Overhead Charges :— 
Other Charges 
(5) Schools :— 
- (i) Government (Arab) :— 
Salaries ... dite or so aa 
; Grants to local authorities for school buildin 
Books, furniture and equipment ‘ - 
Schol ips, maintenance, allowances, etc.... 
Sundries... ais 5atl ce ede sida 


gs 


(ii) Non-Government :— 
Block Grant to Hebrew Public System ... 
Additional grant to Hebrew public system o 
account of capital expenditure _... Bea 
Per capita grant to other schools :— 


Moslem es ss aie 
Christian (including foreign) 
(c) Miscellaneous :-— 
Grant to Board of Higher Studies 


Transport and Travelling ... 
er minor charges sie 


i en 


{P. 
18,345 
54! 





166,886 


6,745 
19,592 
8,653 
1,244 





46,600 


9,145 


2,615 
1,685 
1,468 





500 
5,050 
221 





£P. 


18,886 


203,120 


61,513 


3771 





£P.289,290 





144 

The revenue from the sale of books and school materials 
in Government schools during the school year 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.1,600 and that from school fees to £P.3,791, a total of 
AP.5,391. 

5. The distribution of educational benefits between Arabs and 
Jews was based on the proportion of school age population, and 
educational expenditure incurred by other Government Depart- 
ments was included in the calculation. 

The actual expenditure by the Department under “‘ schools ”’ 
was apportioned as follows: — 





Avab Schools :— £P. £P. 
Government ita ve ws. 203,120 
N on-Government nee ee 3,153 
206,273 
Jewish Schools :— 
Hebrew Public acer ae 55,745 
Others... Be oe 2,615 





58,360 

The benefits to Arab schools are gross, and should be reduced 
by £P.5,391, the amount of the revenue from sales and fees 
shown above. 

6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1937-8 
by other Government Departments upon educational services:— 


Depariment. Object. Approximately. 
LP. 
Agriculture ... supply of trees s ivaia 361 
Health .... .... Hygiene and Medical Care of. Pupils ae 2,038 
Secretariat ... Printing and Stationery _.. ‘af 480 
Public Works ... Rent, repairs, office furniture, etc. ae 14,585 


These figures exclude any share of overhead charges for 
salaries and other administrative expenditure by the Depart- 
ments concerned. 

In addition, the following sums were expended during the 
year by the Public Works Department on new Government 
Gees schools or on additions to existing Government (Arab) 
schools: — 





LP. 
From the Public Works immed puget ay 9,334 
From Loan Works budget ..... at 13,769 
£P.23,103 





The net expenditure of all Government Departments was 
distributed as follows:— 


Arab education go sate See ciate ie ares 
Jewish education 59,352 
Administration—Department ‘of Education _ (Arab 

and Jewish) . Ms 18,886 





£P.324,466 





> ae ase 


145 

If the expenditure on administration and all special expendi- 
lure including the expenditure by the Public Works Department 
from its extraordinary and loan fund budgets are excluded, the 
nét expenditure was distributed as follows : — 





LP. 
Arab education wis es ae oss 216,435 
Jewish education be eke oe wee: 50,207 
£P.266,642 





The expenditure on Jewish education was therefore 23-66 
per cent. of that on Arab education. The percentage was 26 
for the previous year. 

There is thus a discrepancy between the ratio of expenditures 
a : 100) and the ratio of school-age populations 
24°97 : 100). 

Such discrepancies, which occurred in 1936-7 and in 1937-8, 
are due to, or are corrected by, adjustments in other years. 

The contributions to the Va’ad Leumi in respect of 1937-8 


were as follows:— 
£P. £P. 


By the Government Department of 
Education :— 
Recurrent grant ... en giles 46,600 
Non-recurrent grant 9,145 
559745 
25,000 





By Jewish Agency 





Total £P.80,745 





7. There are no exact figures of the total educational expendi- 
ture of private bodies. In particular no reliable estimate can 
be made of the expenditure of foreign organizations. 

The figures of the Jewish public system are given in para- 
graphs 21 and 22 below. 
8. The numbers of children in the age group 5-15 on the 

Ist October, 1937, was approximately as follows :— 





Arabs :— 
Moslems and others ... 242,469 
Christians ae ae 23,401 
265,870 
Jews 66,391 


The ratio of Jews to Arabs in the age group 5-15 was therefore 


24°97 per cent. on the 1st October, 1937. 
On the 1st October, 1938, the estimated figures were as 


follows: — 
Arabs and other non-Jews (excluding foreign Christians) :— 
Moslems and others... 248,023 
Christians — ex 23,878 
271,901 





Jews 67,908 


146 


Thus the proportion of Jewish to non-Jewish children was 
estimated at 24-98 per cent. on 1st October, 1938. 

The pupils attending schools in July, 1938, were as follows. 
The age range is 3-20, but the very (are majority are in the 




















range 5-I5:— 
Boys. Girls. Total. 

Arabs and other non-Jews :— 
Moslems 48,893 13,817 62,710 
Christians ve 12,257 10,664 22,921 
Other denominations... 688 152 840 
Total 61,838 24,633 86,471 
Jews 36,958 35.445 72,403 
Grand Total 98,796 60,078 158,874 











These figures do not include pupils in a small number of 
Christian schools which have rendered no statistical returns; 
but otherwise they cover the whole population, settled and 
nomad. 


g. Education in Palestine is not compulsory and is not uni- 
versal. The extent of education varies considerably among 
the various religious communities. Thus in the Jewish and 
Christian communities, almost 100 per cent. of the children 
receive education of some kind or other; the period of schooling 
varies from about 5 years to 10 years or more, the average being 
about 8-9 years. In the Moslem community the extent of educa- 
tion is smaller, and the demand for greater educational facilities 
still outstrips the efforts of the Government within the limits of its 
available resources, to make good the deficiency. Further, the 
demand for the education of girls in Moslem villages, though 
increasing, has been relatively small, while at the same time there 
have been great difficulties to contend with in the supply of 
women teachers to villages. The approximate percentages of 
Moslem children who receive education for some period or other 
have been estimated as follows : — 


Boys. Girls 
Per cent Per cent 
In towns shee es a 80 50 
In villages... bs 50 4 


The period of schooling averages about six years in Government 
town schools and four to five years in Government village 
schools. The average in Moslem non-Government schools is 
believed to be less. 


School Fees. 


10. Arab Public System.—In the Government kindergartens 
and elementary schools education is free. In the lower secondary 
classes day-pupils are required to pay £P.3 a year, and in the 
higher secondary classes £P.6 a year. Boarders at the Govern- 
ment Arab college and the Women’s training college pay £P.24 


147 


and £P.21 a year, respectively. At the Government trade 
school, Haifa, boarders are charged £P.12 a year. A number of 
pupils in the secondary schools are exempted from payment of 
any fees when poverty is established. 


In the two Kadoorie agricultural schools (Arab and Jewish) 
the students pay £P.24 a year for tuition and board. The 
boarding fees for pupils in the hostels at Tulkarm and Jenin are 
£P.10a year. At Beersheba Beduin hostel no fee is charged. 


Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees 
paid rarely exceed £P.I a year, and are usually less than 500 
mils; in some places the practice of paying fees in kind persists. 


In the town elementary schools the feesare usually about £P.2$ 
a year. In the Raudat al-Ma’aref college at Jerusalem the 
tuition fees in the elementary classes are £P.6 a year and in the 
secondary classes they rise to £P.8. Boarders pay an inclusive 
fee of £P.36 a year for board, lodging and tuition. 


Jewish Schools.—The education rates and other revenues 
which support the Hebrew public schools are, in many localities, 
pr aaa by school fees assessed according to the means 
of the parents and the grade of the class. Total exemptions as 
well as part remissions of fees are frequent. 


In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or main- 
tamed by local authorities, the fees range from £P.3-to £P.12 
ayear. In the elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to £P.12 
and in the higher classes of the secondary schools rise as high as 

.26 a year. No tuition fees are charged in the municipal 
elementary schools of Tel Aviv. 


In the bulk of the purely private schools the fees charged are 
lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciably higher. 


At the boarding section of the Reali secondary school at Haifa, 
pupils are charged £P.110 a year. 


At the agricultural boarding schools the fees charged vary from 
£P.30 to £P.72 a year. 


ree the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, 
e fees, if any, are generally small. 


. Christian Schools.—No information is available regarding the 
i charged in the schools controlled by the Latin Patriarch, the 

teek Catholic Archbishop of Galilee, and the consulates of 
certain foreign states. 


i In some of the German secondary schools the maximum fee 

ms hod Fy a year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the 

nai dpe Classes. In the Syrian orphanages the maximum fee 
y a boarder is £P.20 a year inclusive. 


148 


In the European and American missionary town schools the 
maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in the large majority of these schools the fees are very much 
lower. In the secondary classes the fees range from £P.6 to 
ZP.15 a year. In addition to tuition fees, boarders pay board- 
ing fees which do not usually amount to more than £P.35 a 
year. #£P.75 a year is charged for a boarder in the Bnitish 
ey school in Jerusalem which is open to British children 
only. 


Generally speaking no fees are charged in the village mission- 
ary schools nor any in the schools of the Orthodox and Latin 
Patriarchates. 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


1z. During the school year 1937-8, 1,052 classified teachers 
were employed in Government schools as against 965 in the pre- 
ceding year. Of these four were British and the rest Arabs. There 
were in addition 228 unclassified teachers, mainly in villages, 

aid by Government, and 16 others paid by local authorities. 

hus the total number of teachers in Government schools 
was 1,290 as against 1,174 in 1936-7. Eight women teachers 
resigned on marriage and six retired. Four men teachers retired 
on pension and four retired on other grounds. 


12. Elementary Education.—The gradual scheme of expan- 
sion of facilities for Arab elementary education, which was 
initiated in 1933 in order to keep pace with the increasing de- 
mand but was suspended in 1936-7, was resumed in 1937-8. As 
regards town schools the term ‘‘ expansion ’’ means the pro- 
vision of the elementary school places necessary to maintain 
the number of annual entries at the same figure as in 1933. 
Ninety-one new teaching posts in town schools and ae in village 
schools were filled in October, 1937, and 18 new village schools 
were opened. In the third term of the school year 1937-8 there 
were 398 Government elementary schools with 48,563 pupils 
(including 2,121 children in kindergarten classes). 


The following table gives the numbers and percentages of 
applications for admission to Government schools accepted and 
deferred in September, 1937, and in September, 1938:— 


September, 1937. September, 1938. 


i Towns. Villages. Towns. 


Ee fe | ees | ee | ES | 


Applied wr 9,458 | — | 13,572 | — | 10,285 


Accepted =e 4,647 | 49 7,723 | 57 4,667 
Deferred sisi 4,811 | 51 5,849 | 43 5,618 








149 


Lack of accommodation still retards progress in the grading 
of classes by age. Entries are deferred for one, two, or three 
years: thus the age range of the lowest class is too wide and 
the average age of entry too high. 


The number of pupils who repeat the lowest class has been 
further reduced, but the number of ‘‘ repeaters ’’ for the lower 
elementary course is still somewhat high. The average length 
of school life is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


13. Town Schools.—The following table gives figures for 
town schools in the school years 1936-7 and 1937-8:— 


1936-7. 1937-8. 


Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 





- 11,649 41 13,271 
7:993 31 9,953 
19,642 72 22,324 








The figures for 1937-8 include 1,703 children (126 boys and 
1,577 girls) in kindergarten classes and 740 pupils in secondary 
classes. 


Over 1,530 village boys and 172 village girls attended town 
schools. Small hostels attached to Tulkarm, Jenin and Lydda 
boys’ schools exist for the benefit of the village boys, but, in 
general, villagers attending town schools are poorly lodged 
under their own arrangements. The boarding school for the 
children of Bedu sheikhs at Beersheba accommodated 56 boys. 


In July, 1938, a seventh (top) elementary class existed in 
zo boys’ and in 14 girls’ schools in towns, with 831 boys and 
272 girls. The majority of children do not proceed beyond the 
lower elementary cycle, a self-contained unit of five classes in 
towns and four in villages. 


The two commercial classes (3rd and 4th secondary) at the 
Jaffa elementary-secondary school for boys contained 6 and ~ 
12 boys, respectively. Instruction is given through the medium 
of English and Arabic, and French is also taught. 


A school for the blind was opened in Hebron, with 14 pupils. 
The headmaster, who is himself blind, has had a special three 
years’ training in England. 

New Government school buildings were erected in Safad and 
Beersheba and completed in August, 1938. Three new school 
buildings were under construction in Jaffa, but were not com- 
meted by the end of the school year. An addition was also 
made to the Tulkarm girls’ school, with Government aid. 

15774 F 


150 


14. Rural Schools.—The following table gives figures for 
village schools in 1936-7 and 1937-8:— 7 


1936-7. 1937-8. 


Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 

















For Boys 21,554 305 24,9074 
For Girls 1,517 25 2,102 
Totals 23,071 330 27,076 








The figures for 1937-8 include 418 children (18 boys and 400 
girls) in kindergarten classes. 

Eighteen village schools were opened and two were closed 
in 1937-8. | 

A number of villages erected new buildings or made additons 
to existing buildings or began construction. The estimated cost 
to the villagers on all projects, both completed and in process 
of erection, was about £P9,950 to which the Government con- 
tributed approximately £P6,145. 

Out of the 330 village schools, 273 included the full four years 
of the elementary course, or more. Higher elementary classes 
existed in ten village schools. 

In 117 village schools there were small libraries for the use 
of teachers, pupils, old pupils, and adults generally. 

_ Evening classes for illiterate adults were conducted in three 
villages. 

15. Secondary Schools.—There were 740 pupils in the 
secondary classes of 13 Government schools, as against 626 the 
previous year. These figures include the students at the two 
teachers’ colleges in Jerusalem. 


16. Government Arab College.—The number of students was 
too during the year (85 Moslems and 15 Christians), including 
a post-matriculation class for teacher training. 


17. Training of Teachers.—Teachers are trained in the 
following institutions :— 
(1) Government Institutions— 

(a) Government Arab College, Jerusalem.—The training class 
is an integral part, and at present the highest section, of the 
College. In 1937-8 it contained 12 students all of whom passed 
the diploma examination. In it, Arabic and English literature 
are continued beyond the matriculation level, and other general 
subjects are studied only in connection with the elementary 
school syllabus. The course of pedagogy is practical rather 
than theoretical. Some attention is paid to psychology but a 
greater part of the lesson time is given to practical training in 
methods of teaching and in class management. 


I5I 


The former system under which male teachers received their 
general and professional education concurrently in a special 
institution was generally abandoned between 1924 and 1928. 
Admission to training is now allowed only after the completion 
of the secondary course. For financia] reasons the numbers 
at present are limited to those necessary for replacement of 
casualties in the existing teaching cadre. 


_ (b) Rural Teachers’ Training Centre, Tulkarm.—This Centre 
in normal years contains a number of selected students, who 
have completed the course at the Kadoorie (Arab) Agricultural 
School, Tulkarm, and undergo a course of one year’s training 
with the object of fitting themselves for teaching posts in 
villages, more especially those where school gardens exist. The 
Centre did not open in 1937-8, as there were no suitable candi- 
dates available for selection from the Agricultural School 
following its closure in 1936 owing to the disturbances. 


(c) Women’s Training College, Jerusalem.—This College 
accommodates 60 students, all boarders, who follow a four years’ 
course. The first three years of study, in which the medium 
of instruction is Arabic, follow a secondary syllabus which has 
been adapted for women and includes domestic science, child 
welfare, physiology and hygiene. In the fourth year the 
students, numbering about fifteen, are divided into two groups, 
kindergarten and class teachers respectively, and are given an 
intensive course in the theory and practice of teaching. Half 
the work is devoted to teaching practice in the largest elementary 
girls’ school in Jerusalem. 


Those women who successfully pass out of the College are 
append to posts in urban girls’ schools in which the majority 
of teachers are graduates of the College. Over 200 women have 
passed out of the College since it was opened in 1920. 


(4) Women Rural Teachers’ Training Centre, Ramallah.—The 
heed for specially trained teachers for village schools was met by 
opening the Rural Training Centre in 1935, with a particular 
view to improving child welfare, house management and general 

ygiene in villages where the ignorance of the women so 
gtavely retards progress. Since the majority of Palestine 
villages are Moslem, the 25 students selected for training are 
at present all of the Moslem faith. The standard of entry is 
lower than at the Women’s College and the course of study 
is for two years only. It aims at preparing girls to take charge 
of a village school of from 30-40 children of varying ages. 


In addition to academic subjects, the students are given a 
thorough domestic training. They do all the house and laundry 
work of the centre and some of the cooking. They also look 
asi the vegetable garden and the poultry. No English is 

ught. 


15774 F2 


152 


In the second year of study, teaching practice is carried ‘out 
at the Ramallah elementary school and at a village school 
near by. 

Approximately twelve women students pass out of the Centre 
each year. : 


(11) Non-Government Institutions— 
(a) The Jerusalem Girls’ College (Anglican Mission). 


(b) Schmidts Girls’ College, Jerusalem (Sisters of St. Charles 
Catholic Mission). 


Each of these colleges conducts a small teacher training class 
after the conclusion of a full secondary course up to Matriculation 
standard. Instruction in these colleges is through the medium of 
English. 

In both institutions the practical examination in teaching is 
conducted by examiners appointed by the Director of Education. 
Most of the graduates are employed by the Department of 
Education in urban girls’ schools. 


18. Scholarships.—Seven Government scholars were main- 
tained in British universities and colleges. Four of the former 
completed their courses in the summer of 1938 and were subse- 
quently appointed to teaching posts. Three other selected 
candidates were thereupon sent to England to fill the vacancies 
thus created. Two selected candidates were appointed to one 
year scholarships in England made available by the British 
Council. Six scholars were maintained at the American Uni- 
versity at Beirut; two graduated in the summer and were 
replaced by two others. Four scholars were maintained in 
trade schools in Egypt. Six scholars were maintained in non- 
Government secondary schools in Palestine. All of these 
scholars are Arabs. 


Hebrew Public System. 


19. The Va‘ad Leumi remained in contro] of the Hebrew 
Public System, the administration of which continued to be 
conducted as hitherto by the Executive Education Committee, 
consisting of representatives of the Jewish Agency, the Va‘ad 
Leumi, the Tel Aviv Municipality and the Jewish settlements. 
A representative of the Government Department of Education 
attended all meetings of the committee. In July, 1937, another 
committee, known as the Va‘ad Hahinnukh, was set up to deal 
primarily with pedagogical matters, but with advisory powers 
also in matters of administration. This committee represents 
mainly local interests and the Hebrew Teachers’ Association. 
The Director and Senior Inspectors of the Va‘ad Leumi Depart- 
ment of Education, and a representative of the Government 
Department of Education, attend the meetings of the committee. 


153 


20. The following table gives the actual recurrent expenditure 


and revenue of the Jewish Central authority for 1937-8. 


Ex- 


penditure showed an increase of £P.3,871 over the previous 




















year. 
Revenue— 
1. Central Authorities— £P. £P. 
Jewish Agency 25,000 
Government ... ee se See sds 40,600 
Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association... 2,200 
73,800 
2. Local Sources 
Tel-Aviv Municipality 25,225 
Other local authorities 15,640 
School fees... ise 19,850 
60,715 
3. Miscellaneous 1,080 
Total ... £P.135,515 
Expenditure— 
1. Administration and Inspectorate— 
Salaries cee oe a 5,660 
Collection Office 1,850 
Other charges 1,450 
8,960 
2. Schools— 
(i) Matntatned schools. 
Salaries... ee 100,771 
Rent and maintenance 3,400 
Furniture and equipment 1,750 
105,921 
(ii) Asststed schools. 
Grants to Labour schools 8,000 
Grants to other schools ... vas 4,422 | 
12,422 
3- Miscellaneous— 
Contribution to pension fund 4,400 
Pensions and gratuities _... ae ae 1,803 
Substitutes in cases of sickness, life in- 
surance, etc. o34 eax tee F 800 
Part re-payment of deficit of 1936-37 750 
Unforeseen expenditure ; te 459 
8,212 
Total £P.135,515 


The Government grant for the financial year April, 1937— 


March, 1938, was £,P.44,300 for recurrent charges as against 
£P.42,000 in the previous financial year, the increase being 
due mainly to the increase of Government expenditure on Arab 
education. Of this sum, £P.21,000 was paid in the period April 
—September, 1937, leaving a balance of £P.23,300 for the 
period October, 1937—March, 1938, which is the first half of the 
school-year under review. An equal sum of £P.23,300 was 
paid in the second half of the school year, making a total grant 
of £P.46,600 for the school year. 


15774 F 3 


154 


A grant of £P.9,145 was also made by Government to the 
Va‘ad Leumi in respect of non-recurrent expenditure on build- 
ings and equipment. 


21. The receipts and expenditure shown in paragraph 20 are 
only in respect of the services maintained directly by the Va‘ad 
Leumi. Most of the expanded and new services are provided 
by the local authorities. The following table gives the actual 
cost of maintaining the schools in the Hebrew public system, 
mention being made of the sources of revenue : — 


Sources of Revenue. 


Grade or Central. . Local. 
Type 
of School. 












tional a 
Administration 
Central : 





Total 181,481} 138,932 | 320,413 
* Inclusive of administration expenses incurred by Local Authorities direct. 
t Includes: £P.46,600 (or 60-7 per cent.) from Government. 
£P.25,000 (or 32:5 per cent.) from Jewish Agency. 
£P.3,564 (or 4:7 per cent.) from the Palestine Jewish Colonisation 
Association. 
¢t Includes about {£P.600 grants-in-aid paid by Government directly to some 
schools. | 


22. The following tables give comparative figures regarding 
schools and pupils: — 


Table I. Administrative Groups. 










Schools: 
General 
Mizrahi 
Labour 


Totals 


155 
Table II. Types of Schools. 





1936-7. 1937-8. 
- Schools. | Pupils. Schools. 

Kindergarten as 187 7,067 199 ; 
Elementary  _—... 163 34,481 174 | 
Secondary :.. vag 12 4,583 12 
Training Colleges ... |. 4 | 667 : 4 
Technical and voca- 

tional... lease! 5 237 5 
Agriculture 2 253 I 

Totals 373 47,288 395 





. The secondary schools also include elementary classes, and 
the purely secondary classes number about 2,817 pupils. 


The number of teachers employed in all schools was 1,888. 


_ 23. The schools, especially the elementary schools, have 
continued to show improvement.. The adverse economic con- 
ditions of the country have, however, been felt by local authori- ” 
ties and schools have suffered in consequence. Many schools 
were insufficiently equipped. 

The local authority of Tel Aviv continued to improve its 
educational services in many ways. Its expenditure on education 
amounted to £P.120,000 in the financial year 1937-8. . 


The secondary school leaving examination was conducted 
by the Va’ad Leumi Department of Education and nine schools 
submitted 290 candidates. 228 students passed the examination 
and 62 failed. 


IIo out of 116 students of the top classes of three teachers’ 
colleges were awarded diplomas. An external examination was 
held by the Va’ad Leumi Department for uncertificated 

teachers; 18 out of 28 passed. 


Much was done for adult education by local authorities and 
by semi-public bodies. 

The four new schools erected out of a loan of £P.72,000 
obtained by the Tel Aviv municipal council from Barclays 
Bank (see paragraph 24, page 147 of 1937 Report) were com- 
pleted by the end of the school year. 


Other Schools. 


24. 1.—Moslem Schools—During the year 184 Moslem schools 
were maintained with an enrolment of 14,052 pupils of whom 
2,332 were girls. Two of these schools have secondary classes 
and a number are comparable with Government elementary 
schools. The majority, however, are old fashioned and 
inefficient. 


15774 F 4 


156 


25. I1.—Chnstian Schools—The following table gives com- 
parative figures for two years. The figures are only approxi- 
mately correct, as some groups of Catholic schools, not always 
the same groups, have for some years past failed to render 
statistical returns. | 


1936-7. 
Schools. Pupils. 
Catholic... exe 14,375 
Protestant bass 4,994 
Orthodox ... ae 2,874 


Others aye hak 654 


Total a 22,897 








The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by local and foreign bodies. 





(a) Palestinian : 
Latin Partriarchate ... i 
Greek Orthodox Patriarchate ose 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate... 
Syrian Orthodox Patriarchate 
Armenian Catholic Convent 
Orthodox Societies ... 
Custodia di Terra Santa... 
Greek Catholic Archbishopric 
Russian Religious Schools ... 
Others ity 


(5) Foreign : 
French 
British 
German 
Italian 
American 
Swedish 


Total 








26. III.—Jewish Schools (not included in the Hebrew Public 
System).—The following table gives comparative figures for 
two years :— 





157 





1936-7. 1937-8. 







Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 


Alliance Israélite Universelle .. 


4,387 9 4,368 
- Anglo-Jewish Association (Eveline de 
Rothschild Girls’ School) ... 416 I 417 
Women’s International Zionist Organi- 
sation sd 287 9 483 
- Agudat Israel Organisation 2 2,079 | *19 *2,031 
Under Private Control 


12,816 189 14,157 


Total ... 19,985 | 227 21,456 





* These figures include 12 schools and 1,196 pupils of the Beit Ya’aqov 
girls’ school type. 
Secondary and Post-Secondary Education and Examinations. 


_ 27. The following summaries show the numbers of schools 
ux in which secondary education was given :— 





4wvab Public System: 
Training Colleges... 
Secondary Schools ... | 


Moslem Schools 
SFmristian Schools : 
“Teaching in English... | 
a6 » French... 

> » German 


oe » Greek ... 
wg » Italian... 
‘a » Arabic... | 
e » Armenian 


He®rew Public System : 
Training Colleges : 
Secondary Schools ... 


_7Private Jewtsh Schools : 


. Training Colleges 
_-~ Secondary Schools ... 


— 


fe’ 
fa 


Total 





158 


28. Students are admitted to the Government law classes in 
Jerusalem in alternate years only; 123 (85 internal and 38 
- external) new students were admitted in November, 1937. 


29. Out of 211 candidates who entered, 201 sat for the 
Palestine matriculation examination in July, 1938. Of these, 
84 obtained the matriculation certificate and 61 qualified for 
the school certificate. Three candidates presented themselves 
for the Palestine intermediate examination in July; two passed 
and one was “ referred ’’ in one subject. 

30. Hebrew University.—At the end of the academic year 
1937-8, there were 118 members on the staff of the Hebrew 
University, including 31 professors and 27 lecturers. | 

The number of students enrolled was 734 (of whom 196 were 
women) as against 779 in the preceding year. Undergraduates 
numbered 685, of whom 462 were in the Faculty of Humanities, 
223 in the Faculty of Science, and 49 were research students. 
About 15 per cent. of the students received their secondary 
education in Palestinian schools and about 85 per cent. in other 
countries, notably Poland and Germany. Eighteen candidates 
presented themselves for the University entrance examination, 
of whom 9g passed. 

Seventeen students in the Faculty of Humanities graduated 
with the degree of M.A., and the degree of M.Sc. was granted 
to eight students in the Faculty of Science. 

Through the generosity of the French Government, a lecture- 
ship in French culture was created in the Faculty of Humanities. 
The French Government also presented an important collec- 
tion of French books, in order to promote the study of the 
French language. 

- In the Faculty of Science, laboratory accommodation was 
increased in chemistry and bacteriology. 

In addition to the scientific publications of the University 
staff, the Hebrew University Press continued its series of Hebrew 
translations from classical philosophical texts. The series now 
comprises 20 volumes. 

The construction of the buildings of the medical centre is 
nearing completion. The Nathan Ratnoff Medical School 
building will contain medical laboratories in pathological 
physiology and anatomy; cancer research, hygiene and bacterio- 
-logy, and hormone research. | 

The aggregate expenditure for the financial year 1937-8 
amounted to about £P.109,000. Government contributed a 
oan of £P.543 towards research in agricultural-veterinary 
work. 

31. Language Examinations for Government officers.—In the 
lower standard Arabic examination sixteen passed both the 
colloquial and literary tests, and nine passed the colloquial test 
only. In the lower standard Hebrew fifteen passed both the 
colloquial and literary tests, and one passed the colloquial test 
‘only. In the higher standard examinations four out of six 
passed in Arabic and four out of six passed in Hebrew. The 


159 


Arabic examinations were taken by fifteen British and nineteen 
Jewish officials, while the Hebrew examinations were taken by 
seven British and eighteen Arab officials. 


32. Government (Arab) Teachers’ Examinations.—At the 
teachers’ lower certificate examination, 24 out of 62 passed in 
Part I (pedagogy), and 18 out of 62 in Part II (school sub- 
jects). At the secondary teachers’ certificate examination, 10 
out of 18 candidates passed in Part I (pedagogy) and 9g out of 
32 in Part II (school subjects). An elementary teachers’ higher 
certificate examination, designed for older teachers was also 
held: two out of nine passed in both Parts I and II. 


33. Foreign Examinations.—Eighty-six candidates entered 
for London University examinations conducted in Jerusalem, 
of whom 28 passed. Thirty-eight candidates also presented 
themselves for other British examinations, namely, those for 
the Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate, the London 
Association of Certified Accountants, the Chartered Surveyors’ 
Institution, the Chartered Institute of Secretaries, the Institute 
of Book Keepers, the Town Planning Institute, and Pitman’s 
Shorthand Institute. Of those entering 23 passed. 


Agricultural Education. 


34. Agricultural education of an elementary nature is pro- 
vided in many of the general schools, both Arab and Jewish. 
There are also a number of special institutions with various 
standards and aims :— 


(a) In the Arab Public (Government) School System 
there were. 219 gardens in general elementary or secondary 
schools with a total area of 2,216 dunums (about 550 acres). 
Of these gardens go were supervised by trained agricultural 
teachers. | 

The school nursuries raised over 24,000 fruit trees during 
the year, and distributed about 4,000 seedlings, either free 
or at a low price. Over 15,700 forest tree seedlings were 
also raised, and over 12,000 were similarly distributed. 
Three hundred and twelve dunums were planted with vege- 
tables, and 120 dunums with cereals. Sixteen thousand 
seedlings of improved vegetable varietics were distributed. 

In January, 1938, about 30,000 forest trees, 3,000 fruit 
trees and 5,000 grape vines were planted by Government 
school pupils. 

Twenty-seven schools kept bees with a total of 310 hives; 

ultry was raised in 13 schools, and rabbits in five schools. 

xperiments were made with preserving home fruit and 
vegetables. 


(6) Agricultural studies are as yet a less prominent part of 
the Jewish Public School System but are being steadily 
developed. Gardening is done in most of the rural schools 
and in the majority of urban schools. 


160 


35. The two Kadoorie schools, maintained partly from the 
Kadoorie bequest but largely by Government, are, with Mikveh 
Israel, the principal special institutions for vocational training 
in agriculture. 

(a) The Kadoorie Agricultural Arab school, Tulkarm, 
was reopened in September, 1937, when 48 of the 60 students 
who had been dismissed in April, 1936, for going on stnke, 
were readmitted. Twenty-five finished their course in 
January, 1938, and twenty-eight new students were 
admitted. 

(6) The Kadoone Agricultural Jewish school, Mount 
Tabor, was open throughout the year. Twenty-one students 
completed their course in August, 1937, and seven of them 
formed a co-operative farm. 

(c) Mikveh Israel—The total number of pupils in the 
three classes were 292, all boys and boarders coming from 
22 different countries. Ninety-three finished their course 
in 1938. The accommodation available at the school is 
being enlarged so as to allow the number of pupils to be 
increased to 400. A shorthand course of two years has 
been introduced for the benefit of the more indigent students, 
and 76 are availing themselves of it. 


36. Other Agricultural institutions which are mainly of a 
more elementary and practical type are as follows: 
Numbers of pupils (approximate). 


(a) Jewish: Boys. Girls. Total. 
Children’s Village, Ben-Shemen ... ... 103 69 172 
Children’s Village, Meir Shefeya ... ... 60 56 116 
Agricultural School, Pardess Hanna ae, 57 13 70 
Girls’ Agricultural School, Nahalal — 121 121 
Wizo Girls’ School for Domestic Science 

and Agriculture, Nahalat Yitzhaq wig oe 60 60 
Five Training Farms for Girls (Wizo 

and Women Workers’ Council) ... ok. Gee 186 186 
Girls’ Agricultural Farm School, 

Talpiyot, Jerusalem soe oe fy 40 40 
Girls’ Agricultural Farm (Women Workers’ 

Council), Tel Aviv bee sae ee 34 34 

(b) Non-Jewish : 

Trappists’ Agricultural School, Latrun ... 16 — 16 
Salesian Agricultural School, Beit Jamal... 47 — 47 
Latin Agricultural School, Rafat ... 1. 30 — 30 


Improvements were effected in some of the girls’ agricultural 
school farms. The Pardess Hanna school is a secondary school. 


Manual Training and Technical Education. 


37. Manual work is part of the general curriculum in Govern- 
ment schools. A weaving section has been introduced at Majdal 
village school. The weaving section at Bethlehem Government 
boys’ school did not function during the year, but the industrial 
section of the Dura village school continued to work. 


161 


38. The Government Trade School for Arabs at Haifa was 
opened in October, 1937, with 50 pupils. Of these forty, selected 
from the higher elementary classes, constituted a first year class 
in general carpentry and metal work prior to specialization in 
various trades. The remaining ten pupils formed a special class 
selected from the second secondary class of technical sections of 
Jaffa and Nazareth, for a year’s continuation course. They 
were trained as teachers of drawing and manual work in general 
schools. All the pupils were boarders, paying an inclusive fee 
of £P.12 a year. The course is intended to cover three years. 


39. There was a considerable increase in the number of 
ee at the Max Pine and the Mizrahi Trade Schools at 
el Aviv. 


Additions were made to the new trade school in Yajur settle- 
ment, near Haifa, which is used for immigrant Jewish youth, 
mostly from Germany. 


Higher technical education is provided at the Hebrew Techni- 
cal Institute, Haifa, which trains civil engineers, architects, 
and mechanical or electrical engineers. The students numbered 
527 of whom 45 took the final diploma examination, controlled 
by Government. Thirty-five students took both the written and 
the project parts and 20 qualified for the diploma. The trade 
school and technical secondary school attached to the Institute 
were amalgamated into one, and had 185 pupils. 


, vi The technical schools and institutions in Palestine are as 
ollows:— 


Putils. 
re ec, 

Avab Public System: Boys. Girls. Total. 

Government Trade School for Arabs, Haifa a 51 — 51 
Moslem Schools : 

Moslem Orphanage, Jerusalem* (Technical Section) 39 — 39 
Christian Schools : 

Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem* (Trade Section)... 52 — 52 

Salesian School, Bethlehem* (Technical Section) ... 40 ~— 40 

Ratisbonne School, Jerusalem (Technical Section) II -— II 
Hebrew Public System : : 

New Bezalel School of Arts and Crafts, Jerusalem... 21 15 36 

Rebecca Somekh Trade School for Girls, Jerusalem — 63 63 

Max Pine Trade School, Tel-Aviv... seh sab 116 — 116 

Mizrahi Trade School, Tel-Aviv 33 — 33 


Trade School for Yemenite Girls, Shekhunat 


Marmorek sige ie : 4 12% 125 
Hebrew Technical Institute, Haifa: 

i. Vocational High School Sai aie w= 185 — 185 

li. Engineering College _... Jat ee wes 507 20 527 

Ludwig Tietz Trade School, Yajur ... 23 aks 67 — 67 


* Includes a boarding section. 


162 


41. Education of defectives.—There has been no appreciable 
change in the number of blind and deaf and dumb persons 
cared for in special schools. The following are the figures for 
the year :— 

Arabs : Blind. Deaf and dumb. 

Government School for 


the Blind, Hebron 14 — 
Syrian Orphanage 4 in school (boys) 

Jerusalem tie ae 5 in workshops (boys) _— 
Moslem Orphanage, 12 in workshops, 

Jerusalem se ‘Sie including 4 girls — 
Sisters of St. Vincent de 18 in school, 15 in school 

Paul, Jerusalem ae including 4 boys including 4 boys 
The ‘‘ Thankful Hearts’ 

League ’’ School for the 12 in school 

Deaf, Jerusalem woes — all boys 

Jewtsh : 

Institute of the Blind, 

Jerusalem 27 — 


Alliance Israélite School 
for the Deaf and Dumb, 


Jerusalem ee : — 26 


The municipal school for mentally defective children at Tel 
Aviv had 110 pupils. A similar school in Petah Tiqva also 
continued to exist with about 50 pupils. The Jewish school for 
mentally defective children was transferred from Jerusalem 
to Ramat Gan. A special branch for retarded, problem, and 
mentally defective children has been established by the Tel 
Aviv local authority as a part of its educational service. 


42. Physical training, athletics, scouting, etc.—Progress was 
made with courses for teachers of physical training in Govern- 
ment schools, and the general level of athletics was maintained. 

Political conditions have greatly disturbed all scout and 
guide work and the majority of groups of the Palestine Boy 
Scouts’ Association have been inactive during the year. 

The new association of Jewish scouts (boys and girls), 
established in 1936, now numbers 3,000. 


Probation Service. 


43. The progress made in the preceding year in the develop- 
ment of the probation system was maintained during 1938, but 
further progress in actual probation work was rendered im- 
possible owing to the disturbed condition of the country. The 
full time and the part time probation officers in the principal 
towns continued to work, although their activities were neces- 
sarily curtailed. 


44. In 1937, 2,007 boys were dealt with by the courts; in 
1938 the number was 1,135 of whom 776 were Moslems, 310 
Jews and 4g Christians. This year’s figures, owing to the 


163 


abnormal conditions, cannot be regarded as indicative of the 
actual amount of juvenile delinquency in the country and are 
not of comparative value. 


45. Ihe Juvenile Offenders Ordinance, which was enacted 
on the 18th February, 1937, came into operation on the 22nd 
September, 1938. the Ordinance provides for the establish- 
ment of juvenile courts and so legalizes the existing practice of 
hearing all juvenile cases in camera. Rules under the Ordinance 
have been made and court procedure is now simplified. The 
ia ha of young offenders is safeguarded both before and during 


46. A remand home for the detention of young offenders 
awaiting trial or transfer.on committal to an institution has 
been established in Jerusalem. An important provision em- 

ing a new principle in Palestine law is contained in 
section 16 of the Ordinance. This section empowers the court 
to deal with children and young persons who are found to be in 
need of care and protection. It also provides that in certain 
cases Government will provide for the maintenance of such 
children or young persons in private institutions. It is antici- 
pated that when full use is made of these provisions an 
appreciable degree of preventive work will be possible. 


47. The essential co-operation between police and probation 
officers has been maintained, and, following the enactment of 
the Juvenile Offenders Ordinance, instructions were issued to 
all police stations regarding the treatment of young offenders 
during interrogation and preliminary investigation. 

Quarterly statistical returns of juvenile offenders are sub- 
mitted from each police district to the probation office. 


48. The connection between the Probation Service and the 
Government Boys’ Reformatory School, Tulkarm, has been 
strengthened by the transfer of the school from the Police 
and Prisons Department to the Department of Education. 


49. The number of boys committed to the Reformatory 
School was 83 compared with 177 in 1937. This represents 
7°3 per cent. of the total cases, dealt with as compared with 
9-6 per cent. in 1937. 

Boys to the number of 205 were placed on probation for 
periods varying from 12 months to 3 years. 


50. Apart from the regular staff there are a number of Arab 
and Jewish Honorary Probation Officers. The Arab Honorary 
Probation Officers for the most part are headmasters of Govern- 
ment secondary schools, and the Jewish Honorary Probation 
Officers are the trained social workers of the Department of 
Social Service of the Va’ad Leumi and the Social Service 
Department of the Municipality of Tel Aviv. Their help and 
co-operation has been of great value. 


164 
XX—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


I. Epidemic Diseases.—During the year 1938 there were 
6,450 cases of notifiable disease reported with 788 deaths, as 
compared with 11,693 cases with 1,390 deaths in 1937. 


The diseases showing the greatest incidence were typhoid 
fever with 1,643 cases in 1938 as compared with 2,049 cases in 
1937, and measles with 3,218 cases in 1938 whereas in 1937 
7,594 cases were notified. 

It is recognised, however, that the notification of these 
diseases was incomplete owing to the unrest in the country. 
Movement of the population was greatly restricted, which con- 
trolled the spread of the infecton. At the same time mild and 
isolated cases did not seek medical aid and consequently were 
not reported. Nevertheless, there was an actual decrease in the 
incidence of both these diseases. 

A system of whole blood prophylaxis was instituted against 
measles in the centres where the disease was most prevalent, 
which proved of value in preventing the spread of the disease 
and in modifying the severity of its course. 

There was a definite decrease in the notifications received 
during the year of typhus and cerebro-spinal meningitis; the 
former with 176 cases in 1938 compared with 262 cases in 1937; 
the latter with 14 cases as compared with 44 cases respectively. 

Notifications of influenza showed an increase to 46 cases in 
1938 with one death, as compared with 22 cases with 3 deaths 
in 1937. The distribution of these cases was scattered and 
without any localized outbreak. 

No case of smallpox, cholera or plague occurred during the 
year 1938 amongst the indigenous population. Protective 
vaccination was maintained in regard to these and to all new 
immigrants to the country. 


2. Ankylostomiasis and Village Sanitation.—The campaign 
for the investigation and treatment of hookworm disease was 
continued during the year, although the troubled state of the 
country necessarily curtailed such work in new areas and con- 
siderably reduced re-surveys of treated cases and the treatment 
and re-treatment of infested individuals. 

Three thousand, five hundred and ninety-three persons were 
examined for helminthic infestation from areas not previously 
investigated. This investigation showed an average infestation 
incidence of 29 per cent. with a maximum figure of 60 per cent. 
One thousand, five hundred new cases received treatment. 

Rural sanitary measures, particularly the introduction of 
latrines in village areas, are important in the campaign against 
this disease. They therefore continued to receive the attention 
which their success in previous years warranted. 

Some 25,000 village latrines have been installed during the 
last seven years. 


165 


_ Scavenging control in individual houses and constant inspec- 
ton of latrines, with a view to proper use, are now a routine 
in most rural centres of population. 


3. Schistosomiasts.—The survey of schistosomiasis infestation 
continued to be the duty of a special unit of the department. 
The work comprises field investigation in suspected localities, 
incidence of infested molluscs and human infestation. 

During the year some 2,000 individuals were examined from 
the general population in one area resulting in an infestation 
rate of 1-2 per cent. with schistosomum haematobium. No 
schistosomum mansoni was found in these cases. 

The principal foci in Palestine still appear to be the River 
Rubin and the River Auja, both in the southern district. 

A previous important focus of dissemination of the disease, 
the annual Moslem festival which draws thousands of people 
to the Rubin area for some weeks, was absent during 1938. 


4. Teeberculosts.—The modified scheme for a tuberculosis ser- 
vice proposed as a result of the survey carried out in 1935 had 
again to be deferred for reasons of economy. 

The various tuberculosis clinics of the department dealt with 
8,063 attendances during the year. Of these, 301 were new 
cases, of which 233 were pulmonary and 68 non-pulmonary, 
compared with 237 and 67 respectively in 1937. 

Notified deaths from tuberculosis (all forms) were 211 in 1938 
as compared with 234 in 1937 and 201 in 1936. 

The attendances recorded are considered to be very encoura- 
ging when compared with the difficulties and dangers of travel 
during the period under review; and there is no doubt that 
the population would respond eagerly to a well-organized scheme 
of tuberculosis treatment and control. 

_Three hundred and fifty-seven artificial pneumothorax induc- 
ions and refills were administered at the Jerusalem and Haifa 
clinics during 1938, the phrenocectomy was carried out in two 
cases with very encouraging results. 

Careful records are kept of all cases investigated, and effort 
at home control is the general rule as far as circumstances 
permit. 


5. Venereal Diseases.—A total attendance of 42,161 indicated 

that main treatment centres continued to work in a_highly 
satisfactory manner throughout the year in spite of the difficulties 
prevailing. 
_ The routine treatment of gonorrhoea and syphilis was brought 
into line with the latest modern opinion, sulphanilamide being 
i general use for the former complaint. The following figures 
indicate new cases reporting for treatment during the year: — 


Syphillis ... a is so8 539 
soft sore ... ae ae ae 18 
gonorrhoea jak ‘eis sae 400 


non-venereal ea bes 558 640 


166 


Eight thousand and eleven serological and microscopical 
examinations were carried out, and an effort was made to 
influence ‘‘ follow up ’’ procedure, resulting in 9,781 injections 
of arsenic and 9,326 of bismuth. 


The incidence of syphilis appeared to be proportionately high. 
This is due to the results of the campaign against the endemic 
form of the disease in the Hebron area where mass investigation 
and treatment is the procedure followed. 


Venereal disease in women is a special feature of the campaign 
and is solely under the control of women medical officers. 


6. Malaria.—The unsettled state of the country caused more 
difficulty in the control of malarial conditions generally than 
in any other sphere of work undertaken by the Department of 
Health. Nevertheless, routine antimalarial measures were well 
maintained in urban areas where the incidence continued to be 
negligible, while rural districts received adequate attention, 
although interrupted and spasmodic from time to time. That 
this disease has not produced any damaging effect in the country 
as a whole, in spite of the existing troubles, is due to the work 
of previous years, to the system of observation in force and to 
the prompt action taken on an increase in incidence in any 
area. 


Sixty-seven mosquito-catching stations now operate and these 
are being considerably augmented as valuable information in 
regard to dangerous breeding grounds can thus be obtained. 


Spleen rates for the last three years were as follows : — 


Number of children 1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 

examined in 1938. percent. percent. percent. percent. 
Urban areas: 35,874 ... I+4 I°5 1-8 1'7 
Rural areas: 32,696 ... 4°5 4°7 6:7 7°4 


Routine measures were intensified where military forces had 
to be stationed in potentially endemic areas, but night patrols 
and pickets all over the country tended to create a special 
problem. In all the circumstances the small number of fresh 
infections of malaria by the security forces may be considered 
to have been very satisfactory. 


7, Although no new major schemes of antimalarial drainage 
could be undertaken owing to financial stringency and labour 
difficulties, progress was continued on certain works of improve- 
ment to existing schemes. 


Thus the drainage of the important Birket Ramadan area 
received further attention, while the works in existence at Lake 
Tiberias, Bassah, Ra’anana, Ras el Ain, and Rubin were fully 
maintained. 


_ 107 


8. The following statistical tables are of interest : — 


Infectious Diseases. 














1936. 1937. 
Diseases. 
Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
Acute Poliomyelitis 4 I 
thrax ; Sts 4 —_— 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis 26 6 
Diphtheria sie 32 19 
Dysentery _... 27 28 
Encephalitis Lethargica 2 — 
Influenza : 3 I 
Measles ae 669 175 
Paratyphoid fi I 
Pneumonia 390 388 
Puerperal Fever 24 6 
Relapsing Fever — — 
Scarlet Fever — — 
Typhoid 194 155 
Typhus ree 3 5 
Undulant Fever — — 
Blackwater Fever I 2 
Kala Azar... 4 I 
Totals 1,390 788 
Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality—1934-8. 
Birth- Number Number Death- 
vate per of soars of vate per Infant Infant 
Year. I,000 births ibs vo deaths 1,000 deaths. mortality. 
living.  vegistered. tere vegistered, living. 
1934 --- 41°59 += 45,942 1,104,605 24,136 21°85 7,245 157°69 
1935 ... 45°16 53,940 1,194,529 22,249 18:62 7,092 131°48 
1936... 44°88 56,993 1,269,952 20,465 16'II1 6,929 121°57 
1937 ... 41°58 54,749 1,316,767 24,882 18-90 8,369 152°86 
1938 ... 39°89 53,928 1,352,066 20,268 14°99 6,040 112-00 
Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1938. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 
Estimated settled popula- 
tion on 30th snes 1938 111,796 828,606 399,808 11,856 1,352,066 
Deaths : 1,391 15,449 3,231 197 20,2608 
Death-rate per ‘1, 000 of 
population _... 12°44 18:64 8:08 16-61 14°99 
Births ; 3,818 39,048 10,563 499 53,928 
Birth-rate per 1, ,000 of 
population ... 34°15 47°12 26°42 42:09 39°89 
Deaths—Infants under 
one year 397 4,983 615 45 6,040 
Infant mortality-rate per 
1,000 births ... 103'98 127:°61 58-22 90°18 112-00 
Natural Increase per 1,000 . 
of population 21°71 28-48 18:34 25°48 24°90 


168 


g. The estimated mid-year population is based on the census 
of 1931 after allowing for natural increase of population and 
that due to migration. His Majesty’s Forces and nomadic 
Bedouin tribes, the latter numbering 66,553 in I9g3I, are not 
included in this figure. 


10. Regulation of Trades and Industnes.—The enforcement 
of the provision of the Trades and Industries (Regulation) Ordi- 
nance was maintained with difficulty in the larger towns but it 
was suspended altogether in certain rural areas owing to the 
disturbed state of the country. Nevertheless licences issued 
during the year 1938 numbered 18,747 as compared with 
21,288 in the previous year. 

During the year ar See or depots for receiving goods 
or materials for laundering, dyeing or dry cleaning were added 
to schedule of controlled trades and industries. 


11. Food Conirol.—This branch of the Department’s activi- 
ties was actively maintained in the larger towns during the year 
under review. Certain relaxation, however, was unavoidable 
in the rural districts. 

or as attention was paid to the application of food stan- 
dards. 

The Public Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance and rules 
thereunder were amended in order to be more effective. Under 
the amendments iter alia medical officers are given powers to 
condemn, and have destroyed, foodstuff which in their opinion 
is unwholesome or unfit for human consumption. 

Rules for the purpose of effecting adequate control over the 
importation of meat and edible viscera into Palestine, were also 
enacted. © 


12. Drainage and Sanitation.—Municipal sanitary services 
were on the whole well maintained in the principal towns, having | 
regard to the difficult conditions prevailing from time to time 
and certain attempts connected with the disturbances to interfere 
with public services. Local and temporary interruptions 
occurred in the towns of Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa, but through 
the efforts of the sanitary surveyors and the loyalty of their 
staff, scavenging services were quickly restored. It is a matter 
for regret that the local staff were the victims of-armed attacks 
by terrorists, in several cases with fatal results. 


Progress was made with the Jerusalem main drainage scheme 
in Jerusalem in the western sections of the city, and with minor 
extensions of laterals in Haifa and Jaffa. Main drainage works 
in Tel Aviv still await the raising of funds but to relieve the in- 
sanitary conditions in certain built up areas work proceeded with 
temporary drainage lines designed so as to be suitable for even- 
tual incorporation in the main scheme. Main drainage schemes 
for Gaza and Majdal were prepared. 


169 
The department advised on the sanitary aspects of a large 
number of public buildings and private enterprises. 


13. Water Supply.—Routine laboratory examinations of pub- 
lic water supplies, in the various municipalities, were carried out 
by the department. Recommendations were made for the im- 
ee of main supplies in the towns of Hebron, Acre, Tul- 

arm and Majdal. An additional bore and pumping plant were 
constructed in Jaffa. These will serve the southern section of 
the town and will be incorporated in the scheme prepared by 
consulting engineers for the complete supply. 


The programme of work for the improvement of village water 
supplies was suspended owing to financial stringency and the 
disturbed conditions. 


14. Medical Supervision of Maritime and Air Traffic.—There 
was a slight increase in the number of ships arriving at Palestine 
eae during the year, and air traffic expanded very consider- 
ably. 

The construction of buildings at Tel Aviv port for dealing with 
passenger and immigrant traffic was completed, and the port 
was opened for all classes of arrival except those necessitating 
quarantine observation. 


During the year, 1,777 steamships and 457 sailing vessels 
called at Haifa port, 794 steamships and 504 sailing vessels at 
Jaffa port, 769 steamships and 30 sailing vessels at Tel Aviv 
port, one steamship and 42 sailing vessels at Gaza, and 314 
sailing vessels at Acre. 


Quarantine surveillance of air traffic was carried out at the 
various ports. The number of aircraft dealt with was as 
follows: Lydda (1,722), Haifa (591), Tiberias (362), and Gaza 
(9). The total number of aircraft was 949 in excess of the 
number dealt with in the previous year. 


The usual sanitary supervision of the Hejaz pilgrim traffic 
was carried out. Six hundred and ninety-nine Palestinian 
and 28 Ttans-Jordan pilgrims proceeded to Mecca. All were 
required to undergo medical examination and vaccination 
against smallpox and cholera before departure. Seventy-seven 
foreign pilgrims passed through Palestine on their way to the 
Hejaz. The health of the pilgrimage was declared satisfactory 
by the International Quarantine Board. Three Palestinians 
died from non-infectious diseases in the Hejaz and one shortly 
after return. 

In addition to Palestinians returning from the Hejaz, 250 
foreigners entered Palestine in transit to their respective coun- 
tries. All were kept under medical surveillance for five days 
after arrival or during their period of transit though the coun- 


170 


15. The Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc.—During the 
year 68 new licences to practise medicine were granted and 46 
licences were cancelled on account of death or loss of residential 
qualification of the holder. A further 50 licences were in process 
of cancellation for the latter reason at the end of the year. | 

The proportion of licensed practitioners to the settled popula- 
tion (excluding nomadic bedouin) is approximately one to 670 
persons. 

There were 51 new licences granted to practise dentistry and 
5 were cancelled or withdrawn. 

In the profession of dentistry there is one dentist to 2,000 of 
the population. ; 

Thirty-three pharmacists’ licences were issued and five were 
cancelled. The number of licensed pharmacists is 424 or one 
to 3,180 persons of the settled population. All these professions 
are seriously overcrowded. 

Twenty-eight new licences to practise midwifery were granted 
and g withdrawn. 

The number of persons holding licences at the end of the year 
are shown in the following table : — 


Licences of Doctors, Dentists, Pharmacists and Midwives, 1938. 






Licensed | Licensed | Cancelled 
— until end during during 
of 1937. 1938. 1938. 


Doctors si 2,206 68 
Dentists oe 593 51 
Dental _Practi- 

tioners uke 28 — 
Pharmacists... 393 36 
Asst. Pharmacists 45 I 
Midwives ___... 513 28 


16. Hospitals and Dispensaries.—The new hospital at Haifa 
comprising 220 beds was opened in October, 1938, and patients 
from the old leased buildings were transferred to it. The hos- 
pital is situated close to the sea, and is sited and constructed with 
special reference to the prevailing wind in the summer. Its 
installations and equipment are well up to the standard of 
modern European hospitals. 

The Government Hospital at Jerusalem was extended to allow 
for additional beds for the wives and families of British police 
and soldiers. : 

The construction of the small infectious hospital at Jerusalem, 
was delayed owing to labour difficulties and. disturbances, but 
it will be completed, it is hoped, early in 1939. 


171 


The disturbances resulted in a great increase of surgical ad- 
missions to Government and other hospitals, but this was offset 
by a necessary restriction in the number of admissions of medical 
cases and a smaller incidence of infectious disease. 


All Government hospitals and clinics continued to be main- 
taned throughout the country and were not molested. Private 
and voluntary hospitals also continued their activities. 


The construction of the Hebrew University Hadassah Hospital 
on Mount Scopus, Jerusalem, was completed during the year. 
The building will accommodate 300 patients as well as the offices 
of the Hadassah medical organization. 


The out-patient departments and clinics throughout the coun- 
try whether Government or voluntary, worked at full pressure. 
The poverty of the people drove them to attend at hospitals and 
Government clinics, rather than at the clinics of private doctors 
who suffered in consequence. 


The Government ophthalmic clinics and first-aid posts were 
fully attended and did much good work in the campaign against 
acute ophthalmia and trachoma. Liaison with the Ophthalmic 
Hospital of the Order of St. John was maintained. 


There was an increase of admissions to Government hospitals, 
which were 20,525 as compared with 20,091 in 1937. There 
was, however, a decrease in the number of admissions to volun- 
tary general hospitals which were 32,067 as compared with 
35,025 in 1937. 

Outpatients attending at all institutions, Government, muni- 
cipal and voluntary, were 939,183, compared with 879,907 
IN 1937. 


17. The following is a classified summary of new patients ad- 
te to hospitals or attending dispensaries and clinics during 
e year: — 





Cie Unclasst- 
— Moslems. , Jews. | fied and | Totals. 
1ans 
others 
In-patients : 
Government and 
Municipal Hospi- 
tals oe ie 9,183 2,687 8,605 50 20,525 
Voluntary Hospitals 8,874 4,465 18,703 25 32,067 
Out-patients : 
Government and 
Municipal Dispen- 
Saries 137,341 17,182 25,601 67,613 | 247,737 


Voluntary Organiza- 
tions ee ie 85,818 33,709 | 571,814 105 | 691,446 








172 
18. The following tables provide more detailed information of 
the activities of: 
A. Government and municipal hospitals. 
B. Voluntary general hospitals. 
C. Special hospitals: 
(a) voluntary, 
(6) Government. 





1¢Z €. 
Cof c. 
CI €. 
61 S. 
¢ L. 
£8 9: 
CZ O- 
61 c. 
of1 c. 
ooI L- 
| 
‘svat fo |-pasrdnoz0 
pus jo | spaq fo 
patdno00 | ssqunu 
spaq fo | afvaaan 


AQuUnN, | Apsvq 





Cgz'r 


Sgt 
Lz 
zy 
Lz 
121 
zLi 
6¢ 


8gI 
rer 


"syyvaq 


CzS‘oz| oS 
LLZe‘L) — ceEe‘Z 
10S | — | 6+ 
6zS I =e 
ZIz = [ia 
€Lz‘z1 1 = 
Ego'z} — |S 
gtZ I 06 





CLr‘€| bb 60S 
LEo'€ 


ssuosssamep f’. "YISUaMS-pog [OUIMON 


8£6I—sivirasofy TVAISINA nv INSRINUHAOD (y) 
a 





$140.T 


jedioruny ‘AtAy-[9L 
JUSUIUIOAO) ‘beleg rug 
*** JUSTIUIIAOS Sezer 
JUSUITLIQAOS “eqoysieog 
qUSUIUIBAOY) ‘SNIGeN 

°** JQuamIUIGAOs ‘eel 
"** JUOUIUIOAOS ‘peyes 

"°° JUSUIMIGAOS) ‘BsTeyT 
JUSUITIGAOS ‘ueTesnie[ 


"sqondsoFT 











2 
NS 
: 
& 
o 
S. 


.~) 
8 
3 
-. 
® 
wx 
& 
“~ 
4 
Cy 
® 
Q 
x 


rT MANY 
2) 
&S 


00 
2) 
wv 


oO 
Se 
=~ 


NON OrR O TNO 
~~ 
bm 


‘pardnza0 spaq fo 


ssquinu asvaaan 4j10C7 


‘saSanyosiq 





ZE1'1 
Lo6‘1 
Liz‘ 


ZI 


QIt‘r 


oLz 


rg 
1S€‘r 
149 
Lol 
€£9 
691 ‘I 
6¢¢ 
€z1 
g6z‘'s 





"$1010. 


"SU0td1I94 49440 


pun patfissvjou/) 


zy 
ITT | 


IT | 


"SUOLSSIUAD 


"SUDISILYD 


"$14491S0 JAT 


O2I 


vE 


‘ol 


zl 
ze 
of 
Ch 
£9 
LS 
gs 
o61 





"Y1SUIMS-paq [DULuO NT 


senoqrL 
eIUBv 
€Z}0OF 


e¢ 


(6 


woesn.to [ 


SeLoqiy 
Y}OIVZEN 
woiqep 
weresn.te{ 
sniqen 
CZEL) 
eye! 
PeEyes 
wieresnis[ 


"MOUDIOT | *Aj1yHUOND AT 


qsnug 


ueousUy 





ee ee @e 


eulss[eg Ul mmoqey ystmof 
JO UOHBIepe [e1suey Jo puny Fos 
= (CV'S'N pue 
wopZury peyup Apsour ‘peoiqe 
pue spuny [eoo]) WOH IN PIO 
*  (v's‘n pe 


“Wopsuryy pozyup Aysour ‘peoiqe 


pue spuny TBO]) UMTJOFY Indig7 MONT 
es (peoiqe pure [eso] 
‘SUOFEUOp oyeAtIq) YORpeT qeasr 
ee purlyOIS JO qoinyy 
AQapog WOISSIW [BoIpeyw! Gsinquipy 
" UOISsI 3Seq 94} pue Woyesnsa [ 
"sae { 0} uoIssT qsnud 


6c “ ee 


Aya1o0g Areuorssi yomnq 


eoLIsUry JO WOT}eZ 
ssienixs 


“MoimziUDdAcC 10jtGs0 FT 


en gneve 


"g€61I—-SIVLIdSOH AUVINNIOA (g) 





9: bS1‘t| Sog‘o€ 








Coz‘1 | Loo‘z£| Sz 





€oLl‘gr| Sob‘h| bZg‘g| SEg‘r 
I 


96 Czz oS 
Lz QS 09 
6g got oF 
@ €S1 Oz 
€1 tbe 0g 
6Zo‘I| ZI ¢¢ 
oes zgz 
fr | LLz of 
—_— vI9 Og: 
ZI C6S oc 
L6L‘I 6 Ec? 
ogt‘E | Sr | 99 











«¢€ e¢ ee 





eeL 
ule, esn.ia { uvyesy | ee oe OULIOT, 
Ip CURITEI] BFEUOFeNT QUOIZeIDOSSY 
eyreH . “+ S9]TBYD “3S JO 819981 JO JpIO 
eye 6e ove eee eee 432190S ojdmoy 
ee ce eee eee ese ees ureqy 
We UPISMIOSIV YY Jaq] UleIOA WeSsse 
“WoRVIg JeyostTeqd}sey qostureqy 
urspesnief | weUulles | ““Wweproqsury ‘puey Ajopy aq} Ut 
Ayranurwo; ystmef 94} Jo 810390} 
“Ol pue slojny ‘yapez erevqs 
Y7e1ezB ‘ (¢ oes aes viii “s v 
eye . Sais coe sei® ee 
mode “ : 
pestu.zo sic tdsoyy qouety 
we) ft qouery eyrepz JO Granarne5 qstmol 


-*-9uypsoreq UI 1n0QeT qstmof so 
uorzeIepe.j fe1euey jo PuNnel AIS 














1S o-r$ I: |/€ — |1 — |z zs “ aise “* Z-ON reqzidsopy fequcyy 

Gor |Z-Lor z ¢ — |z € — | Sor |woyetmeg oo) ron peqdsogy pequayy 
Suaabiaa [eroeds zyuUsuTMIEAOS) (9) 

vor 6-911| ozg | F | 0g — | 6€ 6F1 ozg | SQI 

19 g-zg | z€ — | z€ Sa[qeInoU] pus ouesuy I0J 
emoyy ‘AZOIN0G UTGSeN 4}eIZq 

vz g-€z 19 v 8 “** wopuo’y ‘A4aI00S UeIAPIOT 
Jeuojeursjuy «= ‘Tezidsoyy ~=ledaT 

61 L.o€ | zgZ — | g9Z wayesnis lf usqug | °"° as “* ~puelsuq ur 
walesnief yo uyof ‘3S Jo 1I9pIO 
aq} jo jeydsoy srmyeqzyqdoO 
‘speyidsoyy =yetoodg = Areqzunjo, (7) 

S S ee ee em, 2) 2 - 

erie | 2) EE] eRe EF] S| EF] 8 

ee | OS = > s | IR o > = 

XQ ® e o = ° ~~ & y 3 = 

ax* | Be oN = S 2 : 2 

eG 88 on ae : gq | 'S401RMI0T | *AztDUO1ID AT ‘UOUDZLUDZAC) J0I1GSO PT 

Ss & a $ 2 & 

of [$3 ans é 

“ss oe. se aaa x 

8 : S S. "SUOTSSIMED & 

SF g _ > | 





‘gf61—-s1vildSOH Tvloads (5) 


177 


19. Ophthalmic service.—Ophthalmic clinics worked very 
satisfactorily during the har Main centres are now stabilized 
in eleven towns, while first aid units operated in 23 villages. 
Three additional village centres functioned for short periods to 
deal with localized epidemics. 

The mobile ophthalmic unit worked throughout the season 
in 12 villages not served by the more permanent centres. 

The following figures indicate how little the dangers attending 


medical work in rural areas affected the control, by the Depart- 
ment of Health, of one of the most important diseases in the 


country : 


New cases. Total attendances. 
1936. 1937. 1938. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
63,480 72,673 66,173 864,647 990,837 952,203 


In schools the medical service carried out a considerable 
amount of eye disease treatment as a part of its normal routine, 
and dealt with 13,757 new cases. A total of 1,115,788 and 
1,688,754 attendances were recorded in town and village schools 
respectively. 

The ophthalmic hospital of the Order of St. John in Jerusalem 
dealt with 768 inpatients and 14,115 outpatients during the year 
under review. 


20. Nutnttion.—Nutrition problems received attention during 
the year and a scheme has now been introduced for the collection 
of certain statistics on a family visitation and infant welfare 

is. 


21. Grants in aid by Government to Jewish Medical Services 
and Institutions.—The annually recurrent grants were: 


£P. 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Service ... ne re 2,041 
Infant Welfare Services bay sas aes sad sin 1,771 
Contribution to Tuberculosis Hospital, Safad... ihe 1,700 
Contribution to Tel Aviv Municipal Hospital _... Los 6,841 


Total £P.12,353 





Owing to lack of funds no provision was made for any non- 
recurrent grants of assistance to voluntary institutions. A sum 
of £P.3,100 was, however, paid towards the cost of a radio- 
logical section of the new Hebrew University Hospital. This 
amount constitutes the second instalment of a total grant to the 
Hebrew University Hospital of £P.6,200 approved by Govern- 
ment in 1937, and is payable on completion of the buildings. 


22. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services.—In spite of the 
Conditions in the country these services were maintained and 
developed. Three new Government village infant welfare 
centres were opened and in Jewish settlements six were opened 


178 


by Jewish medical organizations. There are now 36 infant 
welfare centres operating mainly for Arab children and 4g for 
Jewish children. The number of children recorded on the 
registers of these centres as attending regularly was 18,200 at 
the close of the year. At certain of the centres, the staff under- 
took the administration of relief to women and children suffering 
from distress arising out of the disturbed conditions. 


Sixteen pupils graduated from the Government training school 
for midwives in Jerusalem during the year. 


The work of the gynaecological clinics which are held by the 
women medical officers in Jerusalem, Jaffa,, Ramleh, Nablus 
and Acre and Haifa was continued. Owing to insecurity on 
roads, however, the visits of medical officers to these clinics were 
interrupted, but at the end of the year the majority of them 
were again working normally. 


23. Laboratory Services.—The Department of Health con- 
tinued, as in previous years, to afford the requisite facilities 
for the laboratory diagnosis of disease and for the scientific 
investigation of epidemiological conditions. Its laboratory 
services also undertake the analytical examination of foods, 
waters, drugs and the like and provide for bio-chemical, 
chemico-legal and medico-legal investigations, agricultural 
analyses and the verification of weights and measures. The 
central laboratories include bacteriological, chemical, entomo- 
logical, agricultural, forensic, physical and _bio-chemical 
divisions as well as the central anti-rabies manufacturing 
Pasteur Institute and the calf-lymph establishment. These 
laboratories prepare for Palestine and Trans-Jordan smallpox 
lymph, anti-rabies vaccine and all prophylactic and curative 
vaccine required, including anti-enterica, anti-cholera, and ant- 
plague; in addition they undertake the histo-pathological 
examination of morbid material and all kinds of bio-chemical 
studies. Port and quarantine laboratories are also established 
at Haifa and Jaffa and these cater for the diagnostic needs 
of the adjacent towns too. During 1938 additional laboratory 
facilities were provided at the infectious diseases hospital at 
Bnei Beraq near Tel Aviv. The department continues to 
exercise a strict control over other laboratories and scientific 
institutes maintained by private funds and annually renewable 
licences are issued to approved persons considered qualified 
to conduct public pathological and bacteriological laboratories. 


During 1938 bacteriological examinations and investigations 

have totalled approximately 241,o0o0—a number which, though 
somewhat lower than the figure for 1937 owing to traffic restric- 
tions, exceeds the 1936 total by over 20,000. In addition, the 
bacteriological division of the central laboratories prepared 
159,200 doses of calf-lymph, 159,600 c.c. of killed carbolised 


179 


anti-rabic vaccine, 85,710 c.c. of anti-enterica, 3,570 c.c. of anti- 
cholera, and 1,320 c.c. of anti-plague prophylactics. Vaccine 
issues included 177,690 doses of calf-lymph, 197,448 c.c. of anti- 
rabic vaccine, 78,288 c.c. of T.A.B., 20,024 c.c. of T., 144 c.c. 
of anti-cholera and 108 c.c. of anti-plague vaccines. The issues 
of anti-enterica prophylactics and of carbolised virus were con- 
siderably less than in 1937, due to a lower incidence of the 
typhoid-paratyphoid group of fevers and to a diminished 
activity among biting animals respectively. Anti-rabic vaccine 
was distributed to 40 towns and provincial treatment centres 
where 2,170 patients, bitten and at-risk, have received advice | 
and specific treatment. Canine prophylactic also has been issued 
on demand by the veterinary authorities. The success rate 
among those receiving primary vaccinations exceeded 95 per 
cent. As a result of several years study and investigation, the 
method of preparation of anti-enterica vaccines has undergone 
considerable modification and the technique evolved embodies 
the latest ideas in this branch of bacteriology. Other activities 
include the performance of nearly 12,000 Wassermann reactions 
with, where necessary, Kahn tests in parallel series, the 
bi-weekly control of the Jerusalem water supply and Young 
Men’s Christian Association swimming pool and the preparation 
of 170 autogenous vaccines. 


In the entomological division, the identification and classifi- 
cation of insets of medical importance continued. Routine ex- 
amination of mosquitoes in their adult and larval stages and of 
the several species of fleas parasitic on port rats was carried out. 


In the chemical division, some 14,700 samples of all kinds 
were dealt with—an increase of 20 per cent. over last year’s 
figure in spite of a certain curtailment in food sampling due to 
unsettled local conditions. 


Under the Public Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance, 9,196 
ri were taken, of which 5 per cent. were either below stan- 
dard or improperly labelled. An intensive sampling of butter 
in local pene establishments and retailers was undertaken, 
and of the 547 samples 14 per cent. failed to conform to the 
Tequirements of the Ordinance. Of 75 samples of new seasons 
olive oil, 20 per cent. contained more than ro per cent. of acidity, 
while 6 per cent. were adulterated. 


The bio-chemical branch dealt with 2,027 specimens, the agri- 
cultural branch with 1,568 samples of soil, water, fertilizers and 
agricultural products. Suitable accommodation is now available 
in the latter branch for ‘‘ pot experiments ”’ on soils and ferti- 
lizers. Time was found also for investigations on local organic 
manure and the effect of irrigation with saline water. 


Exhibits examined in connection with criminal investigation 
Rumbered 309. 


180 


Town Planning and Housing. 


24. During the year consideration continued to be given to 
town planning schemes throughout the country, but owing to 
disturbed conditions there was a noticeable decrease in the nun- 
ber of schemes executed. A new Town Planning Commission 
was set up for the Galilee and Acre administrative district which 
was constituted during 1937 (see paragraph 15 page 7 of Annual 
Report for 1937). 


25. At the end of the year, the position was as follows with 
‘regard to the number of town planning areas :— 


Haifa and Samaria District. Year declared. 
Haifa oe sens dee ves ... I92I and 1931 
Nablus wee — dag re we IQ2I 
Tulkarm ... iene ans sae wee 1929 
Nathanya ... sais ais a6 we 1934 
Hadera ae ee wits ue ..» 1937 
Jenin eat Sieg 1938 

Galilee and Acre District. 

Tiberias... is bee wee ... 1922, 1929 and 1937 
Beisan eis ee sie eg ..» I924 

Affuleh 2 oe au — ..» 1926 

Acre ne Ses ses sae ... 1933 and 1936 

Jerusalem District. 

Jerusalem ... ee ‘oF bs soe I1g21 and 1929 
Hebron ai aes a ve Sis 1936 
Ramallah ... ies as et ide 1937 
Al Bireh ... bitte oad oh wa 1937 
Jericho... oe ss ne ee 1937 
Southern District. 
Jaffa eke a3; Bae Ace iar 1921 and 1937 
Tel Aviv... sex es sede ee I92I and 1937 
Lydda aa Jet aoe ae nas 1922 and 1937 
Ramle ae ae aide see as 1922 and 1937 
Petah Tiqva see side he ses 1937 
Lydda Air Port ... ee ai oe 1937 
Beersheba .... se ve ee Sas 1922 
Gaza ‘ins ci ‘gh sae te 1923 
Bat Yam ... ae ve ee sau 1938 
Yahudiya ... ee ao se ee 1938 
Bnei Braq ... ie oa ae sche 1938 
Ramat Gan roe bee ee a 1938 
Sheikh Muwannis... bei ser sat 1937 
State Domain (North of Auja River) ... 1937 


It will be seen that during 1938 new areas were declared for 
Jenin in the Haifa and Samaria District and for Bat Yam, 
Yahudiya, Bnei Braq and Ramat Gan in the Southern District. 


26. An important feature of the administration of town plan- 
ning during the year was the declaration of regional areas. The 
Town Planning Ordinance is being amended to provide for the 


181 


declaration of such areas throughout the country. Two such 
areas have already been declared and the declaration of the re- 
maining areas was under consideration at the close of the year. 
It is anticipated that with the declaration of such regional areas 
covering in extent the four administrative districts of Palestine 
a loose control on building development in and around urban 
areas throughout the country will be obtained. The existing 
system regarding the separate declaration of areas for urban 
centres continues as hitherto. 


27. Both the Legal Draftsman and the Town Planning Adviser 
continued to serve as members on all district town planning com- 
missions in order to ensure a unified policy in matters relating 
to building by-laws and other town planning principles. 


_%. Draft schemes for various areas were in course of prepara- 
ton during the year and in cases where local authorities needed 
assistance the schemes were prepared by the town planning ad- 
viser in direct consultation with them. i | 


29. Twelve district town planning meetings were held in the 
Jerusalem District, ten in the Haifa and Samaria District, seven 
in the Southern District and two in the Galilee and Acre District. 
In addition to these, monthly meetings of the Local Commissions 
were held in Jerusalem, Haifa, Tel Aviv and other centres. 


30. A further measure of decentralization will be introduced 
by the proposed amendment of the Ordinance in regard to the 
inal approval of schemes. Under the new amendment District 
Commissioners will be enabled to give final approval of detailed 
schemes. The authority of the High Commissioner will still be 
hecessary, however, for the declaration of new areas and the 
approval of outline schemes. 

31. A scheme for road widening and general improvement of 
road alignments for the town of Jenin was prepared following 
certain demolitions undertaken there. 


_ 32. As a result of the demolition of insanitary hutments in an 
Industrial zone in Haifa, a re-housing scheme was under con- 
sideration by Government and a site was selected near Balad 
Es Sheikh villa ge for housing those persons who were displaced. 


Free plots in the new housing area were offered and an access 
toad within the area of the new settlement was completed during 
the year. The site was also surveyed and pegged out into 
separate building plots and it is anticipated that with the return 
° normal conditions individual plot holders will be in a position 
to replace their temporary houses with structures built of more 
Permanent material. 


15774 | G 


182 


XX1.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from the 
Ist July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Govern- 
ment), to the 31st March, 1938, are set out below: — 








Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. LP. 
Ist July, 1920, to aoe March, 1921.. 1,136,951 1,259,587 
1921-2 ee 2,371,531 1,929,341 
1922-3 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-4 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-5 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-6 2,809,324 2,092,647 
1926-7 2,451,365 2,123,568 
1927 (April to ) December) 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 2,389,546 2,536,504 
1931 2,333,895 2,374,867 
1932 (January | to March) 657,289 511,656 
1932-3 3,015,917 2,510,394 
1933-4 3,985,492 2,704,856 
1934-5 5,452,633 3,230,010 
1935-6 vee 5:779,457 4,236,202 
1936-7 re 4,640,821 6,073,502 
1937-8 - 4,897,356 7,297,688 
£P.54,200,411 51,765,614 
Add :— 

Depreciation of Investments at 31st 
March, 1938 _ hs ee 33,958 
51,799,572 

General Revenue Balance Account 
at 31st March, 1938 2,400,839 
£P.54,200,411 


Revenue. 


2. Summaries of the Revenue and Expenditure under Heads 
for the years 1933-4 to 1937-8 inclusive are contained in 
Appendices I and II of this section. 


3. The revenue for the financial year 1937-8 aggregated 
£,P.4,897,356 and the expenditure amounted to £P.7,297,688, 
or an excess of expenditure over revenue of £P.2,400,332. 

The revenue under Head I, Customs, amounted to 
Z£P.1,999,697 in 1937-8 as compared with £P.2,019,479 in 
1936-7 or a decrease of £P.19,782. In 1937-8 the total value of 
imports for home consumption increased to £P.15,251,300, or 
an increase of £P.802,600 only over 1936-7, despite the fact that 
imports for home consumption in that year were affected by a 
six-months Arab strike. The total tonnage of cargo discharged 
at Haifa, Jaffa and Tel Aviv showed, however, a slight decline 


183 


from 745,703 tons in 1936-7 to 677,416 tons in 1937-8. Although 
the value of imports in 1937-8 were £P.802,600 in excess of that 
of the previous year the receipts from import duties were less, 
as shown above, owing to the decrease generally in the volume 
of imported commodities on which specific rates of duty are 
charged. The commodities which showed the greatest decline in 
yield of customs revenue were wheat, flour, rice, sugar and 
tobacco. The imposition of an import duty of 25 mils per bird 
on live poultry, with effect from the 21st April, 1937, though for 
a protective purpose, resulted in a yield to revenue of 
£P.14,010. Exports, with the exception of antiquities, are not 
subject to export duty. It is noteworthy that the value of export 
of Palestine products rose from £P.4,425,000 in 1936-7 to 
£P.5,593,000 in 1937-8, or an increase of £P.1,168,000. The 
main increases were, however, in oranges, potash, barley, dura 
and cakes for feeding animals. 


The revenue under Head II, Port and Marine, amounted to 
£P.129,120 which shows an increase of £P.18,914 over the 
revenue collected under this Head in 1936-7. With effect from 
the ist April, 1937, wharfage dues were imposed at Jaffa, and 
later at Tel Aviv, at Haifa rates for goods which cannot be 
loaded or unloaded direct from and on the wharf, namely half 
rates. The Oil Dock at Haifa was completed and handed over 
for use on the 1st January, 1938, from which date the minimum 
payment of £P.30,000 per annum, under the contract with the 
Iraq Petroleum Company, became operative. The operation 
of this contract in the last three months of 1937-8 resulted in an 
crease of £P.2,565 in the oil dues in that year over the receipts 
in 1936-7. The number of tons of oil loaded fell, however, from 


2,002,875 in 1936-7 to 1,987,653 in 1937-8. 


The revenue from Head III, Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted 
to £P.982,032 as compared with £P.852,948 received in 1936-7, 
or an increase of £P.129,084. 


The main increases occur under the following subheads :— 
Rural Property Tax (4P.44,233); and Urban Property Tax 
(£P.63,979). This increase was partly due to the difficulty 
experienced in the previous year of collecting taxes in the areas 
affected by the strike and disturbances of 1936. The remissions 
in respect of the Rural Property Tax on citrus land which it was 
found necessary to make in 1936-7 applied also to 1937-8, the 
rate of the tax being reduced for these two years from 410 mils 
to 50 mils per dunum in the Acre Sub-District and from 825 to 
900 mils in other areas. Other increases occurred under Stamp 
Duties (£P.9,409); and Tobacco Excise Duties (£P.13,641). 

e latter duty was, however, £P.19,664 below the receipts from 

source in 1935-6 despite the fact that the rate of the tax on 
manufactured tobacco was increased from 250 mils to 300 mils 
15774 G2 


184 


per kilogramme with effect from the rst October, 1937. On the 
other hand there was a decrease of £P.7,111 under Intoxicating 
Liquors Excise Duties owing to the appreciable decrease in the 
production of local beer, wines and methylated spirits. 


The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £P.750,666 in 1937-8 as compared with £P.703,129 
received in 1936-7, or an increase of £P.47,537. The principal 
increases occurred under Court Fees (£4P.29,522), the number of 
civil cases entered rising from 84,344 in 1936-7 to 124,064 in 
1937-8; Citrus Advertisement Fund (£P.6,622), due to increased 
exportation of citrus fruits; Passport Fees (£P.4,788); Registra- 
tion of Companies and Partnerships Fees (£P.5,137); Registra- 
tion of Banks Fees (£P.5,500), which was collected for the first 
time in the year 1937-8 under the Banking (Amendment and 
Further Provisions) Ordinance, 1937; Reimbursements—road 
contributions (£P.5,825); Sale of departmental — stores 
(4P.5,482); and sale of water to the Jerusalem Municipality 
(4P.14,013). On the other hand decreases have occurred under 
Porterage Fees, Haifa Harbour (£P.5,398); Registration of 
Immigrants Fees (£P.14,213), the number of immigrants having 
decreased from 25,709 in 1936-7 to 13,210 1n 1937-8; and Ware- 
house rent (£P.14,917) the fall in receipts being due to the 
decline in tonnage discharged from 745,703 tons in 1936-7 to 
677,416 tons in 1937-8. 


The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphs, amounted 
to £P.508,887 and was £P.31,394 in excess of the receipts in 
1930-7. The main increases occurred under Telephones 
(4P.32,587), telephone installations rising from 12,480 in 1936 
to 14,848 in 1937; and Broadcast Licence Fees (£P.4,164), the 
number of licences held at the 31st March, 1938, being 31,218 
as compared with 22,508 at the 31st March, 1937. There was, 
however, a decrease of £P.5,672 under Telegraphs. Despite the 
increase in receipts under this head, the total revenue earned by 
the Department of Posts and Telegraphs in 1937-8 was less by 
a sum of £P.185,635 than the total expenditure incurred by or 
on account of the department, exclusive of debt charges in 
respect of capital expenditure, amounting to £P.188,126 and 
met from loan funds, and on capital works carried out from 
provision made under Public Works Extraordinary votes. It 
should be mentioned, however, that the sum of £P.185,635 
includes a sum of £P.89,262 spent prior to the rst April, 1937, 
in respect of the construction of the Jerusalem post office, which 
was previously charged to advances in anticipation of the raising 
of a new loan, but which was transferred during the year under 
review to expenditure in accordance with the change in the 
Sere accounting procedure as prescribed by the Secretary 
of State. 


185 


The revenue under Head VI, Revenue from Government 
property amounted to £P.50,363 as compared with £P.50,317 
i 1930-7. 

The revenue under Head VII, Interest, amounted to 
{P.130,284 in 1937-8 as compared with £P.150,730 in 1936-7 
showing a decrease of £P.20,446. The book value of investments 
instock, which was £P.4,415,993 on the 31st March, 1937, was 
reduced to £P.2,636,606 on the 31st March, 1938, it having 
become necessary during the year to realize securities, the 
nominal value of which amounted to £P.1,741,772, in order to 
meet current liabilities. This resulted in a decrease of £P.31,778 
under Interest on Investments by Crown Agents. On the other 
hand an increase of £P.11,315 1s recorded under interest from 
other sources of which the sum of £P.10,213 is on account of 
interest on advances made by Government to the Jerusalem 
Municipality for the construction of the Jerusalem Water Supply 
and the Jerusalem Drainage Schemes. 


The revenue from Head VIII, Miscellaneous, amounted to 
{P.184,128 as compared with £P.128,020 in 1936-7, showing an 
increase of £P.56,108. The main increase under this Head 
(£P.74,870) is due to an adjustment to Loan Account of amounts 
previously charged to surplus balances in connection with 
expenditure incurred on the Jaffa Port improvements. Other 
increases are due to the sale of a Government tug, which was 
replaced by a larger and more powerful vessel (£P.6,500); 
adie: aiaiitinie and profits on sale of investments 

6,544). | . | 

On the other hand decreases occurred under Profits from 
Currency (£P.20,000) owing to a decrease in the currency in 
circulation and to losses on investments realized; and under 
overpayments recovered in respect of expenditure incurred in 
previous years (£P.15,692). The receipts under this latter item 
Included, in 1936-7, £P.22,000 refunded by the Jerusalem 
Municipality out of grants made in previous years towards the 
cost of certain works which for various reasons had not been 
carned out in the year of payment. 

The revenue from Head IX, Land Sales, amounted to 

£P.9,234 as compared with £P.2,441 in 1936-7. The increase 
is mainly due to sale of Beisan lands (£P.6,288). 


The revenue from Head X, Grants-in-Aid, consisted of :— 


(a) Tvans-Jordan Frontier Force. £P. 
Three-quarters of the Expenditure under 
Head XXI, Trans- Jordan Frontier Force, 
during the year 1937-8 (£P.175,182) ... 131,386 
Whole of Expenditure on capital works in 
Trans-Jordan under Head XXIX, Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary, 
during the year, 1937-8 aon es 6,363 


£P.137,749 


15774 G 3 


186 


The total receipts amounted to £P.142,333, being £P.139,000 
from the Parliamentary grant-in-aid for the year 1937-8 and 
Z£P.3,333 in respect of an over-issue of the grant-in-aid in 
1936-7. The actual amount due was £P.137,749 only, the un- 
expended balance, together with local receipts, amounting to 
£P.5,098, was transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit Account 
for adjustment of the grant in 1938-9. 


(b) Hydrographic Survey £P.2,783. 
This represents a moiety of the expenditure incurred on the 
hydrographic survey of Southern Palestine contributed by His 
Majesty’s Government. The total expenditure on this service 


was charged to Expenditure Head XXVIII, Public Works 
Extraordinary. 


The receipts under Head XI, amounting to £P.12,413, repre- 
sent assistance grants given by the Colonial Development Fund 
in respect of interest charges on the capital cost of certain 
schemes. The increase in receipts under this Head over those 
received in 1936-7 is in respect of the assistance granted towards 
the Jerusalem Drainage Scheme (£P.5,865) for which no grant 
was received in 1936-7. 


Expenditure. 


4. Expenditure in 1937-8 aggregated £P.7,297,688 as com- 
pared with £P.6,073,502 in 1936-7 or an increase of 
£P.1,224,186. This excess is, however, more apparent than real 
as it was due to the introduction of a new system of colonial 
accounting designed to show more clearly the financial position 
of the country and,in particular, the cash available to meet voted 
expenditure. According to the new system sums amounting to 
£P.1I,591,939 previously debited to advances and unallocated 
stores suspense accounts were transferred to expenditure so that 
in point of fact the actual expenditure in 1937-8 was smaller 
than that incurred in 1936-7. 


The variations in expenditure in 1937-8 as compared with the 
expenditure in 1936-7 are due to the following causes: — 


I. Penstons.—The expenditure under this head amounted in 
1937-8 to £P.50,588 as compared with £P.37,040 in 1936-7. 
The excess occurred under Pensions and Gratuities (£P.13,707) 
and is due partly to the amendment, in 1937, of the Pensions 
Ordinance (1925). This amendment provided for a more favour- 
able basis for the calculation of pensions and gratuities and the 
lowering of the voluntary and compulsory ages of retirement of 
officers in receipt of expatriation allowances. The excess is also 
partly due to the increase in the number of pensions and 
gratuities paid to dependents of officers killed in the execution 
of their duty. 


187 


II. Public Debt and Loan Charges.—Expenditure under this 
head amounted in 1937-8 to £P.158,896 as compared with 
£P.126,449 expended in 1936-7. The increase of £P.32,448 
represents the contribution to the sinking fund in respect of the 
Railway share of the Palestine Guaranteed Loan, which was 
included in the Railway expenditure prior to the rst April, 1937. 


IV. Secretaniat.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
Z£P.76,651 as compared with £P.69,463 in the previous year. 
An increase of £P.7,813 occurred in the expenditure of the Civil 
Aviation Section which was not fully established in 1936-7. 


V. Distinct Administration.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.165,055 as compared with £P.156,931 in 1930-7. The 
principal increase is recorded under Personal Emoluments 
(4P.6,468) which is mainly due to the division, for administra- 
tive reasons, during the year, of the old Northern District into 
two, namely the ‘‘ Haifa and Samaria ’’ District and the 
** Galilee and Acre ’’ District. The headquarters of the former 
remained at Haifa and the headquarters of the latter were estab- 
lished at Nazareth. There was also an increase of £P.g15 under 
Passages. 


It should be pointed out, however, that provision for the 
Mea of passages was transferred from the ‘‘ Miscellaneous ”’ 
ead to the departmental votes. 


VI. Legal Department.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
Z#,P.18,112 as compared with £P.14,011 in 1936-7. The main 
increase occurred under Personal Emoluments (£P.2,549) due 
to the strengthening of the staff of the Attorney-General’s office 
during the year by the appointment of two British Crown 
Counsels which involved concomitant increases in the votes for 
extra clerical assistance, messengers and cleaners; and to the 
temporary employment of professional and clerical staff to assist 
the Official Receiver while acting as Liquidator of Companies. 
There was also an increase of £P.678 under Transport and 
Travelling, which was mainly due to unforeseen expenditure 


consequent upon an increase in the number of land settlement 
cases, 


VIL. Judicial Depariment.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted 
to £P -II0,567 as compared with £P.100,882 in 1936-7. The 
principal increase occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.6,6 8), largely as a result of the expansion of the depart- 
ment, which was designed to expedite the disposal of accumu- 
lated arrears of court cases. New Magistrates Courts were 
established during the year at Rehovot and Petah-Tiqvah, the 
administration of which entailed additional recurrent expendi- 
ture on clerks and process servers. The other increases were in 
respect of Transport and Travelling (£P.946) due to the re- 
‘ganization of the courts; and in respect of Passages (£P.939). 
15774 G4 


1&8 


.X. Customs, Excise and Trade.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.250,530 as compared with £#P.277,477 m 
1936-7. The decreases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.5,755) as a result of vacancies occurring during the year 
and of the delay in filling new posts; and under Drawbacks of 
Customs Duty (£P.20,676). 


XI. Department of Health._—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.215,448 as compared with £P.204,350 in 1936-7. The 
principal increases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(4P.5,755) due to the expansion of the services of this depart- 
ment, especially by taking over of the hospital at Gaza, which 
was formerly administered by the Gaza Municipality, and by 
the establishment at Tel Aviv of a clinic for the inoculation 
and medical examination of immigrants; under Transport and 
Travelling (£P.2,365); Hospital Diets (£P.1,583); Ant- 
malarial Measures (£P.1,223); and Passages (£P.1,353). 

There was, however, a decrease of £P.2,846 in the Contr- 
butions to Jewish health services. The contribution amounted, 
in 1937-8, to £P.12,353, and was in respect of the following : — 


£P. 
Grant to Municipal Hospital, Tel Aviv... 6,841 
Maintenance grant to Tuberculosis Hospital, 

Safad re Gia ‘8 ou ee 1,700 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Services ... 2,041 
Infant Welfare Work sis sae ace 1,771 

£P.12,353 


XII. Department of Education Expenditure in 19373 
amounted to £P.300,742 as compared with £P.243,243 m 
1936-7. The principal increase was in respect of Personal 
Emoluments (£P.11,048) due to the general expansion and 
development of urban and rural education and to the inclusion 
of the Probation Service, which was previously included under 
Judicial Department. Other increases were in respect of grants- 
in-aid to the schools of the Va’ad Leumi (£P.7,013); Books, 
stationery, scientific equipment, etc., for schools (£P.1,042); 
Rations for boarders (£P.3,259); Grants to local authorities for 
school buildings (£P.6,745) ; School furniture (£P.2,583) ; Pro- 
duction of Arabic text books (£P.1,960); Tools and equipment 
for school gardens and agricultural education in schools 
(4P.1,418). In comparing the expenditure of this department 
in 1937-8 with that of 1936-7 it must be remembered that edu- 
cational conditions were abnormal in the latter year as, owing 
to the disturbances, schools were closed during the greater part 
of the year and when they were eventually re-opened the services 
were restricted to those approved in 1935-6. This, together with 
the general expansion of the department, accounts for the 


189 

increased expenditure during the year under review. A sub- 
stantial increase was, however, due to the inclusion in expendi- 
ture of a sum of £P.17,843 in respect of capital grants to Jewish 
Institutions which was previously debited to Advances in Antici- 
pation of a New Loan. This sum was transferred in 1937-8 to 
expenditure in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure. Of this amount a sum of £P.16,625 was actually 
spent before the 1st April, 1937. 


AIII. Department of Agriculture and Fisheries.—Expenditure 
in 1937-8 amounted to £P.321,676 as compared with £P.177,387 
in 1936-7. The principal increases occurred under agricultural 
and beehive loans, etc. (£P.91,115) the major portion of which 
was expended prior to 1st April, 1937, when the loans were 
accounted for under Advances, but were transferred to expendi- 
ture im 1937-8 in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure; and under long-term loans for hill areas (£P.30,666) 
also transferred to expenditure from Advances in Anticipation of 
a New Loan for the same reason. The object of these loans is 
to enable cultivators and settlers in the hill districts to develop 
and improve their lands. These loans are repayable within 
periods ranging between 3 and 17 years and the interest 
charged thereon is 8 per cent. per annum to individual culti- 
vators and 6 per cent. per annum to co-operative societies, with 
an additional charge of I per cent. per annum on arrears. 


Other increases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.2,901); Transport and Travelling (£P.1,386) ; Agricultural 
Demonstrations and Experiments (£P.3,042); Citrus Advertising 
Fund (£P.6,622); Fruit Inspection Service (£P.1,822); and 
Purchase of Motor Fishing Boat (£P.1,032). 


The citrus advertising campaign was continued during the 
year and a sum of £P.33,209 was expended as compared with 
LP .34,325 expended in 1936-7. 


During the year the following grants were made to Jewish 
Institutions for research and experimental work : — 


£P. 

(a) Grants for citrus research by the experimental station 
of the Jewish Agency... aise oe bes 3,000 

(b) Grant to Jewish Agency experimentai fruit-growing at 
hillside station, Kirvath Anavim sais Si wis 300 

(c) Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farming experi- 
ments Sass oe ae aoe seh Sa or 300 
(¢) Grant to Jewish Agency for research aes bee w+ 2,950 
¢) Grant to Hebrew University for field-mice investigations 200 
(f) Grant to Hebrew University for spirochaetosis research 180 





£P.6,930 





190 


XVI. Department of Lands and Surveys.—Expenditure in 
1937-8 amounted to £P.130,334 as compared with £P.124,878 
in 1930-7. Increases were recorded under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.2,511); Transport and Travelling (£P.1,015); and Marks 
and Beacons (£,P.1,516)._ 


XVII. Department of Developbment.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.98,197 as compared with £P.17,244 in 1936-7. 
This excess of expenditure is, however, apparent rather than 
real. Of a sum of £P.85,796 in respect of expenditure incurred 
on the resettlement of displaced Arabs, the sum of £P.84,614 
was expended prior to the Ist Apml, 1937. This sum which was 
previously debited to advances in anticipation of a new loan was 
transferred to expenditure during the year in accordance with 
the new colonial accounting procedure, so that the expenditure 
under this Head was in fact £P.3,661 smaller than in the 
previous year. 


XVIII. Police and Prisons.—The significant feature of the 
estimates and expenditure of this department is the progressive 
annual increase necessitated by continued disturbances in the 
country. The expenditure has risen from £P.527,467 in 1935-6 
to £P.744,619 in 1936-7 and to £P.g41,975 in 1937-8. The prin- 
cipal increases occurred under’ Personal Emoluments 
(4P.100,058); Uniforms, Clothing and Equipment (£P.18,946); 
Criminal Investigation (£P.10,137) ; Forage and Forage Allow- 
ances (£P.1,472); Rations (£P.8,186); Lighting, Heating and 
Power (£P.1,596); Upkeep of Mechanical Transport 
(£P.7,496); Telegrams, Telephones and Postage (£P.1,195); 
Arms (£P.32,561); Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony sets 
and Searchlights (£P.22,675). The major increases are divisible 
into two categories, namely (a) additional expenditure directly 
attributable to the disturbances, and (b) expansion of normal 
services. The expenditure incurred under (a) above amounted 
to approximately £P.127,910 of which £P.87,132 was in respect 
of Personal Emoluments, and £P.40,778 in respect of other 
charges and special expenditure. As regards (b) there was a 
considerable increase in Police personnel in view of the estab- 
lishment of an additional wireless section and of the expansion 
of the activities of the department generally. 

Decreases, however, occurred under Transport and Travelling 
(£P.35,654) due to the strengthening of the mechanical 
transport section; and under Purchase of 65 Ford cars 
(£P.5,642). | | | 

The increased expenditure during 1937-8 included also a sum 
of £P.16,029 for advances to village ghaffirs and a sum of 
Z£P.3,094 for advances for purchase of police horses previously 
accounted for under Advances but transferred to Expenditure 
during the year in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure. 


IQI 


XXII. Defence.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
£P.789,738 as compared with £P.1,297,000 in 1936-7. The 
details of the actual expenditure of £P.789,738 (which includes 
a sum of £P.134,450 in respect of an under-estimate of the 
excess cost of Army troops in 1936-7) is made up as under: — 





£P. 

Excess cost of Army troops ak ae ae siaie 563,400 
One-half of excess cost of Royal Air Force in Palestine 

and Trans- Jordan mr ss sais cis ye 19,000 

Army works services re es Ss _ 175,000 

Royal Air Force works services... a os me 25,000 

Purchase of land _... hi seh es des sey 6,738 

£P.789,738 





XXIII. Posts and Telegrapbhs.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.429,127 as compared with £P.351,943 in 
1930-7. The increase was mainly in respect of Personal Emolu- 
ments (4P.20,321), the increase in personnel being necessitated 
by the increased quantity of postal matter handled by the 
department, the extended use of the telegraph service and the 
heavy demand for new telephones; and of Conveyance of Mails 
(£P.20,321) due to the settlement of outstanding international 
accounts. The expenditure which was incurred as a direct result 
of the disturbances amounted to £P.2,779 and was mainly in 
respect of maintenance stores for repairing telephone services 
damaged by sabotage. 


The transfer to Expenditure of amounts previously charged 
to Advances in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure is responsible for excesses of £P.35,645 in respect of 
Unallocated Stores and £P.244 in respect of advances to officers 
for the purchase of various means of transport. 


XXIV. Public Works Department.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.132,497 as compared with £P.76,396 in 1936-7. 
The increase under this Head is mainly attributable to expendi- 
ture on the Jerusalem Water Supply Section, which was not 
fully established (and partly included under Head XXV. 
Public Works Recurrent) in 1936-7. The increases occurred 
chiefly under Personal Emoluments (£P.2,323) ; Fuel, Oils and 
Chemicals (£P.8,937); Spares and Tools (£P.1,118); and con- 
tribution to a renewals fund. The expenditure directly 
attributable to the disturbances under this section amounted to 
£P.1,113 and was chiefly for the employment of supernumerary 
police to guard the pipe-line. 

In addition to the excesses recorded above, a sum of 
£P.27,094, being the value of unallocated stores held by the 
department, was transferred to Expenditure during the year in 
accordance with the new colonial accounting procedure. 


192 

XXV. Public Works Recurrent.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.333,849 as compared with £P.320,350 in 
1936-7. The principal increases occurred under the following 
items, Minor Works (£P.1,184); Water Supply and Con- 
servancy (£P.2,824); Rent of Offices and Quarters (£P.18,404); 
Maintenance of Quays, Piers and Harbours (£P.2,340); and 
Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (£P.4,186). The increase 
under Rent of Offices and Quarters is mainly due to the payment 
of rent, in advance, to the Russian Ecclesiastical Mission 
( £LP.7,500) to meet the cost of construction of an additional 
storey to the building leased for the Law Courts, Jerusalem; to 
the provision of additional accommodation, mainly for Police 
and the C.I.D., in consequence of the disturbances (4£P.5,638):; 
and to payment of new rentals for various buildings leased by 
Government (£P.3,166). The increase under Maintenance of 
Quays, Piers and Harbours was necessitated by the carrying out 
of essential dredging work at Haifa harbour. The expenditure 
under this head directly attributable to the disturbances 
amounted to £P.5,918 and represented cost of hiring of 
additional accommodation for the Police, the C.I.D. and other 
departments. 

On the other hand a decrease of £P.19,830 is recorded under 
Maintenance of Jerusalem Water Supply which was included 
under Head XXIV. Public Works Department, in 1937-8, 
as mentioned above. 


XAXVI. Miscellaneous.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
£P.466,683 as compared with £P.502,160 in 1936-7. The 
principal decreases occurred under Housing Allowances 
(£P.14,864) ; Passages (£P.14,930) owing to the inclusion of 
these two items under departmental votes in 1937-8; Sundmes 
(£P.7,206) ; Emergency Relief Measures (£P.22,095) ; Depre- 
ciation on Investments (£P.165,704); and the write-off of 
irrecoverable advances of agricultural, seed, fodder and earth- 
quake reconstruction loans. 


Increases on the other hand have occurred in the expenditure 
on_ the following items:—Crown Agents’ Expenses, etc., 
(£P.2,741) due mainly to outstanding charges from the previous 
year; Contribution to Trans-Jordan Government on account of 
share in profits from currency (£P.5,948) due to the change in 
the basis of apportionment of profits; Hutting Zone, Haifa 
(4P.3,847) for the clearance of insanitary hutments within the 
municipal boundaries of Haifa and in the reconstruction of 
housing accommodation in a new area; Interest on monies 
borrowed from the Joint Colonial Fund (£P.2,748); Expenses 
in connection with the printing of the report of the Royal 
Commission (£P.2,349); Compensation for loss of life and 
property during the disturbances (£P.50,663); Relief to 
Beersheba cultivators (£P.4,000); and Grants to Municipalities 


193 


(£P.27,867), due to the necessity for providing revotes mainly 
for the Jerusalem Municipality. The details of the actual grants 
paid in 1937-8 were :— 


£P. 

Jerusalem ... Sad ae ee Sie 32,29 
Hebron ... or — a <a 750 
Ramallah ... ae as sine sas 750 
Bethlehem ... bea ao: oe ae 493 
Beit Jala ... <3 sie 2h sibs 400 
Jaffa aiee ed re Se sis 15,000 
Tel Aviv... Sak Gus — Sais 25,000 
Ramleh _... dt Sis sa sa 750 
Gaza ses as —- ee ee 750 
Beersheba ... ie aoe — on 250 
Majdal — Sige ee des see 250 
Khan Yunis ae - ate Sas 1,000 
Petah Tiqva es oe a si 500 
Haifa sist Ris we oe oe 20,383 
Acre ake ian ia as ee 742 
Beisan ‘ae ake bas duke sia 325 
Jenin ae bi abe wad ar 400 
Nablus wie ia aa ass a6 4,500 
Nazareth ... ak ass Ree ae 750 
Shefa ’Amr via oe: sas se 188 
Safad nee aa is ars = IIO 
Tiberias... ae ‘ae sats a 188 

£P.105,775 


The expenditure under this Head resulting directly from the 
disturbances amounted to £P.61,828, the principal items of 
which being Compensation for Loss of Life and Property 
(£P.50,663) ; and Compensation for Loss of Property caused 
by the demolition of buildings at Jaffa (£P.6,088). 

To give effect to the new colonial accounting procedure the 
following items, which were previously accounted for under 
Advances in anticipation of the raising of a new loan or under 
spel nai proper, were transferred to expenditure under this 

ead: 


= 
e 


£P. 
Investment in Land Mortgage Company ... ie w+. 150,000 
Earthquake and flood reconstruction loans oe 08 6,853 
Loan to the Augusta Viktoria Stiftung... bet : 40,000 
Advances for purchase of various means of transport... 5,305 
Sundry minor items ... Shas ss ae Soe se 13277 
£P.203,495 


The whole amount of the first two items and a portion of the 
last two were expended, however, before the 1st April, 1937. 


_ XXVIII. Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary.—Expenditure 
In 1937-8 amounted to £P.112,03I as compared with £P.129,002 
in 1936-7, or a decrease of £P.16,971. The following summary 
shows the variations in the works during 1936-7 and 1937-8:— 


194 


1936-7 1937-8 
(a2) Additional trunk lines, reconstruction of routes, £P. LP. 

trunk and distribution cables and underground 
cables 46,973 32,675 

(6) Additional subscribers’ circuits and additional 
exchange switchboards 30,346 27,310 

(c) Development of underground cables and ducts, 
Jerusalem, Haifa, Jatfa and Tel Aviv ... 28,130 14,874 

(d) Installations of automatic exchanges and conver- 
sion of subscribers to automatic apparatus 12,596 34,449 
(e) Broadcasting Station, Jerusalem 3,305 67 
(f) Other works Sok 1,652 2,050 
£P.129,002 112,03! 


The decrease is explained by the completion of certain of 
the works commenced in the preceding year and partly by 
unexpected balances which were carried over to 1938-9. The 
increases under (d) are in respect of the new telephone exchange, 
Jerusalem, Ist extension (£P.14,299) and Tel Aviv automatic 
exchange (£P.13,693). 


XXVIII. Public Works Extraordinary.—Expenditure in 
1937-8 amounted to £P.1,614,885 as compared with £P.705,094 
in 1936-7, or an increase of £P.909,791. This amount includes, 
however, in accordance with the new colonial accounting pro- 
cedure sums previously charged to Advances in anticipation of 
the raising of a new loan or to Advances proper. These 
transfers aggregated £P.1,079,845, which included expenditure 
of £P.948,413 incurred prior to the 1st Apmil, 1937, so that the 
expenditure on the years working was actually £P.38,622 less 
than the expenditure incurred in 1936-37. A summary is given 
below of the works so adjusted showing the amounts expended 
thereon prior to the 1st April, 1937, and the total amounts 
which were accounted for under expenditure in 1937-8:— 

Expenditure Expenditure 


prior to accounted 
1st April, for in 
1937: 1937-8. 
£P. £P. 
Government Trade and Technical School, Haifa 37,712 40,000 
Construction of town schools : 59,531 71,396 
Government Arab College ae : 24,096 24,096 
Construction of Post Office, Jerusalem 89,262 144,313 
Jerusalem Water Supply 370,000 370,000 
Hebron Water Supply ... ve 10,000 10,000 
Haifa Oil Dock and East Reclamation Area .». 210,000 210,000 
Haifa Main Drainage Scheme ees 4,438 15,415 
Jerusalem Main Drainage Scheme ; 51,875 93,987 
Improvements to village water supply schemes 60,990 70,129 
Haifa Water Supply Scheme . 3,698 3,698 
Haifa Municipality, road construction in oil 
storage area... = 9,143 9,143 
Tiberias Municipality, construction of roads ee 6,297 6,297 
Jerusalem Municipality, slaughter house and 
incinerator - as sols 10,737 10,737 
Minor items 634 634 
£P.948,413 1,079,845 


195 


The approved provision in 1937-8 aggregated £P.639,653 and 
this was supplemented by further provision under Special 
Warrants to the amount of £P.1,241,188 (chiefly to provide for 
the adjustments referred to above), thus raising the total pro- 
vision to £P.1,880,841 of which the sum of £P.1,614,885 was 
expended or brought to account under expenditure, and falls 
into the following categories: — 

£P. 
(1) Works and buildings ... apie ae 418,921 
(2) Construction of roads and bridges _... 226,195 
(3) Miscellaneous aot ‘ 969,769 


£P.1,614,885 — 


The increase of £P.909,791 is made up as follows:—Works 
and Buildings (increase £P.331,699); Construction of Roads 
and Bridges (decrease £P.7,513); and Miscellaneous (increase 
£P.585,605). The major services carried out under Works 
and Buildings were the Construction of Town Schools 
(£P.71,399); Government Trade and Technical School, Haifa 
(£P.42,822); Government Arab College (£P.24,096); Govern- 
ment Hospital, Haifa (£P.60,000);: Construction of Police 
Station, Tel Aviv (£P.5,719); Construction of Urban Police 
Married Quarters (£P.15,275); Construction of semi-permanent 
buildings for Northern Frontier Division (£P.9,738); Additions 
and Improvements to Detention Camp, Acre (£P.5,996); Con- 
struction of Post Office, Jerusalem (£144,313); Construction 
of Post Office, Tel Aviv ({P.7,151). The major road works 
carried out were the Widening of Tel Aviv-Petah Tiqva Road 
(£P.8,009); Construction of section of Affula-Beisan Road 
(£P.13,842); Construction of a section of the road from the 
Haifa-Nazareth Road to Jinujar through Nahalal (£P.10,g990); 
Construction of Jaffa-Haifa Road (£P.87,058); Transfer of 
Allenby Bridge to and erection at Damiya and construction of 
a new bridge in lieu of present Allenby Bridge (£P.6,2I0); 
Construction of Northern Frontier Road (£P.61,573); Haifa 
Municipality—Construction of road in oil storage area 
peas) and Tiberias Municipality—Construction of roads 

-6,297). 


Under Miscellaneous, the continuation of the construction of 
the Lydda and Haifa airports accounted for £P.59,825; the 
Jerusalem Water Su ply £P.375,907; the Hebron Water Sup- 
ply 4P.10,343; the Cares Jetty and Ancillary Works at Haifa 
oo £P.50,390; the Jaffa Port Improvements £P.6,324; 
i Haifa Oil Dock and East Reclamation Area LP.214,375; 
Wat Jaffa Housing Scheme £P.5,412; Investigations, Haifa 
Te er Supply 4P.11,779; Haifa Main Drainage £P.15,415; 

Tusalem Main Drainage £P.93,987; Improvements to Village 


196 


Water Supplies (including the resources survey and the under- 
ground water investigations) £P.70,142; Jerusalem Munici- 
pality—Slaughter-house and Incinerator £P.10,737; Hydro- 
graphic Survey of Southern Palestine £P.5,566; and Relief 
Works £I.9,866. 

Of the total expenditure of £P.1,614,885 under this Head 
it is estimated that expenditure amounting to £P.146,054 may 
be regarded as directly attributable to the disturbances. This 
includes the Construction of Jaffa-Haifa Road, and Construc- 
tion of Northern Frontier Road (£P.118,587); and the Accom- 
modation for Northern Frontier Division of Police (£P.9,738). 


MXIX Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary .—-Ex- 
penditure in 1937-8 amounted to £P.12,828 as compared with 
£P.9,944 in 1936-7. Apart from the reconstruction of Zerka 
Camp (£P.2,060) two other camps—namely the Jisr Majamie 
and Beisan—were reconstructed and accounted for the mayor 
part of the increased expenditure. 


AXAI. Colonial Development. — Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.18,919 as compared with £P.32 in 1936-7. 
The increase is due to the transfer to the credit of the Jeru- 
salem Municipality of its share in the assistance grants received 
from the Colonial Development Fund in respect of the Jeru- 
salem Drainage Scheme (£P.16,365); and the Jerusalem Water 
Supply Scheme (£P.2,525). 





Railways. 


5. The Railway deficit charged to Government expenditure 
in Pe was £P.230,123, aS compared with £P.69,631 i 
1930-7. 

The final results in 1937-8 of the four Railway systems, 
operated by the General Manager, Palestine Railways, were 
as under:— 

Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit. 


Palestine Railway .». 478,953 669,836 — 190,883 
Kantara- Rafa Railway... 109,507 109,435 72 — 
Hejaz Railway ... ... 80,930 120,170 —_ 39,240 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... 3,037 840 2,797 _ 


In order to arrive at the deficit charged to Revenue the 
accounts of the Kantara-Rafa Railway and the Petah Tiqva 
Railway are excluded, as the surpluses are subject to special 
arrangement. In the case of the latter Railway there is an 
obligation to pay interest to the colonists and to Government 
on their respective advances for the construction of the line. 
The surpluses in previous years have been insufficient to pay 
the interest in full and at the 31st March, 1938, after distribu- 
tion of the year’s surplus, there was an outstanding debt of 
Z£P.10,905 due to the Petah Tiqva colonists. 


197 

‘The agreement provides for the repayment to the colonists 
of the amount advanced (£E.20,000) with interest at the rate 
of 6 per cent. per annum, but a prior charge exists in favour 
of the Government of Palestine in respect of interest on the 
excess cost of the line met by Government over the contribu- 
tion by the colonists. That excess was £P.33,846. Any de- 
ficiency in the payment of interest to Government, together 
with interest at 5 per cent. thereon, has first to be met before 
the claim of the colonists is due for payment and any deficiency 
in respect of such payment also bears interest at the rate of 
5 percent. per annum. The agreement also provides that after 
meeting the charges for interest the net surplus shall be set 
aside to repay the loan of £E.20,000 made by the colonists. 
In 1923-4 £P.568 was repaid to the colonists and £P.267 in 
the year 1924-5. An amount of £P.1,692 of the net surplus 
of £P.2,797 in 1937-8 was absorbed in the repayment of interest 
to Government and is included in the revenue of the Palestine 
Railway. 

Special arrangements were entered into regarding the 
Kantara-Rafa Railway with effect from the 1st April, 1933, 
whereby a commuted annual payment of £P.4,000 by way of 
rental is made by the Palestine Railway for the use of this 
section of the line. The profits (£P.144) resulting from the 
operation of the Kantara-Rafa Railway were divided equally 
between the Kantara-Rafa Railway Special Fund and Palestine 
Railway revenue. 

The net deficit charged to Government expenditure under 
this Head was, therefore, £P.230,123 consisting of the deficits 
on the Palestine and Hejaz Railways, which were £P.190,883 
and £P.39,240 respectively. 

The following comparison is afforded between the revenue 
of the four sections of the line in 1937-8 and 1936-7:— 


Kantara- Petah 
Palestine Rafa Hejaz Tiqva Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Railway. 

Coaching : LP. : £P. £P. 
1937-8 ... .. 128,144 68,913 30,394 — 227,451 
1936-7 . . 201,872 79,103 37,138 — 318,113 

Goods : 

1937-8 .. wes 314,372 38,416 43,833 3,641 400,262 
1936-7 es » 434,507 99,437 56,732 6,209 596,885 

Miscellaneous : 

1937-8... 36,437 2,178 6,703 4 45,314 
1930-7... 80,375 2,405 7,530 205 90,515 

Total : 

Loe 7 -£P-478,953 109,507 80,930 3,637 673,027 
Q30FT wks £P.716,754 180,945 101,400 6,414 1,005,513 

Decrease durin 
med compared 
E9307 33°2%  — 39°5% —«20°2% =~ 43.73. % 33% 


198 


It should be pointed out that the revenue in respect of goods 
traffic during the year 1936-7 was considerably in excess of 
the normal revenue owing to military traffic and to the diversion 
of Jaffa cargoes to Haifa. 

The serious economic crisis following the disturbances of 1936 
was the primary cause of the fall in railway receipts during 
1937-8. Other contributory factors were the opening of the new 
road between Haifa and Jaffa-Tel Aviv and the development 
of the Tel Aviv port. 

The following table affords a comparison between the expendi- 
ture of the Railways on all sections in 1937-8 and 1936-7 : — 











Kantara- Petah 
Palestine Rafa Hejas Tiqva Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Ratlway. 
£P. £P. LP. £P. £P. 
Maintenance and 
Renewal of Ways 
and Works : 
1937-8 64,459 33,072 26,478 214 124,223 
1936-7 79,980 34,573 27,175 214 I41,942 
Maintenance and 
Renewal of Loco- 
motives and 
Rolling Stock : 
1937-8 101,324 22,005 35,512 140 158,981 
1936-7 87,217 18,250 31,104 140 136,711 
Transportation Ex- 
penses :— 
1937-8 160,919 26,428 = 43,189 377 230,913 
1936-7 153,973 26,086 39,309 377, - 219,745 
General Charges : : 
1937-8 59,229 27,858 14,408 109 101,604 
1936-7 61,288 29, 348 15,555 109 106, 300 
Debt Charges : 
1937-8 124,705 7 5° = 124,755 
1936-7 . 157,140 — 63 — 157,203 
Extraordinary Ex- 
penditure : 
1937-8 85,200 = 533 = 85,733 
1930-7 . 152,992 — 7,989 _— 160,981 
Contribution to 
Palestine Railway 
Renewals Fund : 
1937-8 74,000 — — — 74,000 
1936-7 74,000 — — 74,000 
Contribution to Kan- 
tara-Rafa Railway 
Special Fund : 
1937-8 _ 72 — = 72 
1936-7 a 36,344 = = 30,344 
Total :— 
1937-8 £P.669,836 109,435 120,170 840 900,281 
1936-7 £P.766,590 144,601 121,195 840 1,033,226 

















199 
The increases in expenditure on the maintenance and renewal 
of locomotives and rolling stock and transportation expenses 
are due to increased overhauls of locomotives and rolling stock 
to cover arrears of maintenance in the previous years, and 


to the higher cost of coal and other materials in the United 
Kingdom. 


The financial position of the four sections of the Railway 
for the two years under review is summarised below: — 
1936-7. 1937-8. 


Surplus (+) Surplus (+) 
Deficit (—) Deficit (—) 
P, £P 


Palestine Railway a ihe 2 = 49,836 — 190,883 
Kantara-Rafa Railway ... ea we =o 36,344 + 72 
Hejaz Railway... wien ae wee = («19,795 — 39,240 
Petah Tiqva Railway... ies we +t 5,574 + 2,797 


The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 


for the period 1st April, 1937, to 31st March, 1938, were as 
under : — 








Revenue. £P. £P. 
Coaching and Goods __~—_... wee ve 442,516 
Miscellaneous hae ss a aes 36,437 
478,953 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses sd aes .» 385,931 
Debt Charges As sits — eu 124,705 
Capital Improvements ... ave sas 85,200 
Renewals ... re ies bois 74,000 
669,836 
Deficit... eh Aes ast ee Le £P.190,883 


It will be observed from the comparative table of the Railway 
expenditure that there has been a net decrease of £P.96,754 
in Palestine Railway expenditure in 1937-8 as compared with 


that of the previous year. The net decrease is made up as 
under : — 








Decreases : £P. £P. 
Debt Charges ae “ae hs a8 ws 32,435 
Capital Improvements ... ree ae: ... 67,792 
100,227 
Increase : 
Operation Expenses ate io tis 3,473 
Net Decrease ... ets —_ ae ae £P.96,754 





The decrease in Debt Charges is accounted for by the fact 

at in the year under review, railway expenditure was relieved 
of Sinking Fund Charges in respect of Loan Funds, following 
the recommendations made by Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and 

mpany. This payment is now being met from general 
fevenue under Head it, Public Debt and Loan Charges. 





200 


There is a decrease of £P.67,792 in capital expenditure, and 
the main works and services carried out in 1937-8 were : — 


(2) Purchase of and improvements to Locomotives and 


Rolling Stock ... nie 60,624 
(b) Construction of Sheds and Station Alterations and 
Improvements ... sass wits vO si Ses 10,020 
(c) Water Supply at Lydda ... 4,355 
(d) Construction of new crossing loop between Athlit and 
Zikhron Ya’akov (Tantura) ... ie? ia 2,377 
(ec) Extension of dual gauge to res Motzkin sits phe 1,639 
(f) Minor New Works : 58 — 3,387 
(g) Other Works and Services oe oe wie ee 2,798 
£P.85,200 


In addition to the above expenditure the following amounts 
were disbursed from the Renewals Fund :— 


(a) Permanent Way Renewals (Sleepers, etc.) eis oe 25,465 
(6) Renewals of Locomotives and Rolling Stock ... aon 18,460 
(c) Maintenance of Kishon Workshops sae os od 1,491 

£P.45,416 


6. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railway proper 
to the 31st March, 1938, is appended: — 


From Loan Funds. £P. £P. 
Purchase of Assets from His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment (included in Item II of Appendix VI) 784,854 
Other Expenditure (see Item I of Appendix VI) 1,639,021 
———___ 2, 423,875 
From Revenue. 
Capital Improvements to 31st March, 1937... 938,792 
Capital Improvements in 1937-8 me se 85,200 
—__—__— 1,023,992 
£P.3,447,867 


4, The revenue and expenditure of the Kantara-Rafa Railway 
for the year ended the 31st March, 1938, were as under: — 





£P. £P. 

Revenue. 

Coaching and Goods ae mee tc ae 107,329 

Miscellaneous da be oe sae Me 2,178 

109,507 

Expenditure. 

Operation Expenses sb ag me i 109.363 
Net Earnings — ee . ae ahs £P. 144 


These earnings were apportioned as under, in accordance 
with the special arrangement regarding this Railway :— 


£P. 
Renewals Fund ise =e we ae 72 
Palestine Railway ... me ore See 72 


201 


There has been a decrease of £P.72,544 in the net earnings 
as compared with the previous year’s figure due mainly to 
the decreased military traffic on this section of the Railways. 

8. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway for 
the year 1937-8 were as under: — 











LP. LP. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods ve see bes ne 74,227 
Miscellaneous Re iss ae i ae 6,703 
80,930 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses os me seal = 119,587 
Capital Improvements ... ig Sag as 533 
Debt Charges sue Pa ee os ee 50 
120,170 
Deficit oes asd oe ssh ny a £P.39,240 


The decrease in revenue is primarily due to the serious 
economic crisis following the disturbances of 19306. 

The capital expenditure of £P.533 represents improvements 
to stations and erection of gang posts (£P.300) and minor 
new works (£P.233). 


9. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah Tiqva Railway 
for the year under review were as under:— 





£LP. £P. 

Revenue. 

Goods aa jas a te at 3,037 

Miscellaneous — ‘ios ve rex — 

3,637 

Expenditure. 

Operation Expenses ve ae we 840 
Net Earnings... iiss ae ah ns £P.2,797 


Defence. 


Io. A sum of £P.351,250 was provided in the estimates for 
1937-8 to cover the contribution to His Majesty’s Government 
towards the excess cost of the Royal Air Force Units and Army 
Units stationed in Palestine and Trans-Jordan and the cost of 
Amy and Royal Air Force works services in Palestine. The 
amount due is usually paid quarterly on the basis of one-fourth 
of the sum provided in the United Kingdom Estimates in re- 
spect of Palestine’s contribution towards the cost of Defence; 
and the amount due for the last quarter is adjusted so as to 
allow for the latest estimate of excess cost received from the 
War Office and Air Ministry and such contribution is then 
demanded as is sufficient to cover the balance of the excess 
according to those Estimates. In the year under review, how- 
‘ver, the contribution for the two first quarters only was paid 
on approximately the basis of one-fourth of the sum provided 
yy; we Estimates, namely £P.86,000 for each quarter; but in 

ovember, 1937, the sum of £P.161,000 was claimed and paid 
and in March, 1938, the sum of £P.450,000, which included 


202 


an adjustment of £P.134,450 in respect of an under-estimate 
of the excess cost in 1936-7. In addition to the above pay- 
ments to His Majesty’s Government certain payments, amount- 
ing to £P.6,738, were made locally, in respect of purchase and 
rent of land, etc., for the Army. The total payments made, 
therefore, in respect of 1937-8 amounted to PP 6s5,288. 


The following contnbutions have been made during the years 
1928 to 1937-8 inclusive : — 


Financial 
period in Financial year in which 
which payment Amount. liability 1s tncurred. Amount, 
was made. 
£P. £P. 
1928 ... ee 53,500 1927-8 (I year) Sate sat as 31,000 
1928-9 (9g months) ... as — 22,500 
1929 ... sae 30,375 1928-9 (3 months) ... be a 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) ... os bee 22,875 
1930 _ ... ae 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) ... 7,625 
1930-1 (payment for 6 months at 
the original rate of £P.33,500 p.a., 
which was subsequently revised 
to £P.75,250 p.a.) .. 16,750 
1931... sv 86,000 1930-1 (payment of balance of 
contribution for the year at the 
revised rate of £P.75,250 P. a 58,500 
1931-2 (6 months) ... ‘ae 27,500 
1932 (January 
to March) ... 27,500 1931-2 (6 months) ... Se ee 27,500 
1932-3 cor 90,000 1932-3 (I year) ee or ~~ g0,000 
1933-4 ee IOI,000 1933-4 (I year) sis ee .»» 101,000 
1934-5 ... 103,875 1934-5 (I year) on ie 103,875 
1935-6 145,289 1935-6 (1 year) - ne wee -145,289 
1936-7 ... 1,297,000 1936-7 (I year) es a6 ... 1,297,000 
1937-8 ... 783,000 1937-8 (1 year) a5 0 we» 783,000 


Total £P.2,741,914 


Assets and Liabilities. 


11. The Assets and Liabilities are set out in Appendix III. 
At the 31st March, 1938, the surplus balance amounted to 
£P.2,400,839 as under: — 


£P. iF: 
Surplus Balance at 1st April, 1937 ... 4,835,129 
Revenue for the period 1st April, 1937, to 
31st March, 1938... 4,897,356 
Expenditure for the period 1st April 1937, 
to 31st March, 1938 7,297,688 
Deficit for the period 1st April, 1937. to 
31st March, 1938 __—..... 2,400,332 
2,434,797 
Deduct: Depreciation of investments on 31st 
March, 1938 an aos ae 33,958 
pecans 


General Revenue Balance Account at 31st 
March, 1938 ... a ee he es £P.2,400,839 


203 


ASSETS. 


12. The outstanding Advances which figured on the state- 
ment of Assets and Liabilities at the 31st March, 1937, namely 
(i) Municipalities, (ii) Agricultural Loans, and (ii) Earth- 
quake Reconstruction Loans were adjusted in 1937-8 in com- 
plance with the new colonial accounting procedure and trans- 
ferred to Heads XXVIII. Public Works Extraordinary; XIII. 
Department of Agriculture and Fisheries; and XXVI. Miscel- 
laneous, respectively, as shown in the relevant sub-paragraphs 
of paragraph 4. Recoveries of these advances are accounted 
for as general revenue. 


Investments. 


13. The value of stocks held by the Crown Agents for the 
Colonies on account of Government surplus balances at the 
31st March, 1938, was as under : — 


£P: 

Value of stocks held on 31st March, 1937, at middle 
market price sis a Kate debs = - 4,415,993 
Stocks sold during the year 1937-8 oT sae w+» 1,745,429 
2,670,564 

Depreciation of book values of investments held on 31st 
March, 1938 os ei di wee as 33,958 

Value of stocks held on 31st March, 1938, at middle 
market price ... sas aot re sae £P.2,636,606 


Investments sold during the year realized £P.1,745,420. 
Realization was necessary to meet the deficit for the year and 
to reduce the debt to the Joint Colonial Fund, which, standing 
at £P.675,000 on the 1st April, 1937, was reduced to £P.30,000 
on the 31st March, 1938. Investments held on behalf of funds 
in the custody of Government consist of stocks forming the 
Endowment Fund of the Palestine Archaeological Museum 
valued at 4,P.263,968; and the investment of the surplus balance 
of the Police Fines Fund, valued at £P.3,382. The total invest- 
ments, therefore, at the mean market value on the 31st March, 
1938, amount to £P.2,903,956 as shown in Appendix V, as 
compared with total investments amounting to £P.4,683,207 
held on the 31st March, 1937. 


Advances in anticipation of the New Loan: 


14. The balances which were shown under this account in 
the Report for the year 1937, have also been transferred to 
xpenditure in compliance with the new colonial accounting 
Procedure. A statement is appended showing the provision in 
the proposed loan schedule, the total expenditure to the 31st 
larch, 1938, on the works included therein and the Head of 
Expenditure to which the balances were transferred : — 


Work. 


1. Resettlement of Displaced 

Arabs : ies sta 

z. Water Supply and Drainage 
Schemes, etc. :— 

(i) Jerusalem Water Supply 


(ii) Jerusalem Drainage 
Scheme 
(iii) Haifa Drainage Scheme 
(iv) Haifa Water Supply ... 
(v) Hebron Water Supply 
(vi) Water Resources Survey 
(vii) Underground Water In- 
vestigations.. 
(viii) Improvements of V illage 
Water Supplies 


3. Agricultural Credits :— 
(i) Investment in Land 
Mortgage Company 
(ii) Long-Term Loans _ for 
Hill Areas 


4. Construction of Oil Berth and 
Keclamation Scheme at 
Haifa :— 

(i) Haifa Oil Dock 


(ii) Haifa East Reclamation 
Area... : ‘ 


5. Public Buildings, including 
Jerusalem Post Office and 
various Educational Build- 
ings and purposes incidental 
to, or connected with, any of 
the purposes mentioned in 
this Schedule, including the 
raising of the Loan :— 


(1) Government Arab College 


(ii) Government Schools in 
Towns : 

(ii1) Government Technical 
and [rade School ... 

(iv) Capital Grants to Jewish 
Institutions... 


(v) Jerusalem Post Office... 


(vi) Cost of Raising of Loan 
(vii) Unallocated : : 


204 


Total 


Total 
Provision Expendt- 
2n ture to 
proposed 31st 
Loan March, 
Schedule. 1938. 
£P. £P. 
250,000 85,796 
370,000 370,000 
150,000 93,987 
I 30,000 15,415 
200,000 3,698 
10,000 10,000 
6,000 5,936 
22,000 22,000 
45,000 42,193 
150,000 150,000 
50,000 30,666 
150,000 155,565 
60,000 54,435 
27,000 24,096 
106,000 71,396 
40,000 40,000 
20,000 17,843 
156,000 144,313 
56,000 — 
2,000 — 


Transferred to 
Expenditure Head. 


XVII. Department 
of Development 


XXVIII. Public 
Works Extraordinary 


do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 


do. 
do. 


XXVI. Miscellaneous 


XIII. Department of 
Agriculture and 
Fisheries 


XXVIII Public 
Works Extraordinary 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 

XII. Department of 
Education 
XXVIII Public 


Works Extraordinary 


£P.2,000,000 1,337,339 


205 


LIABILITIES. 
Deposits. 

15. Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund.—The balance in this 
account represents the difference between the amount received 
by way of fees on exported citrus fruit and the amount expended 
on advertising. The gross amounts appearing in the account 
during the year under review were as under :— 








Balance of the fund at 1st April, 1937... w+» 14,319 
Fees collected during 1937-38 as ee wes 40,947 

55,266 
Advertising expenditure during 1937-38... ah 33,209 
Balance of the fund at 31st March, 1938... ae £P.22,057 





16. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.— 
The balance of the account is now made up as under: — 








TP. 
Amount of the fund at the 31st March, 1937 bier ... 263,754 
Plus: 
Profit on investments realized during the year 1937-38 ... 1,308 
265,062 
Less: 
Depreciation of investments held at the 31st March, 1938, 
d on the mean market value ruling at that date ... 1,094 
£P.263,968 





17. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Fund.— 
When Mr. John Rockefeller, Junior, undertook to provide 
$2,000,000 for the cost of construction and endowment of this 
Museum, it was estimated that the building would be completed 
in 1930, and the gift was promised on the understanding that 
the last payment would be called for not later than the 1st 
January, 1931. Owing, however, to unforeseen difficulties, 
construction did not proceed according to schedule and the 
building had not been completed at the 31st March, 1935. 
Nevertheless, a sum of $1,000,000 was received in November, 
1929, and an endowment fund created. Subsequent building 
gtants, on a dollar basis, were also made from time to time 
with an extension of the period of call to the Ist January, 1933. 

g, however, to the fall in the value of sterling, the dollar 
Values of the building grants were considerably in excess of the 
original sterling equivalents, while the enactment of the United 
lates Gift Tax Law in June, 1932, increased by almost rI00 
ee cent. the cost to Mr. Rockefeller of his benefaction. More- 
ver, the delay in construction of the Museum had postponed 
a eee for maintenance, and interest thereby accrued 
eae aes owment Fund, although certain expenditure was 
with rd incurred on staff and research work in connection 
cae € classification and arrangement of archaeological 

eral, records, and library. 


206 


In view of these changes, it was suggested that the original 
pledge should be replaced by a new arrangement which ulti- 
mately took the following form:— 


(a) The cost of construction of the Museum estimated 
at £P.200,000 should be reduced to £P.193,000. This was 
made possible by economies on certain items of equipment 
and fittings. 

(b) £P.14,000 of the unexpended balance of income 
derived from the Endowment Fund at 31st March, 1934, 
should be transferred to the construction account. 


(c) The Endowment Fund should be reduced by the 
amount required to complete construction (this reduction 
was effected in 1934-5) after taking into account the sum 
of £P.149,308 already paid by Mr. Rockefeller and the 
transfer of £P.14,000 from the balance of the current 
account. 


The amount of £P.2,683, shown in the Statement of Assets 
and Liabilities, is made up as under:— 








£P. 

Amounts received from Mr. Rockefeller to 31st March, 
1935 eee bat sit eis ee aes ee 149,308 

Amount transferred from accumulated interest in 
current account por — oes wee ive 14,000 
Amount transferred from the Endowment Fund a 29,692 
Less: 193,000 
Amount expended to 31st March, 1938 ioe ae 190,317 
£P.2,683 





18. Moslem University of Palestine.—In March, 1935, His 
Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad donated a sum of £P.7,543 
to form an Endowment Fund for the maintenance of a Moslem 
University in Palestine. This sum is now on sight deposit with 
Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.), Jerusalem, bearing interest at 
4 per cent. per annum. 


19. Sir Ellis Kadoone Bequest.—The bequest was made to 
His Majesty’s Government, who appointed the Officer Adminis- 
tering the Government of Palestine to be the local representative 
for the administration of the trust. 


The bequest is for the construction and the endowment of 
Agricultural Training Schools at Tulkarm and Mt. Tabor. The 
total amount received was £P.121,551, but the bequest was 
enhanced in value by transactions on investments and by 
accumulation of interest to a total of £P.179,321. Of this total 
the sum of £P.93,084 had been remitted by the Crown Agents 
for the Colonies at the 31st March, 1938, for the construction and 


207 
equipment of the schools, leaving an amount of £P.86,237 in 
the fund, which was held partly on deposit at call (£P.427) and 
partly in Trustee Securities (£P.85,810). 

Prior to the year 1934-5, interest from the Endowment Fund, 
together with school and farm receipts supplemented by a 
Government grant-in-aid, were utilized both for construction and 
maintenance. With effect, however, from the 1st Apmil, 1934, 
these receipts were credited to Revenue, and recurrent expendi- 
ture on the schools was provided for in the Estimates of the 
Department of Agriculture and Forests. There remained, how- 
ever, a balance of £P.4,756 in the current account at the Ist 
April, 1935, which was utilized during 1935-6 and 1936-7 for 
capital work on school construction, with the result that a 
balance of £P.1,299 only remained in the account at the 31st 
March, 1938. The estimated cost of construction and equip- 
ment of the two schools is £P.80,148, of which the sum of 
£78,424 had been expended to the 31st March, 1938. A 
further sum of £P.1,724 is, therefore, required to complete the 
work. Of this sum a balance of £P.1,299 remains in the cur- 
rent account, and it may be necessary, therefore, to draw on 
the Endowment Fund in the hands of the Crown Agents for 
the Colonies to the extent of £P.425 in order to complete the 
construction and equipment of the schools. 


Loan Expenditure. 


20. The expenditure from Loan Funds is shown in Appen- 
dix VI. The Palestine 5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan of 
£4,475,000, issued at £100 Ios. per cent., realized £P.4,497,375. 


The net charge to expenditure during the year amounted to 
‘74,703 and was incurred on the following works:— 








£P. 
Jaffa Port Improvements _... ses at 74,870 
Government Printing Press ... ee oe 592 
,46 
Less: ae 
Credits received in respect of Haifa Harbour 
Construction ... sre Sut ia 759 
£P.74,703 





The charge of £P.74,870 to the Jaffa Port Improvements 
Was In respect of works carried out prior to 1st April, 1937, 
and met from funds provided from surplus balances under 
: © vote for Public Works Extraordinary. Owing to savings 
‘es the estimated cost of the construction of Haifa harbour it 
oo found possible to re-allocate the expenditure on items 

€ loan schedule by utilizing the savings on the Haifa har- 

WT construction to cover part of the excess expenditure on 


208 


the Jaffa port improvements, with the corresponding credit to 
surplus balances through revenue under Head VIII. Miscel- 
laneous. 


21. The total expenditure from Loan Funds at the 31st March, 
1938, amounted to £P.4,497,124, leaving a balance of £P.251. 


Currency. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual 
Report for 1929.) 


22. During the year under review the Currency Board paid 
a contribution of £P.80,000 to the revenues of the Government 
of Palestine in respect of the year ended the 31st March, 1937. 


23. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the 
total value of currency in circulation at the 31st March, 1938, 
amounted to £P.5,009,134, or a decrease of £P.617,000 as com- 
pared with the value of currency in circulation at the 31st 


March, 1937:— 
Coins and Notes in Circulation at 












































Denomination. 31st March, 31st March, 
Coins :— 1937. 1938. 

Silver coins :— £LP. : 

100 mils 232,400 206,000 

50 mils 213,000 205,100 
Face value of silver coins . £P.445,400 £P.411,100 
Nickel-bronze coins :— ‘ 

20 mils A 24,100 22,000 

10 mils 33,300 33,600 

5 mils... 21,700 22,100 
Face value of nickel-bronze coins . £P. 79,100 £P. 77,700 
Bronze coins :— 

2 mils... 2,896 2,892 

rmil ... 5,104 5,608 
Face value of bronze coins . £P. 8,000 £P. 8,500 
Face value of all coins . £P.532,500 £P.497,300 

Notes :— 

£P.100 20,600 14,700 
£P.50 76,200 53,400 
£P.10 962,340 734,340 
£P.5 1,701,355 1,484,355 
£P.1 ae ne 2,031,230 1,926,530 
£P.4 (500 mils) ... 301,909 298,509 
Face value of notes . £P.5,093,634 £P.4,511,834 
Face value of coins and notes .. £P.5,626,134 £P.5,009,134 


209 


24. (See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual 
Report for 1929 and paragraph 29 on page 165 of the Annual 
Report for 1933). 


Banks. 


25. In the Annual Report for 1937 reference was made to 
the provisions in the Banking (Amendment and Further 
Provisions) Ordinance, 1937, relating to minimum capital of 
banks. During 1938 the first effects of these provisions became 
apparent. It will be recalled that the minimum capital of 
local banks was fixed at £P.50,000 subscribed, of which not 
less than £P.25,000 had to be paid up in cash. Local banks 
which at the date of enactment of the Ordinance were not 
complying with this requirement and whose paid-up capital 
was less than £P.10,000 were, within nine months from the 
date of enactment, required to raise their subscribed capital 
to £P.20,000, of which £P.10,000 should be paid up in cash. 


On the termination of this first period of grace, 32 local 
banks had ceased to function as banks. The combined resources 
of these 32 banks were unimportant, and the reduction in the 
number of banks was effected without detriment to the economic 
life of the country. 


The number of banks operating in the country is now 43 of 
which six are incorporated abroad. Each of the six foreign 
banks has a paid-up capital in excess of £P.100,000 which is 
the minimum fixed by the Ordinance for such banks. Of the 
37 Surviving local banks, 20 are not as yet complying with the 

capital requirements of the Ordinance and it is provided that 
ese banks must raise the minimum paid-up capital by 
October, 1930. 


Appendices IX and X contain tables compiled from the 
Statutory returns submitted to Government by banks. 


210 


APPENDIX I. | 
Summary of Revenue for the years 1933-34 to 1937-38. al 




















1935-36 | 1936-37 1937-38 
(rst April,|(rst April, (Ist am | 
1935, to | 1936, to | 1937, hey 


1933-34 | 1934-35 
(rst April,|(rst April, 
1933, to | 1934, to 
Heads of Revenue. 31st 31st 
March, \ March, 








1934). | 1935). | 1936). | 1937.) | 1938) 

£P. £P. £P. 
1. Customs ... [1,868,598 |2,600,370 |2,751,246 |2,019,479 |1,999.097 
2. Port and Marine eK 56,488 90,701 | 107,597 | 110,206 | 129,120 
3. Licences, Taxes, etc. ... | 857,180 |1,075,295 |1,082,427 852,948 982,032: 
4. Fees of Court or Office, mas 
etc. ... | 534.355 | 845,923 | 913,027 | 703,129 | 75050 x 
5. Posts and Telegraphs --» | 287,843 | 355,817 | 418,896 | 477,493 508,887 
6. Revenue from Govern- ~ 4 


ment ea ae res 14,420 21,618 23,952 50,317 | 5° 363 “et 

7. Interest oe 56,896 97,102 | 141,279 | 150,730 | 13% ays 
8. Miscellaneous ... ... | 121,337 | 177,886 | 154,021 | 128,021 184,128 - 

9. Land Sales oh ... | 26,609 | 31,640 | 18,874 2,441 | 974 «x 

1o. Grant-in-Aid... 137,760 | 141,368 | 140,345 | 139,686 | 14053? = | 

11. Colonial Development z 


Grants... a ... | 24,006 | 14,913 | 18,793 6,371 | 12413 x 
es te 


£P.13,985,492 5,452,633 15,770,457 (4,640,821 [4.897.356 





2ir 


APPENDIX II. 


Summary of Expenditure for the years 1933-34 to 1937-38. 




















































































































1933-34 | 1934-35 | 1935-36 | 1936-37 | 1937-38 
,\(rst April,|(rst April,|(rst Afril,|(rst April, 
Heads of 1935 to | 1936 to | 1937 to 
Expendtture. 31st 31st 31st 
March, March, March, 
1936). | 1937). | 1938). 
| £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
1. Pensions ... Gok oe 24,193 28,747 34,243 37,040 50,588 
2. Public Debt and Loan 
es sa .. | 127,198 | 126,904 | 126,449 | 126,449 | 158,896 
3.His Excellency the | | 
High Commissioner ... 9,313 10,694 9,103 10,254 10,552 
4. Secretariat ats eee 25,433 24,735 39,487 69, 463 76,6051 
5. District Administration | 97,712 | 108,790 | 154,840 | 156,931 | 165,055 
6. Legal Department 10,451 10,294 II,000 14,011 18,112 
7. Judicial Department 89,534 91,545 94,151 | 100,882 ! 110,567 
8. Treasury si 15,746 | 16,553 | 17,005 | 20,495 | 22,762 
9. Audit Department 12,181 12,793 13,628 17,998 16,746 
10.Customs, Excise and 
Trade ... wie ee 94.395 | 147,620 | 243,449 | 277,477 | 250,530 
11. Department of Health | 135,838 | 166,311 | 194,632 | 204,350 | 215,448 
. 12, Department of Education | 179,635 | 201,498 | 221,087 | 243,243 | 300,742 
13. Department of Agri- 
culture and Fisheries... — — —- 177,387 | 321,676 
Department of Agri- 
culture and Forests ... | 115,076 | 147,286 | 181,003 — — 
14. Department of Forests... = = uae 24,322 25,201 
15, Antiquities Department 8,359 | 17,197| 18,340 | 23,920 
16. Department of Lands an 22,150 
Surveys Lies ae — — 115,823 | 124,878 | 130,334 
Land Settlement 27,298 | 26,541 — — — 
Lands Department 20,024 21,455 — — — 
Survey Department... 60,007 | 62,810 a — — 
17, Department of Devel 7 
ment ... stig beg 7,822 6,901 8,304 17,244 98,197 
18. Police and Prisons ... | 486,605 | 506,712 | 527,467 | 744,619 | 941,975 
19, Department of Migration 21,392 29,437 32,424 36,965 39,226 
20, Office of Statistics - — — 1,499 4,765 6,418 
21, Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force ... ; .. | 172,318 | 165,165 | 171,187 | 179,257 | 175,182 
22, Defence ... —... | I10,125 | 144,118 | 145,289 |1,297,000 | 789,738 
3. Posts and Telegraphs ... | 167,245 | 225,048 | 310,778 | 351,943 | 429,127 
24. Public Works Department} 49,496 | 48,944 | 58,694 | 76,396 | 132,497 
25. Public Works Recurrent | 189,369 | 228,875 | 288,086 | 320,350 | 333,849 
26. llaneous . ... | 189,908 | 257,868 | 297,473 | 502,160 | 466,683 
27. Posts and Telegraphs 
Extraordin ... | 27,487 | 71,623 | 132,301 | 129,002 | 112,031 
28. Public Works Extra- 
ordinary ve .» | 134,359 | 262,878 | 645,044 | 705,094 |1,614,885 
29. Trans - Jordan Frontier 
Force Extraordinary... | 13,075 | 26,592 | 18,477 9,944 | 12,828 
30. Railways (excess of Ex- 
penditureover Revenue)| 59,259 33,805 | 124,159 | 69,631 | 230,123 
31. Colonial Development ... 24,003 271 690 32 | 18,919 


ree £P. 2,704,856 |3,230,010 4,236,202 16,073,502 |7,297,688 


Liabilities. 
Joint CoLoNniAL Funpb 
DEPposITS— 

Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund ss 

Command Paymaster (Talavera Barracks Drainage 
Scheme) oa, sae Sie - 

Contractors’ Deposits 

Couit Deposits 

Customs Deposits... 

Grants-in-Aid (unspent balances) 
Colonial Development Fund 
Hydrographic Survey .. os 
Trans-Jordan Frontier F orce 

Gaza Development Scheme : Soe 

Haifa Harbour Reclaimed Area, Building Deposits sea 

Immigrants’ Guarantees oF 

Insurance Companies’ Guarantees 

Land Registry Deposits .. 

Local Education Committees 

Mecca Pilgrims’ Deposits 

Moslem University of Palestine. (contribution by H.H. 
the Nizam of sa aaa 

Municipalities 

Other Governments 

Orthodox Patriarchate ... 

Ottoman Agricultural Bank 

Official Receiver ... 

Palestine Archaelogical Museum (Endowment Fund)... 

Palestine Archaeological Museum (Construction Fund) 

Police Fines Fund iy : 

Posts and Telegraphs Deposits A Account 

Private Waqfs 

Renewal Funds 
Posts and Telegraphs ... 

Jerusalem Water Supply 

Russian State Property 

Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest (Construction Fund) 

Special Police Posts - 

Supreme Moslem Sharia Council | 

Trans-Desert motor route, Palestine- -Traq (Security 
lodged by Haim Nathaniel) 

Unclaimed Property Sis 

Undistributed Assets of Companies i in Liquidation = 

Village Water ig and Roads as 

Sundry Accounts 


DRAFTS AND REMITTANCES 
Loan ACCOUNT 4 ‘ 
GENERAL REVENUE BALANCE Account 
Balance on ist April, 1937 
Deduct Balance of i ca and Deficit Account, 
1937-38 (Deficit) : 


Deduct Depreciation of Investments at 31st March, 1938 


Balance of General Revenue Balance Account as at 
31st March, 1938 


FUNDED DEBT. £P. 
Palestine Loan Stockholders ‘ 4,475,000 
The amount of the Sinking Fund at the 3ist March, 1938, 
for the redemption of the Stock was £483,566 8s. 2d. 


22,056.602 


4,606.904 
8,606.131 
74,066.980 
12,008.863 


9-379 
7,216.974 
5,097.716 
2,027.693 

950.000 
8,639.057 
14,736.205 
7,016.484 
13,267.009 
879.901 


7,600.401 
12,514.31! 
2,630.176 
1,189.392 
25,394.661 
14,130.409 


263,968,121 


2,682.956 
4.754.078 
59,088.010 


417.542 


82,718.000 
12,323.000 
7,705.019 
1,299.337 
1,823.815 
1,199.442 


10,000.000 
148.622 
18.957 

8, 443.889 
6,944.221 


4,835,129.154 


2,400, 332.121 


2,434,797-933 


33,958.260 


APPENDIX 


Statement of Assets and >: 
£P. Mils. 


£P. Mik. 


3.000.000 


708, 180. ey 
605.264 
251.549 


2, 400,838.73 
fetes ces 


£P.3,139,875543 
__ oe 


213 


Il. 
Liabilities at 3lst March, 1938. 
Assets. £P. Muils. £P. Mails. 
CasH ... de or 84,500.023 
ADVANCES— 
Bank Deposits— 
Trans-Desert motor route, Palestine-Iraq Cony 
lodged by Haim Nathaniel) dese ae 10,000.000 
Insurance Companies’ Guarantees 14,736.205 
Moslem University of Palestine (contribution by 
H.H. the Nizam of Hyderabad) 3 7,600.401 
Undistributed Assets of hagas nei in a Liquidation 18.957 
Crown Agents es 4,575.000 
Government Officers 1,494.658 
Other Governments 962.643 
Postmaster-General : 6,930.159 
Posts and pobre” Advance Accounts 21,645.162 
Railways - 61,168.649 
Sundry Accounts 710.987 
129,848.821 
IMPRESTS 21,571.074 
IxVESIMENTS AT MIDDLE MARKET PRICE ON 
31st MARCH, 1938— 
Available Balances es ss  2,636,606.124 
Palestine fei a Museum Endowment Fund... 263,908.12 
Police Fines Fund sie sel se : 3, 381.680 
2,903,955-925 


£P.3,139,875.843 





15774 


214 





6bg'gol‘'Ig'gG? ese ee 
pues sjossy jo }uSTIAzZe}S OY} UI UMOYS SB }JUNODDY SOUPAPY S,JoseuPy [eloUs) jo soUeTeEg 
bot: 2g6‘1 

EC6'SC1‘Eg 
sit ‘gq 


goz Sol ‘6127’ qF 


60z'‘Lz9‘f61 
6g6'z7z£'G1 
bEz' 16S ‘F 
9fgfgl'S 


sft ‘qf 


ean eee 


ons (II xtpueddy) serjimqery 


"**  _ pagsn{[pe 3aA Jou suleqz] =: ssaT 


2AOGe }UIUII}E}S UI UMOYS SB JUNODOY S,JoInseslyL 


*AINSBOL], 9G} UT 
JUNODIY VuUBAPY S,JosuuBsyy [e19ues) 0G} WIM sJUNODDY ABAM]TBY 0G} UT JUNODIY S,JoINSBII], Jo VOPR] OUCIIY 


S[er9}e}] PUe se10}s PozEoo][eu ‘b 
“€ 


""* SQOUPAPYW 


‘Sskempey 2383S ueiydAsy *z 


"$4aSs 7 


yse) ‘1 


9ggz Sof ‘61z' GF 


€S6°SC1‘€g 
ogg‘ ELL'1 
Ctg°ZS1‘9 
196°LL9‘61 
Cgl'gzz‘be 
vez lre‘zy 


sia ‘dF 


nee ars ee mee qunoasy § JoINseoly ° 
oe ase aoe eee ° * pun. souly < 
eee e ° eee s}isodaq "> 
yUNODDY ee oe eabiy yeqog *£ 
pun q se Mouady AeaTIEY (eyey-e1ezJUeY) IeUIS *Z 
: puny sfemouay AemIey oulzsa[eg ‘1 


“$91jt1q0tT 


"SE6T ‘QIIBPL ISTE 38 JUOUTTIZAO oupSeT¥qg 9) Aq pazei10do sABMTJEY 3G} JO SOMPIGUI] pus sjassy 94} Jo JUBUIO}EIS 


"AI XIGNUddV 


215 


APPENDIX V. 


Statement of Investments. 


SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS. 


Market 

Middle Valueon 
market 31st March, 

Nominal Cost Price on 1938 
Value. Price. 31st = (at_ middle 
March, market 

1938. price on 
that date).. 
(1) Avatlable Balances— £ os. d. £P. Mils. £P. Miuls. 

British Guiana 1959/69 3 per cent. 

Stock... wis ie’ «5 23,000 0 O 22,253.500 94 21,620.000 
Ceylon 1959 3} per cent. Stock ... 123,236 8 I 124,345-757. 98  120,771.676 
Ceylon 1959/64 3 per cent. Stock 75,000 0 o 75,000,000 94 70, 500.000 
Federated Malay States 1960/70 

3 per cent. “Stock ee ... 250,000 O O 250,000.000 94 235,000.000 
Trinidad 1965/70 3 per cent. Stoc 50,000 0 O 50,000.000 92 46,000.000 
canta 1955/05 SL pales ne 19,727 7 8 21,017.350 102 20,121.931 

ustralia 
1939/41 3 per cent. Stock .. 121,579 3 1 122,867.657  I00 121,579.154 
Commonwealth of Australia 
1955/58 3 per cent. Stock .. 82,581 3:11 77,655.964 88 72,671.452 
Commonwealth of Australia 
1943/48 4 percent. Stock 17,000 0 O 17,486.538 101 17,170.000 
mmonwealth oof Australia 
1946/49 3} per cent. Stock 21,184 13 9 21,666.125 100  21,184.688 
Mmonwealth of Australia 
1941/43 2} per cent. Stock . 12,500 0 Oo 12,625.000 98 12,250.000 
ae 1940/60 4% per cent. 
Bitton 1940/60. 4} a a 14,126 10 2 15,492.996 105 14,832.833 
ee acy ies wae 7,007 6 9 7,543-634 104 7,287.632 

ao a ae cent. Stock... 35,000 0 o 33,445.192 95 33,250.000 

Canada North needa iglesias 74,310 13 5 77,400.944 102 75,790.884 

wa 

cart 3¢ per cent. Stock ee 5,037 13 5 5.173.703 98} 4,962.106 

' 1914/54 3 per cent. Stock 000 0 O 8 I + 2,130.000 

Cardiff 1952/ , 34, 34,393.47 94 32,130. 

95 3 per cent. Stock 10,238 16 10,268.1 6 ,829.276 
wyn Bay 1953/55 3 per cent . 7 ue. © i : 
Stock ; cent. 

Rae lan wage : a 24,000 O O 23,640.000 95 22,800.000 

cent. Stock 

Conversion T 1948/53 : — 40,828 15 I 47,067.570 1122  46,034.420 

cent. Stock is 
avers; Bis eae ... 222,482 2 7 236, 388.035 I0I 224,706.950 
spittt Stock “" 7944/4924 per 

dinby wth ve --. 303,616 6 I0 302,119.897  97$ 296,025.933 

Stoke 1940/60 44 per cent. 
Finding Loan 1956/61" 24 ... 18,800 0 0 20,233.500 105  19,834.000 
cent. Stock per 

Gordshire 1948/53 ; res - 121,327 211 112,812.633 88% 107,374.524 

ock cent. 
Hull tog1 6 ene een .. 12,061 3 5 12,450.458 100 12,061.17 

ull tortie, as cent. Stock... 50,000 0 0 55,039.100 1064 53,250.000 

isle, ste cent. Stock ... 700 O O 702.725 97 679.000 
wer 1955/58 > ne Stock... 24,065 13 0 25,449-758 103$  24,907.948 
0c r cent. 
Fo —ndon Fy tric oe -+» 45,200 0 O 44,974.000 96  43,392.000 

1950/55 22 per cent. spn sPort 

eid) - Stock 118,200 0 O 114,654.000 92 108,744.000 

Stock 7948/53 3 per cent 

15774 ~ “ 66,846 17 9 68,594-755 99 66,178.419 


H 2 


216 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 


SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conld. 

Market 

Middle Value on 
market 31st March, 

Nominal Cost Priceon 1938 
Value. Price. ZISt (at middle 

March, market 

938. price on 


that date). 
£ s d. £P. Mils. £P. Muls. 
New Zealand 1945 44 pe cent. 
Stock... : 4.446 8 7 4,768.796 102 4,535-358 
New Zealand 1943/63 4 per cent. 
Stock... . 10,000 0 Oo 10,325.600 100 10,000.000 
New Zealand 1955/60 34 per cent. 
Stock... : 1,506 17 10 1,537-029 966 1, 446.616 
New Zealand 1949/ 54 34 per cent. 
Stock. . 71,351 0 8 70,807.396 96 68, 496.992 
New Zealand 1945 3 per cent. 
Stock... .. 102,639 18 7 100, 801.334 95 97,507-933 
New Zealand 1952/55 3 per cent. 
Stock .. -. 193,881 3 10 191,988.774 88  170,615.449 
Nuneaton 1953/56 3 per cent. 
Stock. .. §=©51,259 13. 8 50,499.459 93 47,671.505 
Palestine 1942/67 5 per cent. Stock 9,518 17 7 11,268.571 IIIf  10,613.550 


Plymouth (Devonport), 1920/60 





3 per cent. Stock ” - 8,500 0 Oo 8,574.875 93% 7.947.500 
Salford 1954/56 3 per cent. Stock 35,080 18 7 35,432-375 95 33,890.883 
St. Helens 1915/55 3 as cent. 

Stock .. 600 0 9 604.608 95 570.036 
Stoke 1955/65 3} per cent. Stock 18,681 15 1 19,150.248 98 18, 308.119 
Stretford 1955/05 3} per cent. 

Stock... ... 10,000 0 O 10,031.450 97} Q, 750.000 
Swansea 1955 3 per cent. Stock . 4,117 3 11 4,107.200 94 3,870.164 
Union of South Africa 1954/64 

3 per cent. Stock ood ... 140,000 0 0O 140,417.871 95  133,000.000 
Victoria 1929/49 34 per cent. 

Stock . 6,000 0 Oo 6,056.004 96 5, 760.000 
Victoria 1929/49 3 percent. Stock 12,880 6 4 12,466.256 94  12,107.498 
Wakefield 1955 3 percent. Stock 23,262 18 7 23,645.030 96 22.332.412 
Western Australia 7935155 34 ne 

cent. Stock . 15,70l 2 11 15,937-046 97 15,230.112 

ee et See Oe ty ee eyes 
Total £2,743,686 5 4 £P.2,761,772.333 £P.2,636,606.124 
(2) Securities held in trust on behalf 
of the Palestine Archaeological 
Museum. 
Birmingham 1946 or after 34 per 

cent. Stock se 22,477 I I 23,849.804 100 22,477-054 
British Guiana Demerara Railway 

Perpetual 4 per cent. Stock ... 2,653 0 Oo 2,756.134 99 2,626.470 
Bristol Perpetual Debenture 34 

per cent. Stock 7,079 2 6 7,124.738 99 7,008.334 
Commonwealth of Australia 

1948/53 32% percent. Stock ... 10,000 0 Oo 9,921.975 100 10,000.000 
Canada 1953/58 4 per cent. Stock 193 I 3 203.762 108 208.508 
Consolidated 1957 or after 4 per 

cent. Stock sat 22,177 0 9 18,462.827 109 24,172.97! 
Croydon Irredeemable 34 per cent. 

Stock... 2,355 12 4 2,466.242 101 2,379:173 


217 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 


SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conid. 
Market 
Middle Value on 
market 31st March, 


Nominal Cost Price on 1938 
Value. Price. gist (at middle 
March, market 
1938. price on 
that date). 
s. d. £P. Mils. £P. Mus. 


Glasgow Irredeemable 3} eg cent. 
. Stock... 21,550 O O 22,880.506 100 21,550.000 
Hull il Imedeemable 3h per cent. 


7,803 10 9 8,298.430 99 7,725.503 ; 
iia 48 or after 3 per cent. 
Stoc 37,718 7 I 29,636.958 77 29,043.165 
Lirerpod Imedeemable “3h per 
cent. Stock =... 51,083 5 I 53,535-436 100 51,083.254 
London County Consolidated 1920 
or after 3 per cemt. Stock ... 24,914 12 6 20,927.025 85 21,177.431 
Manchester Irredeemable 4 per 
cent. Stock =. 32,722 I 4 37,053.482 110 35,994.274 
Swansea Inredeernable 3h per cent. 
stock 13,817 17 8 14,631.226 100 13,817.883 
West Australia 1935/55 3 per 
ceat, Stoc .. =«15,158 17 4 15,386.621 97 14,704.101 
Total ... £271,703 10 6 £P.267,135.166 £P.263,968.121 
(3) Securities held in trust on behalf 
of the Police Fines Fund— 
Commonwealth of Australia 
1946/49 3} per cent. Stock ... 1,800 0 0 I,755.000 100 1,800.000 
mmonwealth oof Australia 
r9e4l74 3} per cent. Stock ... 497 8 I 504.770 90 447.664 
— pias 3} per cent. 
tock eee eee 1,18t 5 4 1,204.892 96 1,134.016 
£3,478 13 5 £P.3,464.662 £P.3,381.680 
13774 


Date. 


1938 
31st March 


21S 


APPENDIX 
Loan Account Statement 


Recetpts,. Amount, 


Proceeds of 5 per cent. Loan 
of £4,475,000Stock, issued 
at {100 Ios. od. per cent. 


Revised Allocation of Loan 
as approved by the Secre- 
tary of State in his tele- 
gram No. 187 of troth 
May, 1938. 


Item I. 

Railways :— 
1. Railway Workshops 
2. Other Railway Works 


Item II. 

Purchase of Railway and 
other capital assets 
from His Majesty’s 
Government ... ais 


Item ITI. 
Harbour Construction and 
Port Improvements :— 
1. Jaffa Port Improve- 
ments a Gee 
2. Haifa Harbour Con- 
struction ee ae 


Item IV. 


Telegraphs and Telephones 


Government Offices and 
Construction and 
Equipment of Printing 
Office ... = dee 

Cost of raising Loan 


1,393,979 


£P. Mils. 


41497,375.000 


£P. £P. 


245,042 


1,639,021 


278,870 


1,210,413 
——— 1,489,283 


188,126 


60,642 


I120,303° 
369,071 





£P.4,497,375 


ne 


£P.4,4975375-00 
el 


Ic 


wee 


” 


VI. 


219 


(XE at 3lst March, 1938. 
4 


“ 
' 


Date. 


1938 


jist March 


née 


15774 


Expenditure. 


Item I. Railways :— 

1. Railway Workshops ... 

2, Other Railway Works - (com- 
pleted)... a 


Item II. Purchase of Railway and 
other capital assets from His 
Majesty’s Government 


Item III. Harbour Construction and 
Port Improvements :— 

1. Jaffa Port Improvements ... 

2. Haifa Harbour Construction 


Item IV. Telegraphs and Telephones 
Government Buildings :— 
Acquisition of site 
Government Printing Press 
Cost of raising Loan 


Balance 


1,210,161.984 


120, 302.458 


Amount. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 


245,041.458 


1,393,979-057 _ 1,639,020.515 


I,000,000.000 


278,870.000 
1,489,031.984 
188,126.494 


21,300.000 
39,342.000 


369,070.952 


4,497,123-451 
251.549 


£P. 4,497,375-000 

















bz1‘L6v'y 
(v) 1L0‘69£ 


zEO'6QH'I 
000‘000‘I 


120‘6£9‘1 


"SEOI 
‘yIs0 PW ISIE 
papusdxauy) | wv sanjipuadxa] 
fonjoy 


€ol‘ozr 

z¥9‘09 

QzI‘ggi 
‘at 











(vp) 1Z0‘69€ 


1L0‘69f'qF 


UVO’7] SUISIEI JO 3807) 
2010 supra } jo yuomdmbg | pue wononzs10) PUB S90TJO JUSITLIOAOS) 
sauoydejeay, pue sydexzsejoy, 

—: Jopun se dn ope (2) 








SLE‘L6b‘Y 


UO] 94} JO Zutster oy} Zurpnyjour 
‘gMpeyss sty} UI peuonUeM sesodind 943 Jo 
Aue ZL po}00UT0d JO 0} [eJUEprOUr sesodind 
pues ‘jusmdojaaep jo syiom soulM ‘sAoAINS 
‘souoydee} pues sydereo3 ‘s8urpring onqng ‘¥ 






969‘1ZE 































€gz‘6gr'r Egz‘6gb'1 ooo‘Sr1‘r _ Syuomeaoldm] Hog pue uononnsuo0,) noqrepzy *€ 
000‘000‘I 000‘000'I 000‘000‘I ‘+ QueuTmIeAO 5,Aqsofey SIFT 
wWOJ} s)0888 Teqdeo 49470 pue Avarer yO oseyoing ‘% 
1z0‘6£9‘1 1z0‘6£9'1 000‘org‘t - ‘+ gheMTTEY “I 
‘af ‘af F 

‘uvoT fo "9401S {0 "‘OZO1 9p SuDOT 

spaa04¢ A4ujas2aS 941 | votfp isvq puv 

tonjov fo kq poaosddo auysaod "SY4OM 
401709011 V MOTD IO[[0-9N Of anpayrS 











"SE6T ‘IIB ISTE 3B SodUB[B UOT jo }U9UII}BIS 
‘IIA XIGNAddV 


221 


EQS ‘over gF 

6€6‘gor'r eee ooe ese ero eve SHIOM onqnd (ry) 
1gé‘1er 6}sal0,J pue sapeqsry ‘amnjzNopsy 

€ g‘Z1 eee ose ooo eee eee mol}eonpy qj 


"dF 


"AIC A CHI 

‘IAMS pue semoyos sayddng sae OBeIA pue voigePY ‘urajesntef{ eq) JO yoodsex 
Uy puny yoomdopeasq [eyuo[oD aq} wos sjuels sou YS]SSe 1Z€‘g°q}? sepnpuy (a) 

‘AaqyeA exiez ‘Aoains pue saureqos Ajddns 12384 onettA 

pue volqeyY 94} pue semeqos edeuyeiq par Ajddns Jaye Wojesnzef 04} Jo Jdser 
Uy pun, iamidopeaag [epuojoy 24} WIJ szUeII soUEISISSE £6Z‘gi°qF sepnpuy (p) 

*someyos samddns s3ye A 


pepmotea Mod 043 YIM dOUENdMOD uy gt-ZE6r uy ompuedx 
LE6x ‘Udy 3sr 03 011d seoURApY 0} posreqo syanowe jo Cou] 


ofg‘tor‘r 
bz9‘166 
969‘0bS 
bez‘ELe 
ISP‘Z1€E 
1£0‘S9g 
TSE'PEE 
ZQO‘Zgt 
L¥6‘00€ 
viL‘zvE 


(v)gzg‘zoS 


r€r‘rre 
blo‘Liz 
HSE‘bS1 
99S‘Lt1 
Cgt‘61z 
v6E ‘For 


909°4S1 
“aF 









—: SMOTOJ SB PeINgiIstp ore qoyya ‘omnpadoid Zutjyanoooe 


efeuyeiq ureresniof oq} pue seuleqos sopiddns 
94} Jo yodser uy puny JUsuIdoO[oAe”] fefuojoy 94} MOI; 
pus ‘ouysaeg uaseqynog jo Aaains Srdezo 

jo AJOJOu 94} Jo WWoMUIBAO) §,AzSofeP SIFY WOT pye 


(#)1€z‘1g0'% 


grr‘siz 
oS ‘voz 
z£Q‘F61 
II€‘9gQI 
gfg‘Str 
zSo'1IT 
I91‘9z 
g16‘Sor 
1gb‘So1 
Pog‘Io1 
19S‘96 
gS9‘tZ 
9£9‘16 
11b‘Sg 
obb‘¥g 
g69'6 
blo'Zrr 
96S ‘or1 


cL7e'1zl 


‘af 


“UITDe FT 
319% 


(3)ZZg‘Qbt 
60L‘10z 
£oo‘rgi 
ggz‘Lyi 
gZo‘Si11 
¢1S‘9g 
€gr‘oz 
Lzz‘1g 
grS‘zo1 
¥rL‘gl 
ogt‘zZ 
o6b‘zS 
z1£‘S9g 
6g0‘LE 
169‘SE 
o£S ‘of 
o19‘gt 
LEE‘gd 


gro'1t 


‘ay 


S9S940sT 


so guods sunoup 





(3)zbL‘oo€ 
Cbz‘Evz 
Lgo'1zz 
g6h‘10z 
C£Q9‘6L1 
ozS‘6Sr 


ZZC‘o€ | 


gg6‘or1 
coc‘ebr 
692‘6E1 
Cxr1‘Ler 
6£0‘00I 
o1g‘OII 
zE6°Cor 
999‘ZOI 
zL£L‘66 

0z$‘16 

gi¥‘06 


6Lo0‘oS 


‘af 


DUD SILAIYS4T | “UOIZVINDA 
9ANIINIDAAS 


@ 0} podliajsuel] 3nq 
sn{pe sapnpouy (3) 


“9uleqoS 


JaIVA VWLTIA Pue uoIgayH ‘MezesnI9 
g]Ue12 ouRysisse Er>‘z1I'g 
xpAy 943 UO peLmMou! sinjipuedxe aq} 
-Ul-yueIs EgL‘z'qF sepnpouy ( /) 





1rb‘PPl'b 
vol‘ F6'F 
61f‘119‘S 
zZSE‘g6z‘S 
LzL‘€zg‘e 
6Z1‘9g9‘z 
CSS ‘6z9 

gg6‘or1‘z 
gz ‘ght ‘z 
6+0'66z‘z 
ozS‘QbS‘z 
G£0'60L‘I 
6g9‘rol‘z 
gbb‘bog‘z 
0z9‘6S6‘1 
ggZ‘SLo'1 
1€g‘60g‘I 
1€S‘1ZE‘z 


vgg‘SE1‘s 


dj 


eSelTTA pue UoAgeyY pue sewmaqos aFeute3q pue Ajddns 193e M4 Uejesniaf 943 JO yoodsez 
Uy pun, juauIdo[aAeq [eyUO[OD 94} Wo} s}GeIF soULISTSSE ezS'vr-q} sepnyouy (9) 


‘pepyseg pue vyyeyy u99M30q 93N0I 


Aeawyres oqissod e jo ‘sraaut3uq jeAoy jo Ajyred e Aq 
0} pany yUauidojaaaq [eTUO[OD 24} Wo jsorozUT snid jue goo'vz’g} sapnyoay (9) 


‘AQVAINS [eLae ae JO 3sO0 Bq, I9AOD 


‘spung deo] 0} pesieyo pue sivaf snopaaid 


Ul Uaye2Jepun sxlom snouea Jo yoadser Uy 176'zoz'qF Jo yusmysn{pe ue sapnjouy (v) 














(f)Sb6‘zS1 — o000'S Lb‘ a "*+ 9€-LE61 
(a)LSo‘gb1 — ooo'SLP Fr | **" “a "+ LE-of61 
(p)ge1‘6S1 — o000‘SLP‘b an **+ gf -SE61 
(a)1gz‘QS1 — o00'SZLPy‘b | <*: oes "+ C€-Pl61 
(9)99Z‘I91 -—— o00'SLb'b | °° i **+ HE-CLOI 
ggl'Lz1 — o00'SLb‘F | °° se “+ €€-z7E61 
vEl‘Lz — oo0'SZbb | z€6r ‘qore~ 0} Arenuef 
606‘zzz — o00'SLbr | °°: en ie 161 
9gz'1v — ooo'SLr‘by | °°: uae se of61 
EzS‘bz — oo00'SZLb‘b | °°: oe ee 6761 
LOL‘SE — ooo'SLt'F | °*° a oe gz61 
CHE ‘o£ — ooo'SZe'y | Lz61 ‘1equie.eq, 0} Tudy 
gZb‘gg a zeae eee eoe eee Lz—-Qz61 
glg‘voz ar aoa eee eee eve 9z—Sz61 
gz1 ‘S61 — — re oe -** Cz—PzZ61 
ZZz9‘OVZ — — vee ae -** P2—-EZ6I 
000‘S6z — — eae as s+ €z—Zz61 
a ee eee eee eee eee 2Z-1Z61 
1Z61 ‘qoIeyy 


381€ 03 ‘ov6r ‘Apo 381 


“AVaK 9OSIDAESIUINED 
40 yusouvut.T 


222 


‘A[UO sxUe_ [E00] » 








1Sz‘€Lg‘oz 1Sz‘€Leg‘oz | 606‘Fro‘zz 








6gr1‘Ses 
OLL‘gbz'1 


9£9‘b6S 
L£96‘Lob'1 














€xr1‘Sgr 6Lg‘bSz sUNODY 10430 | IFg‘OI Lgr‘zz 

6LLighz'1 | Lg6‘Lov‘1 ; (ex}u09 Jed se) 660‘1Zz zg6‘Loz 
gusoeaaas Joy}O pue s}UeWIESIOpUuy bLL‘ogz 6gL‘bEz 
‘soap TEEN) 1Oy SIoTIOISND yo sorjtiqery | SHS‘19f‘E1 | 1g0'r16‘Er 





































1¢g‘gI Lg1‘'zz (ex}U00 10d se) a 
ssour}deooe 10} sroul0}sn} JO sorjTiqery | gz6‘ggt‘€ | gol‘bov‘E | - 

€6F‘6Sz zLg‘ozz "*s sostmoig yueg | 219‘z46‘6 | ELE‘obb‘or | - 
Ezg'SShr | LLe‘ogI‘S S}USUI}SIAU] _—_—_—___—___—_ 
Co€‘Zer‘g | gf€‘obl‘l sooueapy | ogS‘Erg'E | obE‘PEI'h 
z6g‘g6z'z | Sho bbl‘z pozyunoosiqg sqtg | Z9Z‘gS1 Eglizbr 
PLLibbo'E | LSL‘zLL‘€ syueg }IM ploy scoured | Z6z‘€gr 909‘9gI 
1€¢‘gL1'r | 6Q9L‘¥Q9 puey uo uoljng pue Aousziny | PZE‘Lor‘1 ZeC‘zL1r‘'r 

‘df "dF ‘at ‘dF 


















*9€61 “ZC61 “gf61 "LE61 
‘“saaquiazdas | ‘1oquia}dag ‘taquiazdas | ‘1oquiazdas 
qO£ qzo£ qzo£ q}0€ 





awe ee “+ gyunooDY 197310 


‘**ST9MI0}SNO JO JUNODOe UO suOTyeSTIGO 


Iaq}O pue s}UsMSsIOpuy ‘sooJUBIeNS 
"** §I9UI0}SND Jo JUNODOe UO SsoUL}daD0Y 
"* sored J9q}O Jo SHURE WoT; SsOULAPY 
siqedeg sia 

s}isodeq [2301 


spisodaq, out] 
s}isodeq puruseq 


__ squed Io} play soouerreq 
#S9InjUusqod 

ePUN WY sA1ISOy 

edn pred jeztdep 


“soniqery 





"SE6T ‘JoquIe}dag WIE ON} puB ‘ZE6] ‘1equIa}deg WIE 
ey} 38 SB CUPSIIV UT ssoutsng UO ZuyAIIED syUBG [EDO] pus Us{2I0q JO SePTIGET] puse sjessy Jo ArsurumME 


“XI XIGNHddV 


223 


€.1 GS6‘zEf1 
I-I rlo‘z1I1 
F.o zgol ‘bP 

G.I L60‘z91 
L.o 6EL‘zL 

O-I IZ0‘QOI 
O-1 gb 1‘vor 
G.I 9z6‘oor 
L-z zbg‘ggz 








€o1‘'Sz6 
Le6‘Lz 





"g€61 ‘1oquie}dec q}0€ 


L6z‘66S ‘1 


¥1IQ I-I 
zbs .1 
Coz £.0 
gz9O Z.1 
Cer 9-0 
CS1 Q-O 
ELL O-I 
1zo‘! b.1 
g6Z Lez 
€ZE‘Q1 L.6 
vor €.o 
7Z29'Z 9-SI 
06 

zl 





€vI ozI 
ggo‘zhr 
Lig‘ze 
LeV‘eli 
Cr1‘So 
069‘Eg 
€gL‘Sor 
ogS ‘vr 
vig‘Lez 


LoL‘Sio'! 
Zeb bE 


EL1‘1bgQ‘I 


196‘1? 


11L‘¥9z 
‘at 


‘yunoUly 





6zg - . sjonpoid peinzoeynoewm 2PUIO 
609 3 eee eee ece ere eee eee SHOLIq pue ZUSTI9O *2U0}S 
LgI ere eee eee eee eee oe eee szonpoid [eoTareYy4) 
oS9 vee vee ee ay (Azourqoe durpnyout) sponpoid [eal 
ozPr eae eee ere eee . 419}} em pezyUlld 
gb eee see ese eee eee eee eee s[to pue deos 
ob6 ar (sar 10392} 3 anqquang Surpnyjout) sjonpoid reded pue poo, 
206 _ ee ; aims SuIq}O[9 pue SoTAXOL 
Lz6 eee ee eee eee szonpoid 0098q0} pue yULIp ‘poo.y 
f0 aanjovfnuv yy 407 
¥99‘Q1 eee eee eee vee eee ssurpjoy yeinzno1de IOF 10 wo 
19+ ose eee ee6 see oe 4903S SATT IOJ Io ao 
—«L19'% as ee mee cd JINIF S}I IO 9AOIZ SN.IZI0 94} IOJ IO UO 
BANIINI14d WP 4OT 
69g eee ees eee eee eee see eee ees eee SOIPOq 
AZTIZN Te1aues Joy}O pue Hoop ‘inoqiey ‘1azeMm ‘Ayro1z}09[9 ‘seB oF 
€9 oc ""* SaQuoy Ny oseT]IA pue sprounos [e077] ‘saryipedrorunyy OF, 
‘sI9U10}SN7) 
jo 
JequInN 


-L€61 ‘raquiezdas q}O£ 


"SE6I ‘requiajdeg MOE PUB ‘LE6T ‘1EquIe}deg MOE 
Iw su (SIETIOISNH 0} SeOUBAPY PUB PoJUNOISIG si]}q) suvoy] Yueg Jo vopANaAENSsIG 


‘X XIGQNAddV 





RAOK +H 


our KBAMOADN 
no Oo 





L61‘ggv‘o1 


gtg‘oSs 
ghS‘10S 
ELz'1€Z 
ELLiSz 
ZzgQ‘ov0'! 
1v€‘11g 


€g1‘gl 


I1I1‘zg 
zSS‘€rz 


€£0‘g6F 
€Lo‘61S‘1 


COr'ize 
"af 


‘yunNOUYy 


ZvP'ol 


Sor'y 
€Lg 
ZOZ‘I 
gor 
GgS‘ bz 
crs 


ZQI 


6S 
£56 


1SZ‘s 
PSE 


£62 


"s19uI0}SND 


jo 


requinny |3uU90 19g 


*9£61 ‘requia}das qz0€ 


Noonrn 


= 


WO & WFAA MMO 


ao°0 


"[eJOL 


JO 


1g6‘¥gbh‘or 


LEz‘6gS 
€11‘gvp 
bzS‘glS 
6gL‘zz 
$g9‘9g0'! 
1Z6‘zLS 


For'1Z 


092‘6S 
100‘€9z 


CLz‘ges 
1£9‘¥ggq'I1 


obg‘git 
‘af 


‘yunoUYy 


ogt ‘EL 


Cg6‘F 
81g 
gS6 
C6z 
g61‘bz 
ooS 


6F1 


6SZ 
eSr‘1 


aA ae) 
FzE'b 


L61‘I 


"SI9UIOISNZ) 


jo 
zequinn 


“LE61 ‘raquieydesg yIO£ 


Sula} 19430 
(sa8e3z10ul) sZurpring 
“= - pue’y jo oseqoing 
SUI9OUOD PUSTIUTe}II}UA 


=“ s[eNprArpul oyeatid pue [euolssajolg 
"039 ‘Satjzo100s 9AT}e.10d0-00 
Vpero ‘squeq ‘saruedmiod 90UBINSUI SUIPNOUT ‘sUIIDUOD [eIDUeUTT 
on SUOIZNFSUI BIQePICYD pues SNOIsI[9yY 
sosnoy ZuIpieog pue sjUeINeE sal ‘S[a}JOL{ 
"** = SadrAIaS yIOdSUeIA PUL SO[DIYIA 10ZO] 


40f 40 O} 2 SnOaUuDIIIISS IT 
'* SJUVYOIIUL [Ie}II OT 
SJULYOISUI BTesa[OyM OL 

IIAIMUMLOT) [DAIUID) 


W01}99I9 JO VSINOO UI SsUIP[Ing 10.7 


U01J9N4JSUOD) 





‘piwoI—"ge6t ‘Iaquuajdag MoE pus ‘Ze6T ‘1equIajIdag MoE 


3 su (S1ZTO}SND 0} SBdUBAPY puUB poj}UNOIS]Iq S{[fq) suUBO] YUvG Jo UOMNGLNSICG 


“‘PIMOI—"X XIANAddV 


225 


XXII.—DEMOGRAPHIC, VITAL AND MIGRATION 
STATISTICS AND OFFICE OF STATISTICS. 


Demographic Statistics. 


Note.—For the latest full account of the population, its 
development up to 1931 and its geographical distribution, refer- 
ence should be made to Chapters I and II of Volume I of the 
Census of Palestine, 1931. 

The de facto population of Palestine, exclusive of members of 
His Majesty’s Forces, was estimated to be 1,435,328 at 31st 
December, 1938, the division by religions being as follows : — 





Moslems... tes steed 900,260 
Jews sig see ett 411,253 
Christjans sc ws. 111,976 
Others... Sia ies 11,839 

Total ar .» 1,435,328 





_ The classification by religion has been adhered to in popula- 
hon statistics since the beginning of the British Occupation. This 
classification of vital occurrences is socially necessary because 
the law of personal status in Palestine is the law of the particular 
religious community to which a person belongs. 


2. It was recognized at the census of 1931 that classification 

y face’ or ‘‘ nationality ’’ into the broad groups, Arabs, 
Jews, and Others, is a political necessity. At that census, 
persons were asked to state to which of the three groups (Arabs, 
Jews, and Others) they belonged. The following table shows 
wie inter-connection between the religious communities and the 

racial ’’ groups that the census revealed among the settled 
Population. Nomads, who numbered 66,553 at the census and 
Were practically all Moslems, are omitted :— 


Religion. 


Moslems. | Jews. Christians.| Others. 


693,159 174,610 91,398 10,101 


690,420 87 73,281 9,116 
21 | 174,378 25 385 
2,718 145 18,092 600 





= i a total of 693,159 Moslems, 690,420 or 99-6 per cent. 

E oe ed themselves as Arabs. The remainder were principally 

a and Turks. Out of a total of 91,398 Christians, 73,281 

bee Members of European races and Armenians. The mem- 

Princ Res non-Jewish religions in the population, who are 

descrj 7s Druze by religion, numbered 10,101 of whom 9,116 
X themselves as Arabs. 


226 


3. If it be assumed that now, as in 1931, the Arab population 
is made up of gg-6 per cent. of all settled Moslems -2 per 
cent. of all Christians, 90 per cent. of all other settled non-Jews, 
and the whole Beduin population, the following rough estimate 
of the fee at 31st December, 1938, classified by “‘ race,’’ 
is reached :— 


Arabs ae 997,000 
Jews... sas 411,000 
Others Suis 27,000 

Total 1,435,000 


4. A census of population was taken on 23rd October, 1922, 
and again on 18th November, 1931. In the intervening years 
statistics of births and deaths and of migration were used to 
estimate mid-year populations. The adjusted series of estimated 
a dene for inter-censal and post-censal years are as 
ollows:— 


POPULATION OF PALESTINE (EXCLUDING MEMBERS OF His MAJEsty’s 
FORCES) AT THE CENSUS OF I922, AND AS ESTIMATED AT 30TH JUNE 
IN EACH OF THE YEARS 1923-38, BY RELIGIONS. 


Year. All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Christians. Others. 
1922... bse 752,048 589,177 83,790 71,464 7,017 
1923 778,989 609,331 89,660 72,090 7,908 
1924 804,962 627,660 94,945 74,094 8,263 
1925 847,238 641,494 121,725 75,512 8,507 
1926 898,362 663,613 149,500 76,467 8,782 
1927 917,315 680,725 149,789 77,880 8,921 
1928 935,951 695,280 151,656 79,812 9,203 
1929 960,043 712,343 156,481 81,776 9,443 
1930 992,559 733,149 164,796 84,986 9,628 
1931 1,023,734 753,812 172,028 87,870 10,024 
1932 1,052,872 771,174 180,793 90,624 10,281 
1933 1,104,884 789,980 209,207 95,165 10,532 
1934 1,171,158 807,180 253,700 99,532 10,746 
1935 1,261,082 826,457 320,358 103,371 10,896 
1936 1,336,518 848,342 370,483 106,474 11,219 
1937 1,383,307 875,951 386,074 109,762 11,520 
1938 1,418,619 895,159 399,808 111,796 11,856 


5. There 1 has been unrecorded illegal immigration both of 
Jews and of Arabs in the period since the census of 1931, but no 
estimate of its volume will be possible until the next census is 
taken. 


6. The estimated total population has increased in the 16 
years from the census of 1922 to the end of 1938, by 683,293 
persons or gi percent. The increase is due to immigration and 
to the excess of births over deaths, the allocation of the total 
increases between these two factors being estimated to be as 
follows:— 


All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Christians. Others. 


Total increase of 


population ... 683,293 311,079 327,473 40,519 4,222 
Increase by mi- 

gration ae 287,111 18,281 259,371 9,208 251 
Natural increase 396,182 292,798 68,102 31,311 3,971 


227 


The precision of these figures is not great, but they indicate 
that all three religions have gained by migration, the smallest 
proportional gain being among the Moslems. It is of interest 
that the Jewish increase by migration in the 16-year period was 
less than the Moslem natural increase in the same period and 
that the total increase of the Jewish population was only slightly 
larger than the total increase of the Moslem population. 


The figures of increase by migration include about 10,000 
people, who were added to Palestine by an alteration of the 
boundary with Syria in 1923. The Jewish settlements of Tel 
Hai, Kfar Giladi and Metulla are in this area and had a total 
Jewish population of about 300, the remaining inhabitants of 
the area being Moslems. 


Vital Statistics. 


7. Records of vital occurrences are compiled for the settled 
population, statistics being available, classified by religion, from 
the year 1922. 

The nomadic population, among which vital occurrences are 
not recorded, numbered 66,553 at the census of 1931. 


The accompanying tables give the average number of births 
and deaths, as well as the average crude birth and death rates 
and infant mortality rates, in the quinquennial periods since 1922 
and in the individual years 1935, 1936, 1937 and 1938: — 





Christians.| Others. 


Year, | All Religions Moslems. Jews. 














Births. 

average 32,338 25,976 3,388 2,669 | 406° 
1926-30 

average 41,831 33,023 5,296 3,089 423 
1931-35 
average 47,096 36,319 6,893 3,413 47° 
one *s a 53,940 39,918 9,867 3,688 467 
BO ee ese 56,993 41,543 11,009 3,869 572 
oe ai tha 54,749 40,261 10,297 3,683 508 
936 ... 53,928 39,048 10,563 3,818 499 
1922-25 Deaths. 
1926-39 © 16,612 13,950 I,340 1,185 183* 
1931-3 aoe 20,930 17,472 1,796 1,433 229 
1935 average 22,066 18,306 2,101 1,433 226 
ie dist 22,249 17,823 2,748 1,449 229 
1399 te sh 20,465 15,624 3,271 1,345 225 
1938 24,884 20,091 3,003 1,527 263 

ms 20,268 15,449 3,231 1,391 197 


* Average 1923-25. 


228 


ANNUAL RATE OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS PER THOUSAND OF SETTLED 
POPULATION BY COMMUNITIES, 1922-38. 





Year. All Religions.| Moslems. 


Jews. 





Christians. | Others. 








Birth rate. 

1922-25 

average | 40°34 50-09 34°81 36°37 49° 36* 
1926—30 

average 48°58 53°45 34°29 38°55 46°17 
1931-35 

average 44°66 50°24 30° 33 35°84 44°92 
1935 ... ous 45°16 52°54 30°80 35°61 42°86 
1936 ... “ea 44°88 53°14 29°71 36°34 50°98 
1937 «- wee 41°59 49°74 26°67 33°55 44-10 
1938 ... oe 39-89 47°12 26°42 34°15 42°09 

Death rate. 

1922-25 

average 23°73 | 26°83 13°62 16°13 22-10* 
1926-30 | 

average 24°34 | 28°31 11-66 17°91 25°06 
1931-35 

average 20°98 | 25°34 | 9°32 15°04 21°48 
1935 «-: on 18-63 | 23°46 8-58 13°99 21-02 
1936 ... iwi 16°11 19°98 8-83 12°63 20°05 
1937 ... a 18-90 24°82 | 7-78 13°91 22°83 


1938 ... ‘6 14°99 18-64 8-08 12°44 16-61 


* Average 1923-25. 


INFANT MORTALITY: DEATHS OF INFANTS UNDER ONE YEAR OF AGE 
PER THOUSAND LIVE BIRTHS, 1922-38. 





Year, All Religions.| Moslems. Christians.| Others. 
1922-25 
average 115°92* 
1926-30 
average 146°73 
1931-35 
average 161-05 
1935 ++ 177°73 
1936 ... 129° 37 
1937 ++ 179°13 
1938 ... 90°18 


* Average 1923-25. 


220 

8. The very high birth-rate of Palestine is established by the 
preponderance of the Moslems, who show the highest birth-rate 
of all the religions. The Moslem settled population rose by 
natural increase at an average rate of 18,000 per annum, or 
about 2 per cent. per annum in the five years 1931-5. The 
Jewish birth-rate is considerably lower than the Moslem, but 
it was higher for the same quinquennium than in any European 
country except Rumania. 


g. A very great disproportion is evident between the Moslems 
and Jewish death-rates and has been accentuated by a steady 
decline in the Jewish death-rate over the period under review. 
While it is undoubted that the difference reflects a greater 
expectation of life, particularly in infancy, among Jews than 
among Moslems, it must be noted that the Jewish population is 
made up largely of young adult immigrants who are in those 
years of life when the msk of dying is at its lowest, and the 
smaller proportion of infants and old people which this immigra- 
tion has produced is itself a cause of a low crude death-rate. 


10. The celebration of marriages in Palestine, together with 
the granting of divorces, is governed by the law of the religious 
community to which the parties belong. The Government 
requires only that every marriage celebrated and every divorce 
granted be registered by the religious authority and that copies 
of all registrations be sent to the office of the District Commis- 
sioner. The numbers of marriages celebrated and divorces 
granted in 1936, 1937 and the first nine months of 1938, together 
7 the corresponding rates, are shown in the following 

esi: — 














Year, Religions Moslems. Jews. |Christtans.| Others. 
Sa 
Number of Marriages. 
1935... sled 13,777 8,923 4,408 446 — 
1936... o 10,780 5,968 4,445 367 — 
1937 ww. | 3,461 8,072 4,805 504 80 
1938 (9 months) 8,025 4,295 3,406 282 42 
Number of Divorces. 
ae a 2,938 1,183 1,755 — — 
ia es = 3,167 goo 2,261 6 — 
es bes 3,891 1,105 2,781 I 4 
1938 (9 months) 2,433 634 1,794 5 — 


a a a 


230 





Year. ioe Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 

Marriage Rate (Per Thousand of Population). 
1935 eee 35 11-53 | 11°74 13°76 4-31 — 
1936 a... eu 8-49 7°63 12°00 3°45 — 
1937... side 10-21 10-00 12°38 4°59 -— 
1938 (9 months) 7°93 6-92 II-40 3°37 = 

Divorce Rate (Per Thousand of Population). 
1935 2-46 1-56 5°48 = = 
1936 2°49 I-15 6°10 0-06 — 
1937... ee 2°75 1°37 7°16 o-o! — 
1938 (9 months) 2°40 1°02 6-00 0:06 — 

| 
Divorce Rate (Per Thousand Marriages). 

1935... se 213 133 398 — — 
1936... ies 294 I5I 509 16 — 
1937... ek 289 137 579 2 — 
1938 (g months) 342 148 527 18 — 





The high marriage-rate among the Jewish community is 
largely explained by the age composition of that community, 
the proportion of young adults being very much higher than 
among Moslems or Christians. The Christian marriage-rate is 
too low as registration of marriages has been incomplete. 
Divorce-rates among Moslems are high, though not so high as 
in Egypt. Divorce-rates among Jews are very high indeed and 
both in 1936 and 1937 there were more than 500 divorces to 
every I,000 marriages. 


Migration. 


11. De facto population records are kept, the increase by 
migration being taken as the excess of arrivals over departures. 
However, no person is allowed to stay indefinitely in Palestine 
unless he falls into one of the categories of immigrants, and over 
a long period the excess of authorized immigrants over emi- 
grants gives approximately the same result as the de facto excéss 
of arrivals over departures, which takes account of the move- 
ments of travellers and of residents making trips abroad. 


The following table shows the recorded immigration and 
emigration of Jews and others in the years since 1920: — 


231 








Recorded Immigration. Recorded Emigration. 
Year. 
Jews. Others. Jews. Others. 

1920 (part) see 5,514 202 — — 
1921-25 — 71,071 2,581 7,575" 5,382* 
1926-30 28,165 51425 18,029* 7,338* 
1031-35 148,168 8,921 1,062 | 1,067 
1933 30,327 1,650 <= = 
1934 | 42,359 1,784 a | =~ 
1935 61,854 2,293 396 387 
1936 | 29,727 1,944 773 405 
1937 10,536 1,939 889 639 
1938 | 12,868 2,395 1,095 | 716 


* Incomplete. 


Emigration statistics by race were not compiled prior to 1922 
nor in the years 1932-4 inclusive. After 1934, the figures of 
emigrants are those of ‘* residents departing for a period of more 
than one year ’’. 


12. According to the records of the Department of Migration— 
supplemented by figures supplied by the Jewish Agency in 
respect of early post-War migration and the classification of 
migrants by citizenship in the years prior to 1935—the total 
number of Jewish immigrants authorized to enter and to remain 
in Palestine in the years 1919-37, inclusive, was 313,030. Of 
these immigrants, 131,289 were of Polish citizenship, 30,718 of 
Russian, 15,528 of Rumanian, 9,642 of Lithuanian, 9,181 of 
Yemenite and 7,909 of United States citizenship. The number 
of German citizens (not including persons of Austrian citizen- 
ship) was 35,346. Many persons migrating to Palestine from 
Germany are of other citizenship than German. In the same 
period the total number of Jewish migrants whose previous 
residence was in Germany (not including Austria) was 43,764. 


Office of Statistics. 


13. The Office of Statistics was set up in accordance with the 
Statistics Ordinance of 1935. It operates under the general 
supervision of the Commissioner for Migration and Statistics, 
but is directly administered by the Government Statistician. 


14. The duties of the Office are defined in the Statistics 
Ordinance as follows: — 
(a) to collect, compile, abstract and publish statistical 
information relative to the commercial, industrial, social, 
economic and general activities and condition of the people; 


232 


(6) to collaborate with all other departments of the 
Government in the compilation and publication of statistical 
records of administration according to the rules; 

(c) to take any census in Palestine. 


15. In certain spheres of operation, notably those of whole- 
sale and retail prices, wage rates and employment, the Office 
collects information directly from the public on a voluntary 
basis. In making these collections the Office has received 
cordial co-operation from municipal corporations, chambers of 
commerce and manufacturers’ associations, from the Jewish 
Agency and from merchants, employers and trade unions, both 
Arab and Jewish. 

Other groups of statistics are compiled and tabulated from 
primary data supplied by other departments of Government. 
In particular, trade statistics, migration statistics, vital statistics, 
shipping statistics and judicial statistics are compiled on the 
card-punching, sorting and tabulating machines installed in the 
Office and much detail on these subjects which was not 
previously available has been brought to light and published. 


16. The Office publishes statistics prepared by other depart- 
ments, which would not otherwise be made public untif the 
appearance of annual departmental reports. Statistics of banks 
and credit co-operative societies supplied by the Treasurer and 
the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, statistics of the produc- 
tion of fisheries, statistics of land transfers and of mortgages 
registered, railway statistics, postal, telephone and wireless 
Statistics, and statistics of ‘‘ true ’’ offences, furnished by the 
appropriate departments, are published monthly. 


17. The printed publications of the Office consist of the general 
monthly bulletin of current statistics, in which is incorporated 
the Palestine commercial bulletin formerly issued by the Depart- 
ment of Customs, Excise and Trade; an annual statistical 
abstract, the second edition of which appeared in August, 1938; 
and the Palestine Blue Book, the latest two issues of which have 
been prepared by the Government Statistician. 

The general monthly bulletin includes the latest statistical 
material available under the headings of demography, produc- 
tion, trade, transport and communication, prices, employment, 
finance, general business, police and judicial activities, and 
labour. 


18. Other publications, issued in mimeographed form, include 
special monthly bulletins on trade, wholesale and retail prices, 
employment, banking and security prices. Quarterly bulletins 
are published sea with vital statistics, judicial statistics and 
labour disputes, half-yearly bulletins dealing with wage rates, 
and annual bulletins dealing with real wages and industrial 
accidents. 


233 


19. All statistical material published is issued originally in the 
Fnglish language; monthly summaries of retail prices and 
employment bulletins, and a quarterly general summary of cur- 
rent statistics are, however, issued in Arabic and in Hebrew. 


20. Printed publications are on sale to the public, through 
the medium of the Government Printer; stencilled publications 
are issued only by the Office and no charge is made for them. 
Free distribution of publications is made under three heads: — 


(a) to Government Offices for the general guidance and 
information of officers in the course of their work. Under 
this head are included consular and commercial representa- 
tives of other governments in Palestine and also British 
eres institutions and British Consular Offices 
abroad; 


(6) for educational and publicity purposes, to certain 
recognized libraries abroad and to some local hbraries. 
Stencilled bulletins are distributed locally to interested 
por and surplus copies of the 1936 Statistical Abstract 
ave been issued to secondary schools; 


(c) in return for the supply of regular statistical informa- 
tion or in exchange for publications of an economic or 
statistical nature. By this means the Office receives free 
copies of many economic and statistical publications and of 
local periodicals, while the issue of stencilled bulletins to 
merchants’ manufacturers, etc., provides a quid pro quo in 
respect of the information which they voluntarily contribute. 


21. The library of the Office is an essential part of its equip- 
ment, not only on account of the valuable information which it 
contains but also because of its usefulness as a guide to statis- 
tical method. Though at present small, it is steadily growing, 
mainly as the result of the exchange of publications with corre- 
sponding institutions and scientific societies in other countries. 
Its resources are at the disposal of all departments of the Govern- 
ment and of members of the public. 


XXIII.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 


I. The political uncertainty in Palestine during the year under 
review 1s reflected in the decrease in the volume and value of 
trade, which became particularly marked in the months of 
uly, August and September. Towards the end of the year, 
however, there was an improvement as illustrated by the follow- 
we. ugures of imports into Palestine (excluding imports by His 
aij? S Forces and the Navy, Army and Air Force Insti- 


234 


£P. 

January 1,071, 
February 1,092,476 
March 1,089,542 
April 980,970 
May. 956,941 
June 826,892 
July... 778,455 
August 879,997 
September 705,527 
October 879,244 
November 905,024 
December 1,190,286 
Total . £P.11,356,963 


The normal working of the department was considerably ham- 
pered by considerations of security and the disorganization of 
rail and road traffic. 


2. At Haifa a new cargo jetty, designed chiefly with a view 
to the direct landing of coal and shipping of potash, was com- 
pleted and put into use during the year. A transit shed was 
removed from Jaffa during the year and re-erected at Haifa 
in time for the citrus export season. 


3. Traffic at the Jaffa port has been reduced owing to the 
increasing use made of Tel Aviv lighter basin, and the decline 
in passenger traffic has led to the laying up of a number of 
lighters. A new tobacco store was acquired in the port during 
the year. 


4. Traffic at Tel Aviv port showed an increase and construc- 
tional work is still in progress. Passengers of all categories are 
now landed there. 


5. The tonnage of import and export cargo handled at the 
ports of Haifa, Jaffa and at Tel Aviv jetty and lighter basin 
during 1934-8 was:— 





Tel Aviv jetty 
Hatfa. Jaffa. and lighter 
Year. basin. 
Discharged*| Loaded.* | Discharged.| T.oaded. |Discharged.| Loaded. 

Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 

1934 589,203 99,756 | 486,974 | 120,967 = = 

1935 787,307 | 138,427 | 402,263 | 171,819 = = 
1936 756,723 | 165,029 | 135,493 | 115,302 | 27,514 1,854 
1937 698,430 296,492 | 126,842 152,427 97,304 26,795 
1938 502,853 | 291,438 | 113,041 | 149,766 | 139,448 | 57,049 


* Exclusive of crude oil. 


235 
6. The net revenue collected by the department in the last five 
years was: 1934, £P.2,936,513; 1935, £P.3,459,164; 1936, 
£P.2,589,544; 1937, £P.2,720,719; 1938, £P.2,289,810. 
7. The principal articles imported, from which the bulk of 
the import duty is derived, and the amount of import duty re- 
ceived from each in 1938 are set out below: — 


\O 
se) 
N 


106'E€1 
ZLL‘S1 
1SZ‘61 
19Q‘SI 
zeS' rr 


oSS‘bP 
€ZS‘Sr 
€€z‘z1 


gzz‘Li 
zEQ‘vI 
I1Z‘Oz 
zgh‘ot 
LrL‘gz 
109‘Zz 
99h‘ bh 
viz‘6e 
gbz‘cr 
oLo‘It 
o1£‘6€ 
CrE‘SE 
ofz‘1Z 
006‘ZE 


ZIZ‘EII 
Cz6‘zZS1 
Coz‘tor 


‘af 


"p9t921199 


Aing 


ice ‘7 gaQeI SNOIIBA 
"* OTPT zod strut € pue 1 
a * O[Ty sod syrur o1 
Ot tod sjrur S€ pue of 
"°° §azeI SNOLIVA 


ne "** SW ied sprur SSE 
"44940100 po *yUad Jed ZI 
es: "+ $9781 SNOLTEA 


‘**  opry aod strum € pue 
o[ry red stim g-o pue S-o 
O1Fy red ‘syyur ¢.1 pue S.o 
’ ej tod sjruz oof 

"** Ory Jod strut or put 
eee "t+ $9zRI SNOLIEA 
“ae “+ $97 BI SNOLTE A, 
"** O[ry rod spur oz 

oTy Jed sjtur oF pue of 
Oty 10d sttw 000‘ 

Ory Jed sjtur oo$ pue ooF 
"* save SNOLICA 

SO}ZVI SNOLIEA 
"+ saver SNOTISA 

oI} — sjrar £0.z pue $2.1 
o[ty iad sjru $-Z pue S 
oi] iod spruz z1 pue Ir 


ese eee 


"Ang fo avy juasasg 


6zI1‘Q!I 
$16‘g8 
rrr‘e€Z 
611'0g 
€1g‘0g 


g1Z‘zZs¢ 
o6Z‘'IFv1 
09g‘98I 


zLe‘vlLr 
goLl‘Ziz 
PS b‘otz 
zz1‘Lc€ 
€ve‘€gr 
ESz‘1€1 
ggt ‘96z 
ozb‘foz 
€19‘6Lz 
1zv‘Sz 
Z09‘6z 
Lr19‘SE€ 
zlo‘e7ze 
zblzvz 
LLb‘zgr 
CLE‘goz 
ZHE‘ELr 
‘df 


"9njv A 


069'Sz9 
€xr€‘62g‘g1 
6gl‘zZ6'1 
9g6‘oSS¢ 


€1z‘6z1 
Lel‘Szz 


gbL‘ooS‘z1 
6Sb‘oLb‘oz 
96g‘ bSbzz 
Sggiz11 
ofg‘1go'S 
Lol'tve 
099‘11z‘6E 
Boz ‘gQ6'I 
€Lz‘1 
bgz‘Ib 
€91‘6g 


gS6‘'bL‘z 

z£Q‘S6S ‘gr 
LEL‘6bb‘ gS 
gbb‘Ler‘oz 
06S ‘1g6'Cb 


“Aprquond) 





o SUOGusy 1010 7 


onry 
Ot 
Os 
On 


yun 


“+ 190g 
$90}2}0g 
“*"suveq sazJ07 
s9qn} pue so1A4j} 1sqqny 
: “  s¥ony 
10}0UI PUY SYED IOJOUT Jo SapLOssevoe Pu s}HEq 
oe on Sas€9 SNI}zId 10; poredaid poo, 
oa ss awe ‘++ gaNSST} WOTTOO AA 


ea0 ose eee ese eee SIO CIOBLIZII 

pue sorpel —ueqa _10q30 _‘spoos Teor} 7 
ae ~ ss ysouy ‘sping 
as aes sip pue spol ‘sepaue ‘sreq uOol] 
— Siok * sony 


pa "+ SUIP[Inq 10} PooM 

“* pauniy pue ysexy ‘pozes ‘Arp ‘auliq Ul YsLT 
sie it (sesuod Bulpnyoxs) SONSST} ALIS 
spi ee 5s i : eau 
sas a ae oy bas ss roy4ng 
(sisseqo Surpnyour) syons} 10}0UI PUB SID 10}0W 
"** Saqqoresiy 

"*-painzoRjnuewuN ‘saaval OODeqOT, 

: _(s}40s IIe) joredde Zurrea jy, 

"spoos goed 0037307 

tp “Inop yea, 

euasolay 

regns 

oe auizueg 


“JIUAV 


237 


‘uonduiexs 0} pey}i}ue suornzysSUI 


zeyq}0 pue Auedwmoy wnsjoy0g bey, ‘yusuusaa0oy Aq sjiodun sepnpour yng “ya y'W'N pue Areqqiy Aq sziodu sepnpoxg , 





g36'F 
£99‘6 
z£o'9 
ofz'b 
6S1‘9 
gobs 
¥9L‘6 
6ff'6 
ZIE'g 
16'S 
Qvs‘€1 


‘oe ae “+ gover snomeA, 
""* 44940108 po ‘yUIO 10d ZI pue g 
ars "** ofry sod sjrum z pue 1 
o[ry 10d sjrar oo1 
os : "OTP tod stra o£ pure oz 
tee? ne S97 EI SNOLBA 
*** oy ted situ oz 
"*'priq rod syiur Sz 
ai oat “+ ‘soqe7 snore A 


es ""usa40fDA pv *3U99 aod Z1 
89781 SNOT A 


zbg‘oz 
691‘LZ1I 
€62‘g9 
6gt‘b 
gZS‘rib 
L£Sz'6 
IEE‘Le 
€gL‘or 
098°99 
goz‘gr 
bLx‘gt 


LLL‘€0g‘S 
zSg‘tor'v 
g6z‘zb 
bog‘glz 
Ebe'LE 
ZSS*gES 
9Sg‘gzZ 
LSo‘ggz‘E 


LExr‘SgziZ 


suorzeiredeid 307103 pue AlouInyj10g 


sutjurid pue Zuryoed 10) 1adeg 


_ pastueayes pue xovr{q ‘syooys UOT 


"* pemnzouynoemun ‘SOAvRT oequio | 


eee ees eee AYSTUMA 


ould UI eseeyo ULY? 10470 ‘asaey) 


ees eee Ax}[nog 
[ro Burneoriqn’y 
as aa syed pure sorpe yy 
ees ees eee oA 


238 


8. The value of exemptions (excluding Miltary and 
N.A.A.F.I.) granted during the year 1938 was: — 


Exemptions Exemptions 
under the under the 
Customs Tariff Syria-Palestine Total. 
and Exemption Customs 
Ordinance. Agreement. 
Food, drink and tobacco ‘ies 534,000 474,000 1,008,000 
Goods mainly unmanufactured 781,000 2,000 783,000 
Goods mainly manufactured ... 2,672,000 423,000 3,095,000 
Animals living, not for food ... 31,000 — 31,000 
Totals  ... £P.4,018,000 899,000 4,917,000 


These exemptions do not include benzine and other oils sup- 
plied free of duty from bonded installations in Palestine to 
certain undertakings. 


9g. The value of goods imported by charitable and religious 
institutions, consuls and archaeological societies during the past 
five years is shown below: — 





Under the Customs Tariff and 


Under the Exemption Ordinance. 
Ottoman Law 
meen Religious 
Orders. Charitable 
and other 
Institutions. 
£P. £LP. 
1934: 39,779 16,331 
1935 vee 31,492 23,330 
1936 sie 27,905 26,409 
1937 «ss 27,198 25,675 
1938 aieis 28,822 43,039 





* Including benzine, etc., delivered to consuls from bonded oil installations. 


10. In addition to the importation duty free of all articles 
consigned to them direct, the following goods were also sup- 
Uae from bonded oil installations to His Majesty’s Forces, the 

avy, Army and Air Force Institutes, the Iraq Petroleum 
Company, and other institutions entitled to exemption : — 


Supplied in 1938 free of duty to: — 


Amount of 
Duty 
Benzine. Kerosene. involved. 
Litres. Litres. : 

His Majesty’s Forces --- 9,783,678 720,436 117,590 
Navy, Army and Air Force 

Institutes ... ‘ite wat 322,134 108,944 4,030 

Iraq Petroleum Company ... 925,112 81,897 10,986 


Other institutions... .-. 1,917,082 48,010 22,799 


239 


11. The following are analyses of Customs taxation and of im- 
ports into Palestine for the years 1934-8. 


ANALYSIS OF CUSTOMS TAXATION. 

Imports into Palestine are subject either to specific or ad 
valorem rates of duty, or are exempt from duty. In the case 
of exempted goods, there are three main groups: — 

A. Government: Military; N.A.A.F.I. and Iraq Petro- 
leum Company stores. (Of which Military and N.A.A.F.I. 
imports are now excluded from statistical compilations.) 

B. Goods exempted under the Customs Tariff and Ex- 
emption Ordinance, other than imports at “‘ A ’’. 

C. Goods, otherwise dutiable, exempted under the Syria- 
Palestine Customs Agreement. 


Taking the total import duty collected for each of the last five 
years as a basis, the equivalent ad valorem rates of duty, cal- 
culated in respect of the value of the Total Imports for Home 

nsumption less the value of goods imported free of duty under 
the three groups A, B and C, are shown in the following table: — 


240 





1-2z 
"JU90 Jag 
000‘obt‘g 


000‘66g 


g-€z 
"yU99 Iog 
000‘6€E'Z 


000‘Zgz‘t 


¥-QI 
"3U99 19g 
000‘979‘OI 

ooo'r eZ 
ooo0'ZSE‘rr 


000‘LZPL'1 


‘af 






‘paragy sem Ajnp qorga uo sz10duit [Je yo anyea 9q} szueseidel stqy—aq0N, | 
TAV WN pue Arey Aq syzodut sopnjoxg » 

























6.z L.gz 1Q9+Qz ¢.9z (ttt) ye sz1oduly 10j AyNp Jo oI ma40702 po yusTeAInby 
"JU90 Jog | ‘JUSDIOg | ‘UBD Tag | ‘}U99 Jog 
000‘9S‘g | ooo‘oro'Z | ooo'hzZ‘or | ooo'Sgi‘6 | °° Ny ure ae "D>, PUS As, cc Wor 
S89] uordumnsuo) ewOH] 10} eae TeqO], jo ane, (m)t 
000‘99I‘I | COO'HLZ‘I | COO‘IOI‘I | 000‘IZ6 ""* -JuaTa.IZY sulo}sN, suTSeTeg 





-e11AG 94} Japun paydurexa ‘atqerynp astMIeq}0 ‘spooy jo antea ‘9 










































6.1z €.bz €.¢z vz (11) ye szroduzy 103 Aynp jo aze1 wasozva py yUeTeaAInby 
‘"yU90 Jag | ‘Judd 10g | ‘yU9DIEg | ‘}U90 IOg 
000‘0£L‘6 | o00'¥gz‘g | o00'Szg‘11 | OC0O‘gor‘oI _ ; : «a», pue 
«Wn ss aondumnsuog SWIOFY I0F oe [e}O J, Jo onjeA (11) 
000‘Lz6'b | ooo'FEo'h | o00‘6EL‘b | o00'bSe'E “* V,, 8 SHodul] wey} 19q}0 ‘s0ueuIpIO 
eee pute Fue] sulo}sN4 sy} IopuN po}dulexa spoos Jo onjea ‘gq 
g-b1 €.g1 €.21 ¢.21 ane (1) ye szroduy Joy AQnp jo 93e1 was0jn0 py yUsTeAInby 
‘3u90 Jag | ‘yus0 10g | ‘JUZD I0g | “3U90 Jag 
000‘ZSo‘hr | ooo’giE‘z1 | oo00'FOS‘gr | 000‘0Q6‘EI | ,,Y,, SSAT WoTduINsUOD aUIOF] 10; szIOdM] [eo] Fo ante, (1) 
000‘gZZ 000‘S6g 000‘266 000‘96g “*  sar0}s Aueduiog unesjoyeg beryl pue ‘yueuUIaA04 jo onfed ‘y 
ooo'SEPSr | ooo‘EIz‘Er | oo0'1QS‘Zr | 000‘9Sg‘F1 uorduinsuo,) owofzy 10; sz10duy [eyo] jo onjpery 
000‘Z10‘Z 000‘0Z29‘z 000‘O£ hz ~~ Fi ae ie ae ca pazoaT{oo Aynp yaodwy 
‘af ‘at ‘dF 
“g£6I “SE6r "PEI 


TAVV'N pue Areqry Aq spodun sapnjoxq—'s}0N « 
























¥.6€ g-IF z-S€ vE sick ass ‘+ yyy Aq poqzuesoidar ,, gq ,, JO adezUD0I0g 
o00‘9gI‘F | 000‘€60‘9 ooo‘org‘'S | o00‘SZL‘b | °°: II pue [ 3e Aynp wor pozdurexa sziodun jo anjeA ‘IJ 
c.g 9 €.o1 9:9 ¢.9 ae mere ‘*s - Jy Aq pozuesaidel ,, gq ,, JO a8equs010g 
000‘66g 000‘g91‘I | coo'hLz‘IT | COO'IOI‘I | 000‘1Z6 aes oe ‘*  - Jueua013Y su0}sN>) eLIAS-sUTyse[eg 
94} Jopun poajdwoexs ‘aqeiznp ssimieyqzO ‘spoos jo anTeA ‘IT 
6-0€ 9g -€€ L.z€ . ¢.Lz ke mas “es I 4q poeyusseidai ,, gq ,, JO wsezUS0IEg 
ooo‘Zgz‘€ | o00'Zz6‘b | ooo'bvfo'h | o00'6EL‘b | ooo'hSg'€ | °:: ay ile sai0ojs Auedmo) mnajo1z0g 


beiy pue JUsWIUIBAO4 UeY} 19430 ‘souvUIPID UOduUIex| 
pue Huey suiojsn>d oy} Japun pozdulaxa spoos jo onfed ‘] 





000'9z9‘o1 | 000‘ZSg9‘FI | Ooo'gIE‘z1 | ooo FOS ‘gI 








000‘09Q6‘ETI | °°" es : ‘ a saaojs Aunquoy wunajodjag 
Bory pun quaumuasgnoy ssa uoydunsuoy amopzy sof sjsoduy fo any, “g 











Pe 
<= 
N 
€.€P C.bP 6.9¥ 6-g£ z-gt za me sa Ill Aq pozuesaidar ,,y,, JO a8e}Us0I0g 
o000‘Z16‘'F | o00'1Zg‘g | 000'€o0z‘g | o00‘Z€g‘g | oo0‘rZg‘S | °*: a "s+  Aynp wo peydurexa szioduit jo anfeA “ITT 
6.2 g-Z 9-6 £.9 Z-9 are oe i II 4q poqzuesoidar ,y,, Jo o8equs010g 
000‘669g ooo‘QgI‘I o00o'bLz‘I ooo‘IoI‘I 000‘'1Z6 pos s on yUaTIBAISY SUMIO}SN*) VLIAS-sUT}SaTeg 


94} Jopun pojduroxe ‘aqeiznp osIM19q}0 ‘Spood jo anyeA ‘TT 





v.c€ LE €.Z€ L.z 


_I Aq poquaseidar | ,v,, Jo a8e;us0IEg 
ooo‘gto’h | oo0'Sol'S | 000'6z6'b | o00‘gEL‘S 


sa oe me °**- gouRUIpPIO uONnduex7y 
pue Bluey surojsnD 9y4} Japun pozdurexa spoos’ jo onrea ‘jy 











ooo0'ZSE'rr | oo0'SEb'S1 | ooo'E1z‘€1 | ooo'IgS‘ZI a =“ _ "** uomdumsuod amor 4of stsoduy fo enjoy -v 
‘dF “at "iF ‘dF 


"SEOr "LEI “9£62 ‘SEOr 

















242 
12. Excise duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 
methylated spirits, salt and matches. The receipts during the 
last five years were : — 
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
{P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 


Tobacco : 
Duty ... ais --» 255,588 246,677 230,582 223,367 219,568 
Licence Fees ... or 7,420 8,437 8,707 8,893 8,650 
a ei Liquors : 
Duty . — cae 42,260 49,586 66,337 61,734 52,363 
Licence Fees . ; 3,753 3,819 3,797 4,009 4,135 
Methylated Spirits, Duty 7,406 8,900 9,066 7,980 7,571 
Salt, Duty is ve 14,300 15,550 13,500 14,900 11,671 
Matches: 
Duty ... ei aus 21,785 29,173 27,459 30,604 25,221 
Licence Fees ... nies 50 50 50 50 150 
Totals... .. £P.352,562 362,192 359,498 351,537 329,329 


13. The number of licensed tobacco, tombac and snuff fac- 
tories during 1934-8 was:— 
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


Tobacco and Cigarettes 10 10 12 12 10 
Cigars... as sie 2 2 2 2 2 
Tombac ... sacs see I I I I I 
Snuff... sus sn I I I I I 

Totals ... ves 14 14 16 16 14 





Their output in kilogrammes was :— 






Heisheh. 













Cut Cigar- 

Year. Cigars. TObaEEG, “EiIe®: Tombac.| Snuff 
Cigar- 
ettes. 

1934 

1935 

1936 

1937 as , 

1938... 1,742 | 13,872 |619,259 | 51,631 7,649 





The number of tobacco growers in Palestine in 1938 was 
2,962, aS compared with 4,198 in the previous year. 


The annual crops for 1933-7, in kilogrammes, were:— 


Tobacco. Tombac. 
1933 Seis ee oes 402,623 17,905 
1934 ios aes ae 958,344 52,829 
1935 oe we oo 956,248 43,594 
1936 wie o sis 1,232,689 4,178 


1937 wie rer oe 2,486,588 17,615 


243 


14. The production of salt at Athlit (by sea evaporation) and 
at Jebel Usdum (rock formation) and of methylated spirits and 
matches during the last five years was as follows:— 

Unit. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Salt --» Kilo 9,389,040 10,375,700 9,148,399 9,855,780 7,888,000 


Methylated ” 493,712 593,307 604,398 532,032 504,743 
Spirits, 


Matches ... Gross of 175,758 221,275 217,433 237,220 208,047 
boxes. 


Commerce and Industry. 


15. Disturbed conditions adversely affected trade and industry 
mg 1938. Despite a continued influx of capital, there was a 
general reluctance to invest money in commercial enterprises 
Which was clearly expressed in the curtailment of building 
acivity and in the sharp drop in the number of new companies 
omnes As a result, considerable reserves of capital are lying 

e. 

Banks generally pursued a policy of caution and reduced the 
amount of credit given. Credit co-operative societies continued to 
develop, however, and now cover many aspects of the economic 
life of the country. There were until recently no Arab co- 
operative societies, but in the year under review a number of 

ib agricultural co-operative societies were formed with the 
assistance of Government. 

During the year, 163 new Palestinian companies, as compared 
with 207 in 1937, were registered with an authorised capital of 

-I,173,597, and 52 companies increased their authorized 
Share capital from LP.1,384,579 to £P.2,258,251, while two 
reduced their capital from £P.13,064 to £P.11,056. The net 
total new capital during 1938 was £P.2,045,261. 

Foreign buying was considerably restricted during the year, 
and imports showed a decrease of over £P.4,000,000. There 
was a tendency to meet current demand by the selling of stocks 
acquired during the previous year; these stocks are now rapidly 
hearing depletion. e export trade faced additional difficulties 


in the form of trade and currency restrictions imposed by various 
countries, 


16. Negotiations were begun for the revision of the Palestine- 
ynia Customs Agreement which was due to expire on 1st March, 
1939; and reciprocal trade agreements, with the object of 
Ci § Mcreased citrus import quotas, were made by the 
ittus Industry with Poland and Roumania. The latter 


Of wooy Plies some 50 per cent. of Palestine’s requirements 


rah Palestine participated in trade fairs at Izmir and Bari 
ae 1938 and extensive preparations have been made by 
ork and Pees for participation at the world fairs of New 


an Francisco in 19309. 


244 


18. Where local enterprises were concerned, appreciable pro- 
gress was made in several cases, in spite of the general curtail- 
ment of trade. Consumption of electricity continued to increase, 
and potash production expanded considerably. 


Local pharmaceutical products, perfumery and toilet prepara- 
tions, and plastics are being sold in increasing quantities in the 
home market. Another growing industry is that of women’s 
ready-made dresses and coats. The standard of quality has 
risen, oo the local trade now supplies 50 per cent. of the home 
deman 


There were encouraging results in the expansion of the export 
trade, resulting in increased production of nice milling and in the 
manufacture of chocolate, razor blades, electrical goods and 
apparatus, cotton piece goods and books. 

The manufacture of textile articles, hosiery and knitted wear- 


ing apparel continued on a more restricted ‘scale. The follow- 
ing were the imports of yarn during 1937 and 1938:— 







1937. 1938. 












Imports. 
Value. Value. 
£P. £P. 
Silk and artificial silk 
yam was 165,641 60,741 119,541 43,519 
Cotton yarn* ... zis 558,317 ? 557,039 78,872 
Woollen yarn ... 118,971 ; 120,838 67,931 
Cotton, raw and waste.. 820,075 655,783 29,712 
Wool, raw and waste ... 24,137 35,125 2,076 
Totals ... .-- | 1,687,141 251,105 222,110 





* Exports of locally manufactured cotton yarn and thread decreased in 
value by £P.13,273. 


The extraction of oil, however, was considerably diminished 
as the decline in imports of the raw matenials illustrates :— 











1937. 1938. 
Imports. 
Tons. Value. Value. 
: £P. 
Copra_.. 2,180 44,872 34,43! 
Sesame and gingelly seed 1,452 24,407 5,229 
Linseed ‘ 1,119 13,963 8,126 
Sunflower seed gee 9,769 78,840 6,241 
Groundnuts, shelled ... 15,783 226,382 184,734 
Totals sia 30, 303 388,464 238,761 








245 a 
19. The construction of an oil refinery by the Anglo-Iranian 
Oil Company was begun towards the end of the year and is 
giving employment to some 2,000 workers. Other new enter- 
prises include a flour mill, two additional match factories, fac- 
tories for the manufacture of electrical apparatus, tapestry work, 
textile printing, and margarine. An attempt has also been made 
to encourage the diamond trade in Palestine where cutting and 
polishing has already begun on a small scale. 


Building Activity. 


20. There was a further decline in building activity during 1938. 
The figures given below show the approximate cost of private, 
commercial and industrial buildings in the four principal towns 
during 1937 and 1938:— 


1937. 1938. 
Value, Value. 
£P. £P. 
Jerusalem 844,000 412,000 
Haifa 1,757,000 543,000 
Jaffa... 126,00 64,000 
Tel Aviv 1,034,000 793,000 


Production of cement fell from 160,869 tons in 1937 to 
445 tons in 1938 and imports of building materials showed 
the following trend :— 








Imports. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
£P. £P. ra we £P. £P. 
Timber and wood for building | 460,410 | 500,137 | 202,569 | 403,111 | 357,122 

Iron bars, angles, rods and 

girders... sri +. | 520,604 | 614,407 | 289,707 | 384,985 | 217,706 
Sanitary ware ns -»» |177,999 | 130,199 | 119,350 | 127,166 | 41,618 
Electrical fittings and in- 

sulated tubes and pipes ... | 100,609 | 133,457 | 91,581 |114,884 | 53,461 

ment ig set ... | 267,624 | 288,968 | 133,328 | 145,753 | 83,229 
Paints and colours ... .» | 57,664 | 64,150 | 41,257 | 61,487 | 34,765 
Plate glass and window glass | 58,419 | 68,041 | 32,831 | 46,569 | 109,845 
Tiles and bricks , .-- | 88,334 | 125,483 | 61,752 | 83,334 | 38,709 
Door and window fittings* ... | 60,000 | 69,510 | 32,172 | 39,979 | 16,853 


a ee ee 
* Figures in respect 1934 are approximate. 


9,765,159 cases of oranges and 1,708, 


Were exported 

spectively duri 

70 per cent. 
15774 


Citrus Trade. 


21. The date of the beginning of the export season 1938-9 for 
Oranges was 20th November, 1938. During the year 1938, 
85 cases of grapefruit 


as compared with 10,156,078 and 1,747,790 re- 
ring 1937. Exports of citrus fruit comprised over 
of the total exports from Palestine. 


I 


246 


Palestine is now the principal single supplier of citrus fruit to 
the United Kingdom market, to which some 60 per cent. of the 
exports were despatched. | 

Intensive research on the utilization of citrus fruit waste con- 
tinues. Citrus oils are manufactured commercially by one com- 
pany in Palestine. | 

The manufacture of citrus juices expanded considerably, and 
exports of fruit juices, of which 80-go per cent. are citrus fruit 
juices, increased from £P.9,924 in 1937 to £P.17,220 in 1938. 


imports. 


22. Ihe value of imports for home consumption in 1938, ex- 
cluding imports by Military and N.A.A.F.I., was £P.11,356,963, 
a decrease of £P.4,077,744 as compared with 1937. This de 
crease is principally accounted for by the uncertainty prevailing 
as a result of the political situation. Traders were in general 
unwilling to take msks and disposed of stocks remaining from 
the previous year to meet the restricted current demand. 


The only increase of importance amounted to £P.110,138 for 
wood for citrus cases. Imports of paper for packing citrus fruit 
rose by £P.10,619. 


Decreases were shown for nearly every other commodity. 
Depreciation in prices accounted for the decrease in the value of 
barley and wheat. The drop of £P.52,883 in the value of cattle 
was due to an increase in the number of imports of the small 
lower-priced animals from ‘Iraq. The heavy crop of the 19378 
season and the development in local flour mulling found a reflec- 
tion in the reduction of £P.173,180 in the imports of wheat 
flour; while the drop of £P.120,157 shown in the imports of 
eggs, poultry, butter and fruit was in part an indication of the 
development of dairy farming and horticulture. Imports of 
sheep and goats, which for the most part are consigned for the 
Arab section of the population, suffered a decrease of some 
£P.186,000 as a result of a diminished demand. The decline 
of imports of building materials (wood for building, paving tiles, 
Sanitary ware, cement, iron bars, angles, rods and girders, iron 
and cast iron pipes and fittings and electrical goods and fittings) 
by the amount of £P.669,105 was indicative of the curtailment 
of building activity in the country. In the industrial field, coal, 
fuel oil, benzine, iron sheets, printing and packing paper, all 
showed decreases of over £P.50,000 each, and imports of in- 
dustrial machinery dropped by £P.186,000. Another serious 
decline occurred in the imports of seeds for expressing oil, which 
were reduced by £P.49,845. Imports of textiles were reduced 
by £P.245,369 and of wearing apparel by £P.185,640, but these 
were in part offset by the extension of the corresponding local 
industries. 


a 


247 


The following table shows the principal commodities imported 
into Palestine during 1937 and 1938:— 


Commodity. 


Bar 

fice 

Wheat... 

Wheat flour ate vee 

Cattle for slaughtering 
(oxen, cows, and calves) 

Sheep and goats ... 

Fish in brine, dry, salted, 
fresh, and tinned oes 

Poultry, alive 

Butter... 

Fmits, fresh 

Coffee i 

Sugar oe 

Potatoes 

Wood for building see 

Seeds, beans and nuts for 
expressing oils ... ves 

Fuel oil or 

Paving tiles 

Sanitary ware 

Cement ie oes 

Iron bars, angles, rods, 
and girders... me 

Iron and cast iron pipes, 
and fittings thereof 

Dental, medical, surgical, 
and optical instruments 
and appliances... ve 

Radios and parts thereo 

Refrigerators and parts 
thereof ... a3 ee 

Electrical goods and fit- 
tings... he a 

Agricultural machinery ... 

Industrial machinery © ... 

Wood prepared for citrus 

Plywood ... 

Yarn, cotton, 
woollen ... ‘ 

Cotton piece goods 

Woollen tissues ... 

Silk tissues eae 

Apparel, all sorts. ., 

Drugs, si 

13774 


silk and 


Unit. 


1937. 


Quantity. 


12,143 
20,104 
37,164 
27,285 


26,443 
305,144 
92,909 


5,236 
1,261 
2,364 
13,961 
1,745 
24,072 
17,681 
96,123 
138,988 


39,313 


87,922 
334,958 


69,877 
40,500 


19,808 


105,988 
3,283 


842,910 
,023,488 
411,554 
565,592 


Value. 


£LP. 

80,015 
202,088 
364,844 
415,922 


329,574 
275045 
182,529 


177,460 
89,070 
229,390 
184,514 
83,272 
201,060 
85,320 
141,368 
403,1II 


388,629 
258,699 

79,394 
127,166 


145,753 
384,985 
336,106 


76,609 
79,271 


54545 


333,300 
49,715 
710,688 


462,578 
65,679 


205,069 
443,886 
205,945 
245,097 
521,257 
133,400 


r938. 


| 
Quanisty. 





11,419 
22,455 
39,212 
18,596 


28,104 
106,658 
76,391 


5,082 
729 
1,968 
12,501 


1,972 
26,137 
18,879 


56,935 
112,888 


20,269 
66,457 
137,594 


42,037 


20,470 


10,133 


129,213 
1,845 


797,518 


2,374,958 


225,787 
343,787 


Value. 


£P. 

51,036 
230,454 
296, 386 
242,742 


276,691 
89,292 
140,791 


163,343 
46,763 
203,420 
174,372 
73,111 
206,375 
88,915 
91,343 
357,122 


238,784 
196,735 
30,824 


41,618 


83,229 
217,706 


214,351 


50,218 
46,208 


29,393 


186,860 
26,907 
524,684 


572,716 
34,341 


190,322 
322,672 
141,790 
131,253 
335,017 
103,016 


I 2 


248 





1938. 
Commodity. 
Value. | Quantity.| Value. 
£P. £P. 

Benzine ... he 56,506 | 231,529 45,982 | 173,342 
Kerosene ... { 60,841 | 189,409 58,450 | 182,477 
Lubricating oil 4,018 71,064 3,266 66,860 
Upper leather 185,816 96,517 | 146,181 51,921 
Motor cars and motor 279,813 

trucks 1,547 | 319,468 1,273 
Parts and accessories of 80,813 

motor cars and motor 

trucks ... — 95,019 — 
Rubber tyres and ‘tubes. 698,591 | 104,196 | 550,986 80,119 
Chemical fertilizers 14,698 | 128,719 10,243 86,819 
Maize 14,514 90,807 6,498 37,295 
Asphalt 14,771 89,228 9,708 55,649 
Iron sheets, black and 

galvanised 6,211 | 120,369 4,105 68,793 
Paints, colours, varnishes, 

lacquers and ochre 1,731 61,487 1,065 34,765 
Tanned hides and _ sole 

leather ... 550,951 69,677 | 381,257 41,572 
Paper for packing citrus 

fruit 3,387 91,018 3,959 | 101,637 
Paper, printing and | pack: 

ing “ 9,721 | 196,573 5,604 | 117,109 
Stationery... ve 64,554 — 36,714 
Used personal effects 318,056 — 340,615 





Note.—This table includes figures of imports by Government, I.P.C. and 
other institutions entitled to exemption, with the exception of Military and 
N.A.A.F.I. 


Exports. 


23. The value of exports of Palestine produce during 1938 
amounted to £P.5,020,368, a decrease of £P.793,168 under the 
preceding year. 

Few commodities showed appreciable increases, the only im- 
ein item being potash, exports of which rose by £P.110,304. 

xports of cotton piece goods rose by £P.10,234, of books by 
£P.8,548, of fruit juices by £P.7,296, and of chocolate by 
£P.6,729. 

The most serious decrease in the exports was that of citrus 
fruit, not so much in the quantity as in the value which fell by 
£P548,000. Exports of barley and maize ped by 
£P.100,838 as a result of poor crops. The drop of £eP IOI ,503 
shown in the exports of hides and skins is not in fact so great 
as it appears, since the export statistics for previous years in- 
cluded re-exports. There were decreases amounting to 
£P.62,033 for metal scrap and £P.55,417 for olive and other 


— 


249 


ols. Other reductions were £P.18,411 for paper and card- 
board manufactures, £P.17,150 for cake and meal for feeding 
animals, and £P.13,273 for cotton yarn and thread. 

A table showing the principal exports of local produce and 
manufacture during the last five years is given below: — 





13774 


1934. | 1935. | 1936. | 1937. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
ore 19,270 421 I 56,650 
Lentils. .. 744 3,384 566 5,954 
Maize . 4,734 | 14,792 6,448 | 53,317 
Rice — ae 4,288 | 57,573 
Wheat .. ; 1,857 1,000 57 9,762 
Cakeand meal of meat, 
fish, etc., for feeding 
animals sae sink 14,637 9,630 2,205 37:937 
Citrus fruit ..» {2,672,603 |3,559,735 |2,853,946 14,329,703 
Grapes, . . 2,346 1,368 697 2,098 
Melons and watermelons 30,003 30,869 20,138 16,065 
Almonds, unshelled . 1,584 2,278 2,875 3,459 
Vegetables, fresh 6,031 5,589 9,600 6,413 
Frit juices... oe 6,751 9,145 8,589 9,924 
Brandy and cognac ... 5,721 852 2,671 1,842 
Wines .. | 23,214 | 20,551 20,000 | 18,689 
Biscuits and cakes 1,256 1,007 1,143 1,219 
Passover bread 1,903 1,924 1,636 1,909 
hocolate ae 266 548 941 4,594 
Fish, fresh and frozen 2,538 5.277 4,500 3,574 
Olive oil, edible 18,687 32,787 26,223 91,067 
Oil, edible, other .. | 35,978 | 23,808 | 51,129 | 112,400 
Olive oil, other than 
edible — 570 3,482 8,501 
Olives, fresh and pre- 
etved 555 2,008 1,208 1,870 
Confectionery and 
Sweets ase sits 1,489 7,117 15,147 21,895 
Sulphur 8 377 1,582 2,585 
Metalliferous ores and 
scfap 6,762 4,993 9,388 | 95,349 
Wool, raw. 1,088 1,961 6,323 12,767 
Animal grease 221 696 2,417 3,325 
Sesame seed ... . 8,455 | 16,827 4,877 | 28,321 
Hides and skins, un- 
dressed ™ 22,845 | 48,466 | 108,524 | 189,712 
Bones and horns 76 178 255 1,563 
Fenugreek (hilbeh) 2,287 | 1,666 864 | 1,703 
Animal hair ee 129 192 1,329 1,405 
Intestines 13,326 | 24,531 | 17,943 | 24,031 
Seeds, agricultural 466 396 346 1,171 
ent 1,700 2,650 765 1,640 
: see 1,973 2,775 1,311 1,907 
Iron wire, all kinds ... 267 103 a6 3,176 
Aluminium Soar oside 
bade 2,0 2,66 ,186 ,820 
Razor blades .. = : 977 
Electrical goods and 
apparatus ... 510 384 202 1,152 





250 





Commodity. 


Furniture _.. ae 

Olive wood manufac- 
tures aise ae 

Cotton yarn and thread 

Cotton piece goods ... 

Artificial silk crepe and 
tissues ee ae 

Socks and stockings ... 

All other wearing 
apparel ; 

Bromine 

Potash... 

Drugs ... vies 

Chemicals, other 

Flavouring essences 
and other essential 
oils ... . 

Soap... ee athe 

Leather handbags, 
purses, wallets, port- 
folios, and belts 

Paper and cardboard 
and manufactures 
thereof 

Antiquities 

Books ... 

Buttons sou wie 

Curios and articles of 
piety mats sa 

Jewellery, all kinds ... 

Mother of pearl goods 

Pictures, albums, and 
postcards 

Stationery 

Straw mats... 

Artificial teeth 

Dentifrices._.... ees 

Perfumery and _ toilet 
preparations 

Works of art ... 


1934. 


£P. 
624 


I935- 


£P; 
1,062 


3.435 
1,678 


49 


4,668 
11,095 


63,459 
18,751 
80,231 
531 
737 


6,360 
79,311 


6,731 


1936. 


£P. 
997 


1,928 
19,298 
177 


4,299 
7,533 


47,449 
35,097 


132,857 


816 
3,194 


13,685 
53,798 


4,006 


4,430 

492 
8,543 
1,126 


5,852 
1,205 


5,310 


1,442 
330 
2,007 
32,200 
277 


2,303 
403 


1937. 
£P. 


2,025 


3,952 
40,574 
4,145 


8,254 
10,378 


34,460 
42,026 


174,672 


1,743 
4,505 


20,003 
76,296 


59724 


26,810 
1,660 
11,086 
2,308 


5,602 
1,996 
6,513 


3.414 
1,320 
1,476 
34,431 
1,008 


3,654 
1,360 





1,264 


4,999 
27,301 
14,379 


7:949 
3.554 


26,147 
37,958 


284,976 
1,161 


1,247 


17,902 
68,532 


4,382 





The increase in exports of undressed hides and skins from 
Palestine eg recent years was mainly due to the fact that 


Palestine was 
change countries. 


until April, 1938) on Turkey’s list of free ex- 
Large consignments of foreign hides and 


skins were imported into Palestine and re-exported to Turkey as 
goods of Palestinian origin. 


This practice has now ceased as a result of the adoption by the 
Palestine Government at the beginning of 1938 of the require 
ment that local hides and skins should be sealed before being 
Exports consequently 
declined from £P.189,712 in 1937 to £P.88,209 in 1938. 


granted certificates of Palestinian origin. 


‘Areqyy, Aq poyrodxa-a1 AjJuanbesqns pue paziodun spood jo ystsuo0d esoy} Jo ‘yuo Jod og 10AG ft 


‘ajnoY JOJO JASaq-sue1y oq} Aq Dery, Woy Psuely ut spooy opnyoutr gl61 0} SE61 sesh ay} JO; sainsy sy ft 
T'W'W'N pue Areayiy Aq spiodurt sapnpoxz » 


996‘o000‘T 
‘LE6r Jopun 
eseoroep gf61 JON 





Cro‘fg — 
— bz1‘Lz 
€bg‘Sr — 
bEz‘OSI — 
ggi‘t6Z — 
“at "at 
. “LEOr "LEOI 
YA 4apun 4900 
QW gsvss99q ISVIAMG J 
966‘Lor‘F 
‘LE6r1 Jopun 
esva1oep gf61 JON 
— 0g6‘Sg 
vEz‘OST. — 
brl‘Llo‘Pr — 
"at . ‘at 
"LEOI "LEOI 
sOpUn 4900 
9SD9AIBIT 9SDIAIUT 





Ebo9'1zg'9 


ziL‘ggf 
91z‘f9Q9 
z£v‘66 
¢16‘1Z9 
ggt‘ozo'S 
‘dF 
"SEOI 





Cgl‘g6h‘z1 


Lo6‘69+ 
¢16‘1L9 
£96‘QSE'1r 
‘df 
*SE6I 


609‘zzg‘Z 


LSL‘6zb 
z60‘9£9 
CLo‘S1r 
6b1‘gz9g 
gES‘E19'S 
‘af 
"LE6I 


€gZ‘999‘91 


Lz6‘Cob 
6F1'9zg 
LolL'vov‘Sr 
‘aft 
*LEOI 


6gg‘o11‘S 


Loz‘'1Sz 
€6z‘zhg 
bo6‘rg 
zSz‘E1¢ 
EEz‘Szg‘E 
‘af 
"9£6I 


0S6‘Ege‘Er 


o6b‘ZS1 
zSz‘ers 
goz‘erz‘er 
‘as 
*9£6r 


F6r'¥L9‘S 


oS ‘g9b 
1Z9‘o0o€ 
CHb‘g9 
ggo‘tzg 
ggh‘Siz‘¥ 
‘at 
"SE6I 


¥99‘906‘g1 





006‘'1zS 

ggo‘tze 

9Z9‘19S‘Lr 
‘af 


"SE6r 


ELE‘obg‘F 


09z‘0Sg 
9br6‘£9z 
L¥o‘6b 
9SS‘6Ez 
zQS‘Liz‘e 
‘af 
‘PEOI 





gg6‘got ‘Sr 


of h'ELz 
9SS‘6Ez 
g66'SSo'br 
‘a 
‘WEOI 


$1040 T, 
ees "+ gtgadc yo swodxq 
tspooy ust1e10,j Jo sziodxa-ayy 
a puog wor syi0odxq7-9y 
{PIsueI], UT Spoor) 
sonpolg suTyse[eg jo syi0dxq 


"Sp40GX 


sj740 [ 


areds jo syodumy 
43Isuery ut spoox 


‘+ suondmnsucD suozy 103 sy10duy 


‘'g9-PEOI ‘SLuOdxy anv SLYOdW] TvLoy ao ANIVA ‘bz 


"sysoguu I 


I 4 


15774 


252 


"SOIJIPOWIWIOD 07 SUIPIOIO’ SOSSE]D 19Y}O 94} UIG}IM PoNQLIysIp-aI a1oM ‘AT SSV1) UI pepnypour 
Ajsnoraoid ‘uoyndurexe 03 peyyue suorNzYWsUI Jaq}0 pue Auedw0, uneoljeg bey, ‘yuawu1eacy Aq szodun gf61 pue ZE61 uy | 


Ta'V'V'N pure Arezw Aq syrodun sepnpoxay , 





bel‘ Llo'r 
‘E61 ropun 


99g‘91L‘z 
10Z‘g9h 


zhg‘g98 
‘ay 


‘LE6r 
AOpUn 
asvaaIa(] 


eseoioep gt6I 4aN 


—— Se eas asa eee 





‘LEOI 
AZO 
ISDIAIU J 





Eg6‘oSE'11| LoL‘vEb‘S1) goz‘Erz‘Er| gZg‘19S‘Z1) Q66'SS gb 


L19‘gL6‘9 

CLE‘QEr'T 

Lez‘6oz‘t 
‘af 


“SE6I 





Egh‘S60'6 

9£o0‘Sog‘I 

6z1‘glo‘h 
‘at 


‘LEOI 





Lzb‘Lbg't 
6z1‘for 


6Qh‘1SS‘g 


€19‘1Z6 


oS£‘6£6‘E 
‘at 


‘Q£6I 





gbS‘LoLl'1 
1Lb‘b6 
bE6‘6gL‘or 
obg‘zze'r 
LLe‘obg‘t 
‘dF 


‘CLOT 


} 





Igz‘ggi‘6 | 


b6e‘9Lo‘r 


£60‘'z06‘z 
‘aft 


‘PEOI 








vee “somo T 


pooy Joy jou ‘SutaTy ‘speunuy 
—: gf6r pue Ze6r 
‘**I9y}O ‘poyisse[ouN pue snosuUr]][ssSTI 
te Pooy 10} jou ‘Ssutay ‘syeurruy 
—: ZE61 0} snoradlg 


—: LAT ssv19 
9 pein} 

~oeynueUl Ajoreur 10 Ajjoqas sopoyIy ‘III ssv1 
peinjorynuewun 


Ayareu soporze pue sjeoyeu Mey FIT SSVI) 
; 099eq0} puke ‘YULIP ‘poo.y : J sSVID 


a SPAOGUT 





'Q-PEOI ‘SASSVID Ad ‘SLUOdXY ANV SLUOMW] AO ANTIVA “SZ 


*SotIpOMUIOS 
0} BUIPIOINe sasSE[D J9q}O 9} UIQ}IA PoINQLYsIp-o1 o10M ‘POOJ OJ ZOU ‘BuTAT] ‘syeuTay uey} 10430 sziodxa gf6rI pue LE6r uy » 


gor ‘£62 
‘LE61 lapun ggl‘ozo'S | gfS‘Erg‘S | E€z‘'Szg‘E | ggh’Siz‘b | zoS‘Ziz‘€ | °°: as "** $9940 T 


esealsep gf61 49N 


PLL zzz "** poOos JOz ZOU ‘ButaT ‘speuruy 
—: gf£61 pue Le61 
— — ¥L6 6Lz xo ***19q}O ‘paygissepoun pue snosue]eostpy 
CLg‘I 1ZE'z ee “a *** poofz JOZ ZOU ‘Buraq ‘spemiuy 
—: LE61 0} snoraslg 
—: sAI SSVTD 
bo9‘6£9 €SL°gSS gr ‘ole €bz‘'bv6z = oi ae : aes aes pain} 
~oeynTrEUt AToreur 10 “Aroas sappy : III ssv1y 
z16‘Loz Egz‘Lle PIO‘IOI Cor‘ss a "* pamnjorynuemun 
; Ajayeur SaporIe pue s[eLic}eul MP ‘I SSVT) 
glo‘zlr'y | Llz‘SLe'b 6EV'IPL'E | HIE'SOg‘z 7 0098q0} pue ‘HULIP ‘poo. : J sSv7) 
‘af ‘af ‘af ‘af 





eee 
"9E6I "LEOI *GE6r “SE6r PLOT "S$4OGL 





254- 


26. IMPORTS, BY COUNTRIES, DURING 1937 AND 1938. 


Country of Origin. 


United Kingdom 


British Possessions... 


Austria 
Belgium 
Bulgaria 

China : 
Czechoslovakia 
Denmark 


Dutch East Indies .. 


Egypt 
France 
Germany 
Holland 
Hungary ..., 
Iran ... sis 
‘Iraq... 
Italy... 
Japan 
Lithuania 
Poland 
Roumania ... 
Russia 
Sweden ay 
Switzerland... 
Syria... 
Turkey 


United States of America.. 


Yugoslavia .. 
Other Countries 


Totals 






















630,520 
270,099 
2,628,226 
229,779 
116,438 
223,358 
361,160 
320,503 
494,013 
131,682 
475,269 
1,372,044 
98,921 
125,646 
148,674 
1,374,450 
254,159 
1,099,061 
189,074 
504,939 






















Le | 


WHAM DODO DMDNOWNNHOHANWODONOHWOARY 








405,249 
207,774 
1,644,838 
232,011 
76,355 
114,864 
172,835 
236,242 
303,402 
100,321 
419,478 
1,253,021 
89,785 
106,212 
107,720 
1,014,953 
78,535 
969,573 
110,861 
349,983 





11,356,963 


* Excludes imports by Military and N.A.A.F.I. 


bad 


HWONNHH OND HW HO 
, NOAOMO AOS OUAWN 
SILVA GLBOGRS 


= 


S| womomoce 


b=4 


255 


27. EXPORTS, BY COUNTRIES, DURING 1937 AND 1938. 


Destination. 


United States of America ... 


Other Countries 


Total 


£P. 
(3,150,283 


5,813,536 


105,670 
177,344 
76,825 
58,709 
99,243 
139,422 
106,094 
324,825 
70,402 
35,847 
80,153 
157,384 
112,784 
155,447 
625,258 
114,656 
35,223 
187,967 






















b= 
WOH ON HM NH ORM HN A SH EW SD 















: 


1938. 
Percentage 
of total 
Value. Exports, 
1938. 
£P. 

2,408,854 49°18 
144,921 2°89 
229,539 4°57 
90,318 1°80 
43,001 0:86 
101,725 2°03 
82,413 1°64 
73,837 1°47 
402,040 8-o1 
54,897 I-09 
35,680 0-71 
124,144 2°47 
133,981 2°67 
115,966 2°31 
171,881 3°42 
412,825 8-22 
44,073 0:88 
108,541 2:16 
181,732 3°62 

5,020, 368 100°:00 


250 


Re-exports. 


28. In compliance with the request of the Permanent Man- 
dates Commission at its thirty-fourth session, a table showing 
the principal commodities re-exported from Palestine during 
1938 1s appended :— 





Serial 
es Commodity. Unit.| Quantity. 
Tariff. 
CLass I: Foop, DRINK AND 
TOBACCO, 
17 Rice... Kilo} 24,350 
43 Goats and kids.. No. 139 
45 Sheep and lambs ‘i 220 
47 Butter ... : Kilo 2,773 
49 Cheese, other ... 9,811 
50 Eggs No. | 511,480 
56 Semneh.. Kilo 9,062 
57 Apples ... ie 151,376 
71 Fruits fresh, n.e. 8. sik ' 20,799 
130 Fish dry, salted or smoked ... i 15,862 
All other Articles of Crass I... —_ _— 
Total Crass I 
Crass II: Raw MATERIALS AND 
ARTICLES MAINLY UNMANUFACTURED. 
210 Felspar .. — — 
226 Wood and timber, other M? 2,055 
227 Cotton, raw... Kilo} 18,725 
239 Groundnuts, decorticated 7 138,679 
All other articles of CLass II — — 
Total Crass II 
Crass III: ARTICLES WHOLLY OR 
MAINLY MANUFACTURED. 
334 Iron bars, rods and angles Kilo} 99,782 
348 Iron pipes, other bes es 627,610 
349 Iron pipe fittings and drawn ‘tubes . 3 84,143 
360 Iron and steel manufactures .. _— — 
412 Cinema film, synchronised with sound 
on film eee Kilo 5,171 
419 Medical, optical and veterinary in- 
struments —_— —_ 
423 Other tools and implements .. —= = 
425 Welding machines — — 
433 Electric refrigerators and parts = <= 
435 Electric apparatus, n.e.s. — —_ 
436 Electrical goods, other — — 
437/46 | Machinery — — 
470 Veneer wood Kilo} 22,176 
482 Cotton piece goods, grey, bleached, 
printed and dyed i 13,746 
490 Woollen tissues a 4,664 





257 





Customs Commodity. Unit.| Quantity.| Value. 





Cass III—(conid.). £P. 
493/4 | Silk and artificial silk yarn . 1,807 
525 | Other carpets of cotton, silk, wool or 
a mixture thereof .. a 3,493 
533 | Sacks and bags empty 1,002 
559 | Wearing apparel of wool, n.e.s. ; 1,553 
564 | Other wee apparel of materials, 
n.€.3, bs 2,724 
595 | Drugs, raw and prepared 5,972 
603 | Paints and colours 1,700 
606 | Lubricating oil and grease 2,541 
658 | Aeroplanes and aerial gliders 49,486 
666 | Motor cars, omnibuses, lorries, and 
vans . _ 29,483 
668 | Chassis and tractors ... 9,278 
669 | Parts of motor vehicles and tractors 7,578 
671 | Motor cycles and motor tricycles 2,609 
674 | Ships and boats and parts thereof ... 1,698 
675 | Vehicles and parts, nes... 21,329 
679 | Rubber tyres and tubes, for mechani- 
cally-propelled vehicles 4,365 
689 | Arms, nes. ... 20,540 
694 | Books 1,951 
704 | Used personal effects . 92,241 
717 | Jewellery and imitation jewellery 1,270 
752 | Goods, manufactured, n.e.s. ... 183,559 
All other articles of Crass III 39,105 
Total Crass III 592,232 
Crass IV: ANIMALS, LIVING, 
N.E.S. 
755 Camels . 37,422 
758 | Horses ... 3,749 
All other animals, living, n.e.s. 426 
Total Crass IV 41,597 
Total Merchandise 663,217 





: ne —Over 50 per cent. of these re-exports are comprised of Military 


co 
Ww) 
N 


"a19adS 


"DIAhS Mods J1SUD4 T 


6L9‘9 
¥z9Q'! 
€SE‘z 
r€1‘¢ 
bgz‘z1 
966'g 
‘df 


‘astp 
-UDYI4I JA 


‘mals Of p1SuD4T 


-(,"wry 600'Zz) spur “bs 6zb‘or :ounsefeg Jo vary “62. 


‘at 


"3899dS 


g1z‘€g9q 
z60‘9£9 
€6z‘z¥q 
1Z9‘oof 
gb6‘fgz 
zol‘61€ 
‘af 


"astp 
-UDY 49 


"sp40gxa-ay 


zILiggf | ggl‘ozo‘S 
LOL‘6zb | g€S‘Erg‘S 
Loz'1Sz | €€z‘Szo'€ 
boS‘ggF | ogh‘S1z‘t 
ogz‘oSg | zoS‘Liz‘€ 
glg‘1hg | L19‘16S‘z 
; “estp 
91984 ~UDYI42 
"Sy40Gx7 


Lo6‘69¢ 





£96‘QSE'11 
Lz6‘Cov | Lol‘vEv'S1 
o6b‘LS1 | goz‘e1z‘€1 
006'1z$ | 9Z9‘19S‘L1 
ofh‘ELz .| g66'SSg'b1 
gof‘Str | zzg‘ooL‘o1 
“astp 
-UDYI49 
#' SU0GUuy 


6Sz‘ozb'1 
ooze ‘Ege'r 
gis ‘Qf Er 
ZQO‘IQZ‘I 
gSr‘rZ1'I 
vgg‘vor'r 


1v 
ounndod | 4 


PazvuUys sy 


gt61 
L¢l61 
gf61 
Cfl61 
+fl61 
€f61 


“A094 
vpusn’ 





259 


Price Movements. 


30. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 
living are shown below :— 





Wholesale prices. Cost of living. 
(Basts, June, (Basts, January, 
1938. 1936 = 100 per cent.) 1922 = 100 per cent.) 

January... oh ee 107°3 58-2 
February ... es zag 107°1 58-2 
March ai a Des 104°3 58-4 
April ee eis ae 104°8 56-4 
May... ae sae we 103°5 55°9 
June ene Bee = 100°8 56°3 
July... aan 3 et 99°8 56-7 
August... tio oe 98-8 50°4 
September ... oe a 99°4 57:1 
October... oes _ 100°9 58:1 
November ... ee one - IOI-2 61°4 
December ... ae as 98-6 58° 3 

Average... _ 102'2 57°6 





The average index-number of cost of living in 1938 was 57-6 
as compared with 59-T in 1937. 


Meie: weet Sage Maan Te Oe > ee ee AO 
bcc ah, gh tee > 


eureiHOTPZ 10d syrui Coo’! 
eurureiS0TIH 10d situ 00S 


eurimeiZ0[TH 10d syrur $-.2 
yduirex7 


soyo}eul CoO‘OI 13d sft ovz 


§}2[00q oO: Jad sTim 9 
seqozeul ooo‘or Jed sfiur oFz 


ssoi3 1od spur o+z 
aizT] Jed stra z1 
yove stu 612 
aiz] Jod stra £0-z 


yove sjrur LE 


qdurexq 
eWW tod stra SSE 


‘King man 


S666 as ae LE Bk 


eururess0}14 I0od syrur oS2 
euIUIBIZ0[Iy 10d stra oof 


quiurers0TIy 10d syru S 
wmasozvn pv *yUad Jed Z1 


sayozeul 000‘o! Jed slut 00z 


§}2[HOoq o1 ied sjrm ¢ 
SoY9}LU OOO‘OI Jod s[Iul 00z 


sso13 Jod stu 00z 
o1qt] ted sfrur 11 
owe STU 00z 
a1}, 19d stu $Z.1 
yovo stiur z£ 


S9}C1 SNOLICA 
ag] tod spur o0Sz 


“ANC 49ULAO-T 


ee ae pt ek 


=neus Suypnyour *po2inz_OVjp Nuvu! ‘saavoy] 


poeinzoEepnNuBewuUaH8 ‘SQVACI]I 
—: ooeqoy, 
‘reZns Zuri pae 
reas }19A GI ‘zeINs mei Suipnypour ‘1e3ns 
“-aiqy o[deys ATIs [eloynry 
"MOI}IUSI JO JuIod suo JO soyd}eUI 
$Z WLU} JIOU! SUINIE}UOD $}3[{00q 
Ul poylodulr ole seyozeur oleyqAy (py) 
‘MONIUSI Jo Jutod 
uo jo soqojem #z ueyq} 91001 
30U SUIC}UOD JaPHOOd Yors o10qM 
S9q9}EUL JO $}9[YOOd ue} AiaAa 10,4 (9) 
"S9qY9}JEU OOOO! 
Surpesoxe (uontas: jo  yuod 
yoevs jo) sexoq jo sso1d AloAa Joy (q) 
"soqo}eUl O0O0‘O! 
BUIpesoxa Jou (UOI}UsI Jo yUI0d 
yore Jo) saxoq jo ssois AroA9 1047 (pv) 
—: SoyozPe 
"** WING Ul pue SIoUle}UOD Jaq}0 UY (9) 
‘(suoy[es ¥) seiztT z-g1 
SuUIpssox9 yOu sieuTe}u0D uy (») 
—: sjiids 10}0][ 
HINq WI 10 S1auTe}UOD 19430 Uy (4g) 
‘(suoy]es ¥) sorztT Z-gI 
SuIpssoxe jOU suINIp JO sul} uy (y) 
—1: 9uasolay 
“HOTNQLASIP 9o1f 1OF OU 
pue winjAse 10 [ezIdsoy & UIYyzIM asn 
10} poepus}uI sZuIYy}O[O .squstzed pue 
sjamo} ‘saseo MolId ‘syaays ‘syoyxuelg 
vet "** Saseo Ssn1zI0 10J poredaid poo 


‘mousy fo uoudrsssaq 





—:gf61 suLinp opeul Aynp yrodurt jo sa}ze1 ay} UI SadueYo oY} are SUIMOTOJ oY TL. 
"SE6} Sung Ajng yoduy jo sayey ul sosuBYyD “If 


261 


“ oSzy °** s[rur 000°S ‘dF 1epun 


re ooo'r °°) OSz's 000°S 
i oSZE "** ooS'S . oSz's 
si ooS'€ -) oSZ°S _ o00S°S 
2 oSzf£ *** o00°9 a oSZL’S ; 
oi oooh =6°*** stu oSz- c ‘df sept, “ ooo'— 3 =***) OSz'g a 000°9 
" oSZE€ + oo0S'S oSz'S me oSZ'z *** o0S'g ae oSz'9 
2 ooS'€ “ oGSZLs a o00S'S “ o0S'z “* OoSL9 ci 00S°9 
a, oSz’€ *** o000'°9 me oSZ°¢ ue oSzz ‘* ooo “ oSL‘9 
*s ooo°f *** OSz'9 ‘ 000°9 sb ooo'z 6° OS aL sd ooo'Z 
a oS$Z'z ** o0S'9 a oSz‘9 ~ oSZ*r ** ooSZ “ oSz'Z 
ms o00S’z *** oSlL'9g “ 00S"9 “ ooS'r =) oSLZ “ 00S ZL 
oSz'z ‘* ooo : oSL'9 . oSZI *** 000°g oSZZ 
" ooo'z = *** oS zZ * 000'L a ooo'r *** oSz'g ue 000'g 
ms oSZ'1 **s ooS'Z . oSz-Z 7 oSZ: "**  90S"g sb o0SZ'g 
6c ooS'I eee oSZ°Z oe 00S'Z ce ooS: eee oSL'9 oe 00S"g 
. oSz‘I ‘* ooo'g Japun 10 oSZ£:Z u0} oSz" *** 000°6 19pun Jo oSZ'g 
U0} 000°! 12A0 10 000°8 yduiexy ‘'" I9AO IO 000°6 
un “STW a ‘SN ‘At ‘SIN ‘dt | “un ‘st ‘AF ‘st ‘at ‘sit ‘AF 
‘hing fo 40yN ‘Ming fo avy 
— SI — SI 
‘mIy UI poJseA siomod oy} Jopun spell ‘UITY UI pa}seA SIoMOd 04} JOEpuN spell 
pue osioxq ‘sulojsn>) jo 10}001IqQ 94} pue osIoxy ‘sulojsn*) jo 10}001IQ] 94} *(uininp 
Aq peululic}ep se uo} Jod onfea 94} slomAA | Aq poutuLiszop se u0} Jed onjfea 94} s10T AA unotz119) yeoym prey UeY? 10470 ‘qeouM 
umaL0TDA py “yUId Jed ZI zduiexq ne $JUEZOIJUISICT 
14940100 py *yU99 Jed ZI yduioxy | °*° ove ie mrpeAve prnby yeorpeyy 
Ua40{0A py *yUad Jed ZI qduiexy | °° as ane . oes oyoue] 
‘poytoods oraqm 
“9s[o ee pae 4duroxa ureulor 
; qorqgm ‘sdnip eirereul - yae urez.190 
masopva pp “yua0 od ZI 3dmaxq th 13430 Seda Bi Mei ‘sSniq 
4240100 po ‘yuad Iod ZI eulmresgO[TH 10d stur oS -o SIOUTe}UOD souuy Surpnjour ‘szres wosdy 
4340100 py ‘ua 10d ZI 3duraxy --g9uIsselp [eoLsins 003309 


‘s}UeUuT 
-Nujsur Aieul1az9A {snzeisdde pue 
MmasojvaA py *zUua0 10d ZI adurexy | soounndde peorpaur pu feorsins ‘yezued 


262 


aduex7y 
ourmex30114 


ue ooS'L °°" syrur o$Z'9° ‘at Ispuy) 
ws oSz'L °*** o0S‘g oSz'9 
s ooo'L **: oSL'9 os 00S‘9 
ee oSZ‘9 eee 000'L 6 oSL'9 
os o00S'g °*' oSz'l ns 000: 4 
us oSzg ‘** oo0G'Z “ oSz2Z 
ee 000'9 °° OSZ:L o0o0S'Z 
et oS$Z°S *** o0O0'g . oSZ:Z 
es o00S's eee oSz'g s 000°2 
“«  oSz'S = *** ooS"g uf oSz'g 
7) : 000°S Rate oSZ'g “e 00S'g 
“ oSZL'e °°: 000°6 ‘m o$ZL'g 
ee ooS + eee o0Sz'6 ae 000°6 
“ oSzy ** 00S'6 “« 0S 2'6 
“«  - oooh °° 0S2°6 00S°6 
ns — Of€Z°E *** COO'OI m o0SZ°6 
as o0S'€ °*: oSzor “ 000'OI 
fe oSze °* ooS‘or ue oSz’o1 
ae o0oo'ft oSZ‘o1 a o00S’oI 
“ oSZl'z * OOO'II oe oSZ'o1 
a 00S°z * oSz1i % ooo'II 
ie oSzz 0 *** OOG*II JapuN 10 OSZ'II 
uo} 000°Z I9A0 10 OOS'*II 
14) “SH dF 'SILIN AF ‘SIL “dt 
‘ding fo avy 
—: SI 


‘MITY UI poyseA slomod oy} Japun spell 
pue ssioxay ‘suIO}sN> JO JI0ZJOOIIGQ 94} 


Aq pouluLisjap se uo} tad onjfea ay} s104 A, 


"Ajngq man 


t4940700 py “yUSS Jed Sr 
maso0fyan py ‘usd tod z1 


as ooo'L =o°'') stra oSZ: s ‘dF ep, 
ae oSZ'9 eee 000'°9 oSZ'S 
« 00S'9 eee oSz'9 as 000°9 
ee oSz'9 - 00S'9 . ofz'9 
ec 00O 9 ee oSZ'9 oe oos 9 
a oSZ'S **: coool “ oSZ'9 
as o0$'S °** OSzZ " 000° 2 
- oSzS °** ooS'Z i o$z'L 
a o00'S *** oSZL°L . o00S°Z 
. oSZ°'b *** o00'g : oSZ‘Z 
ee oos 4 eee oSz'g sg 000'9 
. oSz'b 00S"9 sa o0Sz'9 
a ooo'b *** oSL-g = 00S'g 
“ oSZL€ * 000°6 - oSZL'g 
ae ooS’t * 0$2'°6 “ 000'6 
i oSz’e 00S°6 “ oSz'6 
io 000’ o0SZ‘6 “ 00S'6 
a oSl°z 000'0I . oSZ'6 
o0S'z *** OSz‘or . 000'0I 
. oSz7'z ‘°° ooS’or Japun Jo o$z'o1 
uo} 000°Z I9A0 10 00S‘OI 
un ‘sw dt ‘st ‘at ‘SIN ‘dt 
‘Aing fo vy 
—: SI 


‘IY UI po}SeaA siomod 94} JopuN ape1y 
pue osioxy ‘sulo}SND JO JIOJODIIG. 90} 
Aq poeuturisyap se uo} Jad anyeaA oy} d10N AA 


‘AING 4IM40.7 


'aayay fo uoydtsssaq 


Jesun ‘g[re0 


Wa1yeL 


‘yeaqM puNnol3 Io 
poysnio pue (ajnoules ZUIpNyoUl) eUITOUIIS 


pure ‘nog }e04 A 





263 


sN Jod 


: soulMeld 
“ gf LY . LZ ogz (1) 
- gt 6b . #8Z zN is ogz = obz = (¥) 
Pe oF zS i OL IN . obz ooz (f) 
zb ¢S . af srl o00z ol (2) 
fe +P LS “ act sIV a oft ob: (¥) 
o a4 LS - gt sIN as ovr or (2) 
- Ly Lb LY sIN ee o1r 06 (f) 
a c¢ cS os c¢ sIN 4 06 oL (a) 
oe OOI ool e OO! sIV - o£ oS = (p) 
ms OI! oll >: OI! sIN . oS o£ (9) 
a CII CII * CII sIN of cz = (q) 
aulweis0[Iy od oSI oSt auiureIsopIy 13d oSI s]JN tod soururesid Sz (v) 
"SILI "SITTAT "SILTAT ‘durpaaoxa 10N "SsaMmUDAD 
*94J9JUUD] oT “pakp 40 surpaaox 
‘pauiad pun *ayjajauun7-7 pauls | —: poy 
4NOjOI auo pun 4901q -1oads alaymas[e yOu ‘spood aoatd 00330) 
UDY] B4OU ut patp 
ut pakp surpnia%xa 
: ¥901Q 4n0109 
ut patq guo ut pakq “Sonsst} 
IejIuNs pue ayftueqo ‘uljeqos 
ma40100 pv *yuad I3d Oz wmasojnn py *yua0 Jed ZI | ‘Yseulep jo soporjIe painjzoeynueW (p) 
‘913 0Ul 
,IUIUTeIZO[TY Jad sium og 14940100 po *yua0 Jed z1 | arenbs sod sourures3 oSP Zurpasoxy (9) 
5 é ‘axjour arenbs 
I SOUUIE, 
eourmmerdopry Jad sprut of madoqva po ‘ued Jad zr | you pue a Naeem (9) 
s2UWIUIPIZO[Iy 13d spiw oF ua40[00 po *yaa0 Jad z1 | 10d saurures3 oof Fastemeyaae (v) 
—: pos 
-I09ds o19yMas[a JOU p gue Fane 
pue o[rusyo ‘ureqos ‘Hseurep u0}30D 
piuiedSous Gotcae c. 8 pore” pe ot rod zx | sa bee ee S109 UMO 19 


FSO N SE twezsOfoa po *4Ueo Azad Gr zesun ‘sno1901d-ruses 10 SNOTerId “‘seUOIS 


264 





ae e002 °°) oS zd c0o0'Z ' 
“ oSZ'r ser GOG'Z vs oSz'Z ; 
“ ooS'r °°: OoGZ:Z a 00S‘ 
us oSzI °*** ooo’g Jepun x0 OSZ‘Z 

m0} 000’! I2A0 10 000'g 

HUQ ‘SILT ‘at ‘SItIN “At "SILI “at 
‘Aang fo 40u 
— ST 


‘IY UI pa}SseA siomod oy} JopuN opeIy 

pue osioxy ‘smlojsny jo 10}9901IqQ 9} 

Aq pourluLiezep se uo} Jod onyea 94} o10q A 
ydurexy 


euMIUTeIZO]TY Jod sfrur € | **° “++ (UININp UINdIzLIy) prey ‘Feo AA 

“‘peoiqe uol}eUl}sep 
e IO} oUSIIeG UI sWIOIpOIEe 
sulojsno © WOW oinzredep uo 

yeroire yons Aq asn 10; popuszuy (q) 
Jo ‘ouljsefeg ysno14y 
1O 0} 8ulze10do zyeI0I1re Aue ul 

peyreysur syue} oy} UT pourezuO) (9) 


emMMIeIZO[TH 19d stra € LO 
9131] Jed sprur ZI coe eee see ase pue Jon 
ainssaid ot1aqdsoulze 32 gj tod sprur oz a1}yy Jod sfrur € | °°: et ae as " wasAxO 


‘pogioeds a1symeasyo 
300 ‘19430 ‘SaITyOUNUeUL 103307) (p) 
- HOM 103302) (9) 
‘alz0uI orenbs sod souruie13 
009 SuIpess0xa jou ynq oS€ 
SUIPIdNX9 ‘sIoINODS 9}SeM U0}}07) (9) 
‘JOa1ay} Sein 
~oeynueUl pue sgutyjoamo} ysryiny (v) 
mas0fvn py *yuV0 Jed ZI as poytoeds a1aym 
-asfa jou -‘1ayj}O ‘soInzoejnueUr 03307) 


wmasopvn po *yua9 Jed ZI 
suurelso[Iy Jed sttu SE 
suueIso[ry 10d sptur Sz 
fawureiZ0[ty Jed stu oF 
"MING AIUAOT 


“Aing man "Iusp fo u0udr49saq 






265 


sUIMIeIZO[TYH Jod srur 9g 


yore strur oS 
yoes sjtur oS 
yore s[rur oSZ 


"19} 8913 OY} SI IOADYOINM ‘uW940/00 py “yua0 Jed OZ 19 } 


yduiex7 


"paiq iod sjrm Sz ‘aunf yIo€ 03 Areniqa,y 4sI 
"priq iad sqrut G ‘Arenuef ysr€ 03 Ajnf{ 3s1 


s[lur oSz- S ‘df Jopup 


ooS'S 
oSZ°s 
000'9 
oSz'9 
00S‘9 
oSZ'9 
000°Z 


oSz's 
ooS'S 
oSZ:s 
000°9 
oSz'9 
oo0S"9 
oSZ'9 


zdwexq 
durex q 
zdwiexy 


ydurexq 


S9}EI SNOLIC A 


paiq tod spar $z 


"19} 8013 OY} SI JOADYOIYM ‘ua407/00 po *yUdd Iod SZ IO » 





eee see eee eee SQqUIe] pue dseys 
eee eev eee eee spry pue $}PO*) 
eee eee (sa A[eo pue ‘Sm00 ‘uaxo) 917932) 


‘A1z[nod pue 
awies ZUIPN[Oxa ‘po[[Iyo pue u9zoIj ‘}eaypy 
‘poptmry Aueduios 
TO uemely - ojsuy 04} jo suryey 
-Iapun 94} JO 410M 9y} I0Oz Aressoo0U 
“930 ‘sfetiozem ‘yuauidinbe = ‘sa10%S 


aes one passaip pue ear ‘Aa3[nog 


266 


Shipping. 

32. The number and tonnage of steam and sailing vessels 

entered and cleared in the foreign trade of Palestine during the 
years 1937 and 1938 were: — a 

| Entered. Cleared. 




























Steam... .... Number 1,992 1,971 2,001 1,954 
Tonnage | 4,817,829 | 5,201,473 | 4,849,637 | 5,171,275 
Sailing ... ... Number 1,545 1,169 1,509 1,174 
Tonnage 44,291 40, 336 43,218 40,961 










3,128 


Totals... ... Number 3,537 3,140 
5,212,236 


Tonnage | 4,862,120 | 5,241,809 


3,510 
4,892,855 









. 1937. 1938. 
Total shipping dealt with in foreign Number ... 7,047 6,268 


trade Tonnage ... 9,754,975 10,454,045 


Business Names. 

33. During 1938, 236 applications under the Registration of 
Business Names Ordinance, 1935, were received, thus bringing 
the total number of applications to 2,384. The sum of 
Z£P.98,975 mils was paid in fees. 


Trade Marks. 


34. Applications for registration of trade marks numbered 
380 during 1938, bringing the number of applications filed to 
£P.98.975 mils was paid in fees. 

The following table shows the countries of origin of applica- 
tions in the last five years: — 


Number of applications. 
Country. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Palestine ee See wee =: 137 145 114 147 119 
United Kingdom _... .-. 144 255 107 63 35 
Germany as a oe 44 206 68 66 114 
United States of America ... 25 £64 36 33 37 
Switzerland ... me ‘ae 39 30 5 15 24 
France sae she ae 12 21 32 10 24 
Holland eas ae ut II 12 6 7 12 
Hungary ee ie seis II 4 I 4 I 
Austria vis nae 9 13 4 I — 
Poland 6 9 4 I — 
Sweden 6 5 I I — 
Italy ... 6 5 3 I — 
Egypt — 5 46 bce) 2 = 
Czechoslovakia 5 5 °79 3 = 
Portugal 4 I 2 I — 
India ... 4 I — — I 
Japan... 3 17 6 I _— 
Denmark 2 5 2 I 4 
Spain ... 2 — I — = 
Syria ... 2 8 2 3 — 


—- Country. 1934. 
Ceylon — ee -2 
- Trans- Jordan... sat sale 2 
Belgium I 
Australia I 
Latvia... a — 
South Africa ... — 
Finland aoe 
Trinidad Zoe 
Norway = 
Lebanon aan bai <— = 
Turkey ‘ — 
Luxembourg ... — 
Canada ie = 
- Bahamas Islands — 


Pees cen werercre ore 


Totals ... a wee = 483 863 420 


Patents. 


Number of applications. 
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


I — 
I 2 
I as 
I —— 
I I 
4 3 
5 — 
pace I 
== I 
— I 
374 380 


35. During 1938, 164 applications for patents (of which 65 
were from local residents) were received, as compared with 230 
in 1937. The-total number of applications now filed amounted 
to 1,446. Receipts from fees were £P.1,468. The main in- 
terest lies, as in previous years, in the chemical and building 


industries, : 

3 CLASSIFICATION OF PATENTS. 
Subject M atter. 

Chemical processes and apparatus ... 

Manufacture of fuel ... a a4 
wells “as seh 

Purification of liquids 

Insecticides er sue 

Building ~~ 

Pipe-manufacture 

Water supply ... is 

Washing floors, device for is 

Heating apparatus, burners, fireboxes 

Matches, tobacco sia: ck des es 

Electric apparatus and lamps 


adio, sound recording, telephone and cinema systems hoe 


Signals and 
Aivertising ses 
oad vehicles ... 
erat... an 
etal working... 
Wood working... 
Combe anufacture a 
ntainers, packing and wrapping ... 
ceed preparations... ww. 
Ap wns: Stading and preserving fruit... 
Sriculture, irrigation, feeding of animals ... 
conditioni ee ee cls 
pve ae 
.. 08 Systems 
Sliding fasteners 


Number of 
applications 
vecewed,. 
25 
21 


— 


=~ 
MmoOoN On mM NW NPD N 


ro) 
Wen et me OMm O HN HWW 


| 


268 


CLASSIFICATION OF PATENTS—conid., 


, Number of 
Subject Matter. applications 
received, 

Wearing apparel, arch Suppers 3 
Dentistry sie 2 
Scientific instruments... ais ahis ioe sag sat ves I 
Printing sie sed Pas Bai ies sou ss 3 
Accounting systems 58 ‘ies ae eas duke I 
Games .. sis I 
Total sais ae sae 164 


Designs. 

36. Eighteen applications for tas registration of designs were 
received during 1938, bringing the total number of applications 
to 192. Fees amounting to £P1I,500 mils were collected. 

37. The following are the numbers of detentions made during 
the last four years for contraventions of the Merchandise Marks 
Ordinance, together with the countries concerned :— 


Country. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Austria... ies re és 42 27 10 4 
Belgium ae sie de 14 7 8 8 
Bulgaria oa bot oes I — _ — 
China ... : — siete — I — I 
Czechoslovakia 79 37 40 19 
Danzig .. I — — — 
Denmark 2 I 3 _— 
Dutch East Indies ie — — I — 
Egypt ... sets re oa II 7 21 8 
Estonia... aes aor Soe — I — — 
Finland... sions oe ae — — I — 
France ... ee oe ee 2 8 I 2 
Germany ve siehe ... 156 75 II4 99 
Great Britain ... bes re 4 4 5 3 
Greece ... wigs site es 2 4 — I 
Holland ude we sis 7 12 7 9 
Hungary es ant sists 15 9 8 7 
India... ar: is ses I I — — 
Italy... sis — ais 27 3 17 
Japan ... i sa .. 79 116 144 87 
Luxembourg ... ise ie 2 — — —_— 
Norway... oa oe Si 3 — — I 
Lebanon ad te a 5 5 7 3 
Poland... ° ... hes aie 21 3 2 3 
Portugal ans Ss vag — — 2 I 
Roumania yes ake wale 2 3 — I 
Russia ... sins an sais I I — == 
Spain ... oe eas sae — — — I 
Sweden... de as sis 7 2 — I 
Switzerland _... whe bee 2 I — I 
Syria... bus oe ese II I 14 7 
Trans-Jordan ... ae — 2 — = 
United States of America si 2 2 — = 
West Indies ais “is I — — — 
Yugoslavia... sas bad — 2 2 ae! 
Other countries de tes 5 I — — 

Totals ... w. 605 336 398 284 


| 
| 
| 


209 
Of these, the following related to wines and spirits: — 


Country. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938 

Holland sie oe — I — a 
Italy = — — I 

Palestine : —_ = I a 

United Kingdom — I — — 

Syria... ais — — 2 — 
Totals ... — 2 3 I 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


The year under review was important from the point of 
view of development of the services rendered to the public by 
the Department of Posts and Telegraphs. After some four 
years of preliminary work the Empire air mail scheme by which 
all first class mail for participating countries is conveyed by 
alr, was inaugurated; and arrangements for uniform rates on 
telegrams to all countries in the British Empire via the system 
of Cable and Wireless, Limited, were introduced. 


Two major telephone exchanges were converted from manual 
to automatic working. 


The new General Post Office building in Jerusalem, accom- 
modating the headquarters administration and the local postal 
services, was completed and occupied in June. 


Overshadowing all activities, however, was the unsettled 
state of the country and the continuation of the disturbances. 
Trade and development were adversely affected and the 
Department’s business did not escape the consequences. 


The arrival of a considerable number of British troops for 
secunity purposes threw burdens on the Department which are 
not wholly reflected in the financial returns. Comparison of the 
fnancial results of the year’s workings with the revenue and 
expenditure returns of previous years does not, therefore, present 
as accurate a picture of the work performed as would normally 
be the case. Nevertheless, there was a surplus of revenue over 
expenditure of £P.75,158. In 1937 the surplus amounted to 
£P.112,650. 


2. Revenue.—Revenue amounted to £P.532,562 compared 
with £P.507,586 in 1937, and £P.450,456 in 1936. 
The principal increases were as follows :— 


rg 
Telephones _... ve aa Sei ws 23,646 
Sales of Stamps el nae sik wii 3,816 
Wireless Receiving Licences oe Sze 3,555 
Decreases were : — 
£P. 
Telegraphs__..... bes ie bcs si 3,659 


Parcel Post... a site ies Hae 2,619 


270 
3. Expenditure.—Expenditure amounted to £P.457,404 
compared with £P.394,936 in 1937 and £342,580 in 1930. 
The principal increases were : — 


£P. 
Unallocated Stores... aes wes a 40,687 
Restoration of Lines ... ee ee ss 18,332 
Personal Emoluments Mek ee wane 9,020 


The increase under unallocated stores was due to the fact that 
formerly the amount represented by these stores was not 
inserted in the departmental budget. Following a change in 
the system of colonial accounting introduced during the 
course of the year, this item had however to be included. It 
follows that no similar item of expenditure had appeared in 
the accounts of previous years. 

The increases for restoration of lines and personal emoluments 
were due respectively to extensive damage by sabotage to 
telephone lines and to normal increments. 

_ Extraordinary expenditure on capital works showed a 
decrease of £P.78,370 as compared with the previous year. 


4. The value of free services rendered to other Government 
departments was £P.12,021 compared with £P.13,553 in 1937. 


5. The total value of cash transactions was £P.1,786,600 
compared with £P.1,859,297 in 1937. 


Posts. 


6. Inland Mails.—Due to the disturbed conditions in the 
country and the continuous sabotage of the railway, the 
Kantara-Haifa travelling post office was discontinued during 
the year. The interchange of mails between the settlements 
in the Sharon Plain and Haifa and Tel Aviv was effected bv 
a road mail service, whilst direct exchange of mails between 
the head post offices in Palestine and offices of exchange in other 
countries maintained the international mail services. The 
abolition of the travelling post office in July had thus no dis- 
advantageous effect upon the existing mail services. 

By September the insecurity of transit by road and rail had 
reached a point which necessitated a drastic reduction in postal 
services generally. The conveyance of mails by contractors 
ceased in many cases and a daily mail service by departmental 
road transport between Jerusalem and Haifa via Jaffa and Tel 
_ Aviv in each direction was introduced. Mail services by rall 
were correspondingly curtailed. 


7. Overseas Mails.—During October the train service be 
tween Kantara and Lydda was reduced from a daily frequency 
to three times a week, and the restricted service was still in force 
at the close of the year. The Adriatica Company resumed the 


271. 


use of Jaffa as a port of call for its mail steamers and the disem- 
barkation of mails for Jaffa, Tel Aviv and Jerusalem was 
effected there. 


_ 8. Air Mails.—The Empire air mail scheme, which had been 
in operation over the African section since the previous year, was 
extended to India in March and Palestine came within its scope. 
The frequency of the service was increased to provide for three 
fying boat services a week operating via Tiberias, and two land 
services a week via Lydda. 

Difficulties of road transport during the height of the dis- 
turbances seriously interfered with the forwarding of mails to and 
from Tiberias to meet the flying boat services. In consequence 
the mails, by special arrangement, were embarked and disem- 
barked at Alexandria during September, October and November 
and forwarded between Egypt and Palestine by alternative 
means. By the end of the year, however, the normal services 
had been resumed. 

The Polish air service ‘‘ Lot ’’ augmented its services to thrice 
weekly during the summer, but reduced them again in the winter 
to twice weekly. 

The summer air service to Cyprus by Misr Air Lines was in 
operation from the middle of June to the middle of September. 

Two machines carrying Palestine mails were wrecked during 
the year. In one accident the mails were totally destroyed, 
whilst in the other, part of the mail was salvaged and, after suit- 
able treatment, duly delivered. 

The total weight of surcharged air mails despatched to all 
destinations was 19,866 kilogrammes and that of “all up”’ 
mails en mails carried under the Empire scheme without sur- 
charge) was 16,820 kilogrammes. 


9. Parcel Mails —The number of parcels to and from other 
countries showed a slight decrease as compared with the previous 
year. 

_ The mune of inland parcels fell from 42,300 in 1937 to 38,600 
In 1938. 


10. Registered and Insured Correspondence.—£P.24 was paid 
as compensation for loss or damage to registered and insured 
correspondence. 


11. Returned Letter Office.—The number of undelivered 
articles amounted to 381,238, approximately 12,600 of which 
Were registered. The value of articles found in undeliverable 
correspondence was £P.2,472.196 mils of which £P.2,192.015 
Was represented by cheques and bills of exchange. The value 
of articles, other than cheques and bills of exchange, returned to 
senders amounted to £P.201.660 mils, and the balance of 
£P.78.565 remained unclaimed and undelivered owing to inade- 
quate address. 


272 


12. Post Offices and Postal Agenctes.—A departmental post 
office was opened at Sarafand, and postal agencies at Beer 
Tuviya and Nahariya. A new branch office was also opened 
in Haifa. 

Nine departmental post offices, one branch office and two 
postal agencies in various parts of the country had to be closed 
down owing to the disturbed conditions. They remained closed 
at the end of the year. 

The number of licensed postage stamp vendors was 238 at 
the end of the year, a decrease of 20 as compared with 1937. 


Telegraphs. 


13. Traffic.—There was a decrease in the total number of 
telegrams transmitted during the year, namely 406,992 in 1937 
and 401,326 in 1938. 

Telegraph revenue also fell from £P.32,154 in 1937 to 
£P.28,495 but this is largely accounted for by delay in the 
settlement of certain international accounts. 

Greeting telegrams written on special ornamental forms for 
each of the three official languages, English, Arabic and Hebrew, 
were introduced during the year. These proved attractive and 
popular, particularly on festival occasions. 


14. A new central telegraph office was opened in the General 
Post Office at Jerusalem. The transfer was effected on the 
11th June without any interruption or fault. 

A telegraph office was also installed and brought into use 
at Tel Aviv. Formerly, telegrams to and from Tel Aviv were 
signalled through the Jaffa telegraph office. 


Telephones. 


15. Ihe demand for telephone service was maintained at a 
fairly high rate and applications were received at the rate of 131 
a month during the first seven months of the year. Later, 
however, the demand fell to an average of 98 a month. The 
total number of applications received was I,409. 


16. During the year 1,557 additional exchange lines were 
installed and 733 recovered, the net increase being 824 lines, 
or 9°8 per cent. The large proportion of recoveries was due 
to unsettled conditions. The number of telephone stations was 
increased from 14,848 to 16,266. 

At the beginning of the year there was a long list of applicants 
waiting for telephone service at Tel Aviv, and a smaller, though 
increasing list, at Jerusalem. These waiting lists were due 
primarily to a shortage of exchange equipment, a condition 
which it would not have been economic to remedy because of 
the approaching replacement of the manual exchanges by auto- 
matic instruments. An early result of the opening of the 


273 


automatic exchanges was a considerable reduction in the waiting 
lists, the lowest level for many years being reached in 
September. 


17. Revenue and Traffic.—Telephone revenue increased from 
£P.205,461 in 1937 to £P.226,107 in 1938. 
_ The number of local telephone calls increased from 36,673,196 
in 1937 to 36,689,558 in 1938. The relatively small increase 
compared with that recorded in 1937 may be regarded as due in 
some measure to the introduction at Jerusalem of the message 
rate system. 


_The number of trunk calls during 1938 was 2,122,531, an 
Increase of I13°Q9 per cent. compared with the previous year. 
The trunk service was extensively used by the Government and 
His Majesty’s Forces. The use of the service by the public had 
to be restricted during the latter half of the year owing to official 
requirements for security purposes and the frequent and wide- 
oe sabotage of the trunk lines resulting in heavy delay. 

e disturbances also affected the number of trunk calls to 
places outside Palestine, the total for the year being 61,438 as 
compared with 73,750 in 1937. 


18. During the latter part of the year the manual exchanges 
at Hebron, han Yunis and Lydda and the automatic exchanges 
at Bethlehem and Jericho ceased working on account of their 
destruction by saboteurs, whilst the service was temporarily 
suspended at Beisan, El Majdal, Qalqilya, and Ramallah owing 
fo the necessity for removing the exchange equipment as a 
precautionary measure. 


19. The hours of service at Beersheba and Kinneret were 
éxtended early in the year and the opening of automatic 
exchanges at Jenin and Nes Tsiyona resulted in continuous 
‘ervice at those places being provided for the first time. 


20. Telephone Kiosks.—The number of street kiosks affording 
call office service was increased from 17 to 27. 


a Private Extensions.—During the year a private automatic 

Post Cor was installed for post office use at the new General 

ae fice headquarters, Jerusalem, ‘and a 30-line private 
: matic branch exchange was installed at Haifa Government 
‘pital under Post Office supervision. 


Commercial Wireless. 


ban marine, aviation and police transmitters at Ramallah, 
eo aie associated equipment at Lydda and Jerusalem, 
connects sfactorily maintained during ‘the year. ifficulties 

Cted with the sabotaging of the land line communication 


274 
between Ramallah and Lydda (from which the aviation and 
marine services are remotely controlled) were successfully over- 


come by suitable technical devices which enabled the land lines 
to be dispensed with and a radio link substituted for them. 


23. External Plant.—The principal trunk routes were main- 
tained in a satisfactory condition during the earlier months of 
the year and a great deal of work was done in improving them. 
Unfortunately, the summer witnessed repeated and extensive 
acts of sabotage to the lines to such an extent that towards the 
end of September 300 kilometres of damaged route had to be 
abandoned. In the last two months of the year the situation 
improved. The international circuits between Jerusalem and 
Amman were restored in December, while the work of restoring 
the railway and police circuits on the Jerusalem-Lydda railway 
route, which had been completely destroyed, was put in hand. 


The cost of the restoration of lines and plant wilfully damaged 
amounted to over £P.18,000. Much of the work was necessarily 
of a temporary nature and the cost of effecting permanent repairs 
will probably amount to a further £P.27,000. Extensive repair 
works, coupled with heavy demands by the security forces for 
telephone and telegraph communication, strained the resources 
of the department considerably. In spite of the abnormal 
conditions, however, it is gratifying to record that normal 
activities were not neglected although they were unavoidably 
curtailed or postponed in certain instances. 


The main telephone trunk routes between Jerusalem and 
Haifa, Jerusalem and Jaffa, and Jaffa and Haifa were fully 
loaded at the beginning of the year and, in order to augment 
the number of channels, six single channel carrier sets were 
installed, thereby providing two additional channels between 
each of the main centres. Transmission on these additional 
channels proved satisfactory and the installation of the equip- 
ment greatly increased the flexibility of the telephone trunk 
system as carrier equipment can be readily transferred from 
routes which are interrupted to alternative routes. The effects 
of breakdowns were thereby minimised and the carrier equip- 
ment proved invaluable in assisting the maintenance of com- 
munications at a time when routes were being repeatedly 
damaged. 


Main local cables and ducts were laid in Jerusalem, Haifa, 
Jaffa and Tel Aviv. 


24. Internal Plant.—During the year the manual telephone 
exchanges at Tel Aviv and Jerusalem were replaced by auto- 
matic exchanges. The Tel Aviv manual exchange was replaced 
in February bya 2,500 line automaticexchange, provision for the 


275 

trank traffic being made at Jaffa as hitherto. The erection of 
the first extension of Tel Aviv automatic exchange of 1,000 lines 
was also put in hand. The extension will be brought into use 
early in 1939. The Jerusalem manual exchange was replaced 
in June by an automatic exchange of 3,500 line capacity, with 
a 60 line satellite exchange at Bethlehem to serve Bethlehem 
and Beit Jala. The installation also comprised a trunk exchange 
with operating positions specially designed for trunk demand 
working and for the more accurate timing of calls. 


_ Automatic exchanges were also brought into service at Jenin, 
Rishon le Tsiyon and Nes Tsiyona. 


Extensions were provided to the existing equipment at Jaffa, 
Ra’anana and Kefar Saba manual exchanges and at the Petah 
Tiqva and Haifa Bay automatic exchanges. 


The classes formed in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv in 1937 for 
the instruction of the staff in the principles and details of auto- 
eae aaa were continued during the year and were well 
attended. 


Broadcasting. 


_ 25. The broadcasting service continued to give programmes 
for five hours daily in the three official languages until October, 
when a mid-day programme was introduced. 


Minor alterations were made in the periods allotted to the 
three languages, English, Arabic and Hebrew, in which pro- 
grammes are emitted. These alterations afforded greater 
elasticity in programme building. 

Improvements were made in the local news service, and 
towards the end of the year arrangements were concluded for 
obtaining a still more extended news service from Reuters. 
As a result more comprehensive and up-to-date emissions will 
be given early in 1939. : 

Recording equipment was installed in the studios and 
tought into service. This apparatus not only allows the 
eeording of special events, etc., out of the normal hours of 
toadcasting, but is of value in the compilation of pro- 
sfammes. Artists, moreover, may now hear “ play backs ”’ of 


their performances and have benefited considerably from the 
experience, 


Developments of special interest during the year included the 
ssa of an orchestra and a choral society for the 
7 éstine Broadcasting Service. The former gives occasional 

ncerts from the studios but more frequently from an outside 

i Licensed listeners are granted facilities to attend these 
mances and are availing themselves in increasing 

mbers of the opportunity. 


276 


The choral society numbers eighty voices and comprises 
English, Arab and Jewish members. Concerts were broad- 
cast from the Young Men’s Chnistian Association and 
St. George’s Cathedral, and on both occasions drew large 
audiences. 

Programmes from the British Broadcasting Corporation and 
other broadcasting organizations were relayed on 30 occasions 
and outside broadcasts were successfully undertaken on 
66 occasions. 

Village receiving sets were maintained in 88 villages. 

The number of licenced listeners increased from 28,516 in 


1937 to 35,708 in 1938. 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND FISHERIES. 


1. The agricultural year of 1938 was abnormal] from several 
points of view. Wheat yields were the lowest obtained for many 
years. On the other hand barley and leguminous crop yields, 
with the exception of those in the Judean hills, were satisfactory 
and the summer crops were generally above the average as the 
result of favourable rains in the spring. 


2. The cultivation of potatoes continued to make steady 
progress. The area under cultivation showed a distinct increase 
over that planted during the previous year. The crop suffered 
severely from fungus diseases, but the autumn-sown crops 
gave farmers the good returns expected. The melon crop was 
good and the olive crop, which was much above the average, 
made up for losses on the wheat crop. 


3. Heavy and well distributed winter rains gave indications 
of favourable and satisfactory winter crop growth, but spells 
of dry weather early in the year caused appreciable damage 
to cereal crops in the Judean hills to the south and east of 
Jerusalem and in the Ramallah district. On the coastal plains, 
and even as far east as Beersheba, light showers, not experienced 
in the hills after the initial rains had germinated the crops, 
caused heavy and rapid growth, but the spring rains of early 
April, followed by a rise in temperature, brought on a universal 
attack of rust (puccinia graminis) which adversely affected the 
wheat crop from Dan to Beersheba. Such a disaster has not 
been known for twenty years. The wheat crop, which in early 
spring gave prospect of being 20 per cent. higher than the high 
yields of 1937, realized only about 44,000 tons and unfortunately 
what little grain was harvested was of very poor quality. 


4. During the year there was no shortage of tba (chaff) for 
feeding farm stock, nor of grain used for feeding with it. 
Following the onset of the winter rains in 1937, hill side grazing 
was abundant and there was little or no mortality amongst 
lambing ewes and kidding goats. Both working and domestic 
stock were in good condition throughout the year. 


277 


5. The yields of the major crops in 1938, compared with 
a of the preceding three years, are given in the following 
e:— 


1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
Wheat 104,353 76,059 127,420 44,435 
Barley... ee 68,905 55,169 75,417 66,736 
Melons and Water 
Melons 68,799 81,335 102,859 114,805 
Lentils ... 2,698 2,379 3,830 3,278 
Durra 46,135 22,122 61,023 60,849 
Sesame ... 6,914 1,847 9,317 4,011 
Olives 45,092 15,755 47,247 38,572 
. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 1937-38. 
Citrus Exports 
(cases)... 7,330,846 10,790,IIO ~—- 11,415,490 


5,897,310 


6. Unfortunately all agricultural and horticultural stations, 
except those at Acre and Sarafand, were subjected to attacks 
by armed bands, which took the form of the periodic destruction 
and burning of crops, the shooting of mules and the demolition 
of buildings. These attacks eventually brought operations to 
a standstill and entailed the evacuation and closing of all other 
stations. The old established station at Jericho continued to be 
worked in spite of the fact that the office buildings and stores 
had been destroyed by arson. As the result of the destruction 
of crops by saboteurs and the severe attack of rust on wheat, 
only 53 tons of cereals and two tons of legumes were reaped 
on Government agricultural stations. Of this quantity 334 tons 
were distributed to farmers and of the remainder some 14 tons 
were burnt in transit to distribution centres. Up to the time 
that agricultural] stations were destroyed or closed, some 500,000 
vegetable and other seedlings had been distributed. Extension 
work in Arab villages became more and more difficult owing to 
the inability of the field staff to travel in safety: towards the 
end of the year field activities had to be suspended altogether. 


7. Syringopais temporatella (ed duda) caused little damage 
to cereal crops, but fungus diseases were responsible for 
appreciable losses in field crops of tomatoes and potatoes. The 
summer crops of durra, maize and sesame gave very Satisfactory 
yields which was attributable to the excellent spring rain. An 
interval of fine weather, following the first rains which were 
exceptionally heavy, gave farmers the opportunity of turning 
over their land and sowing winter cereals, but it is anticipated 
that through shortage of seed wheat there will be an appreciable 
decrease in the area under this crop. It is anticipated, however, 
that the deficiency will be made good by an increase in the area 
sown to barley. No seed potatoes for sale to farmers at cost 
price were imported as had been the custom for some years, 


15774 K 


278 


but merchants are importing large quantities of suitable varieties 
from the United Kingdom, Holland and Central Europe. There 
was no lack of vegetables on local markets throughout the 
year and prices, though showing a slight increase over normal, 
were not such as to cause any hardship. 


8. Extensive co-operative trials were continued in Jewish 
settlements. These trials have included demonstration work 
on forage crops and vegetables, and manurial and rotational 
tests on leguminous and cereal crops. The early rains of 
November, 1938, resulted in an ample and good supply of 
natural pasture for all stock. 


9. Loans for Development tn the Hills.—Seventy five applica- 
tions totalling £P.2,342 were approved by the Hill Loan Board, 
for the development of hill areas. Most of the loans were under 
£P.I00 and were approved for a period of five years each; 
but where the loans exceeded £P.100, the period of the loan 
was normally extended to Io years in order that the annual 
repayments should not be too onerous. So far, most of the 
loans have been for terracing hill sides, levelling rocky land 
and their planting with fruit trees and vines. Almost all the 
loans were made to individuals at 8 per cent. and in a few cases 
to co-operative societies at 6 per cent. Loans were usually paid 
to borrowers in three instalments. 


Having regard to the disturbed conditions in the country and 
the difficulty of obtaining adequate security, it was decided that 
for the present no further loans should be approved by the 
Board. | 


4 


10. General Agncultural Council—The General Agricu!- 
tural Council held only three meetings, all during the first 
six months of the year. The disturbed state of the country, 
coupled with curtailment of departmental activities, precluded 
any other meetings from being held. 


11. The Agricultural Economics and Marketing Committee 
held five meetings during the year and dealt with questions 
relating to the encouragement of vegetable growing, and 
the protection of locally canned fruits, vegetables, olive oil 
and oil seeds. 


12. The Citrus Fruit Committee held six meetings and dealt 
with a number of important subjects. The Rules relating to 
the export of citrus were amended to provide for a reduction 
in the number of sizes of boxes for oranges and grapefruit, 
restriction of packing to the ‘“‘ American ’’ system and destruc- 
tion of fruit totally unfit for export. 


Other matters dealt with by this Committee included trade 
relations with foreign countries. 


279 


13. The Animal Husbandry Committee held one meeting 
during the year and discussed, among other subjects, pasture 
improvement, grazing legislation, and the introduction into 
Palestine of the Guernsey breed of cattle with a view to 
increasing the fat content of milk. 


14. The Agronomy Committee held two meetings and con- 
sidered proposals for the co-ordination of extension work carried 
out by the Department and other agricultural institutions. 


15. The Agricultural Education Committee held two meetings 
during the year, and submitted to Government recommenda- 
tions regarding the classification of agricultural schools. 
Arrangements have been made on the Committee’s recom- 
mendations for co-ordination in matters of rural broadcasting 
between the Committee and the Government Departments of 
Agriculture and Education. 


16. The Plant Protection Committee held one meeting during 
the year and submitted draft legislation to prohibit the import 
of certain vegetables on phyto-sanitary grounds from adjacent 
countries. 


17. The Agricultural Chemists Committee.—The Agricultural 
Fertilisers Ordinance and regulations thereunder, which were 
designed to protect farmers against adulteration of fertilisers 
and had been dealt with in detail in its early stages by this 
Committee, was enacted towards the end of the year. 


Agricultural Education and Research. 


18. The two Kadoorie Agricultural Schools were able to 
complete the school year in July, but the buildings at both 
schools had subsequently to be occupied by the security forces 
and thus remained closed to students up to the end of the 
year. (Co-operation with the Department of Education on 
matters concerning agricultural education was, however, con- 
tnued. The Department continued to supply planting material 
and advice where necessary to school gardens, but this service 

d to be suspended towards the end of the year because 
secunty conditions prevented further field activities. 


19. The Agricultural Supplement to the Palestine Gazette 
continued to be published at regular intervals throughout the 
far. Weekly talks to farmers in the Arabic and Hebrew 
anguages were broadcast throughout the year from the 
Jerusalem studio of the Palestine Broadcasting Service. The 
subjects dealt with were numerous and varied, and were selected 


9 cater for all types of farmers and fruit growers. 
20. Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm.—The School 
a in October, 1937, and continued until the end of July, 
tee » When it was occupied by the security forces. The second 
™m began on the 17th January, 1938, and the numbers of 
13774 K 2 


280 


students in residence were 21 second year pupils who had com- 
pleted their interrupted first year’s studies at the end of the 
previous term, and 29 newly selected first year students. This 
meant that both first and second year students had to complete 
their studies in two terms instead of the usual three terms. 
Certain modifications were made in the syllabus to suit the 
short, two term course, but the enthusiasm of staff and students 
enabled the work to proceed in a most satisfactory manner. 
Final examinations were held during the first week in July 
and 17 out of the 21 second year students passed and obtained 
their diplomas. The remaining four passed at a “ re-sit”’ 
examination in certain subjects which was held at a later date. 
Of the 29 first year students, 25 passed their examinations. 


21. Practical work by students was continued in the labora- 
tory, the fruit canning section and on the school farm on 
approved lines. Scientific excursions were made during the 
year and proved of value. 


22. An armed band attacked the farm during the night of 
13th/14th July, stole 33 head of cattle comprising almost the 
entire dairy herd, and abducted two watchmen. Eight of the 
cattle were found wandering in the vicinity five days later, but 
25 head have not been heard of since. 

The fruit canning building was later attacked and completely 
gutted by fire. 


23. Kadoone Agricultural School, Mount Tabor.—The first six 
months of the year passed without incident and the staff and 
students worked peacefully and satisfactorily. There were 
42 students at the school during this period, 27 of whom were 
in their first year and 15 in their second and final year. All 
students underwent a thorough course, including theory and 
practice, in all branches of Palestinian agriculture to fit them 
for the farm work which they will perform later on the Jewish 
intensive farms. 


24. Thirteen out of fifteen second year students passed their 
examinations successfully and were awarded diplomas. It is 
gratifying to record that out of the fifteen boys thirteen have 
been already employed in agriculture. Eight of them joined an 
agricultural co-operative settlement, three cultivate their parents’ 
farms and two were employed by farmers. The school buildings 
were occupied by troops in the latter part of the year and on 
this account the beginning of the new school year had to be 
postponed indefinitely. Twenty-five new students were selected 
by examination and are ready to enter the school when it 
re-opens. 

25. All branches of the school farm have developed satis- 
factorily and a new water pump was installed to supply water 
for domestic and irrigation purposes. The area under crop 
cultivation is now 500 dunums. The production of the vegetable 


281 


garden amounted to 15 tons in all, of many varieties. The 
horticultural section gave promising results and good crops of 
plums, grapes and grapefruit were harvested. 


26. The dairy herd comprised about 4o head of cattle of 
different ages. It yielded 90,400 litres of milk during the year. 
The average yield per cow was 4,235 kilograms with a milk fat 
content of 4 per cent. The sheep flock consisted of 100 head, 
a number of which were destroyed by poisoning towards the 
end of the year. The poultry flock, consisting of white Leghorns, 
Rhode Island Reds and cross breeds, numbered 559 hens and 
48 cocks. The average egg production was approximately 
150 eggs per hen. The school apiary remained in good condition. 


27. Research.—Apart from the research work on entomo- 
logical problems carried out by the departmental plant protection 
service, grants-in-aid of the Jewish Agency for research work 
at the agricultural research station, Rehovot, and of the Hebrew 
University for similar purposes were continued. Work at the 
former institution has included research into citrus problems 
such as irrigation, manuring, inter-cropping, behaviour of root 
stocks and the utilization of citrus by-products. Other experi- 
ments in progress include field and garden crop trials, animal 
nutrition experiments, experimental farm units on the plains 
and in the hills. Grants to the Hebrew University were made 
for field-mice investigations and research into spirochaetosis 
In poultry. 

Veterinary Service. 


28. The year was particularly good for live stock. Rainfall 
was adequate and well distributed with the result that pasture 
was comparatively abundant. Both winter and summer crops 
Were good and the stubbles provided a fair amount of grazing. 
No — due to starvation during late summer and autumn 
occurred. 


29. As a result of the good early rains of last winter good 
gtazing was available and there is every prospect that adequate 
gTazing will be available until the early summer months of 1939. 


30. Owing to the disturbed state of the country and the lack 
of security, activities had to be considerably curtailed, es eclally 
a8 Tegards Arab stock raisers. Towards the end of 1938 it was 
Necessary to close the majority of the animal quarantine stations 
and poultry stations and apiaries. 

. 31. The following table gives a comparative statement of 
Te of various categories of stock for the years 1937 and 


1937. 1938. 


Cattle for slaughter ns sien sie 28,500 29,500 
cep and goats ... Ge sae se 333,000 226,000 
Poe” mules, camels and donkeys _... 22,300 16,500 
Oultry ea I, 346,000 768,00C 


15774 K 3 


282 


32. No outbreaks of serious epizotic diseases occurred. 


33. The introduction of special measures for controlling bovine 
tuberculosis, which were under consideration in the previous 
year, could not be implemented as funds for the purpose were 
not available. 

34. Foot-and-mouth disease broke out towards the end of 
the previous year and gradually spread throughout the country. 
The local type of foot-and-mouth disease is mild and causes 
comparatively little damage. 

35. Precautionary measures were taken to reduce to a mini- 
mum the danger of the introduction of other types of foot-and- 
mouth disease through slaughter cattle imported chiefly from 
Europe. 

36. Until recently imports of slaughter cattle from any coun 
in which foot-and-mouth disease appeared were prohibited. 
Imports of cattle had so to be prohibited during the year from 
Poland, Yugoslavia, Roumania and other countries. Towards 
the end of the period, however, the danger of a serious meat 
shortage was such that the importation of slaughter cattle by 
sea route from infected countries was permitted subject to 
stringent precautions at the port of entry. 


37. Further progress was made in the control and eradication 
of bovine contagious abortion. This disease is well under 
control and the activities of the Department have been of great 
value to stock raisers. 

Some 32,000 agglutination tests were carried out in connection 
with the control of bovine contagious abortion, while 2,400 
complement fixation tests were carried out in connection with the 
control of dourine. 

38. Thirty-two outbreaks of anthrax were reported involving 
5,390 animals of which 149 died. 


39. Mortality among village livestock owing to tick borne 
diseases was not considerable owing to the good condition of 
animals. With very few exceptions, dipping operations, were 
not, through lack of security, conducted in Arab villages as 
In previous years. 

40. For the same reason it was not possible to carry out 
tests for possible infection with dourine on as many horses as 
intended. Some 1,500 animals were, however, tested and the 
use of 46 diseased mares for breeding purposes was prohibited. 


41. Sixteen cases of epizotic lymphangitis and twenty-seven 
cases of glanders were detected a the affected animals were 
destroyed. 

42. Rabies is endemic in the country but every effort continues 
to be made to keep it under control. Ninety-three cases were 
confirmed as rabies by Government veterinary officers during 


283 


the year, of which fourteen were diagnosed by laboratory 
examination. Seventeen thousand dogs and cats were destroyed 
with the assistance of the police and local authorities. 


43. The development of the poultry industry continued to 
make satisfactory progress and no serious outbreak of disease 
came under notice. Government continued to render as much 
assistance as possible for the development of this industry on 
modern lines. 

The poultry industry in the Jewish farming community also 
showed progress and several new settlements where poultry 
farming is the main source of income were established. 


44. The distribution of hatching eggs and breeding stock 
was less than in previous years owing to transport difficulties 
and the ninsettled conditions. Government poultry stations 
were seriously affected: out of eleven stations, four were entirely 
a uoyed by armed bands and five others had to be closed 
own. 


45. Over 45,000 hatching eggs, 13,000 day-old chicks, 1,000 
cocks and cockerels, 1,000 hens and pullets, 300 ducks and 
turkeys, 150 rabbits and 150 swarms were sold by Government 
poultry stations at production cost. 


46. Bee-keeping continued to develop satisfactorily. The 
year's yield of honey was Ioo tons in excess of that of 1937—an 
increase of 25 per cent. This increase was due to favourable 
weather conditions and to the efforts of bee-keepers who have 
become more proficient in this newly introduced industry. As 
M previous years, duty-free sugar was imported by Govern- 
ment and sold to bee-keepers at cost price in order further to 
assist this industry. 


47. The stock breeding section continued to extend its services 
to the public through different channels including the gratis 
service of animals brought to the stock farm at Acre, the 
sending of sires to different centres throughout the country 
during the breeding season, the issue on loan to villagers of first- 
Class stud animals and the sale of selected sires of all classes 
of livestock to bona fide breeders at nominal prices. 


48. Government Stock Farm, Acre.—The establishment of 
reeding stock at this farm was increased. One Arab stallion, 
one Arab mare, eight Cyprian mares and jackasses, eighteen 
Cows of the Lebanese breed, and forty-five Damascus goats were 
acquired during the year. 


49. Good use was made of the Government’s Arab and West 
Highland ony stallions. Six jackasses were at stud in different 
districts ane the breeding season. Forty-four bulls were 
‘sued on loan to villages. 

15774 K 4 


284 


50. Sales of stock from the farm included 223 sheep and 
goats, 41 head of cattle and 57 pigs. 


51. Government continued to grant premiums to owners of 
selected village bulls and jackasses to be used for general stud 
purposes in the villages. 


Horticultural Service. 


52. There was an increase of 1,500 dunums at the end of 
1938 in the area under citrus cultivation. 


53. Citrus exports for the season which ended at the 3oth 
June, 1938, amounted to 11,415,490 boxes as compared with 
10,790,110 boxes for the previous season. The general con- 
dition of arrivals of shipments on the markets abroad was on 
the whole much better than in the previous year. 


54. The United Kingdom continued to be the most important 
market, absorbing 6,908,985 boxes. This was, however, 
701,860 boxes less than in the previous season. Exports to 
continental countries were 1,326,411 boxes more than in the 
previous year. Norway, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Finland, 
Roumania and Switzerland were markets in which the expan- 
sion of the citrus trade was most marked. Exports to Germany 
and France declined as the result of import restrictions. 


55. The 1938-9 export season began on the 1st October for 
grapefruit and the 20th November for oranges. Both grape- 
fruit and oranges were in better condition than at the beginning 
of the previous season. 


56. An export of 134 million boxes is expected this season 
and 4,430,173 boxes were exported by the 31st December, or 
476,400 more than for the same period last season, despite 
difficulties in road and rail transport due to the disturbed 
condition of the country. 


57. Prices for grapefruit were good at the beginning of the 
season but soon dropped. The sale of oranges on the United 
Kingdom market realized fair prices at the beginning of the 
season but soon after Christmas prices dropped also. 


58. The state of insecurity at the beginning of the 1938-9 
season seriously upset normal arrangements for picking the 
crop. There was a strike of Arab transport during the same 
period which also to some extent affected movement of the 
picking gangs in Arab areas. These factors caused a slight 
increase in cost of production, but fortunately this was offset 
by reduction in the costs of packing materials and ocean 
freights. 

59. The drawback on imported wood used in the make-up of 
citrus cases was increased from 2$ mils to 34 mils for every 
box exported as from the 1st October, 1938, and the Rural 


285 


Property Tax was further reduced from 410 to 50 mils per 
dunum in the Acre sub-district and from 825 to 500 mils in other 
parts of the country. These measures gave much needed relief 
to the citrus industry. 


60. The work of citrus fruit inspection continued without 
much difficulty. For reasons of security it was necessary to 
limit the places of inspection to the large railway stations and 
ports only as from the beginning of the 1938-9 export season. 


61. The citrus fruit advertising programme for the previous 
year, referred to on page 273 of the Annual Report for 1937, 
was cairied out according to plan with satisfactory results. 
A similar programme for the 1938-9 season has been arranged 
and advertising is being conducted in the United Kingdom, 
and in fifteen other countries in Europe on the basis of a total 
estimated expenditure of £P.36,000. The campaign again 
includes films, radio advertising, press, and other means. 


62. The first year’s programme for an investigation into 
citrus fruit wastage, which was referred to on page 273 of the 
Annual Report for 1937, was carried out by the Department of 
Scientific and Industrial Research in the United Kingdom and 
the Jewish Agency Agricultural Research Station, Rehovot, 
Palestine, according to plan. The reports which have been 
received from these two institutions were given due considera- 
tion by Government and a further year’s programme of research 
for the 1938-9 season has been decided upon. The scheme is 
financed from the citrus fruit advertisement fund. The rate of 
fee collected under the Citrus Fruit Advertisement Ordinance 
was changed from 34 mils to 24 mils from the 1st August, 1938. 


63. The maintenance of the nine horticultural stations in the 
country was seriously affected by continued disturbances and 
six had to be closed down and abandoned. The plantations 
and buildings at several stations were almost totally destroyed 
by armed bands. At the close of the year only three stations 
were operating. 


64. 100,000 vines and 91,000 fruit trees were raised in these 
stations during the year for distribution to the public in the 
1938-9 planting season. Some thousands of these were looted 
before the proper lifting time. Preparations for nursery work 
for the ensuing year were started on a much reduced scale. 


65. The plant protection service assumed control of private 
plant nurseries and inspection work was carried out by the 
horticultural staff. 


66. The olive crop was good in the Jerusalem and Samaria 
districts and normal in the Galilee district. Picking started 
later than usual, resulting in a higher percentage of better 
quality oil. 


286 


67. Ihe vine crop was later than usual owing to cooler 
weather conditions which also favoured a heavy infection of 
mildew. The crop was, however, good in the Hebron sub- 
district, but in the Ramallah sub-district it was seriously 
damaged by heavy rain in November. The crop was marketed 
irregularly due to transport difficulties: this caused considerable 
price fluctuations. 


68. Banana plantations recovered from the damage caused 
by the 1937 frost but the yields were poor and the fruit of 
inferior quality. Banana plantations in the Beisan sub-district 
were neglected owing to the unsuitability of the area to this 
crop as well as to the unsettled conditions prevailing. 


Plant Protection Service. 


69. As in the case of other services of the Department exten- 
sion work of the plant protection service was greatly restricted 
by the disturbed conditions of the country. It was possible, 
however, during the first six months to carry out some pest 
control demonstrations in the hilly country against fig scale 
insects, vine pests and diseases and vegetable insect pests. 


70. Citrus Pests.—Investigations on the biology of the 
Mediterranean fruit fly in the hilly areas were continued. An 
inspection of fruit on the trees in citrus groves at Acre, in the 
third season after a double fumigation experiment against black 
scale, was carried out and the fruit found to be commercially 
clean. Investigations on black scale have also been continued 
in the Jaffa district. Considerable outbreaks of mealy bugs on 
oranges have been reported from the coastal plain. 


71. Deciduous Fruit Pests.—Spraying experiments against 
Mediterranean fruit fly, which were carried out on apples and 
quinces in the Emek, gave promising results. Aphelnus mah, 
the parasite of woolly aphis, survived the comparatively cold 
winter of 1937 at Hebron and established itself also in villages 
near Jerusalem. Studies on the biology of the woolly aphis have 
been continued and it is hoped to publish preliminary results 
in the near future. Research work on the biology and control 
of capnodis sp. was continued. 


72. Miscellaneous Pests and Diseases.—Investigations on pests 
attacking vegetables were continued. Studies on the bionomics 
of the grape berry moth were completed and methods of control 
advised. <A biological study of ed duda (syringopais tempera- 
tella) and methods of control were begun. 


Fisheries Service. 


73. The number of fishing licences issued showed a slight 
decrease as compared with the previous year. Approximately 
5 per cent. of the total number of licences issued, however, 
were granted to new applicants who have taken up fishing as 


287 
a means of livelihood. There was an increase in the fishing 
craft, sixteen sailing and two motor boats having been newly 
Tegistered. 
74. Eight permits to land fish in Palestine were granted to 
foreign trawlers as compared with eighteen last year. 


75. The following table shows the total production and value 
of sea and lake fisheries as compared with 1937: 





Sea Fish landed by 











Year Lake Fish Pog) Dish 
landed 
Local Foreign 
Fishermen | Fishermen 
Quantity of Fish Landed 
(Kgs.) (Kgs.) (Kgs.) (Kgs.) 
1937 ae ies 277,496 1,012,584 758,068 2,048,148 
1938 so ae 304,000 954,472 221,156 1,479,628 
Value of Fish Landed 
£P. I LP. £P. LP. 
1937 ues ne 7,990 40,553 15,660 64,203 
1938 sais - 8,358 37,678 7,376 53,412 











76. A motor trawler was purchased by a local company and 
arrived in Palestine in the autumn. She was commissioned 
during the month of November with promising results. Two 
more locally-built vessels, fitted with imported marine engines, 
a oe completed and will, it is expected, be put to work 
shortly. 


77. During the year the fisheries service carried out a full 
programme of investigations, in co-operation with local fisher- 
men, for the expansion of the fishing industry. 


78. An exclusive fishing licence to take sponges off the 
Palestine coast was granted to a newly formed local company, 
and arrangements are being made by the company to begin 
sponge fishing in April, 1939. 

79. The preparation of the special fishermen’s charts which 
was started in 1937, was concluded during the year. Three 
sheets on a Scale of r in 100,000 for the area from Ras en 
Naqura to Rafa are now available. A similar chart for Lake 
Tiberias is under preparation. 


80. Widespread interest in the raising of fish in ponds was 
displayed. A natural pond at Ein el Tina, near Tabgha, was 
selected and converted into an experimental pond for rearing 


carp. 


288 


81. There was a decrease in the number of persons convicted 
for contraventions under the Fisheries Ordinance. Most of the 
offences were of a minor nature, such as fishing in prohibited 
areas or fishing without licences. It is satisfactory to note 
that fishing by means of explosives and poisoned bait was 
negligible during the year. 


Meteorological Service. 


82. Towards the end of the year the Meteorological Service 
began to provide pilots of aircraft leaving Lydda Airport with 
forecasts of the weather conditions anticipated along their pro- 
posed routes. For this purpose, three synoptic weather maps 
are drawn up daily, in addition to special maps showing the 
upper air wind conditions. Upper wind currents are calculated 
from observations made with a theodolite of pilot balloons 
which are released from Lydda Airport twice daily. 


83. Observations of weather conditions in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan are made each hour, but are broadcast twice in 
each hour. The times and radio frequencies of these reports 
are those allocated for the regional system by the International 
Meteorological Organization. 


84. The development of the meteorological and climatological 
network was seriously hampered by the situation in the country. 
Two official stations at Beersheba and Jericho were totally 
destroyed, one station at Beisan had to be closed down, and 
about thirty other rainfall stations were destroyed. A number 
of the rainfall stations were re-erected and re-equipped. The 
unsettled state of the country also prevented the expansion of the 
system of observing stations, which it was intended to carry out 
during the year. 

85. A new average rainfall map for Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan, reduced to the international standard period IgoI-30, 
was constructed. The figures used were those relating to the 
period from the middle of last century up to the end of the 
rainfall season 1937-8: they were collected, checked and reduced 
to the above period. 

86. The rainfall at official meteorological stations up to the 
31st December, 1938, as compared with that for the same 
period last year, was:— 

1st June, 1937, to «st June, 1938, to 


Station. 31st December, 1937. 31st December, 1938. 
Millimetres. Millimetres. 
Acre ... oe eo 335°1 255'°4 
Beit Gemal ... ae 137°7 216°4 
Gaza ... oe ae 173°2 272°4 
Haifa ... es wa 348-1 335°0 
Jerusalem... ae 71°8 211°6 


Jenin ... re ee 122°2 178-4 
Tel-Aviv diese As 235°0 469°8 


289 


Forest Service. 


87. The comprehensive forest policy was continued so far as 
the situation in the country permitted. More than 1? millions 
of plants were raised in ten forest nurseries. Government 
plantations in forest reserves absorbed 1,152,000 plants and 
625 kilogrammes of pine seed. The total area which had been 
subjected to afforestation operations up to the end of the 1937-8 
planting season was 22,400 dunums. Fifty-four plantations on 
2,600 dunums were formed by private persons and institutions 
mainly Jewish. 767,000 plants were issued free from forest 
nurseries to the public during the year. 


88. In 1938, one new forest reserve was proclaimed, bringing 
the total to 278 reserves with a nominal area of 740,639 dunums. 


89. An area of 3,950 dunums of State Domain lands disclosed 
by land settlement and land court decisions, were allocated to 
the State Forests during the year, bringing the total area to 
8,221 dunums. 


go. The reclamation of sand dunes was continued on a small 
scale at Gaza, but all experiments were hampered by the 
disturbances. 7 


gi. Forest revenue totalled £P.3,030, mainly denved from 
felling fees collected from the owners of trees on private land. 


The estimated value of forest produce extracted from Forest 
Reserves by right-holders for their domestic needs was £P.2,290, 
and the value of forest produce, extracted from reserves under 
trade licences, for sale was £P.376. The estimated value of 
produce sold from privately-owned plantations and woods was 
£P.31,000. 


_ 12,313 forest licences were issued by District Officers, 
Including 1,954 to right-holders. 


20,871 animals were licensed to graze in Forest Reserves. 

f these 19,323 belonged to right-holders. Estimating the value 
of grazing at 100 mils a head per annum, the value of forest 
grazing was £P.2,087. 


833 persons were convicted for forest contraventions. 


92. 14,000 wild olive suckers wera extracted from forest 
reserves at Government expense and planted at Government 
Horticultural Stations for budding and issue to cultivators. 


39,000 carob plants were issued from Government nurseries to 
the public, and for planting in forest reserves. 


_ Imports of forest produce, including manufactures, mounted 
I value to £P.1,226,537 and exports to £P.6,633. 


290 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS AND GEOLOGY. 


The total expenditure by the Public Works Department during 
the year was approximately £P.773,000 compared with 
£P.1,070,000 in 1937. With the exception of the completion or 
continuation of a small number of major works begun before 
1938, and normal recurrent and maintenance services, almost 
the whole of the works executed by the department during the 
year were services connected, directly or indirectly, with public 
security. A number of these services, principally road works, 
will remain a permanent asset to the country after a return to 
normal conditions. 


2. Recurrent and maintenance services were generally carried 
out satisfactorily, although in view of the state of insecurity 
buildings and roads have unavoidably not received the full regu- 
lar attention given in normal times. In connection with road 
maintenance much work was undertaken in connection with the 
repair of damage caused by acts of sabotage. The most im- 
portant of the maintenance services was the upkeep of roads, the 
road mileage having increased as a result of extensive construc- 
tion undertaken on grounds of public security. Sections of main 
roads situated within municipal areas were maintained, as in 
the past, from funds provided jointly by Government and the 
municipalities concerned. 


3. Second to the vote for maintenance of roads and bridges, 
the largest annual recurrent vote of the department was that for 
rent of offices and quarters under which the total expenditure 
during the year was £P.99,000. As the result of insecurity, in- 
crease in the police force, curtailment of departmental activities, 
etc., there was an unusually large number of changes in tenancy, 
involving numerous leases of new premises and consequential 
adaptation and renovation works. Several Government offices 
and institutions were moved on grounds of public security from 
one town to another, or to premises situated in more central and 
less vulnerable localities of the same town. The latter include 
the central offices of Government in Jerusalem, which were 
moved at the end of December from the offices which they have 
occupied at the Damascus Gate since 1924. 


4. The continued disturbances in 1938 seriously affected the 
activities of the Department of Public Works, and most works 
were executed under difficult and strenuous circumstances. 


5. The execution of numerous works connected with military 
operations, especially new road construction and repair of 
damage caused by acts of sabotage, were carried out in close 
co-operation with the military authorities. 

The total length of security roads constructed by the depart- 
ment was about 165 kilometres representing an expenditure of 
approximately £P.g0,000. 


291 


6. The construction of the General Post Office, Jerusalem, 
which was started in 1934, was completed and the building occu- 
pied and formally opened to the public in June 1938. 


7. The construction of three town schools at Jaffa, begun in 
1936 and interrupted owing to the disturbances, was resumed 
and the buildings were practically completed at the end of the 
year. 


8. The construction of a police station and police married 
quarters at Tel Aviv was completed. The erection of similar 
buildings in Haifa is approaching completion. 


_g. At Lydda Air Port the construction of the terminal build- 
ing was continued throughout the year and the construction of 
a power house and a guard house was started. 


10. Work began on the construction by contract of a Govern- 
ment isolation hospital near Jerusalem and on seven police posts 
of a special type on the northern frontier. Six of these were 
completed. 


11. Designs were prepared for, and work was also started on 
the temporary shoring and bracing of the Basilica of the Holy 
Sepulchre to render the structure safe from the danger of collapse 
until such time as permanent work of preservation of the ancient 
structure can be undertaken. 


12. Various projects and plans were completed for a number 
of buildings, the construction of which has been postponed for 
the present and for others projected in the near future. 


13. In view of the continued state of disorder the department 
was called upon to carry out throughout the country a wide 
Tange of services for the protection of persons, of public and 
private property, Government offices and institutions. Nume- 
Tous services of a protective nature were also undertaken for 
the police authorities in connection with the maintenance of 
public order. These services vary from small works such as 
fencing of Government offices and the strengthening of doors and 
windows, to works of considerable magnitude involving a large 
expenditure. 

A wide range of other security works carried out included the 
construction of watch towers and machine gun posts in various 
towns and the installation of searchlights on police posts and on 
buildings in various parts of the country, including in most 
ete the installation of generating sets for the supply of electric 

ergy. 


14. Buildings to accommodate rural automatic telephone ex- 
Changes were constructed at Rishon le Tsiyon, Ness Tsiyona 
and Tel Mond. A new lighthouse was erected and put into 
°peration at Jaffa, close to the existing lighthouse which was 


292 
later demolished. Schools were constructed in two villages in 
the Tulkarm Sub-District, and additional rooms were constructed 
at the girls’ school at Tulkarm. 

15. [he large triple-bay steel and corrugated iron shed of an 
area of 6,000 square metres, which was erected in Jaffa at the 
beginning of 1935 for the accommodation of goods exported and 
imported through the Jaffa Port, was dismantled and re-erected 
in the Haifa Harbour Area in the form of three separate sheds. 
One of these sheds is to be used exclusively for citrus fruits and 
the remainder for other mixed goods. These three new sheds 
provide a valuable and much needed addition to the facilities 
for merchandise in transit through the port of Haifa. 


16. A ‘‘ dog unit ’’ was constructed at Affula. The buildings 
erected comprise accommodation for four dogs, a sick bay, 
quarters for dog masters and trail boys and a garage. 


17. One hundred and thiry-nine armoured cars for the use 
of the police force were manufactured in the workshops of the 
Public Works Department at Jerusalem and Haifa. 


18. Work was completed on the fencing, water supply and 
construction of road approaches to State land near Haifa allotted 
by Government for the accommodation of persons evicted from 
insanitary hutments in various parts of the town. (See Chapter 
XX, paragraph 32.) 

19. Towards the end of the year, work was started on the con- 
struction of a road from Gaza to Beersheba (38 kilometres), and 
from Gaza to Khan Yunis (25 kilometres). 


20. The construction of a road from the Hertsliya-Qalqiliya 
road near Ra’anana to Miske, begun in the previous year, was 
completed. This road serves an intensively cultivated area, 
mostly planted with citrus trees, and the Jewish bodies interested 
contributed half the cost. 

21. The Department of Public Works undertook, on behalf 
of and at the expense of the local Jewish settlements, the con- 
struction of a road at a cost of £P.6,000 from the Jaffa-Gaza 
road to Gan Yavneh in the Jaffa district. About half the work 
was completed at the end of the period under review. 


22. Work was completed on the construction of a new road 
from Kfar Sirkin to Petah Tiqva in the Jaffa district. The 
cost, £P.2,000, was met by the settlers. 


23. During the first quarter of the year work was started, 
and completed to the extent of funds available, on the con- 
struction and improvement of a number of secondary roads 
throughout the country. 

Altogether work was carried out on 25 roads, including the 
reconstruction of the road from the Zikhron Ya’aqov Settlement 
to the Zikhron Ya’aqov railway station, at a cost of £P.1,g00, 
towards which the settlement contributed £P.800. 


293 
24. The construction of a new bridge on the Tel Aviv-Petah 
Tiqva road in substitution of the existing narrow structure 
was completed. The new bridge forms part of a scheme for the 
widening of this road, which carries the heaviest traffic in 
Palestine, in order to reduce congestion. 


25. The erection of a new bmdge over the Jordan near 
Jericho on the Jerusalem-Amman trunk road was completed 
and opened to traffic in May, 1938. It is intended to dismantle 
the old bridge and re-erect it further north at Jisr Damiya, 
in order to provide improved communications between Samaria 
and Thane tordad. 


26. The Jerusalem water supply was operated satisfactorily 
throughout the year and 410 million gallons of water were 
supplied. The pipeline was sabotaged on a number of occasions 
and three of the pumping stations were raided by armed men. 

he main pumping units were not interfered with, although 
slight damage was done. In November a section of the pipeline 
near Ras el Ain was carried away during an exceptionally 
severe storm and the supply to Jerusalem was interrupted for 
eight days. 


_ The Municipality of Jerusalem made further progress on 
improving the water supply articulation system within the town 
and about 5,000 metres of new piping were laid. 


27. Further progress was made on the Jerusalem drainage 
scheme which is being carried out by the Municipality under 
the supervision of the Public Works Department. 


28. Three village water supply schemes were completed, and 
work is now in progress on the only scheme remaining to be 
cared out. This brings the number of all schemes carried out 
under the programme of permanent improvements to village 
Water supplies to 204, representing a total expenditure of about 
£P.56,300. Owing to the financial and security situation no 
Rew schemes were approved in 1938. 


29. A chlorination plant has been purchased for the water 
Supply of the town of Acre and will be installed as soon as 
Public security conditions make it possible to undertake the 
work. This service forms part of the water supply scheme 
lor the town of Acre: it provides for the substitution of a 12 
Inch pipe for the existing old Turkish aqueduct which conveys 
Water trom the Kabri springs to the town. 


30. Work on the improvement of the water supply scheme 
ior Nazareth proceeded during the year and resulted in an 
crease of the yield by 50 per cent. 


31. A section of the drainage scheme for the town of Haifa 


was completed. Consideration is being given to carrying out 
€ detailed scheme. ne" = 


204 

32. Preliminary investigations were carried out and plans, 
specifications and contract documents were prepared in con- 
nection with the construction of the fence along the northern 
frontier. The actual construction was, however, carried out 
directly by contract under the control of the district administra- 
tion, technical supervision being supplied by the Department 
of Public Works. 


33. During the year compensation claimed under the Work- 
men’s Compensation Ordinance for accidents to labourers 
employed by the Public Works Department was paid in 53 cases 
including three cases of fatal accidents. | 


34. Under the Steam Boilers Ordinance 44 boilers and four 
prime movers were examined and licensed. 


35. The district engineers, as inspectors under the Machinery 
(Fencing) Ordinance, examined a number of factories in which 
mechanical plant is installed. Several applications for oil 
storage installations for which licences are issued under the 
Petroleum Regulations (Trades and Industries (Regulation) 
Ordinance) were dealt with. 


36. The four Government drilling plants continued in opera- 
tion during the year and for the greater part of the time were 
employed on the hydrographic survey of southern Palestine 
and the Jordan valley referred to in Chapter V, paragraph 82. 

One rig was employed until March on cleaning out operations 
at Faluja and Anebta wells, and was then used on the hydro- 
graphic survey. 

One rig was used on the borehole at Yabed which had reached 
a depth of 250 feet at the beginning of the year and was con- 
tinued to a depth of 320 feet in hard limestone. It had then 
to be temporarily closed down in March on account of security 
conditions and the rig was transferred to the hydrographic sur- 
vey. 

Two rigs were employed on the hydrographic survey from 
the beginning of the year. | 

A borehole at Sufta Adi, sunk by the Consulting Engineers 
in connection with the Haifa water supply scheme, was aban- 
doned at a depth of 390 metres on account of technical difficul- 
ties. At this depth it had still failed to reach the base of the 
bituminous limestone. No water was found. 


Geology. 


37. In the early part of the year geological mapping was 
carried out in the Jordan valley from the Dead Sea and north- 
wards beyond Jericho. Later in the year attention was con- 
centrated on the eastern portion of the Tel Aviv sheet of the 
contoured I: 100,000 maps issued by the Survey Department. 

The deterioration in the security situation towards the end of 
August prevented field work after that date. 


295 


The geological mapping of the Haifa, Safad, Zikhron Ya’aqov, 
jukarm, and Nablus sheets of the contoured I: 100,000 maps 
issued by the Survey Department has been completed. It has 
so far not been possible to publish these maps, but hand-coloured 
copies may be obtained by special arrangement. 


38. There was a production of 1,215 tons of refined sulphur 
from the sulphur mine south of Gaza, and 444 tons of rock salt 
from Jebel Usdum in the Dead Sea region. 


39. Quarries.:—The number of quarry licences in force during 

the year were as follows : — 
Stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) sie oe 77 
Sand (including zifzif and clay) ... sits aa oe 36 
Gypsum ‘Sis sas ass a. sii sae ody 2 

40. An Ordinance to regulate the mining of oil was enacted 
during the year. 

This Ordinance repeals, and re-enacts with considerable 
amendments and additions, the law relating to prospecting and 
mining for oil which was included in the Mining Ordinance, 
1925. That Ordinance is now concerned with prospecting and 
mining for minerals other than oil only. The regulation of oil 
prospecting and mining operations by an Ordinance independent 
of that dealing with operations in respect of other minerals 
conforms with the legislation of most other countries where oil is 
mined, and is desirable since the operations in respect of oil and 
the development of oil fields differ radically from those of other 
minerals. 

The amendments and new provisions include provision for 
the grant of oil prospecting licences covering the operations 
hitherto dealt with separately under exploration permits, pros- 
pecting permits and prospecting licences; and include amend- 
ments in respect of the areas which may be granted under oil 
Prospecting licences or oil mining leases, the periods for which 
such licences or leases may be granted, and the fees, 
dead rents and royalties payable. Provision has also been 
made for the right of pre-emption of oil by the Government in 

€ event of grave emergency. 

_ Several applications have been received for oil prospecting 
cences under the new Ordinance and these are at present re- 
celving consideration. 


Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate. 


41. The development of the Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) 
State continued during the year. 


. 42. The unsettled and economically depressed conditions exist- 

de in Palestine were not favourable for the inauguration of new 
evelopment. The first stage of the building on the site leased 
mc Jewish Agency was completed during the year and large 
Xtensions to three warehouse buildings are in progress. 


296 


43. Eleven certificates of completion and two certificates for 
additions to existing buildings were issued during the year, 
making, with those previously issued, a total of 67 buildings. 


44. Two applications by lessees for leave to assign and five for 
permission to mortgage their interests were approved. A large 
number of applications for permission to sublet were received and 
225 subleases were approved. 


45. The total amount collected in rent during the year was 
£P.16,845.500 mils, while £P.18,468.038 mils was outstanding 
on 31st December, 1938. This amount includes £P.887.538 mils 
outstanding on 31st December, 1937. The large volume of 
arrears was due to non-collection of the rents of shop and office 
sites, pending a decision of Pe Upeaeeg ay submitted to Govern- 
ment by the Harbour Estate Lessees Union in regard to the re- 
duction of rents payable and other kindred matters. 


46. Fires suspected of being due to incendiarism occurred in 
certain buildings in the reclaimed area. The losses have been 
agreed in all cases on behalf of the lessor with the insurance 
companies concerned. . One of the most serious fires in Pales- 
tine for many years occurred when the Levant Bonded Ware- 
house within the customs enclosure, the site of which is leased 
from the Government, was destroyed on the 6th November. 


47. A composite town planning scheme was prepared by the 
local town planning authorities involving the land to the west 
of Plumer Square which will be available for development when 
the Harbour is completed. 


Haifa Harbour Development. 


48. The construction of the cargo jetty and ancillary and 
shoreworks was completed towards the end of the year. 


49. Remedial works to the main quay wall in the harbour are 
being carried out by the Public Works Department. 


50. The construction of concrete fire walls around the Iraq 
Petroleum Company’s oil tanks on the 20-acre reclaimed area 
and a reinforced concrete boundary wall enclosing the whole 
area, which was begun in April, 1937, was completed early in 


1938. 


51. The expenditure on works carried out by the Harbour 
Development Works Department during the year was approxi- 
mately £P.50,000. 


52. Owing to the completion of all works in connection with 
the development of Haifa Harbour, the Harbour Development 
Works Department is being closed down and all works handed 
over to the Public Works Department. 


207 


XXVII—RAILWAYS. 


The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated 
Lines is divided as follows:— 
(a) In Palestine: — 


Standard Gauge 105 cm. Gauge 
(4 ft. 84 inches). (Hejaz Railway) 


Kilometres (excluding sidings). 








Rafah—Haifa_... ves see 229°5 — 
Jaffa—Jerusalem doe ae 87 — 
Ras el Ein—Petah Tiqva sé 6-5 —- 
Sarafand Line... A er 4°5 = 
Beit Nabala Line ‘i's oP 5°5 am 
Haifa—Samakh ... eo a — 88 
Haifa—Acre ass oa ane — 18 
Nablus—Tulkarm* Sas sas — 38 
333 144 





(b) In Stnat:— 








El Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafah 203 — 
(c) In Trans-Jordan:— 
Nassib—Amman—Ma’ant ive — 323 
Total length of system (exclusive 
of sidings) bey i 536 407 








2. The lines operated by the Palestine Railways administra- 
tion traverse three States—Egypt, Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
—and serve country of widely differing character, namely, the 
long stretch of dune sand desert in Sinai, one of the most diffi- 
cult, as regards maintenance, with which any railway has to 
contend; the alluvial plains of Palestine where the foundation 
consists of treacherous clays and black cotton soil; the moun- 
tainous country of the Judean hills through which Jerusalem, at 
2,468 feet above sea level, is approached by steep and narrow 
valleys; the valleys of the western slopes of the Jordan cleft 
through which the line of the Hejaz Railway descends to 824 





* The section of the Hejaz Railway from Affula, on the Haifa—Samakh 
line to El] Mas’udiya near Nablus, a length of 60 kilometres, was closed in 
1932 for economy and owing to the lack of traffic, but the rails have not yet 
been removed. 

t The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans- 
Jordan runs through Syria as part of the line from Haifa to Damascus and 
from Damascus to Trans-Jordan. This is administered and operated by the 
Syrian Authorities. The Trans-Jordan line formerly continued southwards 
from Ma’an to Mudawara (113 kilometres south of Ma’an) on the border of 
Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz, and thence to Medina; but this section of the 
line has not been reconditioned since the War and is not in use. 


298 


feet below sea-level; the rocky highlands and plateaux of Trans- 
Jordan on the way to Amman and Ma’an; and the desolate 
sandy clay wastes through which the line runs along the western 
fringes of the desert of Arabia. 


3. The system which serves Palestine comprises three lines 
of separate and distinct origin: — 
(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(6) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line. 
(c) The Palestine Railways. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder line from the port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed principally to 
carry pilgrim traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its 
origin was a length of standard gauge line starting from Haifa 
which an English company had built, but had not completed, 
under an Ottoman concession. The original concessionaires 
were bought out by the Hejaz Railway administration and the 
105 centimetre gauge Hejaz Railway system was laid out of 
Haifa on the formation completed or partly completed by the 
English company. 

(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line was laid originally as a metre 
gauge railway by a French company, also under an Ottoman 
concession. At the outbreak of the War it was taken over by 
the Turkish army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to 
serve as part of the projected extension southwards of the Hejaz 
Railway as a military track. Subsequently the line was con- 
verted by the British army to standard gauge and incorporated 
in the line of that gauge built during the War from the Suez 
Canal to Palestine and referred to in (c) below. 


(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge sys- 
tem in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British 
Army in 1918 as the northern extension of the line which had 
followed the Army during the advance from Egypt. 

At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre 
gauge lines come together and at Hazfa, in order to use the space 
available for shunting to the best advantage, it is necessary to 
make use of many dual gauge tracks. 


4. In 1938 the railway suffered severely from the effects of 
the political situation and the disturbed state of the country. 
There was a great decrease in practically all commercial and 
industrial activites, particularly in the building trade. 


5. Frequent acts of sabotage necessitated a constant patrol of 
the line in front of and between trains by armoured motor 
trolleys, whilst train movement had to be restricted to hours of 
daylight. 


299 
A summary of the principal and statistical results compared 
with 1937 is given below:— 


Gross Revenue. Working Expenses. 


1938. 1937. 1938. 1937. 
£P. LP. LP: £P. 

(a) Palestine Railway 321,514 592,442 543,014 609,022 
(0) Sinai (El Kantara— 

Rafah) Railway 94,474 120,436 95,225 116,330 
() Hejaz Railway ... 71,804 88,390 103,155 122,924 
(@) Petah Tiqva Railway ... 2,741 4,335 840 840 

Notes. 


The figures are for the calendar year. 


Working expenses of the Palestine Railway (include interest and 
management charges on loan) and annual contribution to Palestine 
Railway Renewals Fund. 


The Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway pays renta] charges for the 
use of Palestine Railway engines and rolling stock. 


The working expenses for the Petah Tiqva Railway Line represent a flat 
annual charge for maintenance. 


Year ended 31st December, 





1938. 1937. 
Passengers carried (excluding Season 
Tickets) See ei ... No. 810,249 1,945,000 
Freight Handled Tons 765,762 1,102,194 
Trains run z No. 23,955 32,613 
Engine Mileage (including ‘Sentinel 
Cammell Cars) ’ Miles 1,428,273 1,930,105 
Total Staff (as at 31st Dedeinber) No. 4,357 4,510 
Total Salaries and Wages LP. 360,125 396,987 
1938. 1937: 
Passenger Traffic. £P. LP. 
Palestine Railway sine 59,877 153,730 
Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway as 55,076 72,148 
Hejaz Railway a 21,909 32,473 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... — — 
£P.136,862 258,357 
Goods Traffic. 
Palestine Railway as Bie 230,734 359,536 
Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway... 36,956 45,012 
Hejaz Railway ., ses 44,514 48,493 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... 2,711 4,463 
£LP.314,915 458,104 


The principal commodities carried during the year were:— 


300 


Commodity. 


I. 
. Wheat 

. Maize 

. Other cereals 

. Tibben 

. Oil cakes 

. Flour 

. Rice 

. Sugar a - 
. Groceries and Provisions 
. Sand 

. Stone 

. Lime 

. Cement as as 
. Asphalt ... io and 
. Other building material 

. Wooden planks for boxes 
. Manure 

. Oranges ... 

. Grape-fruit 

. Lemons 

. Melons... bale 

. Grapes 

. Kerosene 

. Coal 

. Petrol 

. Firewood 

. Soap 

. Salt 

. Potash 

. Bromine 

. Chlorine ... 

. Caustic soda 


Barley 


. Nitrate of soda ... 

. Magnesium chloride 
. Sulphur ... 

. Empties ... 

. Machinery 


. Miscellaneous ... 


Total 


Tons. 
16,453 
37,513 

6,600 
11,605 
8,862 
1,228 
9,144 
21,998 
12,360 
30,680 
2,770 
7,192 
4,359 
65,117 
4,545 
27,686 
18,332 
6,980 
228,527 
5,644 
373 
11,984 
447 
77:954 
33.859 
10,246 
1,508 
1,532 
5.774 
44,200 
1,402 
354 
122 
501 

54 
946 
2,845 
935 
43,131 


765,762 


301 


The principal increases and decreases in goods traffic in 1938 
compared with 1937 were as follows: — 


Commodity. Increases. 
Tons. 
Wheat... - 3,074 
Rice 5,667 
Grapes 139 
Soap 531 
Potash 15,492 
Bromine 20 
Chlorine 100 
Nitrate of soda 422 
Sulphur 378 
Total 25,823 
Commodity. Decreases. 
Tons. 
Barley... 2,190 
Maize oe 8, 795 
Other cereals... 2,557 
Tibben 3,819 
Oil Cakes 1,734 
Flour ... ; 12,793 
Sugar se “a 4,200 
Groceries and Provisions 8,141 
Sand ... 13,471 
Stone ... 10,702 
Lime ... 1,801 
Cement is ee 61,377 
Asphalt bs xe 7,783 
Other building materials 58,588 
Wooden planks for boxes 8,432 
Manure : bes 13,149 
Oranges a 51,060 
Grape-fruit ... 11,915 
Lemons 579 
Melons 1,826 
Kerosene 12,569 
Coal 11,786 
Petrol 2,016 
Firewood 951 
Salt... bee 5,430 
Caustic soda ... 211 
Magnesium chloride ... 376 
Empties 2,081 
Machinery 1,427 
Miscellaneous... 40,526 
Total 362,255 














302 


XXVitt.—CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES. 


1. New legislation to amend the Co-operative Societies 
Ordinance, 1933, and the Regulations made thereunder is under 
consideration by Government. 


2. Acomprehensive report on the development of co-operative 
societies in Palestine covering the period of 1921-37 was 
published by the Department towards the end of 1938. 


Arab Movement. 


3. Owing to the disturbed conditions no new credit and thnift 
societies were formed in Arab villages during the year. This, 
coupled with poor crops and difficulties in disposing of their 
crops, resulted in all but six of the existing Arab village societies 
failing to meet their liabilities to Barclays Bank in due time 
and arrangements had to be made to postpone payments until 
next season. 


Four village societies which acted in bad faith were ordered 
into liquidation and attachments were placed on the properties 
of their members. | 


4. In the towns two Arab societies were registered, six were 
ordered into liquidation and one was declared defunct. One 
of the societies registered is a society of citrus shippers whose 
object is to organize collective shipping of fruit. This society 
entered into contracts with steamship companies for the shipment 
of 1,500,000 cases during the 1938-9 season. 


The other society is a co-partnership of labourers employed 
in the slaughter house at Haifa. 


5. An application for the registration of a society of Arab 
banana growers in the Jordan valley was received and con- 
sidered, but registration had to be deferred until the return 
of more normal conditions. 


6. The citrus marketing society, the formation of which was 
referred to on page 291 of the Annual Report for 1937, did not 
come into existence owing to the inability of the growers to 
reach agreement on essential conditions. 


Jewish Movement. 


7. The number of societies affiliated with Audit Unions rose 
during the year to 440 as compared with 396 at the end of 
1937 and 312 at the end of 1936. 


8. The number of new societies registered was 81, as com- 
pared with 151 during 1937 and 129 during 1936. During the 
same period the number of societies struck off the Register, 


303 
as a result of liquidation, amalgamation, conversion into com- 
panies, or having been declared defunct, amounted to 71 as 
compared with 50 during 1937 and 53 during 19306. 


9. The following table shows the number of Jewish societies 
registered and struck off the Register during 1938 as compared 
with the previous two years:— 











Defunct, amal- 
Liquidated. gamated or 
converted. 







Registered. 






1936.| 1937.] 1938. 1936.| 1937.| 1938.] 1936.| 1937.| 1938. 


Agricultural settle- 
ment societies ... 
General agricultural, 
miscellaneous ag- 
ricultural, market- 
ing and agricul- 
tural contractin 
societies ... bss 
Irrigation societies... 
Co-partnerships of 
labour... See 
Housing societies ... 
Credit and thrift 
societies (urban 
and rural) i 
Consumers’ societies 
Miscellaneous 
societies ... 


Totals 








10. The above figures show that 39 societies, or 48 per cent. 
of the total societies registered during 1938, are societies for 
agricultural purposes. This high proportion is due mainly to 
the establishment of new agricultural settlements on lands 
acquired by the Jewish colonizing agencies. 


_Ir. Negotiations for the joint shipping and marketing of 
citrus fruit and for the joint purchase of packing materials by 
all Jewish citrus marketing societies were concluded towards 
the end of the year. 


12. Credit societies were put to great strain during the critical 
month of September owing to heavy withdrawals of deposits. 
0 meet this emergency, co-operative credit societies had to 
educe their balances with other banks and to obtain addi- 
tional funds by borrowing from commercial banks. By the 
end of the year a large part of the withdrawn deposits were 


teturned, however, and the position of credit societies again 


304 


became normal. The following table shows assets and liabilities 
of Jewish co-operative credit societies as at the end of December, 





1938: — 
Liabilities. Assets. 
£LP. £P. 

Share capital 377,620 Cash in hand ... 135,359 
Reserve fund 276,133 Balances with other 
Allocated reserves 119,754 financial institutions... 871,530 
Unallocated reserves 57,858 Advances to members ... 2,801,420 
Debentures va 90,824 Bills discounted... 621,144 
Balances for other finan- Investments we 155,809 

cial institutions 69,417 Premises and fixtures ... 191,744 
Demand deposits 1,865,793 Other accounts ... wee: 205,230 
Time deposits 1,264,234 
Loans received ... 663,511 
Other accounts ... 197,092 

£P.4,982,236 £P.4,982,236 





13. In addition to the 71 societies which were struck off the 
Register as stated in paragraph 8 above, 41 societies, which 
went into liquidation in previous years, completed their 
liquidation and were cancelled. 


General. 


14. The following statements show the position of the co 
operative movement at the end of 1938 as compared with the 
periods ending 1937 and 1936:— 


Total number of active socreties— 








1938. 1937. 1936. 
Jewish ... ae wise se ie 882 871 770 
Arab sets dee bes act aie 123 127 74 
German ... ae ee ‘0% seis 5 5 5 
Others... ote i sists as 2 3 3 
Total 1,012 1,006 852 
Total number of societies 1n liquidation— 

Jewish ... is bat “as eh 82 86 64 
Arab... as sisls eas sists 12 10 5 
. Total... sd 94 96 69 

Total number of societies struck off the Register 

(not including societies in liquidation) — 

Jewish ... She pis aie cue 207 133 105 
Arab es wks he = Sais 13 8 6 
Others... sue Sex dies As 2 — = 
eee ere 
Total... ie 222 ‘  -I4I III 


305 
Classification of active societies— 
I. Credit and Thrift Societies— 


(a) Urban ... ae es ee 58 52 49 
(b) Rural ... oe wee Se 178 185 126 
Il. Agricultural Societies— 

(a) Settlement societies ... _~ 208 IQI 169 
(6) Marketing societies ... sae 59 55 34 
(c) Irrigation societies... bok 59 61 55 
(d2) General agricultural societies 37 32 29 
(e) Agricultural insurance societies 5 5 3 

(f) Agricultural contracting 
societies ma ae Mis 6 5 5 

(g) Miscellaneous agricultural 
societies ws ar seas 12 15 14 

III. Diverse Societies— 

(a) Co-partnerships of labour ... 131 145 145 
(b) Contracting societies... oe Ke) 11 9 
(c) Housing societies ee ve 172 177 153 
(2) Consumers’ societies ... os 59 56 48 
(e) Mutual insurance societies ... 2 3 3 
(f) Audit Unions ... ~~ a 6 6 5 
(g) Miscellaneous societies a 10 7 5 
Totals... we «1,012 1,006 ' 852 


XXIX.—CIVIL AVIATION. 


The construction of the terminal building at Lydda Airport 
: been retarded by labour difficulties arising out of the dis- 
a : condition of the country. Until this building is 

mpieted, the full facilities for aerial navigation which will 
: feeble When it is in use cannot be provided. These 
for nj Si will include wireless direction-finding, and lghting 
: Wgnt arrivals and departures by aircraft. The terminal 
Gis 6 Will include offices for the Departments of Immigration, 
meteoroh ‘tealth, Police and Aviation. A_ fully-equipped 
will aso Po section and weather-forecasting organization 
Drov; fed Ps accommodated in the building, and offices will be 
and dinj Or the air transport companies. Lounges, bedrooms 
passen g-rooms will be included for the convenience of the 
a bers &@nd crews of aircraft. A restaurant will be available 

Stors to the Airport and for the Airport staff. 


re poteased use of Haifa Airport has been made during the 
the 7 Pa Airlines, Palestine Airways and the aircraft of 
Propose | €troleum Company. The Ala Littoria Company 
On their iN Ttuture to use land-machines instead of flying-boats 
achi og SENS service between Italy and Palestine, and their 
ls made wul use Haifa Airport, when the contemplated change 
Fotce hz S a temporary measure, a camp of the Royal Air 
as been established at this Airport. 


306 


3. The regular air services operating in, to and _ through 
Palestine are as follows:— 


Imperial Airways, Ltd.—Three services a week in each 
direction between Southampton and Singapore by flying-boats 
calling at Tiberias. 


Two services a week in each direction between Southampton 
and Alexandria by flying-boat, and thence to Calcutta by 
land-machines calling at Lydda. 


K.L.M.—Three services a week in each direction between 
Amsterdam and the Dutch East Indies. These services call 
at Lydda, and are extended to Australia twice weekly by the 
K.N.I.L.M. 


Lot.—Maintain a service between Lydda and Warsaw thrice 
weekly in each direction in summer and twice weekly in each 
direction in winter. 


Ala Littoria.—This company Ue at present a service by 
seaplanes between Italy and Haifa thrice weekly in each 
direction. 


Misr Airlines.—A daily service is maintained between Egypt 
and Palestine. In addition a service between Egypt and ‘Iraq 
via Lydda is run twice weekly, and for three months in the 
summer a connection with Cyprus is maintained once a week. 


Palestine Airways Litd.—This Company maintains a service 
between Tel Aviv, Haifa and Beirut. 


This route was opened on the 22nd September, 1938, with 
a service thrice weekly in each direction. e frequency of the 
service was later increased to once daily and then to two services 
daily, in order to meet the volume of traffic resulting from the 
low fare charged and the insecurity of the roads caused by the 
disturbed condition of the country. 


307 
TRANS-JORDAN 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, Etc. 


1. Trans-Jordan is bounded on the west by Palestine, on 
the north by Syria and the Jebel Druze, on the north-east 
by ‘Iraq, and on the east and south by Saudi Arabia. It has 
a desert frontier of about goo kilometres. In length the country 
is some 380 kilometres from north to south and in breadth 
from east to west is 150 kilometres at its broadest. It has an 
area of some 90,000 square kilometres. 


. ae Area and Climate. 


2. Trans-Jordan is divided into two natural zones, the culti- 
vated or rain-fed zone and the uncultivated or dry zone. The 
cultivated zone is that in which the rainfall, in a normal year, 
is sufficient for the raising of cereal crops. The heaviest rainfall 
occurs on the top of the Jordan escarpment, and the cultivated 
zone stretches eastward from this escarpment. The rainfall 
decreases rapidly towards the east, and the width of the culti- 
vated zone in its widest part, i.e., the north, is not more than 
30 miles. This width decreases rapidly towards the south, and 
the zone ultimately tapers a short distance south of Ma’an into 
the southern desert. The area of the cultivated zone is about 
7,700,000 dunums and that of the uncultivated zone about 
82,300,000 dunums. 

The fiscal survey of Trans-Jordan, which was completed 
about six years ago, was sufficiently extended, both to the east 
and the west, as to include land in the eastern desert and on 
the slopes of the Jordan valley which, though usually unculti- 
vated, may be cultivated in years of exceptionally good rainfall. 
The total area covered by the fiscal survey was 10,000,000 
dunums, and the cultivated zone of 7,700,000 dunums falls 
within this larger area covered by the fiscal survey. The area 
which the fiscal survey extended falls into the following 
Classes : — 


(i) The cultivated zone —  Dunums 
(2) Irrigated — ao we ao 260,000 
(6) Vineyards se se on vab 80,000 
(c) Rain-fed cereals si — ae 4,150,000 
(z) Uncultivable land including forests... 2,800,000 
(ec) The Shera... a — loz 440,000 





Total 7,730,000 


(ii) Land bordering the eastern desert and land 2,270,000 
of the Jordan valley slopes. 








Total 10,000,000 





308 


Within the cultivated zone there is an area of 400,000 dunums 
which is in a class by itself. This area is situated at an average 
altitude of goo metres (nearly 3,000 feet) and enjoys a rainfall 
adequate to ensure a good crop. The remainder of the rain-fed 
cereal area is not so favourably situated as regards rainfall 
and moisture. For instance, the crops in the Husn-Remtha 
plain, east of Irbid, and the Madaba plain, south of Amman, 
where the soil is very fertile, frequently suffer from inadequate 
rain and high temperatures, and in some years these adverse 
factors have a disastrous effect on the crops. The Shera lies 
at the southern end of the cultivated zone and is used by the 
Howeitat tribe as their summer grazing ground. The land 
of the Shera rises from about 3,000 feet near Ma’an to nearly 
5,000 feet in the west and south, and it is only in the higher 
ground that the rainfall is at times enough for the cultivation of 
cereal crops. 

The land bordering the desert and along ae at valley 
slopes only gives a crop in a year of exceptionally ample and 
reasonably well distributed rainfall, and the percentage of crop 
failures is exceedingly high. 


3. The desert area comprises some 72,000 square kilometres. 
There are oases at Azraq and Jafar which lie respectively 80 
and 45 kilometres east of the railway line, but, apart from 
these, there are very few water points other than rain-pools. 
The grazing is sufficient, after a year of good rain, to support 
the camels, sheep and goats of the nomads who spend their 
time between the highlands to the west in summer and the 
Wadi Sirhan and the Ghor in winter. 


4. The climate generally is pleasant. In summer the shade 
temperature seldom reaches 100° F. and the nights are always 
cool. In winter it is cold in the uplands and the rain, which 
is often insufficient for the agricultural needs of the country, 
only falls from November to April. Between the rainy days the 
sky is bright, and in the sun and out of the wind it is warm. 
The winter climate in the Ghor is mild and that of Aqaba is most 
attractive, although in both places it is hot and oppressive in 
summer. : 

The High Commissioner. 


5. General Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope,_G.C.B., G.C.M.G., 
C.I.E., D.S.O., was succeeded as High Commissioner for Trans- 
Jordan by Sir Harold Alfred MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., 
with effect from the 3rd March. 


Changes in Personnel, 1938. 

6. A change of Government occurred in September with the 
resignation of the Chief Minister, Ibrahim Pasha Hashem, 
C.B.E., and the members of the Executive Council. . Tewfik 
Pasha Abul Huda, Director of the Agricultural Bank, wes called 


f 





1 


399 


upon by the Amir to form a new Government. With the 
exception of the Chief Minister and the Qadhi el Qudha the 
ror of the Executive Council are Trans-Jordanians by 


Mr. R. S. Champion, O.B.E., Financial Adviser to the Trans- 
Jordan Government, was appointed Assistant British Resident, 
and was succeeded in the post of Financial Adviser by 
a G. H. Shelswell-White, formerly Chief Assistant Secretary, 

ibraltar. 


The Amir Jamil bin Naser, who had held the appointment 
of Rais el Diwan for several years, resigned in August and was 
replaced by Mohamed Bey el Unsi. 


Public Security. 


_7. Having regard to the identity of race, language and 
interests between the people of Trans-Jordan and the Arabs of 
Palestine it is satisfactory to record that internal security in the 
country showed no signs of deterioration in 1938 as compared 
_ with previous years, except in the Ghor where the hydrographic 
survey had to be stopped. The schedule of principal crimes 
occurring during the past five years which is given in 
Chapter VIII of this Report indicates that the conduct of the 
people of Trans- Jordan was little affected by events in Palestine. 
The order and tranquillity in Trans-Jordan are in no small 
measure due to the wise rule of His Highness the Amir and to 
the determination of his Government to suppress every incipient 

rder. These happy results were not obtained without 
constant vigilance by the Administration against subversive 
elements outside the country. It is probable that the Report 
of the Palestine Partition Commission and the renewed hope 
of a favourable solution of the Palestine problem which people 
saw in the abandonment of partition and in the summoning of 
re ieee Conferences also contributed to the maintenance 


8. There were twelve incursions by armed bands into Trans- 
Jordan from Palestine of which five occurred in November. 
© most serious were the wanton attack on a survey camp in 
€ Jordan valley on the 22nd August when three surveyors 
were killed, and armed raids on police posts at Kreimeh in 
ay, and at El Rumman and Shunet Nimrin in November, in 
of which police rifles and horses were stolen. 


The authorities have been at pains, and with some success, 
© instil into the people the conviction that such incursions must 
actively resisted and that the peaceful conditions and relative 
Toeety which good administration has secured for Trans- 
Dt during recent years must not be jeopardized by the 
Pread of disorder from across the Jordan. 
15774 . 


310 


By these means active participation in disturbance in 
Palestine has been kept to a minimum; and while every Trans- 
Jordanian is strongly sympathetic towards the Arab cause in 
Palestine, prudence and wisdom have continued to prevail. For 
the same reason the sense of contentment with present condi- 
tions, which is daily strengthened by the visible contrast 
provided by Palestine and Syria, has proved an effective barner 
against the somewhat half-hearted attempts by Trans- Jordanian 
dissidents in Damascus to create disorders in the country. 


g. In addition to an economic strike of car and garage owners 
in August, which was called off immediately, there were a few 
political strikes in the principal towns, notably in June on the 
arrival of the Palestine Partition Commission, in July after 
bomb outrages in Haifa, and in November (in Amman) on the 
occasion of the funeral of a notable’s son who had joined the 
bandits and been killed in Palestine. None was accompanied 
by disturbance. 

The ‘Iraq Petroleum Company pipe-line was punctured on 
two occasions in the Jordan valley: there were five cases of 
sabotage to telephone lines and one of arson of a large quantity 
of asphalt for road surfacing. 


10. Several changes were made during the course of the year 
in the disposition of security and military forces. In July the 
Jordan valley on both sides of the river was constituted a single 
military tactical area, and the headquarters of the Trans- Jordan 
Frontier Force were moved to Jisr el Majamie, a detachment 
being placed at Kreime, east of the river in Trans- Jordan. 

The Reserve of the Arab Legion was increased from I15 to 
160 of whom 8o are desert and 8o rural police; and a supple- 
mentary ‘force consisting of 284 reserve police and 50 desert 
police was formed for temporary service in the Arab Legion 
during the disturbances. 


11. The international crisis in the autumn was watched with 
anxiety in Trans-Jordan, but had no direct repercussions on the 
security situation save still further to charge the atmosphere in 
which dispositions had to be made to meet developments in the 
local situation. 


12. The Explosives Law came into force on the 1st March: it 
provides:— - 


(1) that with the exception of retail purchases from a 
licensed dealer no person shall import, transport, possess, 
purchase, sell or otherwise deal in any explosive substance 
except under a licence to do so; 

(2) that no person other than a licensed dealer shall 
purchase or otherwise obtain any explosive substance 
except from a licensed dealer and unless he has obtained 
from the licensing authority a permit to do so; 


Sc a WRT Cpe ee a ee pC A ie a pe Nr 


311 


(3) that two months from the coming into force of the 
law all explosives in the possession of any person must be 
declared, when they will either be een or taken over 
by the Government at the market price; 


(4) that amongst the other penalties any person using 
any explosive substance with the intention of endangering 
life or of causing destruction of property shall be punished 
with hard labour for a term not exceeding 15 years. 


Constitution and Legislature. 


33. The Constitution of the Amirate of Trans-Jordan is 
embodied in the Organic Law of 1928. His Highness the Amir 
Abdulla Ibn Hussein, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., the second son of 
His late Majesty King Hussein (formerly King of the Hejaz) 
is the Amir of Trans-Jordan and exercises authority through an 
Executive Council composed of the Chief Minister, appointed 
by the Amir, who presides, and other members, not exceeding 
five in number, appointed by the Amir on the recommendation 
of the Chief Minister, either from among the principal officers 
of the Administration or the elected representatives of the people. 


The Mandatory responsibilities of His Majcsty’s Government 
are'discharged by means of the Agreement of 1928 between His 
Majesty the King and His Highness the Amir, as amended by 
be aa of 1934. (See pages 238 and 239 of the Report 
OF 1934. 


The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by a British 

ésident acting under the direction of the High Commissioner 
for Trans-Jordan (who is also the High Commissioner for 
P alestine). The British Resident lives at Amman and is assisted 
by two British officials and a small clerical staff. 


Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Council with 
His Highness the Amir. The Legislative Council consists of :— 


(a) sixteen representatives elected in accordance with the 
Electoral Law, which has regard to the proper representa- 
ton of minorities; and 


(b) the Chief Minister and other members of the Execu- 
ve Council not being elected representatives. 


ne Electoral Law provides that the sixteen elected members 
Ci comprise nine Moslem Arabs, three Christian Arabs, two 
iTcassians, and two nomad Beduin. 


he oTmally the Council has one annual session which lasts for 
Com months from the 1st November. The duration of the 
to neil is three years, but His Highness the Amir has power 
Prorogue or dissolve it in accordance with the law. 
15774 L 2 


312 


The election of members is conducted by primary and 
secondary elections. Every male Trans-Jordanian, not being a 
Beduin, who has attained the age of 18 is entitled to vote at 
the primary elections, and any person may be elected as a 
secondary elector provided he is on the register of primary 
electors for his particular district. 


14. There are no political parties in Trans-Jordan within the 
ordinary meaning of the word, and elections are influenced less 
by clear-cut political ideas than by approbation or disapproba- 
tion of the conduct of members of the Government or of the 
Legislature. In this sense, the keenness of the elections for the 
present Legislative Council (to which reference was made on 
page 302 of the Report of 1937) represented the widespread per- 
sonal interest taken in candidates, rather than any awakening 
of political consciousness. 


15. The first ordinary session of the fourth Legislative Coun- 
cil terminated at the end of January, 1938. The second ordinary 
session was convened on the rst November and after an adjourn- 
ment for the month of Ramadhan and the succeeding Feast, the 
Council re-assembled on the rst December until the 31st of the 
month when it was prorogued on account of the departure of the 
Chief Minister to attend the London Conferences. 


16. The following important legislation was enacted during 
the year :— 


(a) The Organic Law (Amendment) Law, No. 21 of 1938 
(see paragraph 14 on page 301 of the Annual Report for 


1937), the most important provisions of which are as 
follows :— 


(1) Article 41 of the Principal Law is repealed and 
the following substituted therefor : — 


‘‘ 41. His Highness the Amir-in-Council shall have power when 
the Legislative Council is not sitting to enact such Ordinances as 
may be necessary on any subject. These Ordinances which shall 
not contravene the terms of the Organic Law shall have the force 
of law and shall be submitted to the Legislative Council at the 
beginning of its next session. Provided, however, that Ordinances 
passed for the purpose of securing the fulfilment of the treaty 
obligations of His Highness the Amir shall not be so submitted. 

‘Tf the Legislative Council shall not pass at its said session 
any such Ordinance so submitted, the same shall, unless His 
Highness-in-Council shall decide to withdraw the same, again 
be submitted at the beginning of the subsequent session. In the 
event of an Ordinance being so withdrawn, or if at such subsequent 
session the Legislative Council shall again not pass the same, His 
Highness the Amir-in-Council shall forthwith notify the cessation 
thereof and from the date of such notification such Ordinance 
shall cease to be in force. 

‘‘ In the event of the Legislative Council proposing at any session 
amendments to an Ordinance and of His Highness the Amir-in- 
Council agreeing to such amendments, the Ordinance as amended 
shall have the force of law. 


313 
“* In the event of the Legislative Council refusing to pass any 
Law placed before it with a view to securing the fulfilment of the 
treaty obligations of His Highness the Amir, His Highness-in- 
Council shall have the power to enact the necessary legislation in 
the form of an Ordinance which shall not be submitted to the 
Legislative Council. 2 
‘‘ Ordinances shall take effect in the same way as Laws as 
provided in Article 38 hereof.’’ 


(2) The following sentence has been added to the 


end of Article 48(1) of the Principal Law :— 


** Matters regarding personal status are those matters which in 
the case ef Moslems are assigned to the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
Moslem Courts.”’ 


(3) (a) The last paragraph of Article 50 of the Prin- 
cipal Law is repealed. 
(b) Articles 52, 53, and 54 of the Principal Law are 

7 ea and the following Articles substituted there- 

oS 

._‘' 52. Religious Community Councils shall be the Councils of such 
non-Moslem Religious Communities as are or shall be recognized by 
the Government as being established in Trans-Jordan.”’ 

‘* 53. Religious. Community Councils shall be composed in the 
manner provided in special Laws regulating the same. Such Laws 
shall define their jurisdiction whether exclusive or otherwise 
regarding such matters of personal status as may be assigned to 
them by the said Laws, and regarding waqfs constituted for the 
exclusive benefit of the community concerned. Matters of personal 
status are matters which in the case of Moslems are assigned to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the Moslem Courts.’’ 

‘‘ 54. Such Laws shall also determine the procedure to be 
followed and the fees to be levied by the Religious Community 
Councils.’’ 

(c) The Religious Community Councils Law, No. 

22 of 1938, amends and re-enacts a former law for rea- 

sons largely arising out of the amendments to the’ 

Organic Law. 

(d) The Municipal Law, No. 9 of 1938, amends and 
codifies previous. municipal legislation. 

(e) The Explosives Law, No. 12 of 1938, regulates 
the possession, sale and purchase of explosives. 

(f) The Roads Law, No. 15 of 1938, deals with 
control over and encroachments upon public roads. 

Other notable legislation or administrative acts are referred 
to elsewhere in this Report. 


Administrative Affairs. 

17. The country is divided into the Desert Area, and four 
Districts, namely: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, and Ma’an, with head- 
quarters respectively at Irbid, Amman, Kerak, and Ma’an. 

Ajlun, the ancient Gilead, is bounded on the north by the 
River Yarmuk and on the south by the Wadi Zerka, and is 
divided into the sub-districts of Ajlun, Irbid, Jerash, Deir Abu 
Said and Samar. 


15774 L 3 


314 

Belqa, the ancient Ammon, hes between the Wadi Zerka and 
the Wadi Mojib (the Arnon), and is divided into the sub-dis- 
tricts of Amman, Salt and Madaba. 

Kerak, the ancient Moab, lies to the south of the Belqa and 
includes the sub-district of Tafileh. 

Ma’an is the most southerly of the four districts, and includes 
Le villages of Shobek (Montreal) and Aqaba and the ruins of 

etra. 

District Administrative Officers have no magisterial powers 
except under the Tribal Courts Law of 1936, but it is on their 
recommendation that the Collective Punishment Law and the 
Prevention of Crime Law would be brought into operation. 

The duties of District Administrative Officers include the re- 
sponsibility for tax collection, the examination of demands for 
tax remission under the Land Tax Law and the application of 
relief so granted, and the execution of the provisions of the 
Protection of Crops and Plants Law. 

District Administrative Officers administer their districts with 
the help of an Administrative Council which sits under their 
presidency and is composed, in addition to the President, of two 
official and four non-official members, the latter being selected 
by a committee presided over by the Administrative Officer and 
composed of two Government officials, the President and Mem- 
bers of the Municipal Council, the Heads of religious communi- 
ties and the Mukhtars. When the male Christian population of 
the area exceeds 500 persons, one of the selected members must 
be a Christian, and when the number exceeds 1,000, two mem- 
bers must be Christians. 


18. The classified and unclassified officials of the Trans- Jordan 
Government other than British, including the officers of the Arab 
Legion, but excluding other ranks, number 927, are classified 
as follows:— 


539 Arabs born in Trans-Jordan. 
68 Circassians born in oe. 
313, Arabs born outside Trans- Jordan. 
I Circassian born outside Trans-Jordan. 
1 Yugo-Slavian. 
3 Greeks. 
1 Italian. 
I German. 


The 313 Arabs born outside Trans- Jordan include: — 
Ir Inpolitanians. 
12 Hejazis. 
17 Turks. 
60 Syrians. 
130 Palestinians. 
75 Lebanese. 
8 Egyptians. 


315 
The British Staff of the Government is as follows:— 


The Judicial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, drafts all laws and regulations, and 
supervises their translation into English; advises the Gov- 
ernment in legal matters; advises the Minister of Justice; 
ls a member of the Senior Judicial Council which is con- 
cerned in the appointment and discipline of officials of the 
Judicial Department, and is a member of the Diwan Khas 
which decides questions regarding the interpretation of laws 
or regulations. , 

The Financial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, prepares the annual Estimates of 
Revenue and Expenditare, advises the Government on 
matters of revenue collection and expenditure, ensures com- 
pliance with the Financial Regulations, and is in close touch 
with the Treasurer. 

The Officer Commanding the Arab Legion, who is in 
executive command of the Arab Legion and is a member 
of the Tribal Court of Appeal. 

The Second in Command of the Arab Legion, who is in 
charge of the Desert Area wherein he has the powers of a 
Mutessarrif under the Tribal Courts Law, 1936, and the 
powers in regard to nomads granted to the Officer Com- 
ae the Arab Legion under the Beduin Control] Law, 
1936. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of motor 
transport. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of musketry. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion, who is Traffic Inspector 
and Registrar of Vehicles. 

The Director of Lands, who is in charge of Land 
Registry, Survey, Land Settlement and Partition and State 
Domains, and Forestry. 

The Assistant Director of Lands. 

The Director of Customs, Trade and Industry, who is also 
President of the Tenders Board. 

The Chief Curator of Antiquities, on whose advice the 

rector acts in all matters requiring expert technical 

owledge. 

The Chief Audit Examiner, who audits the accounts of 
ae omens the Municipalities and the Agricultural 

The Chief Forest Ranger, who is responsible under the 

rector of Lands for the conservation of forests. 

The Bacteriologist, who acts as Director of Health in the 
atter’s absence. 

The Medical Officer in charge of the desert mobile unit. 
5774 L 4 


316 


In addition to the foregoing British Officers, there are the 
Director of Development, one English Driller, and a British 
_ Survey Officer of the Land Development, who are paid from 
a grant made by the Colonial Development Fund. 


19. Anew Municipal Law, designed to consolidate and, where 
necessary, elucidate previous legislation was enacted at the 
beginning of the year and came into force on the Ist April. 
During the course of the year a number of regulations under 
the new law were issued, notably with regard to municipal 
elections, powers of municipal councils, control over streets and 
buildings, and collection of Octrol; and the preparation of other 
Regulations required to bring municipal legislation up to date, 
including those relating to finance, auctions, tenders and stores, 
was continued by the Government. 


Neither municipal councils under the new Law, nor existing 
village councils have judicial powers; nor have the latter any 
formal legal standing or jurisdiction, although their executive 
duties are considerable, extending to marking out the land in 
villages where it is held in Masha’ tenure, in dividing among 
individual taxpayers the tax assessed as payable by the whole 
village, and in assisting in the distribution amongst the different 
persons who own a block of land, according to the degree of 
loss suffered by each, of any remission of taxation which may 
have been granted in respect of that block on account of crop 
failure. These duties no longer exist in respect of villages in 
which land settlement has been completed. 


20. Trans-Jordan has maintained satisfactory relations with 
her neighbours and in the desert public security has been excel- 
lent. In only one instance was there risk of an incident, when 
a small section of the Beni Sakhr tribe threatened forcibly to 
disturb the course of the land settlement in the Madaba area. 
Prompt and sudden disciplinary action by security forces 
immediately restored order; and the result has been the enhance- 
ment of Government’s prestige. 


Tribal Affairs. 


21. The Tribal Courts Law, which was enacted in 1924, set 
up mixed Courts of officials and: tribal sheikhs to deal, in first 
instance and on appeal, with the following matters:— 


(a) Cases of aggression and differences in regard to 
movable property and matters of ‘‘ blood ’’ and questions 
of compensation and guarantees relating thereto, arising 
between nomadic tribes and groups of members of non- 
nomadic tribes. 


(b) Cases of ‘‘ honour ’’ between nomadic tribes or their 
members. 


317 
(c) Cases of horse partnerships ‘provided that, if the 
agreement of partnership between the parties was in a 


sat document, the case should be decided by the Civil 
ourts. 


_ (d) Cases of compensation for blood when the defendant 
Ilsa member of a nomadic tribe or a person who ordinarily 
follows the customs of nomadic tribes. 


22. This Law was never rane | operated and in 1929 
the Beduin Control Law was enacted. This set up a Beduin 
Control Board, with powers to hear actions within the jurisdic- 
hon of the Tribal Courts and to withdraw and deal with any 
acon pending in a Tribal Court, and also powers:— 
Uy) to determine the places in which nomads shall camp, 
an 
(2) to investigate any raids or other breaches of the peace 
in which nomads were concerned 


whether occurring before or after passing of the Law and 
wherever the same might have taken place. 


23. In 1931, the desert areas of Trans-Jordan were placed 
under the effective administrative control of an officer of the 
Arab Legion, and by the Tribal Offences (Settlement) Law, 
1933, the Beduin Control Board, of which this officer was a 
member, delegated to him the authority granted to the Board 
under (1) and (2) above, with powers of punishment not exceed- 
ing three months imprisonment or 4P.5 fine. 


_The former President of the Beduin Control Board, His 
Highness the Amir Shaker, who died in 1934 has not been 
replaced, and a new set of Tribal Laws was drawn up and 
enacted in February, 1936, in the form of— 

The Tribal Courts Law, 1936. 

The Tribal Court of Appeal Law, 1936. 

The Beduin Control Law, 1936. 


24. The first of these three Laws constituted a Tribal Court in 
each of the four administrative districts and in the desert area as 
well. A Tribal Court is composed of one or three judges selected 
th. the Parties to the case from a panel of Sheikhs drawn up by 

€ Administrative Officer in charge of the District (the Mutes- 
sarrif) and approved by His Highness the Amir. 

Tribal Courts have jurisdiction : — 


(a) in all cases of whatever nature between members of 
the nomadic tribes with the exception of:— 
_ (1) cases relating to the ownership and possession of 
immovable property ; 
2) cases which, in the opinion of the Mutessarrif, 
Should be referred to the Civil Courts; 


318 


(6) in all cases of compensation for blood, honour and 
horse partnerships, except where the agreement has been 
reduced to writing, in circumstances where the Mutessarrif is 
of opinion that the partiés by ancient custom follow tribal 
procedure, if such cases occur between members of nomadic 
and non-nomadic tribes or between members of non- 
nomadic tribes. 


25. The judgment of the court must be sent to the Mutessarrif 
who may order its execution by the Arab Legion or refer the 
matter back to the Court for further ee or apps to 
the Tribal Court of Appeal or, in a criminal case, order the 
guilty party to be punished with a fine not exceeding £2.20 or 
imprisonment for a year. In cases where the value of the sub- 
ject matter is more than £P.50, or the sentence is imprisonment 
for more than three months or a fine of £P.10, the parties have 
the nght to appeal to the Tribal Court of Appeal. 

Under this system, whereby a case is tried and decided by a 
court of Sheikhs, it is possible to administer justice in a manner 
which could not be achieved by a Court of which a Government 
official is a member since the tnbal Sheikhs are intimately 
acquainted with the affairs of local litigants and are thus in a 
position readily to judge the truth or otherwise of the submis- 
sions made to them. 


26. The jurisdiction of the Court is now more strictly limited 
than before in dealing with cases of compensation for blood, 
honour and horse partnerships, and this is important as it would 
be improper, for example, to allow a townsman who had killed 
a man to appear before a Tribal Court and have the matter 
settled by the payment of blood money. 


27. The Beduin Control Law allows the officer of the Arab 
Legion in charge of the Desert Area to control the movements of 
the nomads and to deal summarily with cases of raiding, whether 
they occur in Trans-Jordan or elsewhere, and to arrest and 
impound the movable property of nomads suspected of 
preparing for a raid. 


28. The work of these Tribal Courts during the year is illus- 
trated by the following figures : — 
Ajlun Belqa Kerak Ma’'an Desert 


Court. Court. Court. Court. Cotrt. 
Cases brought forward 22 22 20 14 —— 
Cases heard ... ia 31 34 32 48 352 
Cases finished sen 13 45 28 20 320 
Appeals a 4 5 I —_— — 
Cases carried forward 40 II 23 42 32 


29. The progress made in encouraging nomads to take up 
cultivation has been considerable within the past two years. It 
is not the ultimate purpose of Government to transform the 
bedouin completely into settled cultivators, for while the breed- 
ing of livestock remains a necessary and useful occupaticn, 


319 

nomadism will continue to be essential to its profitable pursuit in 
such a country as eastern Trans-Jordan, with its sparse grazing 
and uncertain rainfall. Moreover the bedouin are experts in 
the breeding of livestock and form a class who afford a valuable 
contribution to the economic life of Trans-Jordan. The objects 
of the encouragement of bedouin cultivation are briefly (a) to 
broaden the basis of their economy and to prevent the whole 
of their livelihood depending upon one somewhat fickle form of 
capital, and (b) to give them a fixed stake in immovable property 
in the country, which will be not only an economic insurance but 
also a social anchorage. It is satisfactory that at the present 
time not only every tribe but every section of every tribe in 
Trans- Jordan has been put into possesion of a certain amount of 
cultivation. 


Economic Affairs. 


30. The agricultural season 1938 after a most hopeful begin- 
ning proved to be most disappointing in respect of the winter 
cereal crops which provide the bulk of the country’s agricultural 

roduce. Wheat, and to a less extent barley, already affected 

y an unequal rainfall, suffered extensive damage by rust 
throughout the country; and remissions on account of crop 
failure, which afford a measure of harvest results generally, were 
in the neighbourhood of £P.16,000 as compared with approxi- 
mately £P.8,500 in the previous year. Cereal prices were, how- 
ever, maintained at a satisfactory level, and with this factor, and 
the excellent agricultural results of the previous year, the 
economic situation of the cultivators nowhere became serious, 
and no works were provided specifically for relief. | Labour 
demanded by the Military Authorities on the Haifa—Baghdad 
Road Construction work in Trans-Jordan, and by the Depart- 
ment of Public Works on road construction in the Ajlun District 
and at the Wadi Mojih has, however, provided welcome 
assistance. | 


3z. On the 1st August car and garage owners in Trans-Jordan 
called a strike in protest against the disproportionately high 
burden of taxation borne by the industry. The strike was called 
off immediately on the issue of an undertaking by the Govern- 
ment that the grievances would be actively considered; and after 
negotiations which lasted during the remainder of the year, it 
was decided to grant a reduction of various fees which are 
estimated to afford relief of approximately £P.2,500 a year. 


32. With the great simplification of procedure for the appli- 
cation for, and issue of, agricultural loans which has been 
effected, the operations of the Agricultural Bank have been 
much improved. The preparation of a new Agricultural Bank 
Law and Regulations thereunder has continued to receive con- 
sideration but was not completed. A valuable report on the 
activities Of the Bank, which contains a survey of its history 
from its initiation under the Ottoman régime up to the end of the 


320 


financial year 1937-8 was written by Tewfik Pasha Abul Huda 
(the former Director, now Chief Minister) and issued in August. 
The Report shows the capital of the Agricultural Bank to have 
increased from £P.15,500 in 1922-3 to £P.69,000 in 1937-8; and 
the benevolence of its operation appears from the fact that the 
value of lands in its possession amounts only to some £P.3,000, 
a considerable part of which represents land which is being 
re-acquired by borrowers under easy terms provided by the law. 


33. It is indicated in the chapter of this Report relating to 
Customs, Trade and Industry that trade between Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan, which was much reduced in 1936 and revived 
somewhat in 1937, continued firm. Customs Revenue, which 
rose from £P.104,434 in 1936 to £P.118,405 in 1937, dropped to 
Z£P.113,057, the decrease representing principally revenue on 
direct imports. Statistics for 1938 show that the sum payable by 
Palestine to Trans-Jordan on account of duty paid in Palestine 
on foreign goods re-exported for consumption in Trans- Jordan 
will not be less than that paid in 1937. 


34. The export of Trans-Jordan raisins for the European 
market, which began encouragingly in 1937 and of which much 
was expected, did not substantially increase in 1938, owing to 
transport difficulties in Palestine. 


Agriculture, Forests and Lands. 


35. The Director of the Departments of Agriculture and 
Forests was formerly responsible for the care of all forest areas 
except those acquired by the Government in the course of settle- 
ment operations which were placed under the control of the 
Director of Lands and Survey immediately after they were regis- 
tered as State Domain. The area of forest land to which the 
Government had acquired a clear title during settlement 
amounted at the end of 1937 to 66,000 dunums, and was rapidly 
increasing as settlement proceeded. It was therefore arranged, 
as a logical consequence of the changing situation, to place the 
whole administration of forests owned or controlled by Govern- 
ment in the charge of the Director of Lands, in anticipation of 
the formation of a Sub-Department of Forests which would be 
in the charge of an expert Forest officer. The transfer of control 
was effected on the rst April. By the end of 1938 the area of 
forest and scrub land owned by Government had risen to nearly 
113,000 dunums. 


36. The question of soil erosion and its prevention has been 
actively pursued by the Government. District administrative 
and agricultural officers have done what was possible by warn- 
ing and advice to prevent harmful methods of cultivation and 
to encourage cultivators in anti-erosion practice. The British 
Director of Development prepared a series of lectures on the 


321 


subject which has been issued in pamphlet form and widely 
distributed; and the Department of Education has. also 
co-operated by arranging eae lectures for cultivators at 
village schools and by including the subject in its curriculum. 
There are signs that this campaign of education and propaganda 
is having some effect. 


37. The output of the Department of Lands continued at a 
highly satisfactory level, due to the further maintenance of low 
land values and to expansion in the Department provided both 
by assistance from the Colonial Development Fund and by an 
increase of the local vote which it was happily found possible 
to make in 1938. 


Official Languages. 


38. Under the terms of Article 15 of the Organic Law, Arabic 
is the official language of Trans-Jordan. 


39. The Palestine Partition Commission spent nine days in 
Trans-Jordan in June during which they made extensive tours 
through the cultivated areas of the country. The Commission’s 
Report was published in Trans-Jordan on the 9th November. 

40. His Excellency the High Commissioner paid his first 
forma] visit to His Highness the Amir at Amman on the 15th 
March, on which day the Royal Commission was read with 
appropniate ceremony at the British Residency. 


Holy Days. 


41. The following is a list of the days which are recognized 
as holy days:— 


GENERAL. 

Waafet ‘id el Fitr.... te 30 Ramadan. 
‘Id el Fitr (3 days) ... a 1-3 Shawwal. 
Waafet ‘id el Adha ... oa 9 Dhil Hijja. 
‘Id el Adha (4 days) ... oe 10-13, Dhil Hijja. 
E1 Miraj el Sherif ae 27 Rajab. 
New Year’s Day (Hijira) ... 1 Moharram. 
Mawlad en Nebi _... a I2 Rabi el Awwal. 
Anniversary of Arab Revolt Q Sha‘ban. 
Independence Day ... a 25 May. 

For CHRISTIANS. 
New Year’s Day. Ascension Day. 
Epiphany. Whit Monday. 
Good Friday. Christmas Day. 
Faster Monday. . Boxing Day. 


Christians are also granted the day before and the first day 
of ‘Id el Fitr and the day before and the first day of ‘Id el Adha. 


322 


Weekly Day of Rest. 


Friday is the official day of rest for all officials of whatever 
creed. Christian officials are permitted to leave their work to 
attend their places of worship on Sundays, and on Feast Days 
not recognized as holidays. 


1.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


The Administration of Trans-Jordan is autonomous in its 
nature. 


2. There are Municipal Councils at Irbid, Jerash, Ajlun, 
Amman, Zerqa, Es Salt, Madaba, Kerak, Tafileh, and Ma’an. 


3. Under the terms of the new Municipal Law which came into 
force on the Ist April, each Municipal Council contains a 
majority of elected members, the remainder, including the Presi- 
dent and certain persons having official status, such as the 
Medical Officer, the Engineer and the Veterinary Officer, being 
nominated by the Chief Minister. This procedure is made 
necessary by the dearth of prospective candidates for election 
who have adequate technical knowledge or experience in munici- 
pal administration, and by the consideration that the Presidents 
of the Councils, thus chosen, and being independent of the 
electorate, will be able to act more energetically in the perform- 
ance of their duties. 


4. One Municipal Council has so far been reconstituted under 
the new arrangements, the other Councils are to be dealt with 
as and when the necessity arises. 


5. Following the example of the Electoral Law for the Legis- 
lative Council, provision is made in the Municipal Law that the 
number of seats for elected members shall be allotted between 
Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems in proportion to the 
male adult population for each community. 


6. A general municipal rate was provided in the new Munici- 
pal Law in the form of a tax on land and buildings at a rate, to 
be fixed from time to time by the Executive Council, not exceed- 
ing 5 per cent. of the rental value of the property. The present 
rate adopted is 5 percent. This tax is the only municipal charge 
upon property owners under the law apart from those which by 
their nature concern only the individuals directly affected 
thereby. 


7. In 1937 a separate Law was enacted providing for the 
imposition of an education rate, not exceeding 3 per cent. on the 
rental value of immovable property in such municipal areas as 
should be selected by the Executive Council. The effect and 
results of the imposition of this rate are explained in the Chapter 
relating to Education. 


323 
11.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


The control of travel to and from Trans-Jordan is the duty of 
a special section of the Arab Legion. The following table indi- 
the work of this section during the years 1936, 1937 and 
1938 :— 

1936. 1937. 1938. 


New passports issued ee se 790 715 1,156 
Emergency visas issued os or 326 597 844 
Ordinary visas issued ... ss dak 94 117 174 
Return visas issued ... ais Sissi 47 93 233° 
Foreign passports registered ... .. 2,040 2,668 3,435 
Endorsements ... a sae eae 119 251 400 
Passport contraventions passed to 560 g68 ~=—s:i1, 162 
court 
Trans-Jordan passports renewed ... 424 434 452 


Temporary passports issued to ‘Iraq 300 250 250 
Petroleum Co. 


The notable increase in the number of passport transactions 
during 1938 was the result of stricter control of movement 
between Trans-Jordan and Palestine and necessitated the 
appointment of three additional passport control officers for 
duty at the bridges which cross the Jordan. 


2. The labour market which formerly existed in Palestine for 
men who were unable to find work in Trans-Jordan at the end 
of the harvest or the ploughing season, or in years of drought, 
remained closed as the result of the enforcement of rigid immi- 
gration control measures by the Palestine Government. Extra- 
ordinary travel restrictions imposed by the Military Authority 
in Palestine during 1938 have also reduced migration to a 
minimum. 


3. For the purpose of ensuring a closer contro] over persons 
entering Trans-Jordan, an order was made under the Passport 
Law, and came into force on the 17th September, requiring 
habitual residents of Palestine to obtain visas for direct entry 
into Trans-Jordan. Such visas are given by the Palestine 
Department of Migration in Jerusalem. 


ji11.—LANDS. 
General. 


1. The new offices of the Department of Lands and Surveys in 
course of erection last year were completed and occupied in 
August. The building includes special fireproof accommodation 
for land settlement records. 


324 


2. The expenditure of the Department of Lands and Surveys 
since the amalgamation of the Departments of Survey, Land 
Registry and State Domain in 1929 1s shown below: — 


£P 
1929 i Sie oe .22 10,937 
1930 ates ae Se ... 13,464 
1931 ed a ae ws 14,402 
1932 nea sate aan ... 14,164 
1933 Se Sars ee .»» 14,744 
1934 aia age i ... 15,718 
1935 sees ie vis .. 16,331 
1936 oon Sig ae .». 20,600 
1937 eat ws 22,438 
1938 (Estimated) Jigs .. 29,934 


Land Settlement. 

3. The Land Settlement Law enacted in 1933 has now been 
applied to 140 villages covering an area of 1,935,000 dunums. - 

The cultivated zone of the country comprises 450 villages 
covering an area of 7,700,000 dunums. With the present rate of 
progress it is estimated that land settlement will be completed 
in 1947. 

The areas partitioned and settled annually are as follows: — 


Masha’s land, Mafruz land. Total. 

dunums. dunums. dunums. 

1933 (5 aca, 17,540 18,363 35.903 
1934 - 155,070 39,139 194,209 
1935 «.. 268,954 31,006 299,960 
1936 ... 269,809 48,352 318,161 
1937 ... 291,225 61,237 352,462 
1938 ... 334,735 74,685 409,420 
Totals 1,337,333 272,782 1,610,115 


In 1938 the cost of settlement and survey amounted to 41 mils 
per dunum, as compared with 42 mils in 1937; 


4. The following data have been compiled \from records of 
work completed in 1938:— . 


Villages settled . wa Sea 36 ‘\ 
Claims recorded... as »» 14,737 2 
Number of appeals age o 218 ~ 
Appeals allowed sats ae 51 


There are no appeals outstanding. 

The attendance of the Land Settlement Court in public at ach 
village minimises frivolous claims and facilitates their amiczhle 
settlement. During the year, the Court visited 23 villages, aid 
the sittings occupied a total of 67 days. 


5. A grant from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.30, oro 
to be spread over six years for the acceleration of land partitict 
and settlement was approved in 1936. The expansion of the 


325 
Department has been completed and the staff finally trained. 
In view of the success of the scheme a sum of £P.3,960 was 
provided for additional staff in the current estimates to give 
effect to a further acceleration of land settlement. 


6. The Land Settlement Law provides for the settlement of all 
questions or differences in regard to any estate in land, or title 
thereto, or interest therein or any rights connected therewith. 
Such rights and interests are recorded in the schedule of nights 
and subsequently transferred to the land registers. 

The system of registration is based on the Torrens system, and 
adequate provision is made for the accurate recording of subse- 
quent transactions and mutations. 

The total number and value of the properties recorded in the 
mii registers since the commencement of settlement is shown 

ow.: — 





Value 
Number £P 

1934... ve aoe 422 20,987 
1935 «-- me sa 634 51,810 
1936... dors shes 929 §2,171 
1937... sed an “25222 135,391 
1938... re «2. 2,040 137,436 
Totals. 6,247 £P 397,795 





7. The Land Settlement Law provides that land used for 
. general purposes, with the exception of roads, shall be registered 
in the name of the Government on behalf of those who have 
interest therein. This procedure allows the administrative autho- 
rities to settle any dispute or encroachment in respect of public 
land and thus frivolous actions in the Court, often due to village 
intrigue, are avoided. 

The various categories of public land so registered since the 
beginning of settlement are shown below: — 


Categories. Dunums. 
Grazing grounds ... ee : 15,410 
Thrashing floors... pe Se ive sar ae 175 
Springs and watering pools a is siete ses 330 
Cemeteries ... sins fet as 7 ie sik 107 
Village school gardens : ee er ae sae II5 
Land assigned for upkeep of mosque or church ind 276 


8. The following regulation was made under Article 12 of the 
Land Settlement Law:— 


*‘All roads, whether public or private, which are aligned during land 
settlement shall be surveyed and shown on the cadastral maps which are 
prepared during settlement operations. The cadastral map shall be the 
sole document to which reference shall be made in the event of any 
dispute or encroachment affecting public or private roads”. 


This procedure obviates the inclusion of a mass of superfluous 
data im the land registers while safeguarding against encroach- 
ment by landowners on public and private roads. 


326 


g. Evidence of the importance attached to settlement and land 
registration is indicated by the record of transactions in para- 
graph 17 below. The peasant landowner who has suffered 
insecurity of title for so many years now realises the importance 
of a clear title and no case of unregistered disposition has yet 
come to notice in “‘ settled ’’ villages. | 


10. The people are rapidly learning the value of survey and 
demarcation resulting from settlement, and in order to avoid 
expensive litigation they are encouraged to apply for the inspec- 
tion of their properties in cases of encroachment. Inspection is 
carried out by the survey staff of the Land Registry on payment 
of a small fee; during the year 33 cases were referred to the 
a Registry and of these only nine were eventually taken to 

ourt. 


11. As the land registers are indexed on a territorial basis, an 
auxiliary loose-leaf register which records the total] property of 
each landowner is also maintained. | 

The following data have been compiled from these registers of 
proprietors. The figures are recorded to illustrate relative 
holdings and although land prices are at present stable the 
values shown are of course liable to fluctuate: — 

Number. Per cent. 


Holdings of value exceeding £P.300 sare 479 3 
Holdings of value between £P.200-300 ... 750 5 
Holdings of value between {P.100-200 ... 2,082 13 
Holdings of value under £P.100 _.,. .» 12,649 79 


12. Landowning statistics are prepared on completion of settle- 
ment in each village. In view of the high rate of natural 
increase in the population these statistics are maintained up to 
date as changes are recorded in the land registers. The resulting 
figures of distribution of land at the time of settlement and in 
1938 are given below:— 


Number of Number of Number 
Villages land- Average land- Average having sold 
settled owners at holding owners holding total 
during settlement. dunums. in 1938. dunums. property. 
1934 2,769 69 2,905 66 104 
1935 2,221 97 2,280 95 65 
1936 3,946 29, 3,944 29 113 
1937 6,190 40 6,237 39 67 


13. In addition to landowning statistics a record of the num- 
ber of dependants of each landowner and the number of land- 
less persons are compiled by Settlement Officers during the 
preparation of the Schedule of Rights in the village. 


14. Satisfactory progress has been made in securing land for 
State Forest Reserve during settlement operations. During the 
year a further 46,444 dunums of forest and scrub land were 
recorded as State Domain, making a total of 112,814 dunums 
since the inception of land settlement. 


327 


Land Settlement Fees. 


15. Registration and Court fees arising out of settlement from 
the commencement of operations in 1933 to the end of December, 
1938, are as follows :—Payable £P.23,634; Collected £P.5,853; 
Outstanding £P.17,781. 

Registration fees are only collected as and when owners apply 
for certificates of registration or when they desire to effect further 
transactions in the Land Registry. The following is a compara- 
tive statement of the fees and collections thereof, to date, in 
respect of schedule of mghts and of partition passed to the Land 
Registry in each successive year: — 


Vellages 
settled during Payable £P. Collected £P. Per cent. 
1933 459 272 59 
1934 3 3,728 1,235 33 
1935 4,173 1,179 28 
1936 2,557 616 24 
1937 6,796. 1,757 26 
1938 5,921 794 13 


Land Registry. 


16. Transactions passing through the Land Registry nuin- 
bered 10,016 and a sum of £P.5,894 was collected in fees, as 
compared with 9,499 and £P.6,2096, respectively, in the previous 
year. 

17. The following is a comparative statement of Land Registry 
transactions in the Ajlun District where land settlement is in 
progress : — 


Number. Fee £P. 
1934 2,146 1,349 
1935 2,583 1,817 
1936 4,543 2,255 
1937 6,651 4,809 
1938 7,275 4,998 


A duplicate register of rights recorded during settlement and in 
all subsequent transactions is maintained at a central registry 
at Amman as a precaution against loss by fire or otherwise of the 
registers in the districts. The total number of properties entered 
in the registers is 8,391 and the number of mutations and annota- 
tions recorded is 7,564. 


Land Tax. 


18. The Land Tax Law has been introduced throughout the 
country (454 villages), with the exception of 32 villages, where 
the variation between the amount of the old and new tax is 
small enough to allow postponement until the arrival of land 
settlement. The lands of these 32 villages are held in undivided 
ownership (Masha’a) and the method of distribution of the tax 
amongst individuals will not be affected by the new law, so that 
postponement does not adversely affect the owners concerned. 


328 


The Land Tax Law limits the increase in taxation to 
£P.10,000. The assessment of the tax amounts to £P.88,186. 
The assessment of the taxes it has replaced amounts to £P.78,641 
a resulting increase of £P.9,545. 

The limitation of increase to £P.1I0,000 does not apply to 
State Domain which has been sold to the cultivators. The assess- 
ment of the tax on these lands is £P.3,076 so that the gross 
assessment of land tax amounts to £P.91,262. 


19. The loose-leaf register of proprietors referred to in air 
graph 11 above also shows the tax assessment on each land- 
owner, and ensures an expeditious and economical compilation 
of the annual tax Collection Lists in respect of each settled 
village. The tax Collection Lists modified by the calculation of 
remissions on account of failure or partial failure of crops are 
compiled at the central archives at Amman. In “ settled ”’ 
villages the remissions in the last three years were as follows : — 


1936 dee ies ... £P.7,083 affecting 4,958 taxpayers 
1937 or ve ae £P.703 affecting 1,124 taxpayers 
1938 a ais .. £P.2,333 affecting 5,367 taxpayers 


The above figures show the effect of a disastrous agricultural 
season in 1936, an excellent harvest in 1937 and a poor harvest 
in 1938. 

The following data in regard to Land Tax have been com- 
piled from the record of taxpayers in villages where land settle- 
ment has been completed : — 


Number. Per cent. 
Owners paying under /P.1 ... pine 10,581 66 
Owners paying £P.1-2 is Sie 3,103 19 
Owners paying {P.2-3 ._... eu 1,047 7 
Owners paying £P.3-4 ae 567 4 
Owners paying over {P.4__... ick 662 4 


Forests and State Domain. 


20. The Forestry Section of the Department of Agriculture 
was transferred to the Department of Lands and Surveys on 
Ist April, 1938. Hitherto the Director of Agriculture was 
responsible for the control of private forests while State Forests 
to which Government had acquired title during land settlement 
were under the management of the Director of Lands and Sur- 
veys. With the rapidly increasing area of State Forests acquired 
during settlement it was evident that a comprehensive forest 
policy would be simplified by the inauguration of a Sub-Depart- 
ment of Forests of the Department of Lands and Surveys. 


21. Financial stringency made it impossible in previous years 
to exercise an efficient control of wood cutting with the result 
that the supply has always been greater than the demand. Trees 
have been considered valueless and the price of the produce has 
been determined solely by the cost of transport to the place of 


329 

consumption. Under such conditions the people have never 
realized the value of forest produce and landowners were mainly 
interested in converting forest land into cultivable land. The 
administration of forests has been decentralized and all forest 
staff have been attached to the six district offices of the Depart- 
ment of Lands and Surveys. The officials in charge of the 
various offices are responsible for the supervision of forest 
guards, issue of licences and prosecutions for forest offences. 


22. During the year strict control was exercised over all forest 
lands, with the result that fuel and timber prices have risen and 
the economic value of the tree is gradually being stabilised. The 
majority of landowners have been quick to realize that trees 
growing naturally on their properties are of greater benefit than 
inferior crops, and they are now intent on the preservation of 
trees in contrast to indiscriminate clearing for agricultural pur- 
poses. Even more encouraging is the activity of an appre- 
ciable number of landowners who have sown pine seeds and 
acorns in the waste patches within their properties. 


23. The number of prosecutions for forest offences amounted 
to g21 during the year as compared with 393 in 1937. 


24. Forest Revenues totalled £P.1,128 as compared with 
£P.822 in 1937. The estimated value of forest produce sold 
was £P.2,049. | 

25. The following data have been compiled from the records 
of State Forests which have been secured to Government during 
settlement operations : — 








Number. Area. 

Reserves over 1,000 dunums Sie oe 12 26,043 
Reserves 500—1,000 dunums sais sie 27 18,375 
Reserves 100—500 dunums... ses tue, 297 50,686 
Reserves under roo dunums ss wee 471 17,710 
Totals ae keg 27 112,814 








The reserves classified according to density of trees are as 
follows:— 


Thick forests ie cee sai 54 per cent. 
Well timbered... oe ave 18 per cent. 
Scattered trees... sate ats IO per cent. 
Scrub land — 18 per cent. 


This figure of 112,814 dunums represents 7 per cent. of the 
total area settled to date. Excluding the plains, which com- 
prise an area of 81,700 dunums devoted to cereal cultivation 
and unsuitable for afforestation, the percentage of forest is 
14 per cent. 


26. A progressive policy was initiated for the re-afforestation 
of State Forests which have been despoiled in the past although 
a number of root stocks have survived. The total area fenced 
and re-afforestated to date is 2,983 dunums in which 30,000 


330 


trees have been planted. A further 2,000 dunums of scrub 
land have been selected for the planting of 250,000 two-year-old 
seedlings which are now available in the forest nurseries. 

An area of 3,427 dunums has been fenced to permit natural 
regeneration and in addition juniper and pistachio seeds and 
the seeds of indigenous scrub have been freely sown throughout 
the enclosure. 


27. All irrigable State Domain has been sold to the cultivators 
who have developed the land. In all cases a reasonable pur- 
chase price has been fixed, the payment of which has been 
spread over a number of years. Instalments are being paid 
regularly and the lands are being further developed by the 
grantees. 


28. The low ground between the River Jordan and the Jordan 
Plain, which is State Domain, is being leased for development 
by irmgation by means of water pumped from the river. An 
annual rental of 50 mils per dunum is charged. The lessee 
has the nght of purchase at 50 mils per dunum within the 
period of the lease as soon as 75 per cent. of the area is culti- 
vated by irrigation. Six contracts of lease have been concluded 
covering an area of 15,000 dunums. Three contracts have been 
terminated and the land has been finally sold; development is 
proceeding in the three other areas. 


29. During the year various holdings of State Domain, mostly 
- uncultivated, comprising a total area of 22,819 dunums, were 
sold to encourage cultivation and facilitate building. Since the 
completion of survey the proceeds of the sale of State Domain 
are £P.33,102; the average annual rent from the properties sold 
was £P.1,571. Asa result of disposal, the present owners have 
improved the methods of cultivation, and in many instances 
the revenue from land tax exceeds the tithe and rental tithe 
collected prior to disposal. 


Surveys. 


30. Ten students completed their training during the year 
and were appointed to classified posts. On an average 28 sur- 
veyors were engaged on cadastral survey, eight on land settle- 
ment and five in the Land Registries. 

The cadastral survey is carried out on the scale 1/2,500. 
The scale has been reduced to r/10,000 for the survey of a few 
villages comprising large estates in order that land settlement 
may be further accelerated. During the year 512 cadastral plans 
were completed making a total of 1,824 plans since the incep- 
tion of land settlement, details of which are as follows : — 


Average 
Number- Number Area of Parcels. Marks 
ies Pee liar he a 
; ‘  Masha’a Mafruz. 
Masha’a Land aes 572 5,498 55 — 12,436 
Mafruz Land... ae 99 3,181 — 24 8,835 


From commencement 
of settlement .-»  I,QI19 33,398 61 23 79,590 


331 


In ‘‘ mafruz ’’ villages the work of settlement and survey is 
carried out simultaneously. This procedure allows settlement 
officers to delegate the recording of undisputed claims to the 
survey party, expedites the work, and in addition enables the 
surveyor to acquire experience in land settlement. Index maps 
on a scale 1/10,000 are made of each village by reduction from 
the 1/2,500 cadastral maps. These are primarily for use in the 
Land Registry but are also on sale to the public. 


31. A contour survey on a scale of 1/10,000 with a vertical 
interval of one metre is being carried out in the Rift Valley. 
The survey will cover all potentially irrigable land on the east 
side of the River Jordan and south-east of the Dead Sea. 


All field work has been suspended owing to continued un- 
settled conditions in the Jordan Valley. 


The following is a summary of the work completed : — 


Precise Levelling—78 kilometres: 31 bench marks. 
Secondary Levelling—673 kilometres: 66 bench marks. 
Contouring—165,792 dunums. 

Final plans—42,870 dunums. 


The total area to be contoured is estimated at 450,000 dunums. 


32. The Major Triangulation of Palestine has been extended 
across the Jordan Valley and both third and fourth Order 
triangulation work has been commenced to provide a closer 
control of the cadastral survey. The computation and plotting 
of points is carried out by the Survey of Palestine so that a 
satisfactory joint network of the two countries may be secured. 


33. Sales of maps amounted to £P.240 as compared with 
£P.7I in 1937. 

The third and final sheet of the 1/250,000 map series is in 
course of preparation and will be published early in 1939. The 
three sheets cover the whole country with the exception of the 
desert area east of longitude 36° 31’ E. 


IV.—NATIONALITY. 


Article I of the Trans-Jordan Nationality Law provided that 
all Ottoman subjects habitually resident in Trans-Jordan on 
the 6th August, 1924, were to be deemed to have acquired Trans- 
Jordan nationality. The term “‘ habitually resident in Trans- 
Jordan ’’ was deemed to include any person who had his usual 
place of residence in Trans-Jordan for the period of 12 months 
preceding the 6th day of August, 1924. 


2. Provision existed in the law permitting persons who had 

uired Trans-Jordan nationality under Article I of the Law 

to opt for other nationality before the 6th day of August, 1926, 
but, in fact, no use was made of this permission. 


332 
3. Naturalization is granted at the discretion of the Chief 
Minister to applicants who fulfil the following conditions: — 


(a) two years’ residence in Trans-Jordan immediately 
pnior to the application for naturalization; 


(6) that the applicant is of good character; 
(c) that the applicant intends to reside in Trans-Jordan; 
(d) that the applicant knows the Arabic language. 

In special circumstances the Chief Minister may, with the 


approval of His Highness the Amir, dispense with the condition 
of two years’ previous residence. 


The figures for the issue of Nationality and Naturalization 
Certificates during the last four years are as follows: — 
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


Nationality certificates applied for 792 675 661 934 
Nationality certificates issued ... 578 537 588 893 
Naturalization certificates issued... go 117 42 26 


No applications for Trans-Jordan nationality by naturalization 
were refused. 


4. In connection with a question asked at the thirty-fourth 
session of the Permanent Mandates Commission,* the previous 
nationality of the persons who acquired Trans-Jordan 
nationality by naturalization during the past four years was as 
follows : — 


1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


Syrian 42 54 17 13 
‘Iraqi 2 3 — —_ 
Lebanese 4 6 4 4 
Palestinian ... 3 3 I 3 
Turkish 35 49 II 3 
Egyptian — — — I 
Russian I — I — 
Persian — — — I 
Greek 2 — — — 
Afghan — — — I 
American I — —_ 
Saoudi Arabian — I 5 —_— 
Chinese — — I — 
Yemenite — — 2 —_ 
Italian — I — —_ 

Totals go 11 7 | 42 26 


The issue of Nationality Certificates is, by Article I of the 
Nationality Law, confined to former Ottoman subjects. 


Minutes, page 68. 


333 


V.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Civil Courts. 


1. The Civil Courts consist of Courts of First Instance and 
Magistrates’ Courts. The present organization of the Courts 
largely follows the Turkish model, which was inherited from the 
former Ottoman system. The organization -of the Ottoman 
Courts was based upon a Court of First Instance, which had 
jurisdiction to try all criminal matters where the maximum 
punishment which could be awarded exceeded one year and the 
fine £T.go, and all civil cases the value of which exceeded £1.50. 

Criminal cases in which the maximum punishment which could 
be awarded was less than one year and the maximum fine less 
than £T.g0, and civil cases where the value of the subject matter . 
of the action was less than £T.50, were triable by courts known 
as Magistrates’ Courts or Courts of the Justice of the Peace. * 

Courts of First Instance were established in towns of any 
importance or size in the Ottoman Empire. Magistrates’ Courts 
were established in towns possessing Courts of First Instance and 
also in other smaller towns. 

Appeal from Magistrates’ Courts lay to Courts of First 
Instance, and appeal from Courts of First Instance lay to 
Regional Courts of Appeal. In certain cases appeal lay from 
Regional Courts of Appeal to the Court of Cassation in Con- 
stantinople. In addition to appeal, this Court had a jurisdiction 
by way of cassation from Courts below. These Courts were 
known generally as Civil Courts to distinguish them from the 
Sharia and other Religious Courts. 


2. The principal modifications of this system in Trans- Jordan 
consist in the substitution of one Central Court of Appeal for the 
Regional Courts of Appeal, and the transfer from Courts of 
First Instance to the Court of Appeal of the duty of hearing 
appeals from the Magistrates’ Courts. Appeal by way of cassa- 
tion has been abolished. 


Sharia Courts. 


3. Sharia Courts were those Courts which had exclusive juris- 
diction to deal with personal-status cases of Moslems. This 
jurisdiction was and still is in Trans- Jordan exercised in accord- 
ance with the provisions of the Ottoman Law of Procedure of 
the Moslem Religious Courts of the 25th of October, 1333 A.H. 
By personal status is meant matters concerning the personal and 
domestic relations of the parties, such as marriage, divorce, 
alimony, maintenance, guardianship, legitimization and adop- 
tion of minors, interdiction, succession, wills and legacies. These 
Courts also have jurisdiction in cases of ‘‘ Diya ’’ (blood money), 
this being a cash payment to the relatives of any person killed 
or injured as the result of the wrongful act of any other person; 


334 


it is additional to any penalty imposed by the Civil Courts under 
the terms of the criminal law. ‘‘ Diya ”’ is a part of Moham- 
medan Law and as such is administered by the Sharia Courts. 
The Shania Courts also had jurisdiction to deal with cases of 
waqf, established by and belonging to Moslems. A waaf is a 
pious foundation instituted by the founder, in most cases, from 
pious and religious motives. 


Religious Community Council Courts. 


4. In addition to the Sharia Courts, there were certain Courts 
known as the Courts of the Religious Community Councils 
which exercised in respect of the various non-Moslem religious 
communities dwelling within the Ottoman Empire much the same 
jurisdiction as that exercised by the Sharia Courts. Each 
separate community had its own council, which had power to 
set up a Court with jurisdiction to hear personal-status cases 
arising between members of the particular religious community 
concerned. The jurisdiction of these Courts is now set out in 
the Non-Moslem Religious Community Councils Law passed 
in 1938. This law empowers five communities, and any others 
which may later be granted such powers, to establish Courts, 
and three, the Greek Orthodox, the Greek Catholic and the Latin 
have in fact done so. 


Courts at present established in Trans-Jordan. 


5. Civil Courts.—The Courts at present established in Trans- 
Jordan are as follows:— 


(1) A Court of Appeal at Amman having jurisdiction to 
hear appeals from all lower Courts in Trans-Jordan. 


(2) Courts of First Instance having jurisdiction in criminal 
matters where the maximum punishment which can be 
awarded is imprisonment for more than three years or a 
fine, and in civil matters where the value of the subject 
matter of the action exceeds £P.5o. 

These Courts are established in Amman, Irbid and Kerak. 
Members of Courts of First Instance proceed to places where 
Magistrates’ Courts only are in existence in order, when 
necessary, to constitute Courts of First Instance in those 
places, thereby saving litigants and others concerned the 
trouble and expenses of coming to the headquarters of a 
Court of First Instance. 

(3) Magistrates’ Courts having jurisdiction in criminal 
cases where the maximum punishment which can _ be 
awarded is imprisonment up to three years or a fine, and in 
civil cases where the value of the subject matter of the action 
is not more than £P.50, although if the parties agree in 
writing, the Court has jurisdiction up to any amount. 


- a — ——  T — —— 


335 


Magistrates’ Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, 
Kerak, Es Salt, Jerash, Ajlun, Madeba, Tafileh, and 
Ma’an. 

Sharia Courts.—Sharia Courts having jurisdiction to hear 
personal-status cases of Moslems, cases relating to waqf (pious 
foundations) and ‘‘ Diya ’’ (blood money) are established in 
or Kerak, Irbid, Es Salt, Ajlun, Tafileh, Jerash and 
aan. 

Inbal Courts.—Tribal Courts are at present established in 
Amman, Irbid, Kerak, Ma’an and the Desert Area. 


Religious Community Council Courts.—Religious Community | 
Council Courts are established in the following places: — 


Place. Community. 
Amman rer .... Greek Orthodox, Greek Catholic and Latin. 
El-Husn oe ... Greek Orthodox and Greek Catholic. 
Es Salt en ... Greek Orthodox, 
Kerak was ... Greek Orthodox. 


_Speczal Courts.—The only Special Court at present working 
m Irams-Jordan is the Land Settlement Court, which is a 
travelling court and is set up in districts which are declared to 
be land settlement areas under the terms of the Land Settlement 


Law, 1933. 


Nature of the Law in Force in Trans-Jordan. 


6. Article 58 of the Organic Law provides that Ottoman Laws 
promulgated before the rst November, 1914, and laws promul- 
gated ates that date and declared by public notice to be in force 
in Trans-Jordan, shall remain in force until repealed or 
amended. Thus Ottoman Law is the base of that of Trans- 
Jordan, though amending legislation, as well as the spirit 
which has been infused into the working of the administration 
and of the Courts, has effected very considerable changes. 


The Ottoman system itself has developed from several entirely 
different sources. 


Of these the principal is the Moslem Law, which in the early 
days of the Turkish State was practically the only law, and 
which at the present time suffices for the needs of the less 
advanced Arab States. This law had its origin in the precepts 
of the Koran as applied by the Prophet Mohammed himself, and 
was later developed into a formal legal system by Moslem 
Junsts. In course of time this law was very considerably altered 
on many topics, and on some was entirely superseded. Little 
alteration, however, was made in the law governing the personal 
Status of Moslems, and that concerning pious foundations 
(waqf), and in Trans-Jordan it is the Moslem law which governs 
these topics. 


330 


As the Ottoman Empire extended and relations with other 
countries increased, the Moslem system was found in some cases 
to be insufficient to meet modern conditions, and in others to be 
somewhat inaccessible, and in consequence it was decided to 
follow the lead of France which, after the Revolution, had 
codified the more important topics of French law. 

The most famous of the French codes is the ‘‘ Code Civil,”’ 
but as the Moslem law dealt very fully with the matters con- 
tained in that code, it was decided to codify the Moslem Law 
on such topics, rather than adopt a foreign code. A committee 
of Moslem jurists was therefore appointed, and a civil code, 
known as the “‘ Mejelle,’’ was the result of their labours. This 
codifies the Moslem Law dealing with the principal contracts 
such as sale, hire (including employment), pledge, guarantee, 
gift, etc. It also covers civil injunes, the law of evidence, and 
certain parts of the law of procedure. 

On other topics, however, it was thought necessary to draw 
on foreign sources. The Moslem Criminal Law is primitive, the 
law of procedure both civil and criminal is fragmentary, whilst 
commercial law hardly exists. In consequence the French codes 
on these matters were translated, and passed with little change 
into the Ottoman system. 

In addition laws were enacted to suit Turkish local require- 
ments. This is especially the case in the sphere of admuinistra- 
tion, the Ottoman Wilayet Administrative Law being a typical 
example. 

It has been mentioned above that matters concerning the 
personal status of Moslems were governed by Moslem Law. As 
this law was unsuitable for Christians, Christian communities 
were allowed to establish their own Courts, and to deal with 
such matters affecting members of their communities in accord- 
ance with the religious law of the community. 

The foregoing is an outline of the system which by the terms 
of the Organic Law, became, or rather remained, the law of 
Trans-Jordan. In addition, that law, promulgated in 1928, 
declared valid all legislative acts of the constituted authority in 
Trans-Jordan, during the previous ten years; and the legisla- 
tive authority constituted by the Organic Law was competent, 
within the limits of that law, to effect such changes as it thought 
proper. 

The basic change in the Ottoman system was effected by the 
Organic Law itself, and whole topics of the Ottoman Law were 
superseded by legislation based on British models. The fact that 
important laws are approved by the Mandatory Power, that a 
British Adviser is responsible for drafting all new legislation, and 
that he advises the Government generally on legal matters, 
naturally tends to favour the introduction of British legislation 
and methods. 


337 


The adapting of a system intended for the Ottoman Empire 
to a small country, combined with the introduction of entirely 
foreign ideas into the system has resulted in certain incon- 
venience which has been experienced principally in the sphere 
of procedure. Considerable local alterations have been made 
to the codes of civil and criminal procedure, with the result that 
these codes have become out of date, and the law of procedure 
uncertain. The question of the introduction of new codes is 
under consideration. 


The Diwan Khas for the Interpretation of Laws and Regulations. 


7. Ihe Diwan Khas is a body established under the terms 
of an addendum to the Organic Law, and it is now regulated by 
the Organic Law (Amendment) Law of 1938. It meets at the 
request of the Chief Minister for the interpretation of points of 
law submitted to it, which have not been already interpreted 
by the Courts. It is composed of the Minister of Justice as 
President and two senior administrative officials and two senior 
officials of the Ministry of Justice. Its decisions when published 
in the Official Gazette have the force of law; but decisions affect- 
ing any provision of the Organic Law are only valid after con- 
firmation by His Highness the Amir. 


Ministry of Justice. 


8. The general control and supervision of the Civil Courts 
is vested in the Ministry of Justice, presided over by a Minister 
who is a member of the Executive Council and ex-officio member 
of the Legislative Council. This Ministry has no control over 
the other Courts mentioned in paragraph 5, but its execution 
department is responsible for the execution of their judgments, 
with the exception of those of Tribal Courts. 

Following a change of Government in September, the Minister 
of Justice, Ibrahim Pasha Hashem, C.B.E., who was also 
Chief Minister and Supreme Judge of the Sharia Courts, was 
replaced by the new Chief Minister Tewfik Pasha Abul Huda 
as Minister of Justice, while Seyyid Ahmed es Saqqaf was 
appointed Supreme Judge of the Sharia Courts. Attached to the 
Minister of Justice is a British Judicial Adviser who is respon- 
sible for the drafting of all new laws and regulations. As legal 
draftsman he attends meetings of the Executive and Legislative 
-Councils and gives his advice on legal points at meetings of the 
former. In addition he is a member of the Diwan Khas for the 
interpretation of laws and regulations, and also of the Senior 
Judicial Council established for the appointment, transfer and 
removal of judicial officials, subject to confirmation by His 
Highness the Amir. Moreover he assists the Minister in con- 
ducting the routine work of the Ministry and examines petitions 
containing complaints with regard to specific cases, or cases in 


338 


which the Amir is asked to exercise his prerogative of pardon. 
The majority of new laws have their origin in departments other 


than the Ministry of Justice, and are sent to the Judicial Adviser 
for drafting. 


Q. Full statistics showing the activities of the Courts and the 
fines, fees and costs received by them are shown below. There 
has been a slight decrease in comparison with the previous year 
in the number of cases of the most serious category of crimes; 
an increase of 118 in cases of the second category; and an 
increase of 1,429 of petty cases. The increase represents a 
more stringent enforcement of the law, especially as regards 
petty cases, rather than a real increase in crime. There was a 
slight increase in the number of civil cases. Revenue increased 
from all sources, being about £P.1,000 more than in 1937 and 
about £P.100 more than in 1936. 


10. The increased funds allotted to the Ministry of Justice 
have enabled all the Courts to be accommodated and equipped 
in a more satisfactory manner, and the staff to be brought up 
to strength. As a result all avoidable delay has been eliminated 
from the despatch of business. The Court of Appeal was brought 
up to its full strength of four. As all cases in Trans-Jordan 
are appealable, and the Court of Appeal hears appeals not only 
from the Courts of First Instance, but also from the Magistrates’ 
Courts its business is considerable. It is satisfactory to record 
that notwithstanding an increase of 346 appeals over 1937, 
there were no aes a pending at the end of 1938. The number 
of appeals pending at the end of 1937 was 109. The post of 
Court Inspector in the Ministry has not yet been filled. 


11. Apart from what may be termed formal pardons, such 
as those granted on account of the youth of a person sentence 
in absentia, three pardons were granted by His Highness the 
Amir during the year. In Trans-Jordan the system of the 
payment of blood money in tases of manslaughter under the 
Sharia Law exists side by side with the punishment of the 
offender by the Civil Courts, and pardons granted usually con- 
cern cases of manslaughter, where blood-money has been paid 
to the family of the deceased. Such pardons however are 
granted in as few cases as possible. The deatli penalty is rarely 
inflicted and usually only in cases of murder where there 1s no 
doubt that the killing was premeditated. There was one 
execution during the year. \ 


12. One company and 11 partnerships were registered at 
the Ministry of Justice. The absence of commercial ‘activity 
and of commercial cases before the Courts continue to be a 
marked feature. _ 


‘ 
} 


| 














ogf ZhE'Y tlz Ss[eIOL 
a ee —_——_ 
ors €L 00g 9 age : eqeay » ue, eW 
Cot F6 ooL II : os qayeL 
oSg 691 00g gh “ see = eqopel 
LL €9z O7z vz : we *** yselof 
oL6 oth CzO Of1 . = -* unorly poqof 
¢Co orf C06 a4 7 ns ony “"3yeS Sy 
—S}INOZ) ,Sa}eI}SISePY 
obtb 6bLiz| Ser ogb a = " STeIOT 
Cot zol oS¢ gt OOI gl ; _ - Hey 
0z6 bS9g oSz 6g1 Cre 98 ; —s sre ee pIQay 
CCI zOt‘r| Sgt Ogg ob6 €6z | °° ee ueUIWLY 
—PdUIqUIOD }.1N0*4) Sd}; B.IYSISe]Y 
pue soueysuy 4SIny jo ynoy 
ozt O7z — — —_ = eee jeoddy jo z1n04 
‘SHIN | ‘dF st | ° ‘STA | 
*UMOUNIIKT "$u0149 py . 
"Saa.q 9419QNT reer taee eee en an 
"JOI0L KAvjoN fo "y4no7y) fo muUDNT 
1348 [OUI 





"gE61I ‘SLUNOD TIAID AO ZANAATY 


CouRT OF APPEAL. 


Particulars of Appeals entered in the four years 1935, 1936, 1937, and 1938. 









Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
Total. 









From Courts From From Courts From 
of First Magistrates’ of First Magistrates’ 
Instance. Courts. Instance. Courts. 
1935 30 726 184 
1936 49 719 189 
1937 43 773 147 
1938 50 953 165 





ToTAL NUMBER OF ACTIONS IN CIVIL COURTS, INCLUDING COURT OF APPEAL. 


Pending at New Pending at 
Year. beginning actions Actions end of 
of year. entered. decided. year, 
1935 1,193 25,802 25,995 1,000 
1936 1,000 25,420 25,326 T,004 
1937 1,094 26,244 26,460 — 878 


1938 878 25,972 26,104 746 








1270L 


LE Li LE 
oF OI Qz 
1S v1 ze 
16 6z c¢ 
SANOUDIUL| a, 5 
~Opsiyyy : 
7taty) 1070 T, 
*[ DUM) [DUM 
“YDsO 





| ‘PMQ4T 


@ 


"g£61r pun LE6r ‘of6r ‘SE6I savak snof ays ut pasajzua sasvy fo savnoysvg 


“HONVISN] LSULJT dO SLUNAOD 





gté61 
LE61 
of 61 
Se£61 





“408 


15774 





zblibz | ELz‘z1 | 69b'z1 | 16S‘Ez FEg‘Ez 
Igg g6£ Cor LiL 996 
ver 6bz CgI CoS 689 
QIz‘1 96+ zzl ogf ‘I C6z'I 
6£9'1 906 €eL LSoQ‘1 ¥gz‘I 
gtg‘t LL6 198 zv6'! €LL‘r 
ZQ9‘Z oL¥'r Z1Z‘I L¥e‘z PIC‘€ 
Col‘z Log QSS‘r CEL‘z CSrz 
gS1‘S Cgh‘z €L9‘z vQS‘S 169'S 
9z9‘9 oSb‘€ gL1‘€ bgz‘9 Cg6‘S 





‘1070 jouyuasecy 12092 | “TROL pour) °71049 ‘10707 











“9f61I *LEOI 


€z1‘Z1 


LZr€ 
LLE 
19S 
z99 
gt6 
1zZl‘1 
662 
1Sb‘¢ 
L6z‘€ 


(DUIMAD 


"Of 61 


ImS‘r1 


1S9Q 
z1€ 
vel 
zOQ 
cf£g 
€6S‘1 
9S9Q'I 
obth‘z 
8g9‘% 


12819) 





¥66 


106 

gbr‘r 
66>‘1 
8g9'I 
6g0'E 
gIg‘z 
C19‘F 
g10'9 


1010 





LxrP‘1r 


6tb 
vzS 
zey 
9o0ZL 
o£g 
60£ ‘1 
Qgo'l 
Z0Q‘Z 
Lezit 


1DU1MIAD 


"CLO6rI 





eCS‘rr 


ccs 
LLE 
g1Z 
€6Z2 
gSg 
ogZ‘t 
ofZl‘1 
€10'z 
1€L‘z 


11D 


s[Z}O] 


gageL 
—  TeeW 
“+ eqapeyy 
eee yseiof 
unolfy jeqel 
"Tes sq 
"se  YBIOY 
ss  piquy 
' UeWUry 


"JAnoy 


fo avy 





"SE6I pun LEX ‘9€6r ‘SEI savak anof ay} ut padsaqua sasva {0 savjnayADvd 


‘SLUNOT) ,SALVALSIOV]Y 


343 


Civi_ AcTIONS, 1938. 


ee Cases Pending 


Pending 
1/1/38. : ey uses | Decided. | 31/12/38. 


ER AA ES 
a a a | 





Appeals from Courts of First | 
Instance ... ies bag 5 50 

Appeals from Magistrates’ 

Totals 


Courts of First Instance— 


Irbid 
Kerak 
Totals 
Magistrates’ Courts— 
Amman 
Irbid 
Kerak 
Es Salt... 
Jebel Ajloun 
Jerash ee 
Madeba ... 
Ma’an and Akaba _ 
Tafileh =a 
Totals 





15774 M 2 


344 


CRIMINAL CASES, 1938. 





Appeals from Courts of First 
Instance... 

Appeals from Magistrates 
Courts ae 


Totals 


Courts of First Instance :— 
Amman oH 
Irbid 
Kerak 


Totals 


Magistrates’ Courts :— 
Amman : ae 
Irbid 
Kerak 
Es Salt sae 
Jebel Ajloun 
Jerash de 
Madeba 
Tafileh 
Ma’an 


Totals 





New Cases Cases Pending 

Entered. | Decided. | 31.12.38. 
165 179 = 
1,037 1,068 — 
1,202 1,247 —~ 
364 362 26 
312 310 4 
54 53 2 
73° 725 32 
3,450 3,358 238 

2,485 2,496 43 

807 815 19 
1,470 1,474 14 
977 973 26 
906 904 7 
496 512 3 
396 397 4 
249 244 6 
11,236 11,173 360 








x | 
= 
© 
s | ¥ 
~~, » 
8 zx) 
bo 3 ~ 
) 
x] 2 S 
Gs § Q 
x |8O) a | 8 
S eo} 8 } 
m~m 10 z O 
1935 66 | 1,771 | 1,791 
1936 46 | 1,738 | 1,728 
1937 56 | 1,718 | 1,727 
1938 47 |1,861 | 1,874 


Particulars of cases Decided. 





Cases sent 


for trial Cases Filed. 









Cases Pending at end of 









G oS : 
= y) 2 § 
= 2 3 3 
S 23 1B =e | os 
O'2 | 2.5 | f 
as 08) 8S) 8S 

= z2 |x [A 
*46 76 | 44 
T56 106 | 29 
$47 95 | 36 
34 39 | 124 





* 11 cases amalgamated. 
t 14 cases amalgamated. 
t 6 cases amalgamated. 


345 





ES | ES | SSD | EE | NS | EE | ie | 


— |¢ ozi |— |{€Z — |g 
— |o1r |€€1 | og91 |zor | — | 9g 
zz | z@ LZzS | €Qg |1bb | gz jz 








Clz | Sxx | 6gS‘S} bzb | L6S‘b] oSz | Gor | S61‘S| So€ | zx1S‘b] QSE 





"‘sjuamNnI0g 





96 6€z | Fos | *** speJOL 
b — |¢€ Ue BW 
v og | 2 * YsTyeL 
— Iz |g --  unolly 
b bP “so gseiof 
I — 6z “-* eqopey] 
ZZ 19 Cz "* ayes Sa 
L 06 | 0% “. 0 -yeIBY 
oI — | 99%; °"" piqi] 
bb — | zor | * UPUWY 
| gle] blag 
SpEs.e=| Ls les 
Sax ® lo | gk los 
|S SB) SR | pnoo 
2/8 | | giao] (2 
=: | 2 a = a IUD NT 


6b bz |St6 | — |Sbz‘r} FS £z 
LL 1b |LeL‘1| — j|oS€‘1| OF | 6€ 
{ | 
z/ wl of af o| zt wl of af of zt] wl of al o 
SIE INST OF [Ws] oP IGE IGET | OF [WE] es Ie Qs] ofa 
SS FR TELE TE| SS ELLER SE EE | LS ESL EE] LE] TE 
SS [oy ® | oy SR laws | xe oe ® | & QS joy’ | SS joy ® [ay BX layR 
SylS [8 (FSlPRl Sols [F [XSi PRlswls |S | Slss 
ss Q & & 2/3 ae 1 8 ® =| 3 
s/s [2 s/s (28/2 [8 S =S/e |= g 
BS|S 1s S/o |RS)|s |& e/S |RS|e |S e | 2 
- 8 < “4 S “8 $ 
‘661 “9E6I "9E6I 
07 pavmsof patssvy ut fo pasodstp sasvy ut pasaqua sasvy 


wosf pavmsof patssvy 


—— eee renee rea ssssSEE? 


"gE61 ‘SNOILNOAXY—uwAOLNOASONg Orlang 


M 3 


15774 


346 
ToTaL REVENUE OF CIVIL CouRTS FOR THE FouR YEARS 1935, 1936, 
1937 AND 1938. 





Criminal. Civsl. 


Year. Fees Fees 
Fines. Costs. on on 
Actions. | Execution. 


£P. |Mils.| £P. |Mils.| £P. [Mils.) £P. |Mils.| £P. | £P. [Mi 
1935... [2,052 | 064 |1,408 | 525 13,522 | 250 |1,303 | 410 |1,142 | 025 19,428 274 
1936... |1,862 | 383 |1,372 | 936 |3,435 | 345| 713/450] 952] 445 |8,336| 559 


090} 588)/049| 975] 465 7,441 | 967 
120] 704] 105] 987 | 665 (8,435 | 005 


1937 --- |1,438| 918] 674 | 445 |3,765 
1938 —... {1,690 | 635| 733 | 480 4,319 








VI.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


The posts, telegraphs and telephones and the roads of Trans- 
Jordan are in public ownership and are administered by the 
Trans-Jordan Government. 

The town water supplies are administered, in all cases, by the 
municipal councils concerned. 

The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 


2. Articles 67 and 68 of the Organic Law, as amended by 
Articles 12 and 13 of the Organic Law (Amendment) Law, 
No. 21, of 1938, provide that all rights in State land, subject to 
other prior vested interests, and all rights in mines and minerals, 
subject to prior concessionary rights, shall vest in and may be 
exercised by His Highness the Amir in trust for the Trans- 
Jordan Government. 

Grants or leases for the exploitation of the mineral resources 
of the country are made under a Mining Law of 1926, the terms 
of which follow generally those of the Palestine Mining 
Ordinance, 1925. 


3. Article XVII of the Agreement between His Majesty the 
King and His Highness the Amir provides that His Hig 
shall be guided by the advice of His Britannic Majesty in all 
matters concerning the granting of concessions, the exploitation 
of natural resources, the construction and operation of railways 
and the raising of loans. 


4. There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime or 
in the customs laws of the Trans-Jordan Government. Certain 
exemptions from State and Municipal taxation and tithes which 
were enjoyed by certain foreign charitable, religious and educa- 
tional institutions under the Ottoman regime are maintained, 
but no new privileges of this type have been granted. 

Moreover, Trans-Jordanians are liable to. the same taxation, 
State or Municipal, as are foreign nationals. 


347 


VII.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious obser- 
vance throughout Trans- Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows: — 


** Article 10.—Islam shall be the religion of the State and there 
shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete freedom of 
belief and freedom to practise forms of worship in accordance with 
their customs unless detrimental to public safety or order or contrary 
to morals.’’ 


** Article 14.—The various communities shall have the right to 
establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their members 
in their own language provided that they conform to the general 
requirements prescribed by law.”’ 


3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law, three of the 
16 elected representatives are Christians. The Law relating to 
the election of members of the Administrative Councils provides 
that the Heads of religious communities shall be members of 
the selection committees, and that where the Christian male 
population comprises 500 persons there shall be one, and where 
it comprises 1,000 there shall be two, Christians in the Council. 
The new Municipal Law which came into force on the 1st April 
provides that the elected members of Municipal Councils shall 
be composed of Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems 
in proportion to the number of males over 20 years of age in 
these communities. If this would not give the minorities repre- 
sentation, they will be given representation if their numbers are 
Io per cent. or more of the whole. 


4. Cases of personal status in non-Moslem religious com- 
munities are within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious 
Community Councils according to the provisions of the Non- 
Moslem Religious Community Councils Law, No. 22 of 1938. 
This Law, which replaces that of 1933, came into force on the 
2nd May concurrently with certain amendments of the Organic | 
Law to which it relates. 


5. Community and private schools may be opened only afte1 
a licence has been obtained from the Department of Education. 
Before a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy 
the Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be 
used, and to submit details of the qualifications of the teachers 
to be appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After a 
school has been licensed and opened, the Department of Educa- 
tion has the nght of inspection. Of recent years there have been 
no difficulties in regard to licensing or inspection, though this 
latter right is seldom exercised. 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the 
Government services and hold some of the highest posts. 


15774 M 4 


348 


7. The following is a list of missions—excluding recognized 

religious communities—operating in Trans- Jordan : — 

. Christian Missionary Trust Association, Ltd. 

. Jerusalem and the East Mission Trust, Ltd. 

. Custodian of the Terra Santa. 

. Societe Nazionali di Missionari Italiani. 

. Christian Missionary Alliance (Palestine) and Arabian 
Border Missions. 

. Bible Evangelistic Mission. 

. Seventh Day Adventists. 


The Institutions named under 1 and 2 are controlled by the 
Church of England, those under 3 and 4 by the Roman Catholic 
Church, and those under 5, 6 and 7 by various American 
Churches. The numbers of foreign adults in these missions are 
as follows:—Anglican 20, American Churches 8, and Roman 
Catholic 38, including 32 in the Italian Hospitals at Amman 
and Kerak. These figures do not include Trans-Jordanian 
workers or employees. 


There was no change in the number of missions in 1938, and 
the number of persons connected with them remained 
approximately the same as in the previous year. 


SIO NBWD 


VIII.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1. The Arab Legion Duties and Responsibilities.—The Arab 
Legion is the Police Force of Trans-Jordan. It is responsible 
to the Government of Trans-Jordan for public security and the 
maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, Immigra- 
tion and passport control, and the licensing of vehicles. 

2. Strength and Composition.—The establishment of the Arab 
Legion comprises 44 officers (five of whom are British), three 
cadet officers, and 1,577 other ranks, who are disposed as 
follows:— 





Cadet Other 
Officers. Officers. Ranks. 
Mounted eee ae ac. 25 3 680 
Dismounted _... a a. 55 — 381 
Desert Police ... a ae 2 — 299 
Prison Staff bee sie 2 — 98 
Clerical Staff... ae — — 40 
Paid for by the Iraq Petroleum — — 79 
Company, Royal Air Force, 
and Commanders, Royal 
Engineers. 
44 3 1,577 


The total strength, numbering 1,624, comprises regular estab- 
lishment 1,130, reserve 160, and a supplementary force which 
amounted to 334 at the end of the year. 





349 


3. Organization and Command.—Trans-Jordan is divided 
normally into five Police Districts, corresponding with those used 
for administrative purposes, namely, Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, - 
Ma’an and the Desert Area. Towards the end of the year it 
was found advisable to create two more Police Districts in the 
Jordan Valley as a temporary measure. 


The Arab Legion is organized as follows, in accordance with 
these Administrative Districts :— 


In Amman, the capital of Trans-Jordan. 
Arab Legion Headquarters. 
Amman City Police. 
Arab Legion Depot for recuiting and training purposes. 
uae Legion Motor Transport Garage and Repair Work- 
shops. 
The Central Jail. 


Ajlun District. 
Headquarters at Irbid, and 8 Police Stations. 


Jordan Valley District (North). 
Headquarters at Kreimeh, and 6 Police Stations. 


Belqa District. 
Headquarters at Es Salt, and 11 Police Stations. 


Jordan Valley District (South). 
Headquarters at Jisr Damieh, and 3 Police Stations. 


Kerak District. 
Headquarters at Kerak, and 11 Police Stations. 


Ma’an District. 
Headquarters at Ma’an, and 5 Police Stations. 


Desert Area. 
Headquarters and 10 Police Stations. 
Motor Transport Repair Sub-Depot, Jaffer. 
The majority of Police Stations are in telephonic or wireless 
telegraphic communication with their District Headquarters. 


Wireless—The Arab Legion operates 14 wireless stations, of 
which I3 are fixed and one is a mobile set mounted on a Ford 
pacer. During the year a class was started for training ten 

edouin boys in wireless telegraphy. 


Motor transport.—The Arab Legion possesses 47 motor 
Vehicles, distributed as follows: — 


Desert Area oe oy eee 13 
Districts... a sis hs 6 
Arab Legion Depot and Reserve 28 


Total... co 47 


350 


The vehicles are generally repaired in the Arab Legion Work- 


ape te 


in Amman; but facilities for minor repairs are available 
Jaffer Sub-Depot. 


4. Courses of Instruction.—Members of the Arab Legion 
attended the following courses of instruction during the year: — 


Subject. 
Motor Mechanics ... 
Wireless Operators 
First Aid 


Veterinary and Shoeing ... 


Place. 
Ford Company, Alexandria. 
Arab Legion Depot. 
Royal Air Force, Amman. 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force, Zerqa. 


Promotion to non-commissioned rank is based upon the results 
of annual examination, three classes of Certificate of Education 


being obtainable. 


te 


5. Road Transport Licences.—The Arab Legion is respon- 
sible for the testing and licensing of all motor drivers and 
vehicles; the following table indicates the progressive increase 


in this work during recent years :— 


Motor’ Pedal 


Year. Cars. Buses. Lorries. Cycles. Cycles. Totals. 
1926 110 4 16 5 — 135 
1934 269 19 109 7 a 404 
1937 300 38 133 14 120 605 
1938 335 24 230 18 193 800 


6. Criminal Investigation Depariment.—The following is a 
table of the principal crimes reported in each of the last five 


years : — 
Nature of Crime. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Murder 47 19 29 21 25 
Wounding 444 346 308 260 133 
Abduction 45 43 29 55 36 
Theft... 1,646 715 882 942 801 
Car Accident 118 Ill 112 IOI 83 
Smuggling 37 7 13 20 25 
Drunkenness 7O 60 55 77 80 


The following enquiries as to criminal antecedents were made 


during the last three years: — 


Enquiries by Courts 
Enquiries traced 
Enquiries not traced 


1936. 1937. 1938. 
1,436 1,630 1,820 
605 627 , 700 
831 1,003 1,120 


351 


oe following numbers of fingerprints of suspects were 
en:— | 


1936 ated or os. 431 
1937 eed oe «ss 399 
1938 sia. ve ... 283 


7. Prisons.—There are nine prisons in Trans-Jordan. Any 
prisoner sentenced to more than three months’ imprisonment 
is transferred to the Central Jail, Amman. The average popu- 
lation of the Central Jail during 1938 was 260 prisoners. 


The following prisoners, who had no skilled trade when they 
entered prison, were instructed in the trades shown below:— 


Stone quarrying... os Sie oe ... 16 
Stone cutting and trimmin ie a ves: IM 
.Masons (building) 2 
Plastering bas ao sis eos ces 0 
Carpentry... ae sig = soe ee, 5 
Painting Si ate re a2 ie. 6 
Blacksmithing es aa 4 
Telephone operators ac ‘iain me ive 03 
Carpet making i ha aed or ae EZ 
Shoemaking soe aot oe fis goa, A 
Local mat making ... et ee a ... 10 
Gardening and poultry rearin sat sale ie. -3 
Washing and ironing as sii se seen 122 
Cooking abu ais ss oe aes seg -12 
Printing abs oes sass san seek ie. <6 


Towards the end of the year a reform was introduced whereby 
all prisoners sentenced to one month or more are able to earna 
remission of one-quarter of their sentence through good conduct. 


8. Prisoners were employed during the year on building con- 
struction under the supervision of a skilled foreman. These 
works included the completion of four rural police posts, and a 
barrack room, a stable, and a garage at the Arab Legion Depot, 
Amman. 


9. Public security has been most satisfactory throughout the 
year. The Desert Area, which comprises about four-fifths of 
the total area of Trans-Jordan and is sparsely populated by 
nomads, has remained quiet. 


No incidents on the frontiers occurred during the year which 
are deserving of special mention. Relations with the frontier 
officials of the Saudi Arabian Government continued to be 


friendly. 


352 


IX.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 
AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the Name of Trans-Jordan. 
(i) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Country. 


Syria and 
Lebanon. 


Palestine 


Great Britain 
Nejd 


Syria and the 
Lebanon 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Syria and the 
Jebel Druze. 


‘Iraq 


Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


Saudi Arabia 
Great Britain 
Palestine 


Palestine 


Title of Instrument. 
Customs Agreement 


Transit Agreement aos 


Date and place of Signature. 
10.5.1923 Amman. 


26.9.1928 Jerusalem. 
Amended 18.12.1928. 
Amended 27.12.1928. 
Amended 23.7.1934. 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Agreement 


Hadda Agreement aiaie e 


Provisional Agreement in regar 
to the Transmission of Judicial 
Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Con- 
veyance of Corpses from 
Palestine for Burial in Trans- 
Jordan and from  Trans- 
Jordan for Burial in Palestine. 

Agreement as to the Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement concerning the Settle- 
ment of Disputes between 
Beduins of Trans-Jordan and 
Beduins of Syria and the 
Jebel Druze as well as between 
Beduins and Non-Beduins of 
the same States. 

Treaty of Friendship 


Agreement establishing Tele- 
graphic Communication. 


Agreement for the Reciprocal 
Grant of Gratis Visas. 


Treaty of Friendship and Bon 
Voisinage. 
Supplementary Agreement 


Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to regulate the Ser- 
vice of Judicial Dccuments 
between Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


20.2.1928 Jerusalem. 
Ratified 31.10.1929, Amman. 
2.11.1925 Bahra Camp. 


15.2.1928 Amman. 


6.3.1929 Amman. 


I,10.1929 


16.5.1938 
Published 
2.2.1930 Amman. 
29.12.1929 Beirut. 


26.3.1931 Amman. 
Effect from 1.4.1930. 


20.8.1932 
5-9.1932 

27.7-1933 at Jerusalem. 

Ratified 23.12.1933 at Cairo. 
2.6.1934 Jerusalem. 

Ratified at Ablin on 22.6.1935. 
16.7.1934 Amman and Jerusalem. 

Amended 1.9.1935 
28.11.1934 Amman. - 
13.12.1934 Jerusalem. 


Jerusalem. - 
Beirut. 


Amendment 
11.4.1938 Amman. 


30.4.1938 


353 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. 


Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of 
Navigable Waterways of International Con- 
cern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- 
national Concern. 

International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works. 

Additional Protocol to the International ‘Copy- 
right Convention signed at Berlin on 
13.11, 1908. 

International Opium Convention and subse- 
quent relative papers. 

International Convention relating to the 
Simplification of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 

. Regime of Railways, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electrical Power and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

International Agreement as to Contagious 
Diseases of Animals. 

International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 


Tugs. 
International Sanitary Convention 


‘nternational Convention relative to Motor 

c. 

Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial 
Navigation. 

International Convention relating to Inter- 
National Exhibitions. 

nternational Convention for the Unification of 

I n Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 

nternational Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Conditions of the Wounded and Sick 
In Armies in the Field. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
20.4.192I, 9.10.1922 
Barcelona. (Ratification) 
20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.192I, 28,1.1924. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 


13.11.1908, 21.3.1924. 


Berlin. 

20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Berne. 

23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 
The Hague. 

3.11.1923, 27.11.1924 
Geneva. (effective date). 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

24.9.1923, 8.5.1926. 
Geneva. 

12.9.1923, 23.5.1927. 
Geneva. 

25.1.1924, 13.7.1927. 
Paris. 

25.9.1926, 18.6.1927. 
Geneva. 

19.2.1925, 25.9.1928 
Geneva. (effective date). 

21.6.1926, 9.10.1928. 
Paris. 

24.4.1926, 24.10.1929. 
Paris. 

13.10.1919. I1.7.1922. 

22.11.1928, 17.12.1930. 
Paris. 

25.8.1924, 2.6.1931 
Brussels. (effective date). 

27.7.1929, 23.6.1931 
Geneva. (Ratification), 


(effective date.) 


354 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—conitinued. 


Title of Instrument. 


International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the White Slave Traffic. 

Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 
relating to International carnage PY Air. 

Universal Postal Convention 


International Convention for Mutual Protec- 
tion against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for the Sanitary 
Control of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Bills of: Exchange 
and Promissory Notes. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Cheques. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
2.6.1928 11.10.1931 
Rome 
30.9.192I, 2.11.1931. 
31.3.1922, 
. Geneva. 
18.5.1904,  6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 
4.5.1910, 6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 


12.10.1929, 17.3.1938. 
Warsaw. 


20.3.1934, I.1.1935. 
Cairo. 

25-7-1934, 3.5-1935- 
Athens. 

12.4.1933,  1.9.1935. 
The Hague. 

9.12.1932, 24.5.1935. 
Madrid. 

7.6.1930,  6.12.1938 
Geneva (effective date). 

19.3.193T,  6.12.1938 
Geneva _ (effective date). 


(For position as regards International Labour Conventions see Chapter 


XI. Labour.) 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 


‘Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan 


Country. 


Albania 

Belgium = 

Belgian Congo 

Ruanda-Urundi 

Bolivia 

Chile 

Colombia 

Cuba ... 

Czechoslov akia. 

Denmark (including Iceland) 

Estonia 3 “Sh ; 

Finland 

Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Hungary ; 
Supplementary Convention 

Iraq aie : 

Latvia 

Lithuania 


Between United Kingdom and : 


Monaco 


Netherlands .. 
Nicaragua 
Norway 
Panama ee 65 mee 


e e . 

° ° . e 

° e ° ° 
ere, 


Date of Signature. 


22.7.1926 sag eos 
29.10.1901 ; 
5-3-1907/3.3-1911 
28.6.1928/2.7. a 
22.2.1892 

26.1,1897 aa 
27.10.1888/2.12. 1929 
3.10.1904/17.4.1930 ... 


II.11. i ahesia an Oy 6. 1926 


31.3.1873 

18.11.1925 

30.5.1924 

24.9.1910 saa 
4.7.1885/30.5. A 
7.12.1874 i Wid 
3.12.1873/26.6. 1901 sides 
18.9.1936 eee 
2.5.1932 ae 
16.7.1924 tet eee 
18.5.1926 : 
17.12.1891 
27.11.1930 
26.9.1898 

19.4.1905 ‘ 
26.6.1873/18.2. 1907 
25.8.1906 ‘is 


“ope 


Date of 
Applicatson. 


11.7.1927. 
1.4.1932. 
1.4.1932. 
1.4.1932. 
3.3.1932. 
18.3.1932. 
§-12.1930. 
12.12.1931. 
15.7.1927. 
29.3.1932. 
10.3.1927. 
25.11.1926. 
22.4.1932. 
30. 3.1932. 
24.2.1932. 
30.6.1932. 
2.4.1938. 
2.5.1932. 
7.6.1926. 
11.6.1927. 


= 5-7-1931. 


5-4-1932. 
6.4.1932. 
20.9.1932. 
4.6.1932. 


355 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan—continued. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
Between United eee and : Attlication. 
Peru 26.1.1904 .  2.3.1932. 
Poland — II.1.1932 3 ge 12.3.1934. 
Portugal 17.10.1892/20.1.1932 23.6.1934. 
Roumania 9/21.3.1893 3.3.1932. 
Salvador 23.6.1881 18.10.1932. 
Siam 4.3.19I1 a 7.4.1932. 
Spain 4.6.1878/19.2. 1889 23.3.1932. 
Switzerland ... 26.11.1880/29.6.1904 9.5.1932. 
Supplementary Convention 19.12.1934 2.4.1938. 
United States of America 22.12.193I.. - 24.6.1935. 
Yugoslavia 23.11.1900/6.12. "1900 30.8.1932. 
San Marino 16.10.1899 19.7 1934. 
Ecuador 20.9.1880 8.10.1937. 


In additién to the eountries eee out in the foregoiie ae the Trans- Jordan 
Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. Italy. Tunis. 
France. Liberia. Uruguay. 
*Germany. Paraguay. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans- Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition 
between Trans- Jordan and Germany on basis of reciprocity. The arrange- 
ment came into force on 28th February, 1933. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 


Jordan. 
Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
A pplication. 
Lithuania Agreement respecting Commercial 24.4.1923. 
Relations, 6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 
Latvia Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 
Poland Treaty of Commerce and eviesnOy 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 an 6.6.1925. 
Finland ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, I3.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 
Germany Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926. 
2.12.1924, London. 
Greece Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3.1927. 
16.7.1926. 
Hungary... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 26.7.1927. 
i 23.7.1926, London. 
Yugoslavia Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.1928. 
Spaj 12.5.1927. 
Pain Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.1928. 
31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 
Bulgari 31.5.1928. 
gana Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
Lithanes 12.11.1925. _ 
Hania Notes Modifying the Agreement of 10.12.1929. 
Japan 6.5.1922. 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation 1.6.1930. 


and Supplementarv Convention of 
30.7.1925. 


356 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 


Jordan—continued. 
Country. Title of Instrument. 

Egypt Commercial Modus- Vivendi, 5/7.6.1930, 
Cairo. Prolongation until 16.2.1934 
by Notes of 16/19.2.1933. 

Spain Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.1924, Madrid. 

Panama... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.1928. 

Poland Agreement regarding Trade and Com- 


merce, 27.2.35, London. 


Date of 
A pplication. 
21.8.1930. 
6.8.1931. 
2.9.1932. 


24.7.1935- 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. 
France 


Belgium ... 


Czechoslovakia ... 


Greece 


Netherlands 


Spain 

Italy 
Poland 
Estonia ... 
Portugal 
Denmark 
Netherlands 


Belgium ... 


Finland ... 
Lithuania 
Hungary 
Yugoslavia 


Germany 


Title of Instrument, 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 2.2.1922. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 21.6.1922. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 11.11.1924, London. 
Supplementary Agreement 15.1.1935 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 
of Origin, 21.6.1929. 


Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.1929. 


Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 27.6.1929. 
Notes respecting documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.1931. 
Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 26.8.1931. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 22.12.1931. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 9.7.193I. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Coin- 
mercial Matters, 29.11.1932. ° 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 31.5.1932. 

Supplementary Convention to Facilitate 
the Conduct of Legal Proceedings, 
4.11.1932. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 11.8.1933. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 24.4.1934. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 7.5.1936. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 27.2.1936. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 20.3.1928. 


Date of 
A pplication. 
21.3.1923. 


13.3.1925. 


17.2.1927. 
5-1.1937 


21.6.1929. 
9-7-1929 
(effective). 
1.12.1929 
(applicable to 


British subjects 


only). 
23.2.1931. 


13.4.1931. 
17.10.1932. 
II.1I.1932 
(effective). 

30.4.1933. 
25-7-1934- 
22.9.1934. 
27.6.1935. 


4.6.1935. 
29.6.1937. 
25.6.1937. 


20.11.1938 


25.11.1929. 


357 


X.—ANTIQUITIES. 


I. There are seven Antiquity guards, who are stationed at 
Petra, Shobek, Tafileh, Kerak, Madeba and Jerash. The 
inspectorate staff also includes an Assistant Inspector and a Sub- 
Inspector at Amman, and a Sub-Inspector at Jerash. The 
greater part of the country is regularly patrolled and interference 
with antiquity sites is rare, and no notable cases of damage 
occurred during the year. 


Archaeological Survey. 


2. In continuation of his work in southern Trans-Jordan, 
which was described in Volume XV, 1934-5, of the Annual of 
the American School of Oriental Research, Dr. Glueck began 
his survey of the northern districts of the country in 1937 and | 
examined many hitherto unrecorded sites. He continued his 
investigations in 1938 in the Belgqa district, the ancient Ammon, 
but conditions did not permit of work on a large scale. 


The proposed survey of prehistoric sites in Trans-Jordan 
which was to have been carried out by Mr. T. P. O’Brien, and 
which was referred to in paragraph 3 on page 346 of the Annual 
Report for 1937, was for the same reason indefinitely postponed. 


a 


Excavations. 


3. Agqaba.—The American School of Oriental Research com- 
pleted a first season’s work at Tell el Kheleifeh, near Aqaba, 
which site the Director, Dr. Glueck, identifies with the 
Solomonic port, Ezion Geber. The excavations reveal that the 
site was an important centre for the smelting and refining of 
copper, and a series of intricately built kilns or blast furnaces 
was discovered. Connexions with south Arabia are established 
by the discovery of some characters in the south Arabian script 
scratched ona pot. Much of the pottery consists of forms other- 
wise unrecorded in either Trans-Jordan or Palestine. The site 
appears to date approximately from 1000 to 650 B.C. 


Tell El-Ghassul.—A short season’s work was carried out by 
the Pontifical Biblical Institute under the direction of Pére 
Koeppel, but has added nothing new to the total of knowledge 
of the period represented by this site, viz.: the Calcolithic Age, 
circa 3000 B.C. 


Wadt Dhobat.—The British School of Archaeology, 
lS Spmepaay has completed the first season’s work on the pre- 
istoric sites around Wadi Dhobai under the direction of Mr. J. 
Waechter. The material collected is now in London, where 
Mr, Waechter is studying and classifying it in comparison with 
other collections of similar material. It is not yet possible to 
make any definite pronouncement about the culture represented, 
but it would appear to fall between the Palestinian Tahunian and 
Jericho cultures. 


358 


Amman.—The Missione Archeologica Italiana, under the 
direction of Dr. Bartoccini, carried out further excavations at 
the Acropolis, but no discoveries of importance were reported. 


Conservation. 


4. The increase of funds made available for this purpose by 
the Trans-Jordan Government enabled the Department of Anti- 
quities to undertake important work, principally at Jerash, 
where the mosaic floor of the Church of SS. Cosmos and Damain 
was completely lifted, relaid and repaired, and much other 
clearing, restoration and repair was carried out. The Forum 
was almost completely cleared of debris, and when this opera- 
tion is finished the appearance of the Jerash site will be greatly 
improved by the impressive entrance so provided. 


Tourists. 


5. Fees collected from tourists visitng Petra amounted to 
£P.304 as compared with £P.409 in 1937 and £P.648 in 1936. 
The number of foreign visitors to Jerash was 430, as compared 
with 766 in 1937 and 947 in 1936. 

The further serious decrease in the number of tourists visiting 

erash is attributable to the continuance of unsettled conditions 
in Palestine. 
General. 


6. An exhibition of pottery figurines discovered by the 
American Expedition to Jerash in 1933 and repaired and 
restored by the Palestine Department of Antiquities was held in 
the Amman Museum. 

A preliminary schedule of antiquity sites in Trans-Jordan has 
been prepared and a small booklet containing a brief history of 
Petra, with photographs, has been published by the Department 
of Antiquities. 


X1.—LABOUR. 


With the exception of the Convention concerning Forced or 
Compulsory Labour the International Conventions have not 
been formally declared to be applicable to Trans- Jordan and the 
necessary legislation to enforce in Trans-Jordan the provisions 
ot such Conventions has not been enacted, except legislation 
relating to forced or compulsory labour which enables the Trans- 
Jordan Government to give full effect to the terms of the Con- 
vention dealing with those matters. At the same time care has 
been taken to ensure that local legislation is in no way con- 
tradictory or repugnant to the terms of the International Labour 

Conventions and, where necessary, the existing laws have been 
~amended accordingly. 

This policy has been adopted because Trans-Jordan is in the 
main a primitive pastoral and agricultural country where society 
is still conducted on patriarchal lines, and industries are practic- 
ally non-existent. 


359 


In these circumstances, all that is necessary is to ensure 
generally that local legislation is not repugnant to the terms of 
the Conventions, and to adopt from time to time those provisions 
of the Conventions the application of which is rendered desirable 
by the development of Pereira: 


2. Certain undertakings have been given by the factory 
owners in regard to the employment of children. These under- 
takings conform to the draft Conventions and recommendations 
adopted by the International Labour Conference. 


XiI.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF ARMS, 
DRUGS, AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 
1. The existing laws provide that:— 


(a) The import of State or military weapons or revolvers 
of which the barrels are more than 15 cm. in length, or of 
ammunition for the same is prohibited except with the 
permission of the Government. 

(b) Firearms may not be carried without permission 
within towns in which there resides a Government repre- 
sentative. 

(c) The sale of arms and ammunition within a town is 
on permitted under licence and in a specially appointed 

ace. 

7 (d) The transport of arms for export is prohibited. 
(e) Except with a licence the possession of arms or 
! ammunition in the Jordan Valley is prohibited. 

(f) With the exception of retail purchase from a licensed 
dealer, as provided in detail in the Law, no person shall 
import, transport, possess, purchase, sell or otherwise deal 
in any explosive substance (including detonators, percus- 
sion caps and bombs) except under a licence to do so. 

: Purchase of explosives from a licensed dealer may only 
be effected by persons having a licence to do so. 


2. Before 1933, certain persons in Amman were licensed to 
deal in arms and ammunition and such dealers were required 
to keep registers of receipts and issue. But in December, 1933, 
it was ordered by the Government that no licences should be 
granted to any person to import arms. 


3. During 1938 five shot-guns only were imported under 
licence. Arms and ammunition are not manufactured in Trans- 
Jordan and it was only as result of disturbances in Palestine 
that arrangements were made to permit the manufacture of blast- 
ing powder by licence and under Government supervision and 
control. No advantage was taken of these arrangements during 
1938. During the course of the year there was only one con- 
siderable seizure of arms on suspicion of their being destined 


360 


for Palestine, when I pistol, 12 rifles, 200 bombs, and some 8,000 
rounds of ammunition were captured. With this sole exception 
there was no concrete evidence of any considerable traffic in arms 
in or through Trans-Jordan. 


Drugs. 
4. The Dangerous Drugs Law, which came into force on the 


Ist January, 1937, gives effect in Trans-Jordan to the Inter- 
national Convention or limiting the manufacture and regulating 
the distribution of narcotic drugs. This Law makes persons 
guilty of an offence under the Law hable to imprisonment for a 
period not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding £P.500, 


or to both such penalties. 


5. The seizures of dangerous drugs and the penalties imposed 
during 1938 were as follows: — 


Amount. 
Gramm-es. Origin. Penalty. 
Hashish ... Soe 85 Unknown. 6 months imprisonment 
and £P.2-400 mils fine. 
Opium ... see I Unknown. Under trial. 
Poppy heads... 350 Syria. £P. 1°200 mils fine. 


6. Imports of narcotic drugs under licence during 1938 
were :— ) 
Kilo. Grammes. 


Opium in the form of preparations cs au — 77°70 
Morphine in the form of salts and preparations — 375° 82 
Medicinal opium _... ae 68 sas sas I 204 °00 
Cocaine in the form of salts and preparations ... — 360-00 
Codeine in the form of salts zat Sime a — 485-12 
Dionine a Oe wes a ae ae — 332-10 
Cannabis Indica Bee ae ae dex ss — 10°00 
Heroine ie oe Bs ae zi _ — 180-00 


No export authorizations for dangerous drugs were issued 
during the year. 

There is very little addiction to drugs among native Trans- 
Jordanians, and any illegal consumption of drugs in the country 
is confined to residents of other origins. There is no evidence 
of any re-export of drugs smuggled into Trans- Jordan. 


Liquors. 


7. There are three distilleries in Trans-Jordan, which manu- 
factured the following quantities of liquors during the year 


1938 :— 


Litres. 
Cognac... on oe oe ai sie ave 11,486 
Araq or aS ie bee ae ai hits 30,048 
Wine eat as bay sg ciate sie oe 5,907 
Methylated spirit rr se se sales 1,326 


Alcohol Soe a? os Lee ‘ny iiss re 18 


361 


At its thirty-fourth session the Permanent Mandates Commis- 
sion questioned the accuracy of the figures of production given 
for the year 1936. The figures shown in paragraph 7 on 
page 359 of the Annual Report for 1936 were, unfortunately, 
maccurate and should be amended to read as follows:—cognac 
11,071 litres; araq 25,594 litres; wine 7,216 litres; methylated 
spirit 1,940 litres; alcohol 76 litres. 


Xtll.—EDUCATION. 


1. The Department of Education is responsible for two main 
branches of work: — 


(a) the direction, supervision and inspection of all 
Government schools, 


(b) the supervision and inspection of non-Government 
schools. 


2. Headquarters Staff.—The headquarters staff consists of a 
Director, a Senior Inspector, two Inspectors and an Inspector 
of School Gardens. The Inspectorate Areas are three, corre- 
sponding to the Administrative Districts of Ajlun and the 
Belqa, and the combined Districts of Kerak and Ma’an. The 
clerical staff comprises a chief clerk, an accountant, a store- 
keeper and two clerks. 


3. Teaching Staff.—The teaching staff of the Department has 
been increased and the total number of teachers in all Govern- 
ment schools, including head masters and head mistresses, is 
now 181 compared with 163 during the previous year. This 
further increase is designed to continue the process of providing 
additional masters in existing schools which were notably under- 
staffed, and to provide for an increase in the number of schools. 


The distribution of Government schools and the teachers and 
pupils therein is shown in the table at the end of this chapter. 


4. During the year five new Government elementary schools 
were opened, in Amman, Es Salt, Madaba, Anjara and Dhana 
respectively; one small elementary village school was closed 
owing to lack of pupils. The total number of Government 
schools is now 74. 


5. The total number of pupils attending school in the first term 
of the school year 1938-9 was 8,512 compared with 7,408 in the 
previous school year, an increase of 1,104 in all schools; includ- 
ing admissions to classes maintained by the Municipal Education 
Fund. 


362 


The following table gives the number of applications for 
admission to all classes of Government schools in the first term 
of the school years 1938-9 and 1937-8:— 


Towns. Villages.* Totals. 


Boys. Girls, 


1938-39. 
Applied... 2,137 526 
Accepted ... 1,282 373 
Refused or 

deferred 855 153 

1937-38. 
Applied ... 1,917 681 
Accepted ... 737 400 
Refused or 

deferred 1,180 281 





* The figures for villages apply only to those villages where schools exist. 


The importance of registering all candidates within school age 
is more appreciated than hitherto, and the numbers given in the 
above table for the current year afford a more accurate picture 
than that of 1937-8. The increasing demand for education, 
particularly in towns, adds largely to the number of rejections, 
since financial considerations preclude the possibility of pro- 
viding sufficient accommodation. 


Municipal Education Rate. 


6. Under a Law enacted in 1937 in the form of an Addendum 
to Article 15 of the Ottoman Elementary Education Law of 1329 
(I914) an impost known as the Municipal Education Rate is 
levied on immovable property in municipal areas and is 
collected from the occupiers of the property. Power to put this 
Law into operation in any municipal area and to fix the level 
of the rate, within the specified maximum of 3 per cent. of the 
rental value, is vested in the Executive Council. 

The revenue from this rate forms, in each municipal area, a 
special ‘‘ Municipal Education Fund ’’ which is administered by 
a committee presided over in the capital by the Director of 
Education and in the rural areas by the District Administration 
Officer. The Director of Education controls the work of the 
District and Sub-District Committees. 

The Municipal Education Rate was enforced in 1937 at 
Amman and Es Salt, in both cases at 2 per cent. The annual 
assessment of the rate for the current year amounted to £P.1,228 
at Amman and £P.102 at Es Salt. The cost of eight teachers 
was met from the Fund. 


363 


Elementary Education. 


_7. The elementary course extends over a period of seven years 
in town schools and usually four years in village schools. Mixed 
kindergarten classes are attached to the girls school in Amman 
only. 

Town Schools. 


During the year there were 21 town schools (including muni- 
cipal schools) with a roll of 4,835 pupils. Of these nine schools 
were for girls with a total of 1,629 pupils. 

The following table shows the number of town schools by 
Districts : — 


District. Boys. Girls. Total. 
Ajlun or 225 Say a es 3 2 5 
Belqa__... — es sin ars 6 4 10 
Kerak ... seh adi a a 2 2 4 
Ma’an I I 2 
Totals... ne i 9 21 


Village Schools. 


During the year 46 village schools were maintained, with a 
roll of 3,316 pupils, and including one school for girls containing 
5I pupils. 

The following table shows the number of village schools by 
Districts :— 


Number of 

District. Sub-Disirict. Schools. 
Ajlun_... es Irbid ... a sa 20 
Jerash ... ‘ 2 
Ajlun ... 6 
Belqa.... ..; Amman 8 
» Kerak ... me Kerak ... des os 4 
Tafileh... tek bas 3 
Ma’an ... = Ma’an ... me 3 
Total 46 


of these, all except one in the Sub-District of Irbid, are for boys. 


Secondary Education. 


8. The complete secondary course extends over a period of 
Our years, the elementary and secondary stages being con- 

uous. The fourth secondary class concludes with the Trans- 
Jordan Matriculation Examination which follows to some extent 
the Palestine Matriculation. 


There is only one Government Boys’ school in Trans-Jordan 
Which provides a complete secondary course of four years: 
. re are three which give two ycars. Education in these schools 
1s free of charge!’ *' 


364 
There is no Government school providing secondary education 
for girls. 


The total number of pupils attending secondary schools in the 
first term of the current school year was 243 compared with 208 
in the previous year. 


Twenty-seven pupils sat for the Trans-Jordan Matriculation 
Examination held in July, 1938, and 20 passed. 


Desert Schools. 


g. Desert schools were started in 1935 and are still two in 
number. One is permanently established at Al Jaffer in the 
Ma’an District, which is in a central situation for the southern 
tribes, and possesses a suitable building. The second has been 
held variously at Muaqgar and at Azraq, both in the Amman 
District, in accordance with the movements of the northern 
tribes. These schools, which fall within the control of the 
Director of Education, in collaboration with the Officer Com- 
manding the Desert Area, follow a special curriculum designed 
to suit the needs of the Bedouin. 


During the first term of the present school year, there were 37 
puets in the two schools, compared with 40 in the previous year. 

he school at Al Jaffer is also attended by men of the Desert 
Police. 


Mention has been made in paragraph 3 of chapter VIII, 
Military Clauses, of ten Bedouin boys who are being trained in 
wireless telegraphy: these boys received their education entirely 
in Desert Schools. 


Technical Education. 
1o. The only school that provides technical education in 
Trans-Jordan is the Government Arts and Crafts School in 
Amman. Manual instruction is given in all town schools. 


At the Arts and Crafts School board and lodging are pro- 
vided for students from outside Amman: students living in 
Amman are accepted as day boys. No fees are charged for 
board or tuition in respect of Trans-Jordanians: others are 
accepted as day boys at a tuition fee of £P.6 per annum. 


The school is open to selected boys from the elementary 
classes or above. The age of pupils ranges from 14 to17. The 
courses for both theoretical and practical training cover a period 
of four years for blacksmith and carpentry trades, and three 
years for cane work and upholstery. 


During the first term of the school year 1938-9 there were 
61 pupils as compared with 55 in the previous year; 51 of whom 
were boarders. 


365 


Agricultural Education. 


11. Mixed gardens of an average size of 10 dunums are main- 
tained by 28 village schools under the general control of an 
Inspector of School Gardens. Poultry rearing is undertaken in 
three of these gardens, and the introduction of bee-keeping is 
contemplated. Arbor Day is observed annually in all Govern- 
ment schools. 


Scholarships. 


12.—(a) The following scholars were maintained by the De- 
partment during the present year : — 


Number of scholars. Name of institution. 
3 Government Arab College, Jerusalem. 
2 Women’s Training College, Jerusalem. 
I English Girls’ College, Jerusalem. 
3 American University, Beyrouth. 


The maintenance of scholars at the Kadoorie Agricultural 
School, Tulkarm, was precluded by the situation in Palestine. 


(b) The holder of the British Council’s Scholarship of £P.300 
granted in 1937 (see paragraph Io on page 354 of the Annual 
Report for 1937) completed his course of instruction in England 
and resumed his duty as Inspector in the Department of 
Education in August. 

The British Council awarded a second scholarship of £P.300 
to enable another member of the teaching staff in the Depart- 
ment to take.a year’s course in a University in England. A staff 
teacher was selected and sent to University College, Exeter, to 
take a course in English and in methods of teaching that 
language. 

A further scholarship of £P.300 per annum was also granted 
by the British Council to enable a post-graduate to take a course 
of veterinary science for a minimum period of four years. A 
candidate was selected and sent to the Royal (Dick) Veterinary 
College, Edinburgh. 


Non-Government Schools. 


13. The table appended at the end of this chapter shows par- 
ticulars of pupils and teachers in non-Government schools. 


Secondary Education in Non-Government Schools. 


14. The Boys’ Schoo! established in Amman by the Anglican 
Bishop in Jerusalem opened its first secondary class in 1937, 
and a second secondary class was added this year. It accom- 
modates 21 boarders. 

The Girls’ School of the Church Missionary Society in Amman 
also added a second secondary class, and had two boarders. 
This is the only school in the country providing secondary 
education for girls. 


366 
General. 


15. [he Department of Public Health continued to co-operate 
in the medical inspection of all schools. The District Adminis- 
tration in collaboration with the Department of Public Works 
continued to assist in the construction and maintenance of school 
buildings in villages; and the Department of Agriculture supplied 
trees to school gardens and gave advice on agricultural matters. 
The Department of Education has co-operated with the Depart- 
ment of Development in combating soil-erosion. 


16. The Department has established a Central Library in 
Amman to which it is intended that the public shall be given 
access. Valuable assistance to this institution was granted by 
the British Council in the form of a gift of English books of the 
value of £P.50. The British Council also made a similar gift to 
the Anglican Bishop’s School, Amman. — 

























IgI of 1St ce gobi vor‘1+ | z1S‘g €v6 | 690S'L | ogg‘ le ane s[ejo]L 
8 z 9 aa 8 9 + | 19 re bb = as S}elD pue syiy 
z — z — z Zr + | ZS — LS — mae s[ooyas }esaq 
I — I I — zi + | 1S — 1S 1S SLIIyy—s]ooyos 1 as8eitA (pz) 
6S L zS — 6S 66z + | Sgz‘t gLt 6g0‘E — sAogi—sjooyds 1 aseqtA (2) 
bE 6 Cz ve — IZI + | 6z9‘I Coz | PEE'r | 6zQ'I ***STIIS}—STOOYIS UMOT (q) 
£9 6 b¢ — £9 vig + | goz‘t vLE | zf&gQ‘z — "**sfog7—sfooyos umoy (z) 
—: spooyos Are}USTIE[y 
v1 € II — vI ce + | €bz Ig zgI — aes ***  sjooyos ATepuodas 
‘supy | “susaz "Avan ‘supi | “sway 
“Stuy | -SOW snoinaad -StAYD | -SOPT | . 
"$9040 J, "uUgmoy| “ual uo ‘$7040 I ‘SqALD | ‘shog "“014G149S9q 
asvaszap 
‘uordyay 25 "uordyay 7 
9SDIAIUT 
"S49YIVIT *"sqyidnd "SJOOYIS 





"6E61-QE6I ‘SIOOHOS LINAWNUAAOY NI SYAHOVAL AGNV STIdNg AO NOILNAIULsIG 


















61z SS % SzE‘z gbz‘1 LL me S[e}OL 
ZI L — zII ce z nas "* $1930 
Zz € — bet 6S g ioe **xopoyyO 
ve 6 — oLz gSI ¢ noe $}Ue3S9}01g 
QII of — ovr 111 ve as "** SOTTOYRL 
€€ — b _ ogg QZ ree “** SUIZTSOJ 

"supsisssy 9 | ‘smia]so yy | ‘suptsstsy 5 | ‘suazso py "SumsstsyD | “sweapsopy | “S]DIOT | ‘suBSsstays | ‘sue7]S0 jy 

"S140 [ 1040} ‘SqDIOL | “paxtw | “sp41y | ‘shog 
| "uIUo MY "ual puvayy "SIAL ‘shog 
"ssayova I ‘sidng "$J0049S *qnoay 





‘O£61-g£61 ‘STOOHOS INAWNUAAOD-NON NI SYAHOVAL ANV STldNg dO NOINAIYISIG 


3609 
XIV.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


Personnel. 


The establishment of the Department of Health was increased 
during the year by one Assistant Storekeeper. One Medical 
Officer, three Medical Orderlies and one Ambulance Driver were 
also added to the establishment temporarily in connexion with 
the Haifa-Baghdad road construction operations. 


A question was asked at the 34th session of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission regarding the nationality of the personnel 
of the Department of Health. Their nationality is as follows:— 


Director ... Palestinian 
2 British 
7 Trans- Jordanians 
Medical Officers... 2 Guians 
2 Lebanese 


57 Trans- Jordanians 
Others ... ...~ 3 Lebanese 
| 7 Palestinians 


Finance. 


2. The following is the estimated revenue and expenditure of 
the Department for the financial years 1937-8 and 1938-9:— 








1938-39. 1937-38. 
LP. £P. 
(1) Revenue ae ies Gs 820 580 
(2) Expenditure— 
Personal Emoluments ... 10,935 10,816 
Other Charges 5,263 4,993 
Extraordinary 250 250 
! Totals 16,448 16,059 








In addition the Trans-Jordan Government pays half of the 
cost of the Desert Mobile Medical Unit (which amounted in 
1938-9 to £P.1,352), the other half being paid by the Govern- 
ment of Palestine. 


The expenditure on the Department of Health has risen from 
{P.11,292 in 1931-2 to £P.17,800 in 1938-9, which latter amount 
-Tepresents 3-8 per cent. of the whole expenditure of the Govern- 
ment, with the exception of self-balancing items. 


Vital Statistics. 


3. No regular census of the population of Trans-Jordan has 
as yet been taken; but during 1938 the Government caused a 
close survey to be made by District administrative authorities, 


370 


from which the total p eee of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, was computed to be approxi- 
mately 300,000 (actual figures 300,214). 


In this Report calculations per thousand for birth and death 
rates have been omitted, and only the actual figures of births and 
deaths reported are-shown. 


The number of births notified during 1938 was 12,746 com- 
pared with 11,496 in 1937. The number of deaths notified in 
1938 was 5,627 compared with 6,342 in 1937. The figure of 
births was the highest hitherto recorded, and that for deaths 
the lowest since 1928. 


The infant mortality rate (below the age of one year) was 181 
per thousand live births, being the lowest ever recorded. 


The following table shows the figure for births and deaths and 
infant mortality rate during recent years : — 


Number of Number of Infant 


Year. births deaths Increase. mortality rate 
registered. vegistered. per Iooo. 
1928 ... ... 8,400 5,009 _ 3,391 — 
1929 ... w» 9,845 6,573 3,272 a 
1930 ... ... 10,340 6,661 3,679 — 
1931 ... ... 10,697 5,648 5,049 — 
1932 ... ... 10,871 6,152 4,719 — 
1933... ... 10,900 7,354 3,546 — 
1934 ... ... 10,742 7,925 2,817 242 
1935 «+. ... 11,284 6,832 4,452 211 
1936 ... ... 12,234 6,652 5,582 201 
1937 ... ... 11,496 6,342 5,154 203 
1938 ... ... 12,746 5,627 7,119 181 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


- 4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious and 
communicable disease, reported during the year was 5,747 
compared with 6,508 in 1937. No serious epidemics occurred 
during the year. 


The number of cases of pulmonary and sisaspuimonaey tuber- 
culosis notified to the Department during the year was 482 with 
32 deaths, compared with 624 and 33 deaths in 1937. 


The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Bedouin 
tribes is carried out by the Medical Officer of the Desert Mobile 
Medical Unit, which began operations in the early part of 1937. 


The following table shows the cases of and deaths from in- 
fectious and communicable diseases in 1938. compared with 


1937 -— 








1937. 1938. 
Disease. | 
| Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 

Anthrax ihe 5 — 2 — 
Chicken Pox ... 70 — 63 — 
Diphtheria 16 3 II 2 
Dysentery 219 — 216 4 
Erysipelas 29 — 22 — 
Influenza 648 20 369 4 
Measles or 538 70 688 52 
German Measles — — 3 — 
Mumps “ae an reo 130 — 153 — 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis ... 12 8 10 5 
Pneumonia ... si Bee 156 30 164 22 
Puerperal Fever 10 I 10 4 
Relapsing Fever 9 on 8 I 
Typhoid 165 II 144 18 
Para-Typhoid 43 2 29 1 
Typhus oie 14 I II I 
Whooping Cough 350 6 481 2 
Malta Fever ... aes sik I — I — 
Acute polyarticular Rheuma- 

tism ses ine ae 45 I 18 — 
Malaria : 2,791 4 2,212 I 
Leishmaniasis 12 — 4 —— 
Leprosy : —_ — I — 
Tetanus Pi wale ie, 2 3 3 
Pulmonary and Non-Pul- 

monary Tuberculosis _... 624 33 482 32 
Venereal Diseases ... set 600 8 ~ 639 3 
Hydrophobia sos wee 3 3 — — 
a arzial... ae ee 5 — I — 

urvy wb’ Ges wie Io — — 
Cancer sat ae we fo — 5; I 





5. The Department of Health maintains eight-bedded posts 
at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma’an, and four-bedded posts at 
Jerash, Tafileh and Aqaba, for infectious and communicable 

seases. A mobile epidemic unit of 40 beds is also maintained. 

During the year 95,803 articles or bundles and 1,569 hotises 
nae disinfected, compared with 110,223 and 1,880 respectively 

937. 
Vaccination against Small-pox. 


6. The number of vaccinations against small-pox carried out 

fo Department in 1938 was 30,914, compared with 22,350 
37: 
Malaria and Anti-Malarial Measures. 

7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 
eed with one death, compared with 2,791 cases with four 
eaths in 1937, 2,7dr cases with 17 deaths in 1936, and 5,435 
cases with eight deaths in 1935. 


372 


The main sources of infection are the Jordan Valley and the 
Asraq marches. 


Out of a total of 55,171 new cases treated at Government 
clinics during the year, 2 per cent. were diagnosed as malania, 
compared with 3 per cent. in 1937 and 4 per cent. in 1936. At 
voluntary clinics, out of a total of 17,973 new cases, 6 per cent. 
were diagnosed as malaria compared with 7-1 per cent. in 1937 
and 7-8 per cent. in 1936. 


The above figures indicate that the incidence of malaria is 
higher among voluntary clinic patients; but diagnosis at non- 
Government clinics is based more on clinical and less on 
microscopic examination than at Government clinics, and con- 
sequently numbers of cases of unknown fevers are diagnosed 
as malaria in the former. 


During the year the Department used on the.free treatment 
of malaria 21,800 tablets of Plasmochin, 21,950 tablets of 
Atebrin, 111,074 tablets of Quinine and 40 kilogrammes of 
Quinine Salts. 


The Medical Officers of Health examined 10,033 children 
throughout the country with the object of determining the spleen 
rate, the calculation of which during recent years was as 
follows :— 


Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
1926 ... 25:3 I93r ... 85°8 1936... 1I0°'0 
1927 ... I9g:0O 1932... = -4°5 1937. --- IO'4 
1928 ... 14°9 1933. -s- = 33°7 1938 ... 5:0 
1929... 9°5 1934 + 4°5 
1930... ~=— 66 1935... I§°0 


Anti-malarial measures were carried out throughout Trans- 
Jordan on normal lines. In the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 
camps at Zerqa and Jisr el Majamie, anti-malarial work was 
carried out as in previous years in co-operation with the health 
authorities of that Force. 


Anti-rabic Measures. 


8. No cases of hydrophobia in humans were reported during 
the year. Twelve persons, bitten by animals suspected to be 
suffering from rabies, were treated at the Department’s centres 
with prophylactic anti-rabic vaccine treatment. 


Government Hospitals. 

g. The Department maintained the twenty-bed hospital at 
Amman, the twelve-bed hospital at Irbid, and the six-bed 
hospital at the Central Jail, Amman. 

The number of admissions to,.and deaths in, Government 
hospitals were 947 and 56 respectively in 1938, compared with 
933 and 51 in the previous year. 


373 


Voluntary Hospitals. 


10. The construction of the new thirty-bed hospital of the 
Church Missionary Society at Es Salt was completed and opened 
early in 1938. 


A new hospital is in the course of construction at Ajlun by 
Dr. C. F. MacLean, an independent Missionary. 


The admissions to voluntary hospitals during the last two years 
were as follows :— 





Number of Deaths 1n 
Admissions. Hospitals. 
1938. 1937. 1938. | 1937. 
The Church Missionary eaaaed 
Hospital, Es Salt iets 705 480 26 28 
The English Hospital, Amman . — 125 — 8. 
The Italian Hospital, Amman ... 846 754 36 35 
The Italian Hospital, Kerak ... 507 469 9 10 





Government Clinics. 


11. There was again a considerable increase in 1938, in the 
number of attendances at the Department’s clinics the total being 
256,708 compared with 220,452 in 1937. 


New cases at these clinics were 55,171, classified as follows:— 
1,117 malaria, 10,327 eye diseases, and 43,727 other diseases. 


Voluntary Clinics. 
12. The number of attendances at voluntary clinics was 
43,026 compared with 30,641 in 1937. Their distribution was 
as follows: — 


Number of 

Atiendances. 
The Church Missionary Society Hospital Clinic, Es Salt . 9,541 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Kerak fee 8,717 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Amman ve sea co 13,719 
Dr. MacLean’s Clinic, Ajlun.. : 6,285 


The Palestine Electric Corporation’ S Clinic, Jisr el Maj amie 4,704 





Total site a Lad 43,026 





Licensing of Medical Practitioners, Dentists, Pharmacists 
and Midwives. 


13. During the year licences were issued to nine medical prac- 
titioners, one dentist, two pharmacists and three midwives. 


15774 N 


374 


The number and distribution of licensed members of these 
professions at the end of 1938 was as follows: — 


Medical . Pharma- Mid- 
Practitioners Dentists. crsts. wives. 
Amman ... fos Se 10 
Es Salt 
Kerak 
Irbid 
Ma‘an 
Jerash 
Ajlun ds 
Madaba ... 
Zerga bese ee sibs 
Iraq Petroleum Company, 
Mafraq, H-4, and H-5 
Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion, Jisr el Majamie ... 


| | ew lwoaw 
Seeeerer 
sad eae Lea eat a 


pm 


[|e]. 
Lol | 
lu | | 
lo | | 


Total 


Government Laboratory. 


14. The number of specimens examined during the year was 
6,253 compared with 5,181 in 1937. 


School Medical Service. 


15. The Medical Officers of Health carried out a medical ex- 
amination of 8,262 school children compared with 7,095 in 
1937. Of this number 27 per cent. were found to be suffering 
from trachoma, compared with 28 per cent. in 1937, and 1-6 per 
cent. had enlarged spleens, compared with 3-4 per cent. in the 
previous year. 


The number of children vaccinated or re-vaccinated against 
small-pox was 3,94I compared with 1,564 in 1937. 

The total number of attendances at the school ophthalmic 
clinics was 385,424 compared with 353,460 attendances in the 
previous year. 


Maternity and Infant Welfare. 


16. Four qualified midwives, one for each of the munici- 
palities of Irbid, Ma’an, Kerak and Madaba were maintained 
during the year. At Zerka a midwife was maintained for a 

art of the year, later this work was entrusted to the nurse of the 

rans-Jordan Frontier Force camp. 


There are Infant Welfare Centres at Amman and Zerga. The 
number of new cases registered during the year was 172 com- 
pared with 129 cases in 1937, and the number of attendances 
was I1,004 compared with 8,767 in the previous year. The 
number of visits to the homes of children by the nurse was 2,424 
compared with 2,465 in 1937. 


375 


Medical Treatment of Civilians at Zerqa Camp. | 


17. A small Child Welfare Clinic, originally intended for the 
lies of members of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force was 
expanded by the Medical Officer ot the Force to include civilians 
and in 1936, a suitable building was converted for use, and a | 
nurse, fully qualified in midwifery and child welfare work, was 
employed. — o | 

During 1938 attendances numbered 2,080, and 1,776 visits 
were made by the nurse to the homes of children. This most 
ae work is carried out at no charge to the Department of 

ealth. 

A small new Centre was opened at Jerash towards the end of 
the year by an independent charitable worker. The Depart- 
ment assists the institution with free drugs and dressings, and 
the Medical Officer of Health at Jerash is the consulting 
physician. 


Medico-legal Examinations. 


18. Practically all medico-legal examinations are carried out 
by the Medical Officers of Health. The number of examinations 
made during the year was 3,949 compared with 4,152 in 1937 
and 3,934 in 1936. Of this number 114 were post-mortem 
examinations compared with 96 in 1937 and 97 in 1936. 


Desert Mobile Medical Unit. 


19. The results of the first complete year of work of this 
Unit, which first began operations in the early summer of 1937, 
indicate that it is serving a very valuable purpose among the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. It adequately satisfies the 
need for which it was established, and there is no present inten- 
tion of forming other similar units. | 

During the year clinics were maintained at Zizia, Azraq, 
Muaqaqar, Nejil, Al Jaffer, Sadaqa and Mudawara. -Experience 
showed the desirability of obtaining permanent accommodation 
for the clinics at Zizia and Al Jaffer. 

The total number of attendances was 14,672; new cases were 
7,832, including tuberculosis 38, malaria 96, eye diseases 2,263 
and other diseases 5,435. _ 

The Medical Officer of the unit was also in medical charge of 
the outposts of the Desert Police. 


Ophthalmic Clinic Service. 


20. The Department continued as in previous years to give tree 
treatment for all ophthalmic cases. The campaign against these 
seases continued to be extensive and effective. Considerable 
humber of cases are treated every year at the Department’s 
clinics and at school ophthalmic clinics besides the distribution 
15774 N2 


376 


of eye drops in villages and Bedouin camps. The number of 
new cases of eye disease examined and treated at public health 
department clinics (excluding school clinics), was 10,327 com- 
pared with 12,913 in 1937 and 9,652 in 1936. The number at 
voluntary clinics was 2,552 compared with 2,379 in 1937 and 
1,780 in 1936. 

The attendances at school ophthalmic clinics numbered 
385,424 compared with 353,460 in 1937 and 308,090 in 1936. 


21. The Department continued to be in charge of all medical 
and health services pertaining to the Arab Legion, including the 
Desert Police. The health of the force has generally been very 

ood. All men have been vaccinated against small-pox and 
inoculated against typhoid. 


22. Ihe prison medical service has also continued under the 
charge of the Department of Health. The health of prisoners 
has been generally good, and all have been vaccinated against 
small-pox and inoculated against typhoid. 


Railway Medical Service. 


23. The Trans-Jordan section of the Hejaz Railway remained 
as in previous years under the care of the Department of Health. 


Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments. 


| 24. The Department carried out the control and licensing of 
all unhealthy trades and public establishments. 

The number of licences issued or renewed during the year was 
1,502 within municipal areas and 1,119 outside municipal areas, 
as compared with 1,282 and 938 respectively in 1937. 

A new Law to regulate public establishments and dangerous 
and unhealthy trades and repealing former regulations was 
enacted and came into force on the 1st April. 


Water Supplies. 


25. A water supply scheme for Es Salt, estimated to cost 
Z£,P.4,000, of which £P.2,500 is to be provided by loan, has been 
approved and will be put in hand early in 1939. 

Minor improvements of water supplies were completed at 
Madaba, Irbid, Jerash and Deir Abu Said. The water supply 
scheme for Mahis was completed. 


Improvements have also been carried out at a number of exist- 
ing wells and cisterns in the desert area. 

Pumped water supplies of a properly organized nature exist 
in the municipal areas of Annam, Irbid, Kerak and Madaba. 


377 


Municipal Sanitation. 


26. The municipal sanitary services continued to be adminis- 
tered by District Medical Officers, and were satisfactorily carried 
out. There are 13 municipal Sanitary Sub-Inspectors who are 
paid by municipalities but work directly under the Public Health 
Department. 


The Municipal Advisory Board, consisting of one representa- 
tive from each of the Departments of Health, Finance, Public 
Works and General Administration, continued as in previous 
years to advise on municipal estimates and other municipal 
matters. 


Quarantine Service. 


27. Ihe quarantine station at Ma’an with a sub-station at 
Mudawara, were opened during the pilgrimage season. The 
pugrims who proceeded to the Hejaz from Trans-Jordan by the 
southern land routes numbered 356 and those returning 6093. 


All pilgrims before their departure to the Hejaz are vaccinated 
against small-pox and cholera by Medical Officers of Health. 
Twenty-eight pilgrims travelled to the Hejaz via Palestine-Suez, 
to whom the Deparment issued special laissez-passer booklets 
and return railway tickets, after vaccination had been per- 
formed. 


Haifa-Baghdad Road Service. 


28. The Department of Health undertook the medical charge 
of the construction camps and labour parties on this road as 
far as the ‘Iraq frontier. Additional staff, including one 
Medical Officer, three Medical Orderlies and one Ambulance 
Driver were employed for this purpose in a special unit which 
began operations in July. 

The general health in the construction camps was excellent. 


Two detention hospitals, of four beds each, were provided, at 
Mafraq and H.4 respectively. 

Attendances at clinics were 4,652; 109 of which were chronic 
malaria and 259 were eye diseases. There was one serious 
accident, in which a labourer was killed by the explosion of a 
blasting charge. 


XV.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


Revenue and Expenditure, 1924-5 to 1937-8. 


The following statement sets out the annual totals of Revenue 
{including all grants from His Majesty’s Government) and Ex- 
penditure (including that covered by specific grants) from the 


378 


1st April, 1924, the date of institution of the existing form of 
financial control, to the 31st March, 1938:— 


Financial Year. Revenue. Expenditure. 

Surplus balance at the are March, me 23,958 saa 
1924-25 280,673 274,868 
1925-26 282,459 274,573 
1926-27 302,520 274,920 
1927-28 282,073 318,260 
1928-29 307,555 318,950 
1929-30 316,147 338,461 
1930-31 367,516 350,532 
1931-32 338,046 344,983 
1932-33 354,888 340,883 
1933-34 381,412 374,769 
1934-35 377,517 369,395 
1935-36 395,630 381,300 
1936-37 418,650 435,039 
1937-38 459,150 462,710 
Surplus balance at ‘the 31st March, 1938 — 28,551 
£P.4,888,194 4,888,194 


Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure under Heads during 
the last four years are given in the following tables: — 
2. Summary of Revenue for the Financial Years 1934-35 to 
1937-38.(a) 


Head of Revenue. 1934-35. 1935-36. ray 1937-38. 
£P £P £P 





Customs and Excise ... .-» 98,627 104,567 133,884 125,351(5) 
Licences and Taxes ... ... 113,057 140,637 89,121 149,397(c) 
Court Fees and Office Receipts 32,812 37,026 36,462 42,416(d) 
Posts and Telegraph Dept. ... 12,982 13,798 15,222 16,715(e) 
Revenue from Government 
Property... oe w+ 3,198 7184) 1,659(f)  4,357(/} 
Interest secs nee see 1,523 827 382 1,017 
Miscellaneous ... wee: 11,935 7,198 9,435 14,342(g) 
Sale of State Domains siane 2,124 2,610 1,975 4,565(A) 
Total Local Revenue ({P.276,258 313,847 288,140 358,160 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 60,000 42,000 55,000 19,000(1) 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans- Jordan 
Frontier Force Pe ws = 31,959 31,611 31,534 31,335 
Grants from the Colonial 
Development Fund es 9,300 8,172 12,904 14,532 


Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 

for the Repayment of its 

Share of the Ottoman Public 

Debt.. _ — 
Grant to meet the Cost of the 

Hydrographic Survey of 

Trans- Jordan Nae 38s — — — 


31,072(7) 31,008(7) 


5,115() 


Total Grants £P.101,259 81,783 130,510 110,990 


Total Revenue... £P.377,517 395,630 418,650 459,150 





379 
(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 


page 173 of the Annual Report for 1931, those for the financial years 
1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on page 329 of the Annual Report for 1935. 


(6) The general improvement in the revenues of the Department of 
Customs and Excise is mainly due to the revision in 1933-34 of the Customs 
Agreement with Palestine whereby, with effect from the 1st October, 1932, 
Trans-Jordan was allowed to retain the duties on all imports in transit via 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan’s share of the import duties collected in 
Palestine was reduced to £P.17,000 per annum. This share was increased 
by {P.8,000 to {P.25,000 in 1936-37 on the basis of statistics taken of 
foreign goods re-exported from Palestine to Trans-Jordan. Another cause 
of the improvement in 1936-37 was the increased trade with Palestine 
during the Arab strike in that country. The drop in 1937-38 partly reflects 
the reversion of trade with Palestine to conditions approaching the normal. 


(c) and (hk) The fluctuation in revenue from Licences and Taxes and 
from the sale of State Domains during the four years under review coincides 
with the yield of the respective harvests and, inversely, with the amount 
of remissions (from taxation) granted. 


(2) The improvement in revenue from Fees of Court or Office is mainly 
due to increased receipts from (a) Court Fees (b) Land Registry and Land 
Settlement Fees (c) Veterinary and Animal Quarantine Fees (d) Pension 
Contributions (e) Miscellaneous Reimbursements (f) Passport Fees, and (g) 
Nationality Certificates. 

(e) The steady increase in the revenues of the Posts and Telegraph 
Department indicates a continuance of the increasing use of the various 
branches of the service which is being made by members of the public. 


(f) Include not only the rent paid by the tenants of State Lands but 
also the taxes assessed on such lands which in previous years were credited 
to Head II, Licences and Taxes. 


The drop in 1936-37 resulted mainly from the bad agricultural season 
of that year. 


(g) Is accounted for mainly by increased receipts from Trans-Jordan’s 
share in the profits of the Palestine Currency. 


(1) The Grant-in-Aid of the Trans-Jordan Administration in 1935-36, 
which had been approved by His Majesty’s Government at the figure of 
£P.60,000, was short issued by the sum of {P.18,o00 in consideration of 
the improvement in the situation of the Administration in that year. 
The situation in 1937-38 was even better and resulted in the reduction of 
that year’s grant from {P.63,000 to £P.19,000. 


(j) Represents payments made by His Majesty’s Government by way of 


grants towards the liquidation of Trans-Jordan’s share of the Ottoman 
Public Debt. 


(k) See Note (o) at the end of paragraph 3. 


3. Summary of Expenditure for the Financial Years 1934-35 
to 1937-38.(a) 





Head of Expenditure. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 1937-38. 
Ordinary. Z£P. LP. £P. ; 
Civil List... sisi --s 14,534 15,329 15,706 15,142 
Public Debt and _ Loan 
Charges : : 1,340 1,148 241 646 
Legislature ... 1,986 (bd) 3, "606 3,722 3,705 
Pensions and Gratuities 9,479 11,064 (c) I1,941(c) 11,589 (c) 
Chief Minister and Interior 3,753 3,899 4,132 4,688 
District Administration 10,035 9,667 9,786 10,152 
Ministry of Justice 15,827 16,047 15,497 16,691 
Sharia Courts sis 3,869 3,901 3,815 3,884 
Ministry of Finance ws. II,032 11,256 11,138 11,225 
Customs, Trade and Industry 7,543 7,509 8,232 10,810 (d) 
Public Health Department 12,762 13,763 15,212 15,186 
Desert Medical Mobile Unit — — — 2,275 (e) 
Education Department 23,324 24,207 23,373 24,232 
Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary Department... 7,151 7,411 8,506 9,633 
Antiquities Department 2,500 2,558 2,389 2,676 
Public Works Department 4,584 4,637 4,691 4,959 
Public Works, Recurrent... 18,918 23,308 20,285 23,327(S) 
Posts and Telegraphs wes 13,903 13,661 16,094 15,163 
Department of Lands and 
Surveys... 13,509 15,617 (g) 15,723(g) 17,661 (g) 
Police and Prisons Depart- 
ment :— 
(a) Police . 99,721 101,998 108,394(4) 107,737 
(b) Prisons ee 11,549 11,004 10,707 11,080 
(c) Supplementary Re- 
serve Force — — 4,603 (8) — 
Miscellaneous io% 9,560 9,682 8,729 8,791 
Audit Department... 3,253 3,672 3,878 4,005 
Tribal Court of Appeal 766 181 760 830 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force 27,527 28,531 29,876 29,197 
Total Ordinary 
Expenditure £P.328,425 343,809 357,430 365,284 
Extraordinary. : 
Public Works Department 8,567 19,796(7) 16,072(7) 22,967(7) 
Ministry of Finance .» 1,987 453 — 8,775 
Posts and Telegraphs ... 2,818 6,906 (k) — 2,962 
Public Health Department 252 225 — 189 
Police and Prisons . — 2,571 1,254 10,419 (#) 
Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary : 289 — — — 
His Highness the Amir 2,957(m) — — 2,000 (98) 
Relief Measures ; ..- 14,824 (%) 150 19,145(%) 997 
Antiquities Department .... — — — 824 
Schemes financed by the 
Colonial Development 
Fund oe . 4,844 4,311 8,404 10,032 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force 4,432 3,079 1,658 2,138 
The Hydrographic Survey of 
Trans-Jordan ... — — — 5,114 (0) 
Trans-Jordan’s Share of the 
Ottoman Public Debt .... — — 31,072 (p) 31,009 (Pp) 
Total Extraordinary 
Expenditure £P.40,970 37,491 77,610 97,426 
Total Expenditure LP. 360,395 381,300 435,040 462,710 





381 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
pages 174 and 175 of the Annual Report for 1931; those for the financial 
years 1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on pages 330 and 331 of the Annual 
Report for 1935. 


(6) The smaller expenditure on the Legislature in 1934-35 was principally 
due to a seven months’ interval which preceded the election of the Legis- 
lative Council, during which no commitments were incurred in respect of 
the salaries of members. 


_(c) The increase in expenditure on Pensions and Gratuities arises from 
mcreased commitments under the Pensions Laws in force. 


_ (@) The increase in expenditure under the Customs, Trade and Industry 
is accounted for mainly by refunds and drawbacks, previously treated as 
in reduction of revenue. 


(e) The Desert Medical Mobile Unit was newly established for work 
among the Bedu during the latter half of 1936-37 at the joint expense of 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. Palestine’s share of the cost is brought to 
account as a reimbursement under Revenue Head III ‘‘ Fees of Court or 
Offce.’’ Expenditure in 1936-37 (£P.648) was debited to Head XI. 


(f) The increase in expenditure on Public Works Recurrent during 
1935-36 was mainly due to the heavy cost of repairs of damage to roads 
caused by floods during the months of February and March, 1935. The 
increase 1n 1937-38 was occasioned by the necessary expansion of services. 


(g) The increase in expenditure on the Department of Lands and Survey 
was due to expansion of the service mainly in connexion with land 
settlement. 


(h) The increase in expenditure on Police was mainly due to the enlist- 
ment of a Reserve Force of 115 men and to increased activities of the 
Department during the Palestine disturbances. 


() A Supplementary Reserve Force was formed during 1936-37 to deal 
with the situation arising from the Palestine disturbances. 


(j) The 1935-36 figure includes £P.8,500 the 1936-37 figure {P.4,495 and 
the 1937-38 figure {P.4,500 chargeable to the Colonial Development Fund. 


(k) Includes an abnormal] item of {P.6,131 being Trans-Jordan’s share 
of the Haifa-Bagdad telephone circuit. 


(1) The heavy increase in 1937-38 results from the acquisition of a reserve 
of vehicles, spare parts, arms and ammunition, and other stores. 


(m) The 1934-35 figure represents an allotment to the Amir to meet 
the expenses of His Highness’s visit to the United Kingdom, and of the 
marriage of His Highness the Amir Talal. The 1937-38 figure represents 
an allotment made to meet His Highness’s visit to London to attend the 
coronation of His Majesty King George VI. 


(n) Relief Measures on a large scale were necessitated in 1934-35 and 
in 1936-37 by the distress caused by crop failure in those two years. 

(0) Represents expenditure chargeable to a grant of £P.30,000 approved 
by His Majesty's Government to meet the cost of an Hydrographic Survey 
of Trans-Jordan. 


(p) This expenditure was met by a grant made by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment. See also note (j) of the Summary of Revenue. 


382 


4. Public Debt. 


At the 31st December, 1938, the Public Debt of Trans- Jordan 
was as follows :— 


(:) Balance of Agricultural Loan obtained from His Majesty’s LP. 
Government on 30.3.37 —«.. - ‘ee out 3,500 


(12) Trans-Jordan’s share of the Oitenan Public Debt :— 
Twenty half yearly payments 
of £15,504 6s. od. each 
payable on the 31st May 
and the 30th November of 





each year. The first pay- £ s. d. 
ment fell due on the 31st 
May, 1936.. .. 310,086 15 oO 
Less: The first six payments 
already made Se ws» 93,026 0 6 
Balance at the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1938 ... vas ... £217,060 14 6 
On conversion to Palestine £P. mils. 
Currency ... dais sa 217,060°725 or Say 217,061 
Total ... ats so on Sis £P.220,561 





Note.—The payments mentioned in (72) are being met as and when they 
fall due from grants by His Majesty’s Government. 


5. Comparative figures of Revenue and Expenditure for 
1937-38 and 1938-39. 


Forecast at 
Particulars. Actuals, Estimates, 31.12.38 
1937-38. 1938-39. for 1938-39. 
A.—REVENUE, 
Local... -... das ia ii 358,160 339,332 356,220 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans- Jordan ae 19,000 90,000 gO,000 
Grant-in-Aid of pane aa Frontier | 
Force ° oes 31,335 33397 33,397 
Grants from the Colonial Development 
Fund . oe iy 14,531 12,981 12,981 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan (Otto 
man Public Debt) ... : 31,009 31,073 31,009 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans- Jordan’ S Hydro: 
graphic Survey ive , ae 5,115 24,886 14,886 
Grant-in-Aid of Haifa- Bagdad Road. — 200,000 200,000 
Revenue from Loans ... sae we — 4,300 4,113 











Totals ... .-. £P.459,150 735,969 742,606 











383 


Forecast at 


Particulars. Actuals, Estimates, 37.12.38 
: 1937-38. 1935-39. for 1938-39. 
B.—ExXPENDITURE. LP. £P. £P. 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Ordinary 336,085 407,351 397,220 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force, Ordinary 29,197 30,839 30,839 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Extra- 
ordinary si ‘iis as ane 49,135 258,472 248,350 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, Extra- 
ordinary ned ss ae ae 2,138 2,558 2,558 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants sa or 10,032 12,981 12,981 
Expenditure from Grants (Ottoman 
Public Debt) ... Ses aon ae 31,009 31,073 31,009 
Loan Expenditure—Irrigation Schemes — 4,300 4,113 
Expenditure from Grants (Hydro- 
graphic Survey) : “oe ar 5,114 24,886 14,886 
Totals ... ... £P.462,710 772,460 741,950 
C—EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, 
AGRICULTURE, PuBLIC HEALTH, 
PusBLtic Works, RELIEF MEAS- 
URES, HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEY, 
IRRIGATION SCHEMES AND DE- 
VELOPMENT. 
Education, Ordinary ... 24,232 27,974 26,000 
Education, Extraordinary — 710 710 
Agriculture, Ordinary 9,633 7,338 6,800 
Public Health, Ordinary ies 17,461 18,901 18,300 
Public Health, Extraordinary 189 250 230 
Public Works, Ordinary ; 4,959 7,685 7,000 
Public Works, Recurrent ie 23,327 24,065 24,000 
Public Works, Extraordinary 22,967 241,972 232,000 
Relief Measures ee ses 997 — — 
Hydrographic Survey ... ue san 5,1%4 24,886 14,886 
Loan Expenditure—Irrigation Schemes — 4,300 4,113 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants— 
(2) Improvement of Water Supplies 75 475 475 
(}) Sinking Artesian bores in the 
Desert... oes me - 499 — — 
(c) Seed Propagation uae ee 725 297 297 
(4) Land Settlement, Acceleration of 4,777 5,000 5,000 
(e) Agricultural Experimental Station 2,660 1,129 1,129 
Development = 1,296 1,580 1,580 




















Notes: (1) Expenditure on Public Works Extraordinary in the year 1937-38 
includes {P.4,500 chargeable to the Colonial Development 
Fund. The 1938-39 figure includes £P.4,500 chargeable to that 
Fund and £P.200,000 to the special grant provided by His 
Majesty’s Government for the purpose of the construction of 
the Haifa-Bagdad Road. 
(2) Loan Expenditure—(Irrigation Schemes) is provided for from a 
loan from the Colonial Development Fund. 


6. Comments on the Principal Variations in Revenue. 


; (i) Local Revenue for 1938-39 is expected to fall short of the 
937-38 figure by £P.1,940. The following table shows how this 
anticipated decrease is made up:— | 


384 


























Actual, Forecast, 
Head of Revenue. 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
. £P. £P. £P. £P 
1.—Customs and Excise 125,351 130,620 5,269 — 
2.—Licences and Taxes 149,397 141,430 — 7:997 
3.—Fees of Court of Office 42,416 46,500 4,084 — 
4.—Posts and_ Telegraphs 
Department isis 16,715 18,180 1,465 — 
5.—Revenue from Govern- 
ment Prope 4,357 4,000 — 357 
6.—Interest... as 1,017 500 — 517 
7.—Miscellaneous es _ 14,342 10,510 — 3,832 
8.—Sale of State Domains ... 4,565 4,200 — 365 
8a.—Advances Recovered — 280 280 — 
£P.358,160 356,220 11,098 13,038 
Net Decrease... — 1,940 1,940 — 
£P.358,160 358,160 13,038 13,038 














(ui) The forecast of grants from the Colonial Development 
Fund for 1938-39 is £P.1,550 less than the total of such grants 
received in 1937-38. This is accounted for by the following 
variations : — 






































Head and Sub-Head of Actuals, Forecast, 
Revenue. 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
XI.—Grants from the Colonial  {£P. £P. LP. £P. 
Development Fund. 
Es Salt—Allenby Bridge Road 4,500 4,500 — — 
Improvement of Trans-Jordan 
Water Supplies ; sao 75 475 400 — 
Agricultural Experimental 
Station ‘ ioe ‘ 2,659 1,129 — 1,530 
Seed Propagation Sa — 725 297 —_— 428 
Sinking Artesian Bores in th 
Desert... sia ee : 499 — — 499 
Land Settlement 4,777 5,000 223 — 
Development 1,296 1,580 284 — 
14,531 12,981 907 2,457 
Net decrease sie ee — 1,550 1,550 — 
£P 14,531 14,531 2,457 2,457 
(ii) A special grant of £P.30,000 was made by His 


Majesty's Government to Trans-Jordan to meet the expenses of 
an Hydrographic Survey of the country. Receipts ton this 
grant are determined by the cost of work actually carried out or 
expected to be completed in connection with the scheme in 
question. See also the corresponding item in the Comparative 
Statement of Expenditure at paragraph 5B. 

(iv) Grant-in-Aid of the Haifa-Bagdad Road. See Note (1) 
relating to the Extraordinary Expenditure of the Trans-Jordan 
Government at the end of peer 5C. 

(v) Revenue from Loans. See Note (2) relating to Expendi- 
ture on Irrigation Schemes at the end of paragraph 5C. 


7, Comments on Principal Variations in Expenditure. 
(i) The forecast of ordinary expenditure of the Trans- Jordan 
Administration shows an increase of £P.61,135 over the actual 
ordinary expenditure of 1937-38. This is made up as follows: — 


385 























Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Expenditure. 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
ae £P. LP. £P. £P. 
1.—Civil List oa ade sais 15,142 16,800 = 1,658(a) — 
2.—Public Debt and Loan Charges 646 320 —— 326(b) 
3.—Legislature ee 3,705 3,780 75 — 
4.—Pensions and Gratuities ‘ 11,589 15,000 3,411(c) — 
5—Chief Minister and Interior... 4,688 4,440 — 248 
6.—District Administration 10,151 10,540 389 — 
7—Ministry of Justice 16,690 18,500 1,810(d — 
8.—Sharia Courts... bese hoe 3,884 4,400 516(e — 
9.—Ministry of Finance ... bes 11,225 12,600 1,375(S) — 
10.—Customs, Trade and Industry 10,810 12,600 _1,790(g) — 
11.—Public Health Department ... 15,186 15,800 614(h) —_ 
114.—Desert Medical Mobile Unit 2,275 2,500 225 — 
12.—Education : ea ae 24,232 26,000 1,768(2) — 
13.—Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary ... ies 9,633 6,800 — 2,833(7) 
134.—Development Recurrent — 200 200(R — 
14.—Antiquities Department : 2,676 2,590 — 86 
15.—Public Works Department ... 4,959 6,850 1,891(2) — 
15A.—Public Works Recurrent ... 23,327 24,000 673 — 
16.—Posts and Telegraphs Depart- 
ment... sae aoe ee 15,163 18,150 2,987(m) — 
17—Lands Department ... se 17,661 24,700 7,039( — 
18.—Police and Prisons Dept.— 
(2) Police ee 107,737 120,210 12,473(0) — 
(b) Prisons ... ie 11,080 11,200 120 — 
(c) Supplementary Reserve — 21,000 21,000(p) — 
19.—Miscellaneous ... ; 8,791 g,000 209 — 
20.—Audit Department .. 4,005 4,030 25 — 
21.—Tribal Court of Appeal 830 gio 80 — 
21A.—Advances Other Than Tem- 
porary = 4,300  4,300(g) igs 
£P.336,085 397,220 64,628 3,493 
Net Increase 61,135 — — 61,135 
Total £P.397,220 397,220 64,628 64,628 














(2) Is mainly due to a temporary increase in the allotment of His 
Highness the Amir. 

(5) Results from the reduction by repayment of the balance outstanding 
on the loan of {P.11,500 obtained from His Majesty’s Government on the 
3oth March, 1937, for the Agricultural Bank of Trans-Jordan. 

(c) Is due to increased commitment under the Pensions Laws in force. 

(4), (e), (g), (), (i), (1) and (mn). These increases are largely due to 

ion in the relevant services. 

Is accounted for mainly by increased expenditure on ‘‘ revenue 
refunds.’’ Such refunds were previously treated as in reduction of 
tévenue. 

(j) Is mainly due to the transfer of the Forests Section of the Depart- 
Ment to the Department of Lands and Surveys and of the Inspector of 
School Gardens to the Education Department. 

(k) Was previously paid from Head XIII. 

(m) Is accounted for by expansion of the service and by increased 
xpenditure necessitated by the purchase of a reserve of stores. 

, (0) and () The increased expenditure was necessitated by the situation 
m Palestine. 

(q) Advances other than temporary were in previous years charged to 
Suspense. Such advances are now to be paid from voted moneys and when 
neovered are to be credited to revenue, in order to preserve to the legis- 

€ full control of the disposal of Government funds. 


386 


(11) The following is a forecast of the extraordinary expendi- 
ture of the Trans-Jordan Government for the financial year 
1938-39 as compared with the actual figures for 193 TS: : 


Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of pinta 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P. LP. £P. 
23. Public Works Extraordinary 22,967 232,000 209,033 — 
24. Police and Prisons Extra- 


ordinary... ... 10,419 9,000 — 1,419 
25. Antiquities Extraordinary iae 824 850 26 — 
26. Education Extraordinary ... — 710 710 — 
27. Posts and Telegraphs Extra- | 

ordinary... 2,962 1,450 — 1,512 
28. Customs, Trade and Industry 

Extraordinary sd — 200 200 — 
29. Development (Water Boring) — —_—_—_11,800 1,800 — 
33. Relief Measures 997 — — 997 
34. Public Health Extraordinary 18g 230 4l — 
35. Ministry of Finance Extra- 

Ordinary... ee .. 8,775 1,410 — 7,305 

H.H. The Amir - . 2,000 © — — 2,000 


Expenses of His Highness’s 
delegate to the London 
Conference on Palestine ... — = —~—~—*« 700 700 ~~ 








£P 49,133 248,350 213,510 13,293 








Note.—In connexion with the expenditure on Public Works Extra-. 
ordinary see Note (1) at the end of paragraph 5C. 


8. Financial Position of the Trans-Jordan Government at the 
31st March, 1938. 


Liabilities. Assets. 
£P. mils. £P. mils. 
Deposits a: --- 14,723.829 Advances... ws 12,575.024 
Imprests ie ..-  6,719.056 
Loans ... 8,000.000 Loans .—-_... ...  7,000.000 
Excess of Assets over Remittance ... 4% 163.697 
Liabilities (Surplus _ Cash and Bank 
Balance) Sek ... 28,550.812 Balances .... ....  24,816.864 
£P.  51,274.643 £P.  51,274.641 


9. Revenue Collection. 


The collection of current taxation from the 1st January to the 
31st December, 1938, amounted to £P:120,640. Relative col- 
lections during previous calendar years were as follows:— | 


I93I_ ... a ree — a3 de sist 99,961 
1932 ... doe ote bee a bes ... 101,073 
1933... cut ie va - 2 sie 84,611 
1934... $e, fas Ss ve sd ae 89,872 
1935 .-- bes a ats ae sag 4... 127,985 
1936... ies asd oe sci ions soa 81,352 


1937 ... ae oe ae sais ais ... 129,163 


387 
Current taxation remitted on account of crop failure during 


recent years in accordance with the revised system described on 
page 379 of the Annual Report for 1936 was as follows : — 


LP. 
1931 age sie _ oe oe 12,468 
1932 ve oe oh bus is 8,397 
1933 bes =o ae oe ie 14,726 
1934 Sas — sR wee sts 19,155 
1935 oe oe as es oe 13,776 
1936 — Reus vite oa ae 51,949 
1937 oa Sap sea ia ate 7,681 
1938 ie — ae ae shes 16,133 (recommended) 


10. Arrears of Taxes. 


Collection of arrears of taxes from the Ist January to the 
31st December, 1938, amounted to £P.2,400. Relative collec- 
tions during previous calendar years were as follows : — 


LP. 
1931 ses aus Fels ae eae 3,841 
1932 wes ot hs wes ae 5,230 
1933 see eee a seiee wile 4,021 
1934 a ae en a ee 3,757 
1935 ee se gee as ioe 9,671 
1936 seis fide bie ris aes 2,730 
1937 vate — re hae sie 4,947 


The amount of arrears authorised or recommended to be 
written of in accordance with the procedure outlined on page 
337 of the Annual Report for 1935 were as follows : — 


Year of Assessment. LP. 
1924-25 tO 1930-31 re ae nie 63,428 
1931-32 ee ss oe bes or 7,789 
1932-33 ees wat es ss iat 13,560 
1933-34 ae ie re an 14,227 
1934-35 un oe sie ses a 8,865 
1935-36 ee ve oe oe e 3,281 (recommended) 


11. Revenue Reform. 


The decennial re-assessment of the gross value of taxable lands 
and buildings within the Municipal area of Amman, under 
article 25 of the House and Tax Law, 1926, was completed 
uring the year under review. 


12. Trade, Public Finance, and Population. 
oe Statistical table relating to Trade, Public Finance and Popu- 
on is appended. In accordance with the request of the Per- 
Manent Mandates Commission at its thirty-fourth session 
\Winutes, page 30), the table has been expanded so as to include 


0Ormation relating to the calendar year 1931 and to the finan- 
Clal year 1931-32. 


‘9€61 reak Jepusled 94} 07 011d potted oy} 107 a[qeiTeae you ore sorjsiye1s OFqQeITaXy (q) 


‘1e0A 78Y} Ul epem AdAIMs OAI}EI}SIUTUIpe [NJored & UO poseq st gf61 IO} UMOYsS any oy} { Uae} UVeq IJOA9 Sey snsUad ON (n) 













— — — — — — — — 66E‘zLb | 6LI‘gQo0E‘I| oo0'0o0€t ee oe "* 9f61 
$Sz‘1S | 19b‘Z1 | €£€9‘'6 1€z‘bz og1‘gSEt O16‘001 | 000g gt—Le6r g96‘01S | ggz‘bSo'! —_— ae ee “ss LE61 
Leo‘1b | z1z‘Sr | goS‘g €LE‘Ez oF1‘ggz o1S‘o£1 LE-o9f£61 glL€‘gzz | Sof‘St6 — on ae **- of61 
IvL‘Lb | 696'€1 | rrd‘Z Loz‘vz Leg‘E1€ €gZ‘1g o£-St61 — — ae — “+ C61 
oLo‘ze | bro‘fx | 6E¢‘Z vzf‘Ez gSz‘glz oSz‘Io1 ce—-rl6r — — ne ame --° PEGI 
zir‘ze | grir‘zzr | SLo‘9g gzo'tz LoS‘19z Co06‘611 bE-CL61 — — ee ae “* €€61 
g6S‘z€ | o96‘1r | 62Lb'S ggl‘zz 6bL‘ESz 6E1‘IOI €€-zl61 — — ms ae "+ 261 

3 GOEEE | zOz'Ir | IzI‘g vel'iz Zo6‘'Zzz ber‘Srr z€-1£61 — — =F ae “+ E61 
dF ‘dF ‘dF ‘dF ‘dF ‘dF ‘dF 
"YNVAHT | ‘aanqno "u014 oe ‘ssouDap py 
gn “5p -vInpz $a94nosS 19 pun 
a uUnYI “WON 409 X 
49430 porounury | “SPOdxy | ‘sysoduy (v) 
moss “OJDULUS é 
uo quads sjunomp anuanay *SIDANOG [DUAIIXT] “ory OOO CORD 
mosf anuanay -ojngod 
‘aounuty I1qNnd (9) ‘appar 





(‘sasjaueozt3yy aavnbS 000‘06 Ajazousxosddy : vasp) 


"NVGUO[-SNVUL 


389 


XVi.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 
Customs. 
Imports. 


1. The total value of commercial imports cleared for home 
consumption during the year 1938 was AP -788.714 compared 
with £P.934,211 for 1937 and £P.794,959 for 19306. 


Direct importations by parties enjoying exemption from 
customs duties, which are not included above, were as follows:— 





(1) Irag Petroleum Company— £P. 

(a) From Palestine a eA Sat a 48,077 

(6) From Iraq — on wk sea ase 5,131 

(2) Palestine Electric Corporation... ve 5,983 
(3) Commanders, Royal Engineers (Haifa-Baghdad 

Road) os See “is _ re 23,153 

(4) Privileged Persons ... oo ae aa w.. 202,883 

(5) Items on free List ... ee a et we = 232,238 

Total... w.—- $17,465 





The increase above the figures in the previous year was due in 
part to larger imports by the Royal Air Force, and in part to 
sums under item (5) in respect of camels, sheep an goats 

ing through the new customs post at Station 4 on the ‘Iraq 
Petroleum Company’s pipe-line and of Maria Theresa dollars 
brought in for re-export to Saudi Arabia. 


Principal Imports—The recorded value of the principal 
commodities imported from all countries for home consumption 
are shown in table “‘ A ”’. 


Specie.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 
imported during the year under review, with comparative figures 
for the previous three years was:— 


1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Gold coin ... aes il = —_ a a= 
Si 
Maria Thera 1) ap 4847 4530 77am 
Other metal coins see _ — — — — 
Currency notes ... ses ... 600 4,000 — 18,800 








£P. 600 8,847 4,530 96,032 





* Imported for dealing with Nejd merchants. 
15774 O 





390 
Exports and Re-exports. 


2. The value of known commercial land exports and re- 
exports (excluding goods passing through Trans-Jordan in 
transit and specie) were as follows : — 


7 | Exports. | Re-ex ports. 
- 1938. - 1937. 1936. 1938. . 1937. 1936. 
>. SP. £P. £P. __ £P. £P. = £P... 
Exports to Palestine 444,523 404,107 198,215 77,597 12,239 2,678 
Exports to Syria... 27,677 .106,861 29,781 11,967 2,173 564 
Exports to Iraq. 199 | — |, 3800 at 28 
Exports to Nejd ... — —_ — 2,770 420 61,873 


‘Totals £P. 472,399 510,968 228,376 92,545 14,860 5,115 

Specie.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 

exported during the year under review, with comparative 
figures for the previous three years was :— 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 

LP. : ; £P. 

Gold coin ... re Nil Nil Nil Nil 
Silver coin... Sag 21,700 27,000 45,800 30,000 
Other metal coins... 1,200 700 4,320 1,710 
Currency notes... 90,050 154,850 160, 355 168,500 
_.. Totals £P. - 112,950 182,550 ° 210,475 201,110 


Principal Articles Exported.—The recorded values and quan- 
tities of the principal commodities exported from Trans- Jordan 
during the year 1938 were as follows : — 


Quantity Value. 
Item. —- ae Nos. _—_..._ so fP. 
Sheep _ sats ei a 28,602 .°- =. = «=+25,010 | 
Goats ay — ws er, 7,769 5,000 
Cattle sak abe 25 679 2,673 
| Kilogrammes 
Samneh ©... sa ses gah 109,794 12,350 
Fresh vegetables ... oe .+ 2,853,317 : 1I,291 
Kersenneh peas _... = tin 1,188,401 8,320 
Fresh fruit fa 3es sis 1,557045 15,656 
Raisins me ‘aes fee oni 354,817 4,652 
Grapes ie ss ae So 1,213,795 4,007 
Wheat ie ae ose ws 32,619,405 324,103 
Barley .. ... ee orate ... 4,015,106 20,473 
Durra aon Sak Ba as 842,252 4,501 
Dyed goods 26 — se 28,575 7 4,312 
Wool woth b's wes sas 33,157 -1,149 
Men’s wear is iss ee 9,878 — 1,503 
Head gear ... ees 5 sted 12,900 2,852 


(Keffiyeh) 


Palestine provided an excellent market for Trans- Jordan 
wheat. The demand was constant and good prices ruled. 


391 
Transit Trade. 


3. The value of goods removed through Trans-Jordan in 
transit during the year under review and the three previous years 
were as follows: — 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 

£LP. £LP. £LP. LP. 
(2) From ’Iraq to Palestine ... 365,920 390,321 243,123 407,262 
From Palestine to ’Iraq ... 161,338 313,465 193,886 280,728 


(b) From Nejd to Syria at 
From Syria to Nejd ae NOnENOWD: 

No official landings These Companies 
fly across Trans-Jordan but do not 
provide any service for Trans- Jordan 


goods or passengers. 


(c) Via Air routes by Imperial 
Airways, K.L.M. and 
Misr Airworks : 


(¢) Via 'Iraq Petroleum Com™ 
pany’s Pipeline, ‘Iraq to 


Palestine :— 
1938. 1937. 1936. 
Quantity of crude 
oil-tons sae 2,036,067 2,024,115 1,922,498 
Value ii .. = £P.1,628,854 1,619,292 1,537,998 


(Arbitrary value at 16 shillings per ton of crude oil.) 


The principal goods carried by road in transit through Trans- 
Jordan are:—from ‘Iraq to Palestine, carpets, lambskins, cas- 
ings, gums (for Europe and America), poultry, ghee, fish, eggs, 
dates (for Palestine). From Palestine to ‘Iraq, cased goods of 
foreign manufacture including hardware, wearing apparel, and 
medicines. 

_ The Baghdad firm of Haim Nathaniel, with branches in Pales- 
tine, operated a bi-weekly goods service between Jerusalem- 
Haifa and Baghdad and vice versa during the year. 


Mails were also carried by this firm. 


Rest houses have been provided for the use of travellers at 
Mafrak and at the desert Stations H.5 and H.4. 


Customs Revenue. 


4. Receipts from customs for 1938, as compared with the 
four previous years were as follows :— 


e gf ee oe oh 
113,057 118,405 104,434 95,13 86,406 


In addition thereto the following amounts were collected on 
half of the undermentioned Departments : — 


1938. 1937. 1936. ee 1934. 


7 | gp. {P. {P. {P. 
Municipalities Tax on 
Inflammable goods... 7,947 5,695 7,179 7,289 5,411 


iin Tax (1.4.38)... 5,413 = a rea sar 
Po nary ~~ : 562 721 569 292 288 
assport oe ~ 297 401 212 136 156 


15774 P 


392 
Contraband. 


5. The total number of offences against the customs law 
adjudicated during the year under review was 318 as compared 
with 227 in 1937, 258 in 1936 and 179 in 1935. 

Receipts from penalties imposed, and the sale of confiscated 
goods, amounted to £P.400 and £P.83 respectively. 

The amount of penalties imposed by the courts amounted to 
ZP.33 in 1938. 

Foreign Trade. 


6. The main trade channels and the distribution of trade 
during 1938, together with comparative figures of the preceding 
years are given in table (B). 

Trade between Palestine and Trans-Jordan was generally 
satisfactory notwithstanding the difficulties arising from the 
abnormal situation in Palestine. 

Trans-Jordan exported a record quantity of wheat, and road 
transport employed in the export of grain quoted cheap return 
rates for merchandise. 

The present situation in Palestine is not conducive to close 
business associations between Palestine local industry in general 
and the merchants of Trans-Jordan. -Consequently the greater 
portion of purchases made by Trans-Jordan relate to foreign 
goods duty paid in Palestine. The imports of such goods during 
1938 are valued at £P.373,055 and the value of goods of Pales- 
tine produce or manufacture imported amounted to £P.46,347. 
The figures for 1937 were £P.200,685 and £P.60,390 respec- 
tively. ; 

The transactions under the Trans-Jordan-Syria Customs 
Agreement were:— 


. 1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 
Imports of Syrian produce : 
and manufactures ... ... 175,670 156,853 153,963 81,048 
Re-exports from Syria ... 30,831 20,299 22,863 12,320 
Exports of Trans-Jordan pro- 
duce to Syria is esx. “273077 106,861 29,781 21,487 
Re-exports to Syria ... ... 11,967 2,173 564 3,024 


Syrian trade with ee continued to benefit by the 
devaluation of the franc in September, 1936. 

The value of Trans-Jordan trade with Nejd is very difficult to 
assess but it 1s considerably larger than the statistical figures 
indicate. Wheat, barley, coffee, spices, cotton and artificial 
silk piece goods and benzine are the principal exports to Nejd. 

The value of imports from ’Iraq amounted to £P.106,336 as 
compared with £P.7,141 during 1937. 

Work on the construction of the Haifa-Baghdad road began 
in August, 1938. Animals to the value of £P.102,746 were 
imported in connection with this work. 


393 


The value of goods entering Trans-Jordan in transit through . 
Palestine and Syria during 1938 was £P.286,545 and £P.193,722 
as compared with £P.266,439 and £P.202,491 respectively 
during the previous year. 


Balance of Trade. 


It is not possible to assess the balance of trade with any degree 
of certainty. The number of the customs posts in the central 
and southern areas is insufficient to enable complete trade statis- 
tical data to be obtained but it is known that cereals from these 
areas are freely exported to Nejd and to Palestine. 


Tariff Changes. 

7. The Import Tariff Schedule is based on the League o 
Nations Standardised Nomenclature and consists of 554 items 
and sub-items. 

The customs duties collected during 1938 represented 18 per 
cent. of the value of dutiable goods. 

No tariff changes were recorded during 1938. 

Exports continued free of duty or dues. 

An examination fee of one-half per cent. on the c.i.f. value of 
goods imported continues to be chargeable in addition to the 
customs duties on goods which are not free of duty or otherwise 
exempted therefrom. 


Excise. 
8. Liquor.—Revenue from excise duty on spirits and wine 
manufactured in the country during the year under review as 
compared with the two previous years was: — 











1938. 1937. . 1936. 

£P. £P. £P. 

Cognac ... es he ee 195 190 195 
Araq_... ae ie a 855 757 759 
Wine ... ae a oe 60 56 72 
Methylated spirit ... sn 13 17 19 
Alcohol oe on en I I 3 
Totals ... sah 1,124 1,021 1,048 











The rates of excise duties on liquors and spirits manufactured 
Tfemained unchanged, being: — 
Cognac and Araq ... 56 mils per litre. 
Wine ahs 10 mils per litre bulk, provided that the wine does not 
M contain more than 25 per cent. of alcohol. 
ethylated Spirit... 10 mils per litre. 
ure spirit ... 50 mils per litre. 


The output of the three distilleries in Trans-Jordan during the 
ast four years is shown in table ‘‘ C ’’. 
15774 P 2 


394 


The receipts in respect of liquor licences were as follows, 
compared with the previous three years: — 


1938. 1937. 1936, 1935. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
339 374 309 253 


Table “‘ D”’ contains particulars as to the quantities of 
‘liquors, wine and spirit imported into Trans-Jordan during the 
year with comparative figures for the four preceding years. 


Tobacco.—The excise duties on tobacco continue to be as 
follows :— 


Cigarettes Sai ee Se ae ... 300 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco ... nee sis — ... 250 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco where the retail price for 

40 grammes does not exceed 10 mils ... 120 mils per kilogramme 


The revenue from the above excise duties, and the quantities 
of tobacco so taxed, are shown in Table ‘‘ E ’’ with the corre- 
sponding figures for the last four years. 


The revenue from licences to sell and manufacture tobacco 
was as follows: — 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
648 627 609 . 588 568 


Tombac locally grown and Hisheh tobacco continued to be 
exempt from excise duties during the year. 


Table “‘ F ’’ contains comparative figures for the past four 
years of foreign leaf tobacco imported in Trans- Jordan. 


Table “‘ G ”’ contains comparative statement of revenue from 
import duty on foreign manufactured tobacco imported into 
Trans-Jordan during the last four years. 


Salt.—The excise duty on salt was abolished in 1929. The 
salt deposits of Trans-Jordan are at Azraq. There are no 
statistical data indicating quantities extracted for use. 


9. Excise Offences.—The number of excise cases dealt with 
during 1938 was 70 compared with 98 in 1937, I12 in 1936 and 
147 1n 1935. Ihey were as follows :— 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 


Unlicensed sale of tobacco ae 323 30 65 65 
Unlicensed sale of alcohol i 2 8 II 4 
Unlicensed sale of matches .-. 40 60 36 47 
Undeclared cultivation of tobacco 4 — — 21 
Unlicensed manufacture’ of 

alcohol ... I — — 10 


Totals ae Se. Oo 98 112 147 


395 


Excise Revenue :— 














1938. 1937. 1936. 1935: 

Liquors. £P. £LP. Le £P. 

Excise on liquors I,110 1,003 1,026 1,009 

Licence fees ... — a 339 374 309 253 
Tobacco. 

Excise on tobacco 13,366 13,008 12,576 9,963 

Licence fees ... _ Sane 648 627 609 588 
Methylated spirit ae eR 13 17 19 
Alcohol ... as st oe I I 3 

Totals 15,477 15,030 11,813 


14,542 














Table ‘‘ H ’’ shows excise revenue for 1938 as compared with 
totals for the three previous years. 


Customs and Excise Revenue. 


Io. Customs stations were opened during the year at Ma’an 
and Zerka. 


A graph illustrating the trend of customs and excise revenue 
during the past 14 years (1925-1938) is annexed as table “‘ J ’’. 


Il. Trade and Industry.—Trans-Jordan being an agricul- 
tural country a sufficient and timely rainfall and a healthy 
condition of cereal crops are important factors which are neces- 
Sary for prosperous economic conditions. While the total rain- 
fall during the season 1937-8 was satisfactory its incidence was 
untimely with the result that the cereal yield of the year was most 
disappointing. The effect upon economic conditions was re- 
flected by a drop in the total value of known exports from 
£P.511,000 in 1937 to £P.472,000 in 1938. 


Grains.—The approximate production in, and export from, 
rans- Jordan of wheat and barley (the principal grain crops) in 
the past three years were as follows : — 


1938. 1937. 1936. 

Pro- Pro- Pro- 

duction. Exports. duction. Exports. duction. Exports. 

Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
Wheat... 85,000 33,000 113,000 26,500 40,000 12,000 
Barley... . 45,000 4,000 53,000 8,000 16,000 1,500 
Lentils 4,600 1,000 5,000 1,200 3,000 600 
Kersenneh 7,500 1,200 7,000 1,800 4,000 650 
Durra aoa 8,900 800 11,000 2,400 — 400 


Grapes.—The grape crop was generally good, except in the 
Tegion of Es Salt. Exports were much affected by the inter- 
Tuption of road transport in Palestine. Vineyard owners con- 
verted large quantities of grapes into raisins, but the expectations 

15774 P 3 


396 


of an excellent export market did not materialize owing to risks 
of transport in Palestine. 


Wool.—The quantity of wool exported during 1938 decreased 
to 33 tons from 177 tons in the previous year. This was mainly 
due to the fall in world market prices to very low levels. 


Fresh Fruit.—There was some increase in the export of fresh 
fruits, mainly bananas, citrus and pomegranates. 1,557 tons 
were exported in 1938 as compared with 889 tons exported in 


1937: 


Currency.—The relatively high cost of living which still 
obtains in Trans-Jordan 1s in part due to the fact that, although 
the Palestine pound is divided into 1,000 mils, the lowest spend- 
ing unit is in reality the 5-mil piece. 


TABLE (A). 
PRINCIPAL IMPORTS. 
VALUES. 
1938 1937 1936. 
LP. LP. LP. 

Cotton Piece Goods 86,576 62,893 94,926 
,, White Shirting 15,066 18,555 14,359 

» Figured 10,397 12,693 12,937 

», Calico... eis 18,190 9,576 9,579 
Artificial Silk Piece Goods 50,000 97,891 73,045 
Benzine 39,410 35,665 46,881 
Sugar 46,951 471277 45,597 
Kerosene 25,001 24,820 21,700 
Coffee 18,083 18,459 16,640 
Animals or die 126,075 23,256 16,277 
Articles made of Wool 24,340 19,963 15,647 
Timber 21,686 13,090 14,964 
Clothing ... 28,549 29,335 13,999 
Samneh 7,440 22,738 13,700 
Head Gear 13,799 13,401 13,857 
Confectionery 21,394 17,328 11,554 
Boots and Shoes 18,203 19,612 10,467 
Tea 11,189 10,145 9,556 
Flour 4,645 16,789 8,410 
Olive Oil ... aie 5,882 11,223 8,172 
Woollen Piece Goods ... 6,169 6,447 7,971 
Articles made of Iron ... 11,379 9,768 7,047 
Ware of Paper 12,754 8,873 6,216 
Soap 7,231 10,468 5,144 
Rice 24,758 40,377 41,637 


397 
TABLE (B). 


MAIN CHANNELS AND VALUES OF IMPORTS AND EXPORTS. 
Imports. 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. LP. £P. £P. £LP. 
t. In Transit through Palestine 286,545 266,439 236,608 200,119 212,415 
In Transit through Syria ... 193,722 202,491 199,013 82,611 30,745 
In Transit via Post Office... 6,939 5,015 4,945 (Statistics not kept) 


2. Imports from ‘Iraq... .». 106,316 7,141 9,508 (Statistics not kept) 
Imports from Nejd ... «ss 4,410 14,898 11,115 7,550 2,730 
3. Trade Agreements :— 
Palestine— 


1. Foreign goods duty paid 
in Palestine  subse- 
quently consumed in 


Trans- Jordan ... -++ 373,055 200,683 121,453 (Statistics not kept) 
2. Palestine locally manu- ' 
factured goods ... 46,347 60,390 36,088 (Statistics not kept) 
Syria— 


I. Foreign goods _ re-ex- : 
ported to Trans-Jordan 30,831 20,299 22,863 12,320 13,627 
2. Syrian locally manu- 


factured goods ... 175,670 156,853 153,963 81,048 79,425 
Exports. 
4. Exports from Trans- Jordan:— 
To Palestine a -++ 444,523 404,107 198,215 (Statistics not kept) 
Re-exported to Palestine 77,597 12,239 2,678 (Statistics not kept) 
To Syria ... : .-. 27,677 106,861 29,781 21,487 9,220 
To Syria re-exports ws 11,967 2,173 564 (Statistics not kept) 
To ‘Iraq ... 2 199 — 380 (Statistics not kept) 
To ‘Iraq re-exports sie 211 28 — (Statistics not kept) 
To Nejd_ ... ov (Statistics not kept.) 
To Nejd re-exports 22 2,770 420 1,873 (Statistics not kept) 
TABLE (C). 


QUANTITY oF LIQUORS MANUFACTURED BY DISTILLERIES. 





Year, Cognac. | Arag. Wine. |™ ice Alcohol. 
: Litves. Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. 
a - | 11,486 30,048 5,997 1,326 18 
med ae 10,708 26,264 5,624 1,729 36 
1936... | rn077 25,594 7,216 1,940 76 
935 bis 10,763 24,672 ~ 6,975 — — 


£19‘! ZgI €S1 zZ16‘9 
Sr6‘I o6€ cS zzg‘S 


1vb‘€ gib‘1 6S 1S9‘E 


0Z0‘Z 192 ZO 1z76'@% 
gLt‘s LSE LL gt6oz 


"SOdqtT "SOALT "SO4jtT 





“Saat 


‘sananhtT 
‘Aysty 
YInOUlae A ‘audvdqupy)| ‘anusoyD 
UN "1H 
‘boap 





CSo‘oz 
Cgo0‘oz 


Q£E‘gz 


"S9aqtT 








"Sa10g 
1[DuS 





"$3110 
"ad4v TJ 





"$194d0 
ul 
"499g 


"NVGUO[-SNVU], NI NOILANNSNO%) AOA GALUOdUW] SLIUIGS GNV ANIA, ‘SUONSDIT JO SAILILNVAC) 


‘(q) ATAVL 








399 












1S0'F bo L‘EE Qzz'z £06‘g 6z9‘Ez oSo‘LoL‘o£ a "+ Q€6r 
69S‘¥ Ego‘ge gbf‘z Cgt‘6 got ‘oz gtz‘obl‘gz ae “> LE6r 
LOL‘E 1r€‘r€ boz‘z 9S0'6 6Fg'Iz oSb‘Eg9‘gz a ""* of6r 
1691 z60‘'FI LEo‘'z gh1‘g zgl‘oz 00z‘¥z9‘Lz pe "+ C€6r 
oP "SIULULDABOILST "SIUULDAZOIL ST "SIUMULDATOIL ST 

‘And 519M 14519 

"PULULDAGOILY "IUAUADASOI LY "IUAULDASOILY "409 X 

Ag Situs OI Aqnp astox7q sag siius OS 2 Aqnp asox7 49g Sjtus OO€ Ainp aswxa 
"0990q04 1nD *0990Q0} IND "$94qaAD31D 





‘SHINOLOV AM AIVS YOI GANSS] GNV AHANLIVANNVAL SALLAAVDID ANV OOOVAOL ‘NO GALOATIOD SHILA ANV ‘dO SAILILNVNG 


‘Ha WIAVL 


400 


TABLE F. 


QUANTITIES OF FOREIGN ToBacco LEAF IsSUED FROM BOND AND AMOUNT 
OF DuTIES COLLECTED THEREON. 


Rate of Duty: 300 mils per kilogramme. 


Tobacco leaf Import duty 
Year. tssued, collected. 
Kilogrammes. £LP. 
1935 7,506 2,269 
1936 7,265 2,179 
1937 7,412 2,223 
1938 6,434 1,930 
TABLE G. 


Import DutTy COLLECTED ON ALL KINDS OF IMPORTED TOBACCO 
AND TOMBAC. 


Foreign Cigarettes 
Year. Leaf. Tobacco. Tombac. Total. 
1935 2,270 1,211 1,566 5,047 
1936 2,180 1,285 2,732 6,197 
1937 2,223 1,045 4.175 72443 
1938 1,930 920 4,928 7.778 
TABLE H. 


ExcisE REVENUE. 


Year. Tobacco. Liquor. Total. 
1935 9,962 1,009 10,971 
1936 12,576 1,048 13,624 
1937 13,008 1,021 14,029 


1938 13,366 1,124 14,490 


uy Suog g Aqely 


he SZ6l 976i LZ6l Sz6i «6 Z6 I ots! Ie6! Ze6I cee! =—s« EG Se6i 


re te Fé d CRER Sach Weal 


6ZBLI GZBbE POIES E66Z@ SPSSL ZBSS9 SSP99 SILO BOLE 0266 SSE9OI GSOGII EEC! vESEZI ox 


gee! Lee! seel 
(86) - SZ6! ) WOUS SYVSA vi ONIYNG ASBNIVLEO SNN3SASY 3SIDX3 GNV SWOLSND 
(c) AIaGVL 


Digtized ty GOORe 


401 


XVII.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


I. Finance.—The revenue for the financial year 1937-8 was as 
follows : — 














LP. LP. 
Sale of estas stamps... oe es soe 3,318 
Commission on postal orders ee since oc 316 
Telephones eee and a sais sie sas 10,528 
Telegrams ... oe aad sae 1,203 
Parcels ie ae ies ou: ee nee I,11g 
Miscellaneous Zee aie ahs a8 a 230 
16,714 
Charges for services rendered to Government Depart- 
ments not included in the above figures :— 
Inland telephones and telegrams to civil list... 325 
Police post telephones, the rentals of which are 
on a kilometric basis __... wes 745 
Inland postage on official correspondence _ 2,332 
Commission on the sale of revenue stamps ... 289 
3,601 
Total ... we Ss aa 20,405 
Expenditure for the year was: — 
£P; £P. 
Ordinary expenditure we 15,163 
Expenditure incurred by other departments on 
behalf of this department :— 
Rents of buildings ioe she sae 682 
Furniture and other minor works hoe bi 27 
Printing and stationery si 5 see 428 
1,137 
Total ... he or aes 16,300 





Extraordinary works carried out during the year included the 
construction at a cost of £P.2,665 of a telephone and telegraph 
route between Tafileh and Ma’an, thus completing the direct 
route between the latter town and Amman. A telephone route 
was also constructed at a cost of £P.298 between Irbid and 
Samar, the headquarters of a Nahieh. 


2. Posts.—As a result of the disturbances in Palestine the motor 
transport daily service for the carriage of mails between Amman 
and Jerusalem ceased to operate in the latter part of the year, 
and these mails were thereafter carried by road convoys of the 
Royal Air Force about three times a week. Some interruption 
of mail services in southern Trans-Jordan occurred during 
periods of rain and snow at the beginning of the year. 

Trans-Jordan participated in the British Empire “ All up ’ 
Air Mail Service as from the 1st March. 

Eighty-two enquiries were received for lost items of registered 
correspondence, and 42 for ordinary items. Investigations re- 
vealed that of the registered items 75 were delivered; and of the 


402 


ordinary items 21 were delivered and the remainder were 
untraced. 


The number of items dealt with in the Returned Letter Office 
amounted to 3,576 of which 27 items were registered; 378 items 
were returned to offices of origin in foreign countries; 358 | were 
delivered to senders and addressees in Trans- Jordan; 434 


printed papers were destroyed and 406 letters were peak un 
claimed. 


The appended table of statistics for the years 1937 and 1938 
shows a further satisfactory progress in many of the postal 
services. Where decreases appear they are mostly due to dis- 
turbed conditions in Palestine. 


Traffic Statistics 1938. 


Description. Increase or 
1937. 1938. decrease 
Ordinary mails :— per cent. 
Correspondence (letters, postcards, 
printed papers, etc.) : 500,905 645,703 29 increase 
Parcels, inland ae 4,375 3,833 12 decrease 
Parcels, foreign, despatched 318 389 22 increase 
Parcels, foreign, received . 2,778 3,257 17 ia 
Telegrams, inland _.. 6,411 6,776 6 ‘5 
Telegrams, foreign, despatched 3,640 4,966 36 - 
Telegrams, foreign, received eee 3,759 4,714 25 i 
Telephone subscribers, number 643 725 13 A 
Telephone trunk calls, inland 91,559 120,415 32 ee 
Telephone trunk calls, foreign, out- 
going.. 14,671 11,553 21 decrease 
Telephone trunk calls, foreign, in- 
coming : : 12,227 9,521 22 a 
Telephone call offices whe 52 54 4 increase 
Telephone trunk lines, kilometres he 1,500 1,660 II s 
Money orders, inland, number ; 2,677 2,601 3 decrease 
Money orders, inland. Value £P. 46,960 40,754 13 
Money orders, foreign, issued, number 987 598 39 Ex 
Money orders, foreign, issued. Value £P. 4,293 3,152 27 i 
Money orders, foreign, paid, number ~ 260 277 7 increase 
Money orders, foreign, paid. Value {P. 1,935 1,981 2 oe 
Postal orders, inland, number 14,160 19,364 37 . 
Postal orders, inland. Value £P. 10,802 14,670 36 + 
Postal orders, imperial, issued, number 2,158 2,730 27 sg 
Postal orders, imperial, issued. Value £P. 1,483 1,804 22 - 
Postal orders, imperial, paid, number 225 229 2 “ss 
Postal orders, imperial, paid. Value £P. 153 147 4 decrease 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid, number 5,130 3,867 25 re 


Postal orders, Palestinian, paid. Value £P. 4,473 3,411 24 s 

3. Telegraphs.—The improvement in the inland telegraph 
traffic and the increase in foreign traffic were both due to restric- 
tions imposed on trunk calls in Palestine and the destruction by 
armed bands of the Amman- Jerusalem circuits within the latter 
country between September and December. During this period 
telegrams destined for Palestine and those normally transmitted 
through Palestine were diverted through Syria. 


403 


4. Telephones.—The increase in the number of inland tele- 
phone trunk calls was mainly due to the demands of internal 
public security precautions, and to improvement in the service 
concurrently with a marked increase in the number of sub- 
scribers. . 


5. Engineering.—The ordinary work of maintaining the tele- 
phone and telegraph routes was performed regularly; and in 
addition to extraordinary works carried out preparations were 
made for the erection of a telephone circuit between police posts 
at Kreimeh and Damieh in the Jordan valley. 


General. ! 


6. During the year 33 cases of damage to telephone and tele- 
graphs routes were reported and action was taken against the 
persons or the villages concerned. 

Funds for the expropriation of a site for a new General Post 
Office at Amman were provided in the current year’s Estimates, 
and a suitable site was acquired, and plans of construction are 
in course of preparation. 

New postal agencies were established at stations H.4 and H.5 
on the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company pipe line, and at Fuheis 
and Wadi es Sir villages. 

The total number of officers on the classified establishment at 
the end of the year was 64. The unclassified employees com- 
prised 34 linemen, 14 postmen, 3 apprentices and 4 orderlies. 


XVill.—AGRICULTURE AND VETERINARY. 
Agriculture. 


After a satisfactory rainfall in October and November, 1937, 
there was a long dry interval until mid-January when the next 
rain fell, but damage had already been done to the early “ afir ”’ 
crops in a number of localities. Rain continued intermittentl 
during the first quarter of the year, but the rainfall in Apml 
was disappointing. A considerable fall occurred in May but 
this was too late in the season to be beneficial. While there- 
fore, the aggregate rainfall was somewhat above the average, the 
irregularity in its incidence, together with a serious and wide- 
spread outbreak of “‘ rust,’’ resulted in yields of wheat and 
barley which were most disappointing both in quantity and in 
quality. The yield of the olive crop was good, and that of 
vines satisfactory, except in the neighbourhood of Es-Salt where 
the crop was below the average. Some 8,000 dunums were culti- 
vated with winter vegetables and 37,000 dunums with summer 
vegetables. . 

Particulars of the areas sown with tobacco and tombac are 
given in Chapter XVI of this Report. In addition some 7,400 


404 


dunums were’sown with hisheh tobacco, giving an estimated 
yield of 828,000 kilogrammes. 

Apart from the usual visitations of field mice and ‘‘ worm,”’ 
no serious pests appeared. 

The early rains of the 1938-9 season have been excellent and 
well distributed, and give promise of a good agricultural harvest. 

At the end of 1937, which was nominally the last year 
covered by the grant from .the Colonial Development Fund of 
Z£,P.1,200 for each of three years for the propagation of good 
seed in Trans-Jordan, a small balance of funds remained which 
was carried forward for expenditure in 1938-9. 

During the past season the following quantities in kilo- 
grammes of selected seed were distributed to cultivators through- 
out the country: wheat 187,700, barley 21,200, kersenneh 
13,700, jilbaneh 14,300, lentils 28,800. 

Reports of the higher average yield from the selected seed 
issued and of the enhanced price obtained for its produce indi- 
cate that the scheme is being most beneficial. 


The year 1938 was the first year of practical experimental 
work at the new Agricultural Station at Jubeiha. Test crops 
sown included 48 varieties of wheat, 40 of barley, four of lentils,’ 
one of oats, three of kersenneh, two of potatoes; and a quantity 
of fruit trees, vines and forest trees were planted. Three asses 
were acquired for mule breeding, and a beginning was made 
in the poultry section by the purchase of 180 birds of four 
varieties. 

In addition to the experimental station at Jubeiha, the Depart- 
ment maintains the following:— , 


(a) Horticultural Station at Ruseifa, near Amman, where 
all kinds of fruit trees suitable to the altitude of the plateau 
are grown and grafted for distribution. 

(b) Horticultural Station at Bagoora in the northern 
Jordan valley, devoted to citrus and fruit trees, date palms 
and vegetables. The Department of Agriculture continued 
to issue free of charge grafted citrus trees from this planta- 
tion to inhabitants in the Jordan valley, and also their 
planting and maintenance until established. 

(c) Horticultural Station at Jerash, in the Ajlun hills 
which is confined principally to the growing of olives. This 
nursery was extended by a further four dunums. 

(d) A Demonstration Plot of 80 dunums at Mejdal, also 
in the Ajlun hills for the propagation of carobs. 

(e) Wadi Zahar Nursery, in the foothills west of Irbid, 1s 
confined to the production of seedlings of forest trees for 
the re-afforestation of areas in the north of the country 
which have been selected for that purpose during settlement 
operations. In addition to this nursery, all the other 
stations maintain a certain quantity of forest seedlings. 


405 


Veterinary. | 


2. After a set-back in winter grazing at the end of 1937 there 
was some recovery in the spring of the year under review and 
the condition of flocks generally has been good. With the early 
incidence of the first rains, in November, 1938, prospects for 
future grazing are extremely good. 

There was no serious outbreak of disease, the more notable 
cases being: — 


Cases. Deaths. 
Small-pox in goats... ee aie 700 47 
Mange jn goats ae on aoe 960 53 
Foot and mouth disease ues sate 1,682 2 


The large transit trade in camels, sheep and goats from Saudi 
Arabia through Trans-Jordan to Palestine and Egypt continued 
during the year. 7 

By the generosity of the British Council a student has been 
sent to England to take a four year course in Veterinary Science, 
with a scholarship of £P.300 per annum. 


3. The Forestry Section of the Department of Agriculture was 
transferred on the 1st April, 1938, to the Department of Lands 
and Surveys. A description of the activities of that section will 
be found under Chapter III, Lands. 


XIX.—PUBLIC WORKS. 
Roads. 


The five-year programme of reconstruction of that part of 
the main Amman—Jerusalem road lying between Es Salt and 
the Allenby Bridge, which is being carried out with the assist- 
ance of a grant from the Colonial Development Fund, ended 
during the year with the completion of work on 11 kilometres 
of the road. At the end of the year work on a small section 
near the Allenby Bridge was proceeding and will be finished 
by the end of March, 1939, together with two large culverts now 
under reconstruction. 

The construction, within Trans-Jordan territory, of the 
Haifa—Baghdad road under arrangements made by His 
Majesty’s Government began in August. Work between Irbid 
and Jisr el Majamie is being carried out by the Trans-Jordan 
Department of Public Works at the charge of His Majesty’s 
Government. 

The construction of the road between Kerak and Madaba 
across the Wadi Mojib, which was begun as a relief measure 
M 1936, was continued by the Department in 1938 and will 
probably be completed in February, 1939. Similarly the work 
on the road connecting Ajlun with Deir Abu Said, which was 
started in 1936, was resumed and is expected to be completed | 
by the end of March, 19309. 


406 


During the year 831 kilometres of roads were continuously 

maintained and 714 partially maintained. 
Buildings. 

2. Regular maintenance work was carried out in 80 Govern- 
ment owned and rented buildings. 

Important buildings completed for Government use during 
the year included a new Headquarters for the Department of 
Lands at Amman, a Customs Bonded Warehouse and offices 
at Amman Station, additional stabling, garage and barrack 
accommodation at the Arab Legion Depot, Amman, and a Fort 
at Wadi Musa. The construction of a Fort at Al Jaffer and 
Police Posts at Gharandal, Rasheidieh and Wadi al Arab was 
also begun during the year. 


Water Supplies. 


3. A detailed scheme of water supply for the municipality of 
Es Salt has been prepared. This scheme will be carried out 
early in 1939 from municipal funds assisted by a loan of 
Z£P.2,500. 

4. Other Works:—The Department is responsible for the 
works and buildings of the Irans-Jordan Frontier Force at 
Zerka and Ma’an, and also undertakes all hirings of offices and 
other accommodation for the Government and arranges for the 
provision of furniture therein. A aguas Engineer was added 
to the staff of the Department in 1938 and saree iy public 
des are now more closely supervised and controlled by the 
Director. 


XX.—DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT. 


1. The Department of Development was established in May, 
1937, under the charge of a British Director, and is maintained 
by a grant from the Colonial Development Fund. 


2. Preliminary studies and investigations were be at the 
outset; but before a proper plan of operations cule be estab- 
lished the circumstances of the Department were substantially 
changed by the provision by His Majesty’s Government in 1937 
of a grant of £P.15,000 for the purpose of a Hydrographic 
Survey of the country which, together with a contour survey of 
the Jordan Valley to be executed by the Department of Lands 
and Surveys, would enable the practical possibilities of irriga- 
tion development in Trans-Jordan to be assessed. This work, 
which was the outcome of the Report of the Royal Commission 
on Palestine, came as a matter of emergency upon an organiza- 
tion of which the merest nucleus was as yet in existence; and it 
absorbed most of the activities of the Department throughout 
the remaining part of 1937 and during 1938. 

3. Hydrographic Survey.—The Hydrographic Survey, 
designed to disclose the possibilities of the water resources of 
the country, was put in hand at the end of 1937. During 1938 


407 

a programme of drilling for underground water was carried out, 
principally in the Jordan Valley, with results which were not 
unpromising although the sources discovered were compara- 
tively small. An extensive network of water measurement of 
springs and streams was set up to serve as the basis of an 
analysis of the aggregate water resources of the country. Other 
studies and experiments in connexion with irrigation were 
initiated, and steps were taken to collect and compile general 
hydraulic and other information relevant to the developmental 
problems of the country. 

Towards the end of the year the systematic compilation of the 
results of the survey during the past year was put in hand, but 
has not been completed. 


4. Irngation Control Schemes.—Subject to the overriding 
demands of the Hydrographic Survey the normal activities of 
the Department were pursued. A scheme for the control of the 
water of the Wadi el Arab, a perennial stream in the Jordan 
Valley, south of the River Yarmuk, was prepared, and the 
issue of a loan from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.4,000 
for its execution was approved. It was, however, found neces- 
sary to postpone the work until security conditions in the Jordan 
Valley generally should become more normal. 

A second scheme for the control of the water of the Wadi 
Ziqlab, the next considerable perennial stream south of the 
Wadi el Arab, was nearing completion at the end of the year; 
and proposals for a number of minor schemes for improvement 
of water supplies were in course of preparation. 


5. Irrigation Legislation.—The use of water for irrigation con- 
tinues, as hitherto, to be governed by the Ottoman Law, to 
which no amendments or additions have been made. A new 
Law for the control of irrigation and land drainage water was 
drafted, and was under consideration at the end of the year. 
In addition to general powers of control throughout the country 
the draft Law makes provision for water settlement and for the 
assumption of control of distribution in areas proclaimed as 
Irrigation Areas. 


XX1I.—CIVIL AVIATION. 


1. The air services maintained by the Imperial Airways and 
the Royal Dutch Line between Europe and the Far East pass 
over Trans-Jordan territory but only make emergency landings 
in that country. 


2. There are no customs aerodromes in Trans-Jordan, but 
permission is occasionally given for commercial machines to 
land on Royal Air Force aerodromes, and in such instances 
special arrangements are made in the matters of customs and 
passport control. 


3. The need for a special department to administer civil 
aviation in Trans-Jordan has not arisen. 


408 


APPENDIX I (i). 


THE PALESTINE ELECTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED. 
(Incorporated in Palestine.) 
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS, DECEMBER 3IST, 1937. 


REPORT OF DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 3IST, 1937. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounts 
for the year ended 31st December, 1937. 


The Directors are glad to be able to report that despite the disturbed 
conditions which prevailed in Palestine throughout the year under review, the 
Undertaking has operated satisfactorily and an efficient service has been 
maintained. 


Notwithstanding the economic depresssion which accompanied the 
unsettled conditions in the country, both output and revenue increased. 


The total number of consumers connected by December 31st last was 
75,805 compared with 66,537 at the end of 1936, an increase of 14 per cant. 
71,265,889 units of electrical energy were sold in 1937 compared with 
65,495,957 in 1936, an increase of 8-8 per cent. The gross revenue increased 
by 4-9 per cent. from £P.582,765 in 1936 to £P.611,051, the lesser increase 
being mainly due to the considerable reductions effected during the year _ 
jn the rates charged for energy. 


The following figures show the development of the Corporation’s business 
during the past six years :— 


No. of Gross 

Consumers Units sold Revenue 
Year. Connected. (in RWh.). (in £{P.). 
1932 oe 15,113 11,590,350 145,512 
1933 ‘ase 21,934 20,136,839 221,128 
1934.0 + 35.397 34,385,515 363,900 
1935 ww 53,246 50,362,193 488,443 
1936. 66,537 65,495,957 582,765 
1937 a 75,805 71,265,889 611,051 


The construction work on the new Tel-Aviv Power House was continued 
throughout the year with the utmost expedition. The erection of machinery 
was held up, however, owing to considerable delay in the deliveries from 
England. It is expected that this Power House will be completed at the end 
of July of this year. 

The second 66,000-volt Transmission Line from the Jordan Power House 
to Tel-Aviv is completed, but awaits connection with the new Power House. 


Fifty transformers with a total capacity of 5,320 kVA. were put into 
commission in consumers’ premises in 1937, bringing the total up to 707 
transformers with a total capacity of 65,230 kVA. 

The Transmission Lines to Beisan and to Gaza have been completed and 
supply commenced on December 16th, 1937 and May 23rd, 1938, respectively. 

The transmission and distribution network of the Corporation was 
extended during the year by 246 km., making a total on the 31st December, 
- 1937 of 1,137 km. of high-tension transmission lines and cables, and 1,061 km. 
of low-tension distribution lines. 

Following the Resolution of the Extraordinary General Meeting held 
last year, increasing the Capital of the Corporation, an Issue was made at par 
of 500,000 44 per cent. Second Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares 
of {1 each. 


409 


The gross profit for the year was ... 

Deducting Appropriations made :— 
(a) Reserve for Depreciation ... 
(6) Redeemable Preference Shares Sinking F F und 
(c) Capital Amortisation Fund 3 : 


there was a nett profit of 

Deducting further :— 

(2) Dividend on Preference and Second Preference 
Shares , 

(e) Interim Dividend of ‘24 per cent. ‘free of ‘United 

Kingdom Income Tax on Ordinary and “A” 

Ordinary Shares, paid on Necember 31st, 1937.. 


and adding the balance brought forward from the previous 


there is an available balance of bs ihe 
out of which the Directors recommend :— 
(1) The transfer to Reserve for Income Tax and 
Contingencies of ants 
(2) The transfer to General Reserve of : 
(3) The payment of a final Dividend of 5 per cent. 
free of United Kingdom Income Tax on oe and 
‘A ’”’ Ordinary Shares, absorbing 


Leaving a balance to be carried forward of 


eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, 
SAMUEL, Chairman. 


£P. 


95,150 
12,000 


9,754 





33,633 


° 43,44I 


£P. 
352,470 


116,904 





235,506 


77,974 


24,240 


158,492 


182,732 


20,000 
50,000 


86,881 


156,881 


£P.25,851 


The members of the Board retiring by rotation are Lord Hirst and 
Dr. G. Halpern who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
The Auditors of the Corporation, Messrs. Russell & Co., retire and, being 


PINHAS RUTENBERG Managing Director. 


July Ist, 1938. 


410 


02g ‘0gz' qF 


07g ‘09z 


ozg‘0gz' dF 
a see oi Pa ‘* puny 00 99S ‘SEz 329qS soured 07 pared WWOIg aN Suleq souejeg 
-enuueiedns pue uojeieidag Ios uotstaoid 3ut bSL‘6 __pun A vorestioury jevides 
-HeUI Joye pue sosuedxy s0yJO UOpuO’T pue 01} 000‘ZI a ae =e : puny 
-CIYSIUIUIPY ‘UOINQUysIG ‘UOIWeIdUes) Bulsreyo SUTATIS SeIeYS soMarEFoI earje[NUIND s[qeusepey 
1azye s}disoaqy Arpunsg pue 8uneiedo uo snidinsg Ag oo ‘€ tee S39,J ,S10}JII1IG OL 
"—aI9 ‘at ‘Iq 





‘LE6r1 ‘1aquis.egq_- YSIE 94} papua 1vaA 94} IOJ JUNODDW SsOT pue yYyoIg 
(‘outjyseTeg ul pozer1odi00u7) 
“GHLINIT ‘NOILVUOdNO) JINLOATY ANILSAIVG AHL 


II 


a 


995‘9 


006'S 


r$Z‘Z1 


SZg‘¥Z9 


669‘z16‘z 


"dFe 








vere 


LSC‘E 
v6g'SrE 
€xrS‘olS'z 


"dJs 


eae ene eee eon eee eee wor, epordep 


eee eee one ove eee eee yo WO}zTLA 


eee eee eee eee Sasvys amuasafasd aaty 
-DINMENnD 9IQuuczopay fo Sonssy uo Ajnq jYIIKdvD puv 
fondvy fo sasvasquy yTm WorsoaUUo? US Saat uostYsgssd2y 


py] “op opqoorq egel 043 Jo sosuadx gy Areuyanterd 
es ‘939 ‘ureys4G UONNgINSIG ‘syed 
Zunes ‘s#uipring ‘pue] ; uolje[jeysuy ATAY-[9L 
sis me : “** QOIssz0u07) 943 Jo uOTSmMboy 
—: ep 03 ainyrpuedxq feydep 
—: “OLSsz2u0D viny 


= : WOIssz0N07) UepIOL oq} q3{M DOT}OoUTIOD 
Ul sesuodx gy fesous+ Surpnypour ‘sesuedxq Aseurmtalg 
ave ooe eae eae $3507) ASAIN uepiof dn 
YING esnopyy 1oMO0Og 
see one vee . 029 ‘a1038AS uonnginysiq 
pue uoissursuery ‘Arouryoeyy ‘SyIOM OFMEIpA PH 
‘sduipiing ‘pue] :sasnoyy Jemog SseTreqiy pue 
Brey ‘asnopy somog of2y00[q-OmpAHy ueEpsof ysI}y 
aoe oes een oes uorsss0u07) 0q} jo vonpsmboy 
—: eyep 0} aINjpuedxgy [ezdeD 
—: wosssqu0D unpsof 
“SLESSY 


‘LE61 ‘1equieoeq, YsIE 94} 3e Se yoOyS soUPlTeg 
(‘ourjsofeg ul pazerod1o0;uy) 


‘GHLIAY] NOILVUOdHNOD DIYLIAIY ANILSHIVGY AHL 


Leyes 
vgo'zZ 


16€‘SSY 


$26 
rgv‘6r 


€zg‘16z 
000‘0028 
oS1‘gr 
SZLy‘IzgQ'z 


| ‘d3e 





L00°ZZ1 
vgt‘gZe 





000‘o0S 


o$g‘tgs 


000‘00g 
$z9‘Zt6 





000‘000'F 





o00‘oor1‘t 
000‘00S 


000009 


000‘'00g 
000‘000'T 


"de 


sooustusquoy puy xv susomuy sof snsesey 
wee eee woe eee eee worssa0007) uepl0f 
‘gf osnet) WIM coURpICDDe UO passafaq] SasnT] SMO{SHD 


uofsseouo’) einy 

do{sss0u0,) UEpsI0[ 
—: uospprssedaq 40f ansasay 
puny wosppsiom p 1971¢0D 

ene wee eee eve eee eos (w4quo9 aas) 
puny Fusryuss sasvys soussafosy saszurnun) 2/qoucorpry 
a ae ins os + guMOIIP MANIK 2404S 
is sas se : oasasay 7D40ud2) 


yors Suyssisg 17 Jo sareys aouslajald 9A} 
-e[NUIN’?) ajqeMsepey PUodIaG *3090 Jad FF o000'00S 





oSr‘gr °**" nee Q3ep 0} pIamlvsapay ssa7 
000‘009 . aae woe see wae yore 
‘dF Burns rF Jo sareyS sovaajealq ean 


-e[NwN sjqemMeapoy “300 Jed §¥ 000'00g 

yore Jurjz93S 1F Jo saregs ATeUrpsO ,, ¥ », 000'00g 

= qove Sur103g 17 Jo sareys Areurpagd $zg‘ZE6 
—: pred Alin pak panss] 


qore glia Bad Jo sareys AIeUFPIO ,, V », 000'003 
am youe FUyjI9yS 1F Jo sorwyS AJeUp1_ 000000 I 


*SELLIUIGVI] 


412 


‘S4ONPHY ‘syuL~URODIY pesyYD “OD % TIESSENY 


sayepe s,Aueduio-) 043 JO 07878 O43 JO MOFA 7001100 pu ony & MOYES 0} 8B os ‘ 


‘Auedwoy oy jo S400 


oq Aq UMoNs SB pow en 07 WIAld suO;eUTdro 
n uaerp Ajxado1d S} JOONS ooURTEg sAOgE oY} Uorurdo Ino U] 


"gS6x ‘Ayn yer “eprezy 


} pure ‘GoyeMOJUT INO Jo 380q 23 03 BuIpIO00R 
*‘pormbos ovary OM Yofys su0]}EULId xe 


PUe UOFEMIO;Uy ON} [TB pousezqo OAeY puB ‘y7I0} 708 OAOgE se ‘LEGI ‘requieDNGg ysIf og} poyep “pz] ‘BoyyBIOdI0-) DfI39{q] EUPISO[Eq OF} JO JOOTS OOULTBG eq} poypne oAeY OM 
‘SUNG IOHZUVHS HHL OL LuOdAY ,SUOLIANY 


"40429 Jussvuvpy ‘OUMENZLNY SVHNIG 





ore LSE'¥ “GF 


gtz'rr€ 

vEE‘¥z 

1g¥'61 ——- 
rgv‘Z 
oo0o'ZI 

gzo'or 

zz0'9S —_—_——— 
6LOTEE 
tr6‘tz 

66F‘gr 

yz6'ZSr ——— 
€xrZ‘zv 
rrz‘Si1 

€zz‘Zr 

zos‘Srr 


‘supgunozop fosyo/py ‘NvMa1a, ‘[ °40909048q Jutdoupyy ‘ONRENZINY SVHNIQ ‘wUuswYD ‘TANNVYS—s40jI204C7 fo psvog oxy fo frvysq uC 


‘UOMO D ‘TRANS ‘s}UNODDW BAOGE 904} UL pazesodsoony useq you seq qoyym LE6r 103 yYo1d & smoys Aueduro. Arerpysqns oqy 


"6t6r ‘gouvuTpIO seyueduOD 043 Jo LOI “0g 07 jUENSINd ‘ANVANOD AURVIGISENS OL SY INENZLVIC 


""*  Spisodeq puy puny] ws pun syuvg fo ysvD 


“ (e33u09 995s) 
Le6x nage fs awies ‘ior 


eae ene ewe oon owe oon qsey 
se te a “+ §yuaUIysaAuy 
—: (¥ 313009 sce) Punsy sutyuts sas amuasef 
“asd PAyvinuny sayoussapray 40f paywrsd sh Sjassp 


*** —- sasuadxq snd ‘3s00 je ‘puny 


yUNODDY 4uaLINy 

3809 3 ‘JUVUIISBAUT 
—: Aundguoy Asvipisyns 
ySOO 3B ‘Spususjgsaawy Aspuns 


syunossy Arpuns 
a sjunoooy sistunsuos 


auvapp ust sinpipuadrxr 7] 


s[eWO S Aueduo, ayy Aq 
POYl}190 se ining V-17L pun vfjsoyy ‘uvpsol qo puny uo $2404S 


ovz'Lse'y “aF 
vtZ‘zgr 


90g‘6Sz 


Ezxr'sez 


garter 
Sor'St 
PEL te 
L£So‘Or1 


vLo'£e 


O£1‘EE 


"BuyjsoS IF = I “dF « 





IvP'cy °*: en *** soreqs Areumpzo ,, ¥ ,, pue 
Axyeurpig uo x¥j auloduUy WOpPsary peimyp 
JO 9a1y “yuad Jod §z jo pusplAIq wlJezUY 
€€Q‘EE sorcygs gouaIyelg sayenuiny s[qearsepsy 
puosas ‘uso Jad §$% pue sareys sdudlIj91g 
GANLINUIND os[qemoopsy ‘yued 30d $F UO 
—: ZE61 10} spueplaiq - ssa7 





ggS‘Stz 


Teok O43 10} WYOI_ : PPP 
ove bz 





Igg‘1gr 
000'Sz ***sarouagulzUo’ 
pue xej aulodU] J0J 
VAIISIY 0}: GON LOOTLY 
ooo‘oS °°" peas BAIISIY 
fe1auay 04 GON eoUT|Y 
1gg‘og oe S0ITUS 
AIVUIPIQ =, W>,  pue 
AIvUIPIQ UO xBy aWOdd 
-Uy uwlopsuly peayiug 
JO 9a1j *yUaD Idd § Jo 
gt61 oj puaplaiq [eury 
—: Ss77 
2E61 ‘Arenuie[ 4s1 94) 32 
psenio} YYsNoIq soOUL[tYg 


—! JUNOIIp SSOT puvy tos 


IZ1‘Qgr 


wee tee ae ee ee “+ soouereg 3pary 


szisodaq ,susmmsuo) 

9f6x oe ys UO arqrded SPUOPIAIC] aoUa1oja1g 
(13000 20s) ceor ‘spdepiaid UNIOIUy pswrwpsqy 
$10}Ipery AIpuns 


—: samuning [pI4s. puv ssopspasy 


413 


APPENDIX I (i 


JERUSALEM ELECTRIC & PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION LIMITED. 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
31st March, 1938. 


The profit for the year, including the balance ({P.4,228.127) brought 
forward from the previous year is ... sists £P.69,283.763 
out of which the following payments and “appropriations 
have been made :— 


£P. 
Provision for Income Tax site Sate I3,500.000 
Transfer to General Reserve a xs 5,000.000 
Capital Amortisation Fund ae ay 5,476.924 
Plant Renewal and Depreciation Account 15,000.000 
Dividend on 225,000 Preference Shares for . 
year to 31st March, 1938, less tax .... 11,812.500 
—————_ 50, 789.424 
leaving a balance of bag ; : £P.18,494.339 
which the Directors propose to aiest een as follows — 
In payment of a Dividend on 250,000 
Ordinary Shares, of 7 ge cent. less tax, 
amounting to ... 12,687.500 
leaving to be carried forward ‘to next year’s S —_——_—- 
Account pee eee sou oe _— £P.5,806.839 


The premium on the 50,000 Ordinary Shares of £P.1 each issued on 
4th March, 1937, which amounted to £P.16,346.063 has been added to 
General Reserve. 


The Plant has operated satisfactorily during the year and extensions aS 
necessary, to deal with the increased demand, have been made in the Distri- 
bution System. 


The Directors greatly regret to record the loss sustained by the death on 
the 8th of January last of Sir John H. B. Noble, Bt., who had been a Director 
of the Company since its formation, and who rendered valuable service as a 
member of the Board. 


Since the date of the last Annual General Meeting Mr. Douglas Selby 
Warren, Sir Cuthbert Headlam, Bt., D.S.O., O.B.E., and Mr. Hugh George 
Balfour have been appointed Directors. In accordance with the Articles of 
Association, they, together with the Rt. Hon. Lord Rankeillour, P.C., retire 
and are eligible for re-election. 


The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., of Jerusalem, retire, and, being eligible 
offer themselves for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 
D. C. Brook, 


London Secretary 
12th July, 1938. 


414 


eee PeseeUy ) OU) Y lds 


09} 0} Fupprooog syyege sAcedu07) Of} JO OPES OY} JO MOTA yOoLI0D pu Ons 8 } 


‘BEGI ‘Ainf x9 ‘urogesna0f 


‘Auvduio,) oy} Jo $400q 943 Aq uMOYs SY put EN TOA]? suOsEUYId x9 oO Ue U 
IQIqxe 03 se os dn usesp Azedord ore yuNODDy sso] pus 901g ata 1Ds8k pousied sone cipaide 


INO Ul ‘porynbar oAvq om suofjeuejdxo pu uOfZEUIO;UT O42 [TE POUFWIQO GAB pue 47I0; 3Os GAOQE se ZUNODY eso] PUR BYOIg PUB 39aqS DoUE~EG 94) parIpNE oaLYy OM 
“AULINIT ‘NOILVAOdUOD ZOAUTG OTN GNV OMLOUIG MBIVENuAl 40 ENXGNAY! AHL OL SAOLIGAY AHL dO LUOdTY 


16$°Loz‘0l9°gF 


692°L¥g‘lx 
SgZ°egz 11 
Seg ecehr 
zgi‘£9Z‘9z79 
eer-6er'bs 
zSz°ogd'r 
L6Z°€Zg‘OSS 


000°000‘09 
“SII ‘dF 


£92°€gz'69 “GF 


9£9°SS0'Sg 
Lzer-gzz‘y 


‘SIN | “dF 


Lry'z19'0£ ‘gq? 


£1¥°r19'04 
"SIN ‘dF 
“az 


LLv°06z'L9 
ooze 'CgS‘Egr 


SIN ‘dl 


000°000‘6 


Lzrgzz‘er 


"TA ‘dF 


: NEWAVMA “S ‘C 
sored, esting Bera 


tc" BMD ET WS pun sarquog 3 ¥S9D 
sve ows IVE gsed pee sqocentaaty 
—< puny woupsysouy tondyD 
°9390 


‘soueApe Uy} syuomked pue (oAresey ss9z) s4sojqaq Aspuns 
Susyvpusspuy) “uo pepusdza qunomyp 


"**  GAI090N $59] “sue 3} 

Uy pue “‘sodeue, oq} 3 £q poyyjz00 se ‘puvey “0 $24035 
uorjeyeidap 

ssaf ‘3809 ye ‘939 ‘asnnusny ‘S182 A soj0py ‘s]00_L 


a zeok oq} Sutmp suonippy 
aaresOYy SUTEW $52} ‘yuNODY 4Se] 19g 
ee "930 ‘STOO ‘sure ‘AYOUILOeWW puUe zur] 
‘surpring * spur] Surpnypouy * 3809 38 ‘ganpipuadr gy poi 
uoissamuoD fo 7809) 
"SLESSY 


168°L9e‘0l9'°qF 


6EE-¥6r'gr 
oo0'00g‘S ¥ 


€g0°QvE'IS 


60£°6$2Z‘g1 
000°000‘Z1r 
og Zog‘S¥ 
000°000'SZY¥ 


000°000‘009°gqF7 


000°000'SZ 
000°000‘00€ 
000°000‘Szz 


‘SIN "dF 


- — (‘Buyzayg 1F spenbo 1°47) 
‘g£6r ‘HOUVW ISIE LV SV LAAHS JONVIVG 


umop }43n01q sourleg “ 
XB} ss7y 


ue €: 1 3 rea Joy puspiuiq Areurpio : pnpsq 
"* gunosoy 3Se¥[ Wo sduLl[eg Ag 


s}djoooy Arpuns puv Zuyer1edyy) uo snidinsg 4g 


£92: €gz‘69 ‘qF 


OLE*F6H'gr 
OoS-zIg‘rr 
000°000'ST 
$z6'9LF'S 
000'000'S 
000'00$'Er 
"SIT ‘dF 


Lrivzrg‘'ol ‘GF 


g9f9°SSo'Sg 
000°00S‘r 
1gZ‘9S0'Y 
“SIIW ‘dF 


*(Zuriajg 17 spenba 1°qF) 
‘961 ‘HOUNVW ISIE GAANA UVAA AHL YWOA LNNODOV SSOT ANV LIdONd 


‘GALINI'Y NOILVUOdNO’) AOIANAS OITANgG ANV JINLOaTIY Walvsnuga[ 


000°000'S 1 


000°00g‘0f 


Ego'9rE‘ox 


000°000'S 
000°000‘0f 


000°000‘0Sz 


000°000'Szze 


1) ere 


** gUNn0IIp sso] pun nfosg 


zeaX Suymp peppy 
JUNODY 368] log 


_ junory  wowwsorudoq pup poasusy suv 


ste _smMosoy UNG Veys 
aoe seo Suuinp peppy 
“PUNODY ISE] eq 

—! snsasay posausyy 

PUNT Mores Oy fondva 

nie $un0IIp UvOT 


pred Array qoee tr ‘dF jo soxey as Areurp1Q oo0'oSe 
‘ pred Ayn Boe I'd? 
JO sareyS sousIssolg sATJEINUIMN "3U09 Jed £ O00‘Szz 
—: panss] jondv) 


" gore I°qF jo sazregs payeurmmouspuy o000'sZ 
yore 1 ‘df Jo SaIeys Aieurpio 000‘00£ 
aie on : a a dF 
JO soleyS soUuslajaIg OAZE[NUIN, “yUus0 Jad £ O00‘Szz 
—: passsoyinp 1DGvD 
*SHILITIAVIT 


‘ee y20qS sure 032 souETe “ 
Xe} ssay ‘Te9A AJOJ PUIPLAIC, 9dUVIIJIIg 
__yanos0y wor Ta1daq pue yJemousy jurig “ 
* puny uorestlouly peyides ‘ 

BAIOSOY yerouor “* 
XVJ VWOUl JO} UOISJAOIg OL 


“GMOP pofies souKleg “ 
oe ‘sooq sropainqd “ 


“ad 


415 


APPENDIX I (iii). 


PALESTINE POTASH LIMITED. 
REPORT OF DIRECTORS. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report, together with the duly audited 
Balance Sheet of the Company dated 31st December, 1937, and the Profit 
and Loss Account for the year 1937. 


The total sales of the Company’s products showed an increase of over 
55 per cent. The gross profit on trading amounted to £86,773 14s. rod. as 
against £59,267 8s. 7d., and the net trading profit £47,831 9s. 8d. as against 
£26,880 158. 5d. in 1936. ; 

Your Directors have this year made provision for amortisation and depre- 
ciation as foreshadowed by your Chairman at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting. They have provided the sum of £30,000 for this purpose in respect 
of 1937. As stated in previous Reports, no provision had been made for 
amortisation and depreciation prior to January Ist, 1937, and the sum of 
£8,736 5s. allocated in this year’s accounts represents the first appropriation 
for this purpose. The period prior to 1937 was for the most part one of 
development and operations on a small scale. 


As the Shareholders are aware, the Anglo-Palestine Bank Limited guaranteed 
the payment of the Preference dividend from 1st January, 1935, to 30th June, 
1937. The subsequent half-yearly dividend on the Preference capital has 
been paid out of the Company’s earnings. 


The production of refined potash at the Company’s Northern plant, as a 
result of improvements introduced in the chemical process and greater efficiency 
showed an increase while costs have been reduced. 


Part of the Company’s new plant at the South end of the Dead Sea was 
put into operation at the beginning of June, 1937. While this has not yet 
materially contributed to the profits of the year 1937, the beginning in the 
South in conjunction with the considerable improvements in the North have 
carried production in 1937 to a level 65 per cent. higher than in 1936. The 
further extension of the plant is proceeding according to programme. 


The export trade in potash throughout the world has considerably increased 
particularly with the main importing countries, such as the United States 
and Japan. 


Potash prices in all the markets to which your Company despatched its 
goods in 1937 were more satisfactory than in the preceding year. 


Owing to the hostilities between Japan and China, large consignments of 
the Company’s potash destined for Japan during the second half of the year 
had to be diverted to other countries at less favourable prices. This somewhat 
affected the Company’s profits. 


Sales of the Company’s bromine in the year 1937 showed a fractional increase 
and prices improved somewhat. 


Floods of exceptional magnitude occurred on the shores of the Eastern 
Mediterranean in the autumn of 1937 and a cloudburst in the catchment 
area above the Southern End of the Dead Sea caused some damage to the 
Company’s property. The balance on Profit and Loss Account as at 
31st December, 1936, has been allocated to the repair of this damage. 


416 


In spite of the continual political unrest in Palestine, the Company’s 
operations have not been interrupted. 


Directorate——Your Board have to record with deep regret the death of 
Mr. Felix M. Warburg, who was a Director of the Company from the beginning. 


Mr. Julius Simon and Mr. Paul Singer were appointed Directors by your 
Board during the period under review, and in accordance with Article 99 of 
the Company’s Articles of Association, their appointment is submitted for 
confirmation. 


Further, in accordance with Article 108 of the Company’s Articles of Associa- 
tion, Mr. Harry Sacher, Mr. Robert Szold and Major T. G. Tulloch retire and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Auditors.—Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co. retire and, being eligible, 
offer themselves for re-election. 


LYTION, Chairman, 


E. W. D. TENNANT, Director. 
24th March, 1938. 


417 








6 € 6166997 
Lo 6gz‘'t1 
9 91 SzotZ 
O1 o €SP'ES 
& hr LYS eZ 
» 6x HEr'zt 
8 g G6E€S‘9S 
4 € f€bvo'6ty 

gx r£g’0g 
I 4x reg‘t 
or ox £01'46 
“Pp g F 
oy 





Oo SI rS6‘*S 
£ g 160‘'V6E 
g $1 912‘6 

Q & Srr'xZ 
Ir Zr zgr 

6 € o£2'46 
Pp *s F 





6 € 166 . SINVNNEL ‘A ‘’M ‘OD 
ited esonon { = ineraky 
‘sz gozd 
yo 3no see a 1m ofqehedel st pue j0juereny 
puvzy us puy syuvg yw ysyD “ 043 Aq popzaoid sAguom jo yno Auedmo, 943 Aq pred 
useq seq ‘261 ‘ounf qi0€ 03 pusplaAiq  suaIIsJe14 
IUvAD PY Us spumUcEY puY s4o;qeaq Aspuns ‘ 943 0} WaeAmnba ‘£60'9+7 Jo yUNoue UY —"ALON 
g 6 r€g‘Zx as aoe yunooy paxouuy Jed se 3go01g 
« a 7 
SdOpd SOTES JOU 3e “ssshng oF suns L us SpoOH 1 o S6Z'S ‘*spoog Aq pasneo os#eurep oy} poos 
ane IO}JIOIIC. Zurseuryw surqeu jo 4809 eu} 99 poleridoidde wee he : saz 
“ °o ‘ : d9US QOUPTT se] Jed se oouRTe 
ayy £q pogrisoo se ‘puny to s2101s pu sionpose fo $4215 ic gene ce ST niece dae eae ee « 
o S$ gfZ‘ @peul useq sey UoTsIAoId snotAeid ou qorqas 
is a gf6r ' qeq uresac] yr 32 SV Ma ‘Zt és" ype Soa 38I OF “oud pent we 
—: "po sor 2Zf'61F7 ‘uoisstuu0) BunuMmispuy : uOT}SIIOWE puke Uoremeidep oy} Jo 
Sarpnpour ‘Teydes jo sonss] Gym WolyoouUOD UY sasuadx” jUNOWe 94} Z0onper spremoz poiwrdordde 
‘Juno2Iy wniwrig svyS wos4f sofsuviy i ppy 
“= ane “+ g€6r ‘requieoeg ysTf ye Sy 0 Oo ooofof °~ = us *- £E01 400k ayy fo yoadsas 
—:'030 ‘sfoams pue jueudojsac0g us uoNnsisoOMmMp pun uoNnizaddaq 40f wuossiaosg “ 
UyeqINOG 94} WO eM rpuedxy yuoenbesqns qIIM 1 tr ¥g9z'z9 + Te ia ft S4ojipass) Aapuns * 
3oy}090} ‘1f61 ‘1aquieDeq] ysIE 03 dn amyrpuedxe © 0 v$o0'S junO29p uvoTz 
JO OOULTeEd pozJeooryeuN oy} Juroq ‘sunorIp susmdossaaq *‘ Oo $1 I£0'g#Z ——— ———— 
o S$ git Pe ae a ms Away Ai syjeD : ssa7 
a reek ou} Zuynp emmirpuedxe J9qIINY - ppp 0 0 O$¢‘orZ 
one *** QE6I ‘1eqmooeg 4SIE ye Sy 
—? 10139019 0} poznq!333e 0 0 OLf'7E yowe rF yo sareqs Areuiph) ,, V,, OL2'z£ 
sosusdx9 peogzeao jo uorrodod Zuypnyouy ‘3s07) 3B © 0 z6E‘YVE °-*: is “* yove 1F Jo sareys AreuIpio z6E ‘PvE 
‘quaudinby Aspuns puv sngvsvddy ‘Assutyovyy ‘suv “ © 0 OSP6KE °° qoea 17 JO soreys net i Surjed 
; “Pore, ejqeulsapsy SAeinuND °}uUI0 J §S oS '6HE 
ca reek ony Zupmp emm3}puedxe JONUIN ° ppp o 0 gfg‘6r “+ goes 17 Jo sareys vous 
*-" O€6x ‘zequieceq ySI& ae ty -J9JW_ sqemsapoy si aah Oi aad $2 gtg‘6r 
—! T0f}0010 07 pezNqi433e sosuodxoe pe penss 
peoqieao jo worsodord Zuypnyouy ‘3807 38 ‘sIuspang ‘ © 0 000‘00gF ied 
“+ Q€6r ‘requisoeg 38r€ ye sy © o olf‘zt °° qove 1F yo saregs Aseutpio ,, V ,, oLZ‘z€ 
— 3607) 38 ‘pury proyses.y ‘* 0 0 z6EsZve - ""* qowa rf Jo sazeys Areurpio 26E' Lye 
© O oo0‘oor °*° ~ yoee 17 jo sareqs uarajor if fone’ 
461 Zujnp PareAcoal JUNOUTY | 897 “-Ppred S[qemoepey aaqyE[NuM °3090 4 8S 000’00F 
os “+ g€6x ‘requisoeg ysrf je sy 0 oO gf9‘6r "ss -qoea 1F Jo sareys soue 
—? 070194} | -JIwIq sqewespay eanyepnuin’y *}3ue0 Jed 42 gfg'61 
woTNelal url am ypuodxe Horpnyouy ‘tag ee ‘ —pastsoymny 
Ul STEIOUTY JO DOFDEIYXS OY} Joy woIssVIuOD #509 4g ‘p's ‘p's z 107 OL 


"ad 


“LE6r ‘UAAWNANAd Isrf 3e ‘LAAHS AQNWVIVA 


‘GaLIAIT HSVLOG ANILSHIVG 


co 
bad 
vr 


JO 380q 94} 03 Fuyproooe ayeye sAveduIO) OG} JO 63836 OT} 


‘ssonpny { ‘sjuB,UNODOY porEpEq) 


“OD 3B TvArseng ‘Sunafl Z01uAvR 


*gf61 ‘yap ysvs 
‘gopuc’] 


*Kueduio,) 943 30 moog | oy} 4q umoys se pue ‘sn 07 WaAps SuOTEUETd xe Og} pue ‘UO;ZEUIIOJU] MO 
JO MOFA 390LIOND PUE Ons} & ZIQIYxXO 07 SE OS 


UmeIp Ajsodoad SI JeONS soUBseEg Yons ‘uoruIdo mo uy ‘pernber oaty 


Qa SUOCHeULIGKe pUe WOFJEULIOJ;U}] Og} [JE poUse;qo oOAeY pue ‘eAoge q7103 308 se ‘ZE6I ‘10quIGVeg ysIf poJEp “pz ‘qseIOg OUT}Se[eEg JO }00q4S GUUBTEg Og} PeIpPNHeE oAeq OM 
‘SUNEGNZW AHL OL SUOLIGNY HHL 40 LuOdEY 


or £4 96L‘9gF 


o fr vz 


or ¥1 €24‘9g 


*p “g 


"aD 


J 


sso safeuvsy ‘ 


eee eae srodny 03 
a eee spoos 'agoad Fupasar 


or £ 962‘99F 
8 6 1f9‘Z1 eee aes see aes eee $9945 suDIN 09 parsswo HfosT Fi 
oO Oo ooo‘ot eee ooo oon ese cen " 6OsfDS$;40MsY pun 40932399599 ‘ 
o € €2Z‘s : s1eaA 

AITJIvI 0} aeesiade axed re Su93t spas Zurjyonpep Jaye yueyd 

jo [nEyIaAo Tepeds JO 4809 _Suypnpuy ‘s9u9sz901deN pun savday “ 
Oo oO o00'z "OUD sIEN IY 8 40f20ssq ““ 
1 4 L€1‘e Bx "*  -gsasagucy 
I g a ha pitas puy uopuoTy us sesusdxg OL 
‘p ’s 


‘LE61 ‘YARWAOAC IsI€ GHGNA UVAA AHL YOA LNNODOV SSOT ANV LIAOUd ““d 


419 


APPENDIX I (iv). 


STATEMENT OF THE HULEH CONCESSION ACCOUNT. 
As at the 31st December, 1938. 
As shown in the books of the Palestine Land Development Co. Lid. 
£P. Muls. £P, Mus. 


Price of Concession hs ee ins sae 191,795.000 
Add—46 per cent. Interest from the 1st October, 
1934, to the 1st October, 1939 bax 24,643.290 216,438.290 


Payment to previous Concessionaires on account 
of Drainage Works ae enh sone ets g,000.000 
Survey and Experts’ Investigation, Commission, 
Advocates’ Fees, Upkeep, Administration, In- 


terest, &c. Bias ang ee sale 42,250.056 
Technical Apparatus, Cars, Sundry Equipment, 

&e. nee ne — seks ae ere 1,363,336 
Buildings and participation in Road making ... 2,793-844 


£P.271,845.526 


Of the Purchase Price, the previous Concessionaires have now received 
£P. 185,150.632 mils in cash, and the balance including interest thereon, is 
covered by promissory notes to the value of £P.31,287.658 mils, which mature 
during the year 1939. Certain of these promissory notes to the amount of 
£P.27,287.658 mils maturing on the 1st October, 1939, have been deposited 
with the Company as security until final settlement has been made with the 
Previous Concessionaires in respect of the exact extent of the area acquired. 


Note.—A sum of {P. 172,344.825 mils has been received by the Company 
from prospective participants in the development of the Concession. 


The Palestine Land Development Co., Lid. 


We have examined the above Statement with the Books of the Palestine 
Land Development Co. Ltd., and certify the same to be in accordance 
therewith. 

RUSSELL & Co., 
Jerusalem, 30th January, 1939. Chartered Accountants 


APPENDIX I (v). 


420 


LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 


Statement of Light Dues collected by the Administration Générale 
de Phares for the year 1938. 


Other Ports 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside _ Total. 
Palestine. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Miuls. 

January 2,148.836 685.533 2.746 2,837.115 
February 2,213.845 792.188 0.160 3,006.193 
March 2,568.370 993.584 0.818 3,562.772 
April 2,154.053 680.834 2.591 2,837.478 
May ... 1,830.561 820.395 3.232 2,654.188 
June 2,036.283 828.195 0.847 2,865.325 
July ... 1,782.240 822.911 2.165 2,607.316 
Augut 1,827.712 875.867 4.768 2,708. 347 
September 1,731.612 922.113 0.885 2,654.610 
October 2,042.838 975.281 2.625 3,020.744 
November 2,168.307 958.842 1.833 3,128.982 
December 2,338.173 1,215.668 — 3,553-841 
Grand Total... 24.842.830 10,571.41I 22.670 35,436.911 


APPENDIX II. 
HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognised as holy days by the various com- 
munities in Palestine is set out hereunder :— 


MoSLEM FESTIVALS 


‘Id al-Adha (Qurban Bairam, 3 days) ... 

New Year ... se i ee sie 

Yom ‘Ashura (date of Noah Leaving the 
Ark, and of the death of Husein at 
Kerbela). 

Descent of Holy Banner (Sanjaq al- 
Sherif) from Jerusalem to Nebi Musa. 

Return of Banner from Nebi Musa 


Mawled al Nabi (Mohammed’s birthday) 

Lailat al-Raghaib (night of Mohammed’s 
conception). 

Lailat al-Mi‘raj (night of Mohammed’s 
miraculous journey). 

Lailat al-Baraat (‘‘ Night of Decrees,”’ 
when the guardian angels received from 
the Almighty tablets recording the fate 
of their charges in the coming year). 

Ramadhan ee sid 


Lailat al-Oadr (‘‘ Night of Power ’”’, on 
which the requests of all worshippers 
are believed to be granted). 

‘Id al-Fitr (Shaker Bairam, 3 days) 


Corresponding 
Christian 
dates. 
10-12 Dhu al-Hijja 10-12.2.1938. 
1 Muharram .. ws 3.3.38. 
10 Muharram ... . 13.3.38. 


Friday before Orthodox 15.4.38. 
Good Friday. 


Orthodox Maundy 21.4.38. 
Thursday. 
12th Rabi‘ al-Awal . 12.5.38. 


Eve of first Friday in 26.8.38. 


Rajab. 
27th Rajab 22.9.38. 
15th Sha‘ban 9.10.38. 
1-30 Ramadhan . 25.10.38— 
23.11.38. 
27th Ramadhan wee 21.11.38. 
1-3 Shawal . 24- 


26.11.38. 






Date. 


‘shri ro , 


Tishri_ x 5 


Kislev 25 to 
Tevat 2 


Tevat Io ., : 


Tshri 1-2... 


Toshri 16-21 
lishri 22. 52. 


421 


CHRISTIAN FESTIVALS. 
Orthodox Festivals. 


Roman Catholic and Western Churches. 


JEWISH FESTIVALS. 


Category (a). 


Rosh ha-Shana 
(New Year). 

Yom Kippur 
(Day of Atone- 
ment). 

Ist Day Tabernacles 
(Sukkoth). 


8th Day Sukkoth 
(Simhat Torah). 


Ist Day Passover 


7th Day Passover 


Shavu‘oth 
(Pentecost). 


Category (b). 


2nd—7th Day 
Sukkoth. 


Hanukka 
(Maccabeans). 


Tu be-Shavat (Tree 
New Year). 


Purim sine 
Purim (in Jurusalem 
only). 


2nd—6th Day 
Passover. 


Lag Baomer (Out- 
door Day). 


Category (c). 


— 


‘ Asara be-Tevat 


(Siege of 


Jerusalem). 


Ta‘anit Esther 
(Fast of Esther). 


Shiv‘a‘Asar be 
Tammuz 
(Capitulation of 
Jerusalem). 
(Destruction of the 6.8.38. 


Temple). 


Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Epiphany or Thephania, Purification, 
Annunciation, Palm Sunday, Good Friday, Easter Day, St. George, Ascension, 
SS. Constantine and Helen, Whit Sunday, SS Peter and Paul, Transfiguration, 
Assumption, Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Exaltation of the Holy 
Cross, St. James, St. Nicholas. 


New Year’s Day, Epiphany, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension Day, 
Whit Monday, Christmas Day. 


The Jewish festivals are divided into three categories :—(a) days of rest’ 
(6) festivals on which work is permissible, (c) fasts. 


Corres- 
ponding 
Christian 
dates. 

26- 


27.9.38. 
5.10.38. 


10.10.38 


II- 
16.10.38. 
17.10.38. 


18— 
24.12.38. 
1.1.39. 


17.1.38. 


14.2.38. 


15.2.38. 
16.2.38. 


16.4.38. 
17.4.38. 
21.4.38. 
22.4.38. 
19.5.38. 


5.6.38. 
16.7.38. 


422 


APPENDIX III. 
LIST OF CONCESSIONS. 


Concession. Holder of Concession. 
Dead Sea oe Palestine Potash Company. 


Drainage of Lake Huleh aaa Palestine Land Development Company. 
adjacent marshes. 


Tiberias Hot Baths ... ... Leased by Hamei Tiberia Co., Ltd. 

Lighthouses... es ... Administration Générale de Phares de 
Palestine. 

Electricity ... ie ... Palestine Electric Corporation and Jerusalem 


Electric and Public Service Corporation. 
El] Hammeh Mineral Springs... Suleiman Bey Nassif. 
Auja Irrigation se Auja Irrigation Company. 


Transit of Mineral Oils Eigeach ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 
Palestine. 


(1577449) Wt. 4255—4243 1500 5/39 P. St. G. 377/8 





Oe eee 











AiKunila A 


Ve 
(Ad 


io 


e 
——ee eer 


J 








PALESTINE 


4 






























































































































































Ss 








~ 





“33:0 Yirka “s,_Kisra 
Djulis F. 














Bi'na 7% 




































































=>. 
Ss 
-<s=S-— 





“S¥0ad Damun 














—Ar Ruweis Sakhnino 
































































































































P Kuweira 
Uj 
! 



































Scale 1:1,000,000 


Kilometres 































































































































































































































































































° 
Qadinia 









































= Even YahudaO 































































































a Brabsur 





































































































P kK ¥ 

















Jali Ramatayim 















































os 














W~ N WNe 























— 
a 









































Pete Stiga NV ZX 


Mj 























~ 
















































































efiore 15h 
el Litwi 
> Salama h 




















Al Ya 























_————_ * 
S353 pe 











Zz ¢ 
w 
































\\ Beit’ Dajan a 














a> Se: 























Deir Tarif 









































































































































































































































Gezerp 
bu Shusha 












































ee 
me | 


foc Br aa 
D2 She ee BSh ~ 
Omm KalkhaQit-\a= 


4 










































































f aw 































































































P/27/38 
Copyright reserved 


tb 


Beit Jibrin 


~ 


W 

aa Adh Dhahiriya 
Ce eee 

TA eni cn co” 


=-- 
<2 = 2=F=5 = 
== 


en “ale 1: 500,000 e 








LVA 


Binyamina® 
“SS 


Zikhron Ya‘agoy---- 


Beit Nabala 
est : ED é ‘Al Haditha f 
—Rishon le Siyonf# o*N. f 

dae |: / dies y; Ben Shemen _' 


oka ikab 
Kafr Manda 
1) 


8) 
Hosha 


pee % ~ 
‘ 


esher i” 
° t 


f 
Nae 
ny 4 ajur \< iKefar i 
\ AS 
~~ 


\ Q \ 
Daltyat al Karmil 


2 5 
- 


Fureidis 2 Mishmar ha ‘Emeq~ 

° oe Bat Shelomo Aregidd ‘ 
Al KafringJAl Layjuno\\ ; TSS FN Kefe 
ee 4 2 Jail Labour Coy. 
Ue eG OKh oz 
», As‘Sindyana 
Sy 


ZShefeiya 
ubbdiza “v ; 
My { 


“y, Giv'at Adda q 
Neus 


Pa 
oe ? 
Wilars 2% Ummal Fahm / 
“as ~ iin 2 2 ° . 
‘Kafr Qari’ .=* Silat al Mati 
NS <<" >? ur: ’ 
~ “ 


pee aetna 


= 
S 


=: Se \ 
44 
onaurth 
eYagun ti 
‘ 


‘ 


. 
Qalansuwa’ 7” 


Kafr Qaddiim. Rafidy 
Le) aS Gea 5S 
ae sarta~ BeeeU S 83 »))) Pacob’ 

ix becbem 7. 

Ms _PAI Fundug CERI 

4 Jinsafut_--~-~. Sey 

OKafrThukh ~~~ eee 
Kafr Bara —-- “Sannirya 


Ss 
~ Zawiyao 


-~ 


> 
- S 
Vig \ 


~~.  OJatt Al Bugei'ad “s+. Me of Vicari 


OTamr ‘ArrabaO 


Bb 


-— 


Al Quneitara 


) 


¢ 


- 


° 
3 ha” 
cn 


4 
4 


Fd 4, 
_AlKhushniyagQ/s 
oo é \ 
; 


pa . _<"<we~ 
Pe eee al =.=" 


A 
‘ \ 
ay “Ss 
i} te SS 
in 
G oRosh Pinna 


Beit Jann? oe Z 
T.J.F.F. 
ad 
9 : oO 


as} 


OAI Judeida we Vas 2 — AO Fartadiga Akbara 


, 


Majd al Kurum 


i 


| 
%'Ailabun 


~ 
“Ss 


nit .  Kefar 
LP Nis<._ Hitti 


J SS 


ns of Battin” A 


ms -= 
tI 
3 


: 5 
5) Sirin 


At Tir. a ‘ Hydro-Electric Statior A 
ae ode > 


S = ) 
Tel Yosef Mi f} 

—4 J b; assas VA. eo sy 
eess-OShatta 11 uk u 


a 


y x y 
ye isr ash Sh. Husein. ra 
Deir Abu Sa'id 


Raba-== 
8) 


pe ayasir 
VE sa Sfot Springs 


& Well 7 
OBeit Dajan o\' 


N 
\ 
vw 
at 


‘Alexandrium 
‘\ ‘ a 
fi i 


s 
WOMajdal BaniFad! 


vi 


AI Lu ban, Raryuta. Jalud Wo 


® agile 


Duma... 


--- 


bes 


tan 
SSS 2557 urmus ‘¢ 
‘ 


ae Q 

. ages \ 

Attara\‘Ein al Haramiya \\ 
ma Sh 


} 
¥ 


; + im Pye; : BAR tea H e 
\. ‘Innaba oBarfiliya 4} =, Hin'Ank i : 
\, LJ fi 


ae B 


‘Agua 
nk 
ae 


a ae 
= 


<4 
3 


— 


Ss Rat n 
. “2: By 
SP . 6Al B a = Deir pwan 


S27 


Ne 
a Se Ase ets 
x _/ Bir Nabala 
““pBidddO ye 


~~ 


~. 


SSSFssSSszy, 
Ss=Z 


630 


~~ 


Ns J! 
wv Hf 
Tall as Bultan,/ 


Nh 


Emaoatai 
ee = €noedd 


ae 

i SS 
Eee 
ea ee! 

taser errr 

LRA 

oe eS 

=~ SS OTP, COLE LE LEL EA 

~ 
~ ead 
ed 


~ 
. “J 
s 


7 


NUTT 


“) 


| 


Wun see 


oC 


Survey of Palestine 1938. 


5 10 20 50 60 Kilometres 

Miles 0 5 AR as au 40 Miles 
Kirst class motor roads... Railways & Station .........0........ aie Principal antiquities of meres BE nar Bacalon 
Principal Seasonal roads we tere eens Saree rer Wadis, dry except during rains _.—-—-~-=- ab amt pl Ancient sites =p doh ah i ae Nr Re ey ore Lachish 
District © Sub-District Boundaries m C0 ppm International Boundaries .......... eemresss yao] Civil Aircraft Lanaime rounds... -O- 


eee Google 


alain 





Big 


a 


chanecaiy Google 





H.M. Stationery Office publishes the Annual Reports on the 
Social and Economic Progress of the Peoplesof the Coloniesand 
Protectorates, most of which contain a map of the Dependency 
concerned. More than 40 Reports appear éach year and they 
are supplied at the Subscription price of Sos. per annum. 
(This rate does not include Mandated Territories.) Individual 
Reports may also be purchased and standing orders placed 
for their annual supply 





ADEN KELANTAN 
BAHAMAS KENYA COLONY & 
BARBADOS PROTECTORATE 
BERMUDA LEEWARD ISLANDS 
BRITISH GUIANA MAURITIUS 
BR.TISH HONDURAS NEW HEBRIDES 
BRITISH SOLOMON ISLANDS NIGERIA 

PROTECTORATE NORTHERN RHODESIA 
BRUNEI, STATE OF NYASALAND 
CAYMAN ISLANDS (JAMAICA) PERLIS 
CEYLON ST. HELENA 
CYPRUS ST. LUCIA . 
FALKLAND ISLANDS ST. VINCENT 
FEDERATED MALAY STATES SEYCHELLES 
FI{I SIERRA LEONE 
THE GAMBIA SOMALILAND 
GIBRALTAR STRAITS SETTLEMENTS 
GILBERT & ELLICE ISLANDS TONGAN ISLANDS 
GOLD COAST . PROTECTORATE 
GRENADA TRENGGANU 
HONG KONG TRINIDAD & TOBAGO 
JAMAICA TURKS & CAICOS ISLANDS 
JOHORE UGANDA 
KEDAH ZANZIBAR PROTECTORATE 
BASUTOLAND 
BECHUANALAND SWAZILAND 





PROTECTORATE 


MANDATED TERRITORIES 


Annual Reportsare published on the undermentioned territories 
administered by H.M. Government under mandate from the 
League of Nations 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN CAMEROONS under British ' andate 
TANGANYIKA TERRITORY TOGOLAND under British Mar date 


Further particulars as to the-latest reports and prices are obtainable 
from the Sale Offices of 


His Mayesty’s Stationery OFFICE 





CROWN AGENTS. FOR THE COLONIFS 


Publications issued by the Governments of British Colonies, Protectorates, a..4 

Mandated Territories can be obtained from the Crown AGENTS FO) THE 

Coronizs, 4, Millbank, Westminster, S.W.1. They include Depart. ental 
Reports, Laws, Handbooks, etc. 





S.0, Code N >». 58-166 


vy CTO" 


Digitized 








