This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 8s 


https://books.google.com [a] 


Issued by The Colonial Office 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and Trans-Jordan 





For the Year 1934 


For Reports for 1932 and 1933 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 82 (1933) and Colonial No. 94 (1934), 
price gs. 6d. and rrs. 6d. respectively 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses - 
Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
York Street, Manchester 13 1 St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff ; 
80 Chichester Street, Belfast; 
or through any Bookseller 


1935 
Price 5s. od. Net 


Colonial No. 104. 
55-104 


a 








THE LIBRARY 


O 
Oo 
te 
0) 
: 


as 
0) 
LK 
re, 


BOOK 





Digitized by Google 


C425 a4 a 


Issued by The; Colonial Office 
REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and Trans-Jordan 


For the Year 1934 


Es ER ear 


For Reports for 1932 and 1933 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 82 (1933) and Colonial No. 94 (1934), 
| price gs. 6d. and rrs. 6d. respectively 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses: 
House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
York Street, Manchester 13 1 St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff ; 
80 Chichester Street, Belfast; 
or through any Bookseller 


1935 
Col Price 55. od. Net 
Olonial N 
58-104 = FOR 


LSt4 
G1qAnr 


th 
[434 


CONTENTS 


Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission 


i Observations of 
Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other 
the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Fifth Session 


Note regarding arrangement of the Report 


PALESTINE. 
Introductory beg ae 
I. Jewish National Home 
ll. Autonomous Administration 
lll. Jewish Agency vee ree 
IV. Immigration and Emigration 
V. Land Regime 
Vi. Nationality ... 
VII. Judicial System 
VIN. Economic Equality 
IX. Holy Places ... ats 
X. Freedom of Conscience 
Xl. Military Clauses ... 0... oe 
Xi. py pled fic Agreements, Conventions, and Treaties 
XI, Antiquities me ae ‘ bas ‘ 
XIV. Official Languages ... 
XV. Holy Days 
eee Trans-Jordan 
Vil. bour : sie ae ee sae wee eee 
XVI. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs, Arms, and Liquors 
XIX. Education... ees ae ea a tus 
XX. Public Health 
XX1. Public Finance 
XXII Demographic Statistics 
XXII Customs, Excise, and Trade 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones 
XXV Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries 
XXVI. Public Works and Geology a 
XXVII Railways . . Jog ia 


XXVIII. Co-operative Societies 


{MM Lindery 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


Introductory 

Finance ue ae see 
Customs, Excise, and Trade 

Legal and Judicial = 
Education 

Health .. aa Aes ‘ats ees 
Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones... 
Agriculture... , ~ oe 
Lands ... aa 

Public Works sae 

Antiquities es 

The Arab Legion 


International Agreements, Conventions, and Treaties ... 
784 


1377187 


Page 


Vv 


xii 


Vi. 


Vil. 
Vill. 


1V 


APPENDICES 


PALESTINE. 


Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 


(ii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation 
Limited . ws 


(iii) Palestine Potash Limited 


(iv) Palestine Land Delevopment Company. (Huteh 
Concessionaires) ai 


(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues collected in 1934 


Text of the Landlords and Tenants (Ejection and Rent 
Restriction) Ordinance, No. 11 of 1934 aes 


Statement of results of Municipal Elections, 1934 
Lake Huleh Concession Agreement 
Statement made by the Secretary of State in the House of 


Commons on 28th January, 1935, regarding Lake 
Tiberias ... ae ee so sae ov : 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


Agreement between His Britannic Majesty and His Highness 
the Amir of Trans-Jordan supplementary to the Agree- 
ment signed on the 20th February, 1928 ... Se sae 


Article 1 of the Hadda Agreement 


Treaty of Friendship and Bon Enews between Trans- 
Jordan and Saudi Arabia “ 


Diagram.—Progress of cadastral survey ... (facing page 55) 


Map of Palestine. 


Page 
274 


276 
279 


283 
284 


285 
290 
290 


296 


297 
299 


300 


Vv 


Questionnaire of Permanent Mandate Commission. 


I.—Jewitsh National Home. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the establishment of the national home of the Jewish 
people ? 

What are the effects of these measures? 

2. @.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the development of self-governing institutions? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


3. @.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants of 
Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


II.—Autonomous Administration. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


III.—Jewtsh Agency. 


1. @.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency been 
oficially recognized ? 


_ 2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administration 
in the past year? 

If so, in what form and in what connexion? 

3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of this 
Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, social 
and other matters? 

4. @.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the de- 
velopment of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 

5. @.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of all 
Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the Jewish 
National Home? | 


IV.—Immuigration and Emigration. 
_1. Q.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 
2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the rights 
and position of other sections of the population? 
28784 A8 


vi 

3. @Y.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with the 
Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews on the 
land (give figures) ? 

4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures ? 

Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, pro- 
fession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 

Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Régime. 


1. Q@.—How have State lands been defined and delimited? 

2. Q@.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited? 

3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration of 
real property ? 


VI.—Nationality. 


1. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality law? 


2. Q.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as to 
facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judicial System. 


1. Q@.—When did the new judicial organization begin to operate ? 

2. @.—What special features does it include with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee 
of their rights as laid down in Article 9? 

3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure respect 
for the personal status of the various peoples and communities and 
for their religious interests? 

4. @.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs been 
assured ? 

5. Q@.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate? 


VIII.—Economic Equality. 


1. Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the develop- 
ment of the country in respect of public ownership or contro! of any 
of the natural resources of the country or of the public works, 
services, and utilities? 

2. @.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country 
—and if so, under what circumstances? 

3. Q@.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names and 
nationalities of the concession holders? 


vu 


4. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings and 
the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such reports 
and balance sheets are not available, give all information relating 
to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the uses made 
of profits. 


5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality as 
regards :— 
(a) Concessions ? 
(b) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to pros- 
pecting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation)? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 


6. 9.—What regulations has the Mandatory Power made for the 
application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of transit under 
equitable conditions ’’ ? 

7. Q. Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Artice 18? 

If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken for the assumption by 
the Mandatory of responsibility in connexion with the Holy Places 
and religious buildings or sites, including the responsibility of pre- 
serving existing rights and of securing free access to the Holy 
Places, religious buildings and sites, and the free exercise of 
worship ? 

2. @.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the 1mmu- 
nities of which are guaranteed ? 


X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom of 
conscience and religion? 


2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free exercise 
of any form of worship in the interest of the maintenance of public 
order and morals ? 

What are the effects of such restrictions? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights of 
communities to maintain their own schools for the education of their 
own members ? 

What educational requirements of a general nature are imposed 
by the Administration? 

What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of such 
supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all faiths or 
nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance 
of public order and good government? 

28784 A4 


Vili 
XI.—Mulitary Clauses. 


1. Q.—What is the form of military organization and training? 


2. @.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory? 

What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 

Racial and religious composition of these two forces. 

3. Q@.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
Falestine to contribute to the cost of the maintenance of the 
military forces of the Mandatory Power? 

If so, to what extent? 

4, Q@.—Has the Mandatory exercised its right to use the roads, 
railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed forces 
and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 

If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged ? 


XII.—International Conventions. 


1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration ? 

2. @.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against disease, 
including diseases of plants and animals? 


AIII.—Antiquities. 


Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities according 
to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


XIV.—Official Languages. 


1. Q.—Have the three official languages been used simultaneously 
and on an equal footing in legislative and administrative documents 
and in the Courts? 

If not, what languages are used? 

2. Q.—To what observations does the application of this system 
give rise ? 


XV.—Holy Days. 


Q@.—What days are recognised as holy days by the various 
communities ? 


X VI.—Trans-Jordan. 


1. Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimited and organized ? 

2. Q.—In what way does the political and administrative regime 
established in this territory differ from the regulations laid down for 
Palestine ? 


1X 
X VII.— Labour. 

1. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accordance 
with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the consideration of 
conventions or recommendations of International Labour 
Conferences ? 

2. Q.—Are these conventions or recommendations being carried 
into effect ? 

3. @.—What other regulations are in force in regard to labour? 

4. @.—What powers has the Administration for controlling labour 
contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both on the part 
of employer and employed, and what powers does it possess to 
prevent any abuses in this respect? 

5. @.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 


legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application of 
such legislation ? 


XVIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or the 
control of the importation, of the production, and the consumption 
of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX .—Education. 

1. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 

Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it 
free? 

2. Q.—What measures have been taken for higher education ; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education ? 

3. Q@.—In what languages is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


XX.—Public Health. 


1. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health and 
sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases ? 


2. Q.—What is the regime for medical assistance? 


3. Q@.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution and 
what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XXI.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of the 
territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature and 
the assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statistics. 


Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, emigra- 
tion, and immigration. 


x 


Index of Replies in the Report to special and other observations of 
the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Fifth 
Session, May 30th to June 12th, 1934. 


Page 28. Information regarding : 


(a) the number of Jandless Arabs whose claims See page 57 
were admitted, and who have been 
evicted with or without compensation 
by their compatriots, and 
(5) the number of those, who, following upon 
the sale of land to Jews, have been 
evicted and had not received compensa- 
tion. 
(Section V, paragraph 32.) 


Page 33. Statement of licensed fire-arms (rifles, shot-guns, See page 113 
and revolvers) in Palestine. 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 4.) 


Page 33. Information regarding seizures of arms and See page 111 
ammunition effected on the frontier between 
Trans-Jordan and Palestine and elsewhere in 
Palestine. 


(Section XVIII, paragraphs 1 and 3.) 


Page 34. Further information regarding the works of See page 100 
conservation of antiquities. 
(Section XIII, paragraph 7.) 
Arrangements for the despatch to the Permanent 
Mandates Commission of the quarterly review 
of the Department of Antiquities. 
(Section XIII, paragraph 5.) 


Page 36. Information as to legislation in Trans-Jordan See page 241 
governing the employment of children in 
factories. 


(Introductory chapter in Trans-Jordan Section, 
paragraph 9.) 
Page 37. Further information regarding the operation of See page 109 
the Employment of Females Ordinance. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 33.) 
Page 37. Information regarding : 
| (a) inclusion of agriculture in the Workmen’s See page 108 
Compensation Ordinance ; 
(6) Workmen’s Compensation for occupational 
diseases ; 


(c) Partial application of Minimum Wage 
Fixing Machinery Convention. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 29 et seqq.) 


Page 38. Conditions of labour of dockyard workers at the See page 109 
port of Haifa. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 34 et seqq.) 


Page 38. Figures showing drunkenness among the urban See page 116 
and rural population. 


(Section XVIII, paragraph 8.) 


Page 39. 


Page 149. 


Page 149, 


Page 149, 


Page 149. 


Page 149. 


Page 150. 


xl 


Progress on the establishment of the Government 
Technical School at Haifa. 
(Section XIX, paragraph 52.) 


Detailed information as to the final decisions 
arrived at in connection with the incidents of 
October, 1933. 

(Introduction paragraph 15.) 


Statement regarding the Trans-Jordan—Saudi 
Arabia Frontier (Trans-Jordan, Section I, 
Introductory.) 


Information regarding the application of the 
Municipal Corporations Ordinance, and the 
activities of the Municipal Councils. 

(Section IT.) 


Closer relation between the number of new 
immigrants and the true economic absorptive 
capacity of the country on the long view. 
(Section IV, paragraph 29.) 


Expansion of education, and education of Arab 
children. 


(Section XTX, paragraph 12.) 


Further information regarding the £P. 2,000,000 
loan for Palestine guaranteed by the Mandatory 
Power. 


(Section XXI, paragraph 24.) 


See page 135 


See page 6 


See page 24] 


See page 26 


See page 45 


See page 123 


See page 172 


Xll 
NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Commission 
of the League of Nations specially requested that the Sections of, 
this Report might be arranged in the order of subjects adopted by 
the Commission for its annual examination, that is, in the order of 
the questions in its Questionnaire on the Palestine Mandate, 
namely :— 

I. Jewish National Home. 
TI. Autonomous Administration. 
iI. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VIL Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 

2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 
removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and placed 
at the end of the Report. 

An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise and 
Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, and 
Railways are also included in the Palestine portion of the Report. 
The Section relating to Development has been included under 
chapter V., Land Regime. 

A new Section has been added on Co-operative Societies under 
Head XXVIII. 

There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United 
Kingdom of Great Britainand Northern Ireland 
to the Council of the League of Nations on the 
Administration of Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
for the year 1934 


PALESTINE. 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, etc. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia 
li latitude 30° N. and 33° N., longitude 34° 30° E. and 
5° 30’ E. 

On the south it is bounded by Egyptian and Saudi Arabian 
terntory, on the east by Trans-Jordan, on the north by the French 
Mandated Territories of Syria and the Lebanon, and on the west 
by the Mediterranean. 


The boundaries are described as follows :— 


South.—From a point west of Rafa on the Mediterranean 
to a point two miles west of Aqaba in the Gulf of Aqaba. 

East.—From a point two miles west of Aqaba in the Gulf 
of Aqaba up the centre of the Wadi Araba, the Dead Sea, and 
the River Jordan, to the junction of the latter with the Kiver 
Yarmuk, thence up the centre of the River Yarmuk to the 
Syrian frontier. 


North.—The northern boundary was laid down by the 
Anglo-French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, and 
its delimitation was ratified in 1923. Stated briefly, the 
boundary runs from Ras el Naqura on the Mediterranean 
eastwards to Metulla and across the upper Jordan valley to 
Banias, thence to Jisr Banat Yaqub, thence along the Jordan 
to the Lake of Tiberias on to El Hamme station on the 
Samakh-Deraa railway line. 


West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


Area and Climate. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north is about 
160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less than 70 
Iniles, the total area being approximately 10,100 square miles 
inclusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead Sea, Lake 
Tiberias and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore comparable to 
Wales or Belgium. 


2 


3. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring 
deserts of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate zones, 
is characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not excessively hot 
summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical rainfalls 
accompanied by high cold winds; frost is rare. But the typical 
climate is varied by the diverse topography of the country. In the 
south and south-west there are wide expanses of sand dunes and 
desert. The remainder of the country falls naturally into three 
longitudinal strips—the maritime plain, the mountainous regions 
(or central highlands), and the Jordan valley. Each of these 
strips, which are more closely described below, is climatically 
distinct. 

The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the heat 
of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by 
the westerly winds from the Mediterranean. In the central high- 
lands there is a greater range of temperature both daily and 
seasonal, and the maximum temperature is a few degrees lower 
than in the coastal plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in 
Jerusalem and Hebron, and the winter storms are accompanied 
by penetrating winds which necessitate the use of clothing suitable 
for a cold English climate. 

The Jordan valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most. oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 

The maritime plain and the central highlands are both kealthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity, is relaxing in its 
effects, while the other, through sudden changes of temperature, 
predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 


4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones :— 


Maritime Central Jordan 
Plain Highlands Valley 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberias. 
Mean temperature ... Summer 77°F. 70°F. 83°F. 
Winter 60°F. 52°F. 62°F. 
Mean daily maximum Summer — 83°F. 95°F. 
temperature. Winter — 60°F. 72°F. 
Mean daily minimum... Summer — 60°F. 71°F. 
Winter — 44°F. 54°F, 
Absolute maximum Summer 104°F. 102°F. 114°F. 
temperature. 
Absolute minimum Winter 35°F. 21°F. 84°F. 
tem perature. 
Relative humidity ... Summer 69 percent. 55 percent. 651 per cent. 


Winter 70 percent. 68 percent. 64 per cent. 


5. Rainfall is of vital importance in Palestine and any reduction 
in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agriculture 
and water conservation generally. The mean volume of annual 
rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east of 


England. 


3 


There are two well-marked periods of precipitation; the former 
rain in October and November is mot usually large; during 
December, January, and February, the rainfall steadily increases, 
in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended in April. 
The characteristic winds are the moist west and south-west of 
winter and the dry north amd north-west of summer. Desert heat 
is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the south or east 
generally in April and May and occasionally in September and 
October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. Im the south this 
plan has an average width of xbout 20 miles, but it gradually 
narrows to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the hills 
approach to within a few hundred yards of the sea. Beyond 
Carmel the plain widens again, but in this area it is marshy and 
malarial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the plain of Esdraelon. To the north of that 
plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the Syrian 
frontier and rising at Jebel Jermak to a height of 3,934 feet above 
sez-level; to the south are the mountains of Samaria and Judea 
which in places reach heights little less than those of Galilee. Most 
of this second strip of country is desolate and stony, but at irregular 
intervals there occur stretches of fertile land capable of deep 
tillage. 

The plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture than 
that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile and is 
especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan valley, a 
natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the extreme 
north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 1,300 feet below 
that level at the Dead Sea about 100 miles to the south. 


1. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, situated in the midst 
of the hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, with its 
modern harbour, in the north at the entrance to the plain 
of Esdraelon ; Jaffa, # second port which lies some 40 miles west- 
north-west of Jerusalem; Tel Aviv, which is contiguous to Jaffa; 
and Nablus, the ancient Sichem, in the hills of Samaria. Jeru- 
galem hes a majority of Jewish inhabitants; in Haifa the people 
are predominantly Arab, though there is a large Jewish element; 
Tel Aviv is an entirely Jewish township of 120,000 inhabitants. 
In Jaffa a large majority of the people are Arabs, and in Nablus, 


apart from a small community of Samaritans, all the people are 
Arabs. 


4 


Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem; 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee; and Safad, . 
a remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north of 
Palestine. 


Changes in Personnel, 1934. 


8. Mr. R. A. Furness, C.B.E., formerly Oriental Secretary to | 
the High Commissioner for Egypt, has been appointed as Press | 
Officer. 

Mr. D. W. Gumbley, C.B.E., at one time Inspector-General, — 
Posts and Telegraphs, and Director of Civil Aviation in ‘Iraq, . 
assumed duty as Director of Civil Aviation in Palestine in 
December. 

Mr. A. M. Hyamson, O.B.E., retired from the post of Director 
of Immigration in April, and was succeeded by Mr. E. Mills, 
C.B.E., with the title of Commissioner for Migration and | 
Statistics. 

The personal staff of the High Commissioner now consists of 
Lieut. D. J. A. Stewart, Royal Scots Fusiliers, A.D.C., and — 
Mr. R. Foston, Private Secretary. 

Mr. S. H. Perowne, Assistant District Commissioner, Northern 
District, was transferred to Malta in December on appointment as 
Assistant Secretary in the Office of the Lieutenant-Governor of the 
Island. 

His Honour Judge C. R. W. Seton, M.C., President of the 
District Court, Haifa, has been appointed by His Majesty to be 
a Puisne Judge in Jamaica. 

Mr. P. C. Hubbard, formerly Magistrate in the Solomon Islands, 
joined the Palestine Service in December in the capacity of a 
Chief Magistrate. 

Mr. D. G. Harris, C.8.I., C.1.E., has been selected for appoint- 
ment as Irrigation Adviser. Mr. Harris was formerly Consulting 
Engineer to the Government of India and Chief Adviser to the 
Government of India and Provincial Governments on matters of 
Irrigation. 


Public Security. 


9. The predisposing causes of unrest in Palestine which have 
been recorded in previous Reports were not absent in 1934. Arab 
nationalism is, if anything, more articulate and the Arab Press, 
speaking with as many inflexions as the interests of various factions 
may dictate, remains of one mind in its attitude towards Govern- 
ment policy in Palestine, and it is the Press, which echoes public 
and private utterances and opinions of Arab leaders, that must be 
the main index of the feeling of politically-minded Arabs. 

The general allegation is that in furthering Jewish immigration 
and permitting the purchase of land by Jews the Government is 
encompassing the economic annihilation of the Arab population. 


5 


10. In January certain Arab processions in protest against the 
Government policy were held in the principal towns, subject to 
certain conditions and within certain limits prescribed by Govern- 
ment. All the conditions laid down were carefully observed and the 
processions passed off peacefully. In August, Arab youths formed 
themselves into patrols to watch the coast south of Haifa with the 
declared object of defeating any attempt to land immigrants 
illegally, claiming that the steps taken by the police to that end 
were designedly inadequate. One of these patrols was set upon by 
the Jewish settlers and an Arab scout severely injured. But the 
trouble did not spread, and when it was announced that attempts 
by individuals, however well-intentioned, to take the law into their 
own hands would not be tolerated, and that special measures were 
being taken to check illicit entry into Palestine, the Arab patrols 
were disbanded. 

On 2nd November, the anniversary of the Balfour Declaration, 
a strike of protest was called by the Arab Executive. It was gener- 
ally observed and took place without incident. 


11. There was much less tree-cutting in Jewish settlements, 
which speaks well for the efficacy of the preventive measures des- 
cribed in previous Reports. Trespass upon lands in Jewish owner- 
ship in the form either of squatting or of grazing was, 
however, prevalent, and this method of obstructing the sale 
of lands to Jews, as indeed the attempt to stop legal 
Jewish immigration, may perhaps be ascribed in some degree 
to the influence of the Arab _ Press. In one or two 
cases, Arab claims to possession of land which had thus 
changed ownership were pressed with violence; Jewish occupiers 
were assaulted and Jewish watchmen discharged their firearms. 
Only the application of the Land Disputes (Possession) Ordinance, 
1932, averted serious consequences. 


12. Further elements making for unrest were supplied by the 
local jealousies aroused by municipal elections, and by the animosity 
between Jewish Labour and Revisionists. Arab and Jewish news- 
papers respectively demanded and denounced a Legislative Council 
with equal vigour. 

The differences between the Arab leaders, largely a reflection of 
family rivalry, were prominent, in particular during the Jerusalem 
elections which ended in a victory of the Husseini over the 
Nashashibi family. 

The ill-feeling which had estranged Jewish Labour and Revision- 
ists so markedly since the murder of Dr. Arlosoroff in 1933 was 
accentuated by Revisionist competition in the labour market at 
non-union rates of pay. The fact that the Jewish Farmers’ Federa- 
tion in its employment of workers gave indications of aligning itself 
with the Revisionists did not mend matters, for the citrus groves 
are an all-important field of employment which the Union is not 
prepared to relinquish to non-union labour, Jewish or Arab. The 


6 


members of the Union carried their opposition to the length of 
assaulting Revisionists and interfering with their assemblies ; fisti- 
cuffs were not uncommon in the streets of Tel Aviv, and in one 
instance an organized crowd of 1,500 labourers beset a Revisionist 
meeting in Haifa and stoned the participants. However, towards 
the end of the year a truce was negotiated through the instru- 
mentality of the Jewish Agency. Minor incidents were provoked in 
Jewish centres by the activities of zealots who took exception to 
open breaches of Sabbath observance by their co-religionists. 


A strike was declared in May to evince Jewish displeasure at 
the paucity of the half-yearly Labour Schedule; unruly crowds 
gathered in the streets of Tel Aviv and had to be dispersed by the 
police, with a few injuries on both sides. Jewish labour has not 
refrained from using force to exclude Arab workmen from Jewish 
enterprises, especially on building in the towns. Notwithstanding 
the enactment, as foreshadowed in last year’s Report (Introduction, 
paragraph 57) of an Ordinance which makes it an offence to picket 
peacefully where the issue has arisen from causes connected with 
the race, religion, and language of employees, members of the 
Union in organized groups beset premises on which Arabs were 
employed by or for Jews. This systematic picketing often ended in 
violence and led to many arrests and convictions of the Jewish 
picketers. Quick to profit by this example, Arabs were beginning 
at the close of the year to adopt similar tactics as a means of pre- 
vailing upon non-Jewish employers to pay off their skilled Jewish 
workers. 


13. There was an outbreak of highway robbery in the late 
autumn, but it was promptly dealt with by the police and the ring- 
leaders were sentenced to imprisonment. 


The outlaw, Abu Jildeh, was eventually captured in April and 
was sentenced to death for murder and hanged. 


14. It speaks highly for the efficiency of the Police and its intelli- 
gence service that, despite all these potentialities and opportunities 
for serious disorder, the outward tranquillity of Palestine may be 
said not to have been sensibly disturbed during 1934. 


15. In connection with the disturbances which took place in 
Jaffa on 27th October, 1933 (see last year’s Report, Introduction, 
paragraph 9), eighteen Arab leaders were arrested. Judgment was 
pronounced on 19th March, 1934, by the Chief Magistrate of Jaffa, 
who imposed a sentence of ten months’ imprisonment with hard 
labour on ten of the accused and five months’ imprisonment with 
hard labour on five others, the remaining three being acquitted. 


Appeals were lodged against all the convictions, and were heard 
on 2nd July, when fourteen of the fifteen accused were discharged 
conditionally upon entering into a bond of £P.100 to be of good 
behaviour for a period of three years and to come up for sentence 
when called upon during that period. 


q 


Sheikh Abdul Kader Muzaffar alone declined to enter into a 
bond of this kind and was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment, 
which he duly served. He will remain under police supervision 
for one year after the expiration of his sentence. 


16. Two Hebrew newspapers (one of them twice) and one 
Arabic newspaper were prosecuted for publishing false news likely 
to endanger the public peace, and three Hebrew newspapers were 
prosecuted for contempt of court in connection with the Arlosoroff 
murder trial. Convictions were obtained in all these cases. Four 
Arabic newspapers (one of them three times and another twice) 
were suspended, under the provisions of the Press Ordinance, 
1933, for periods varying between one week and three months. 
Eleven foreign newspapers or periodicals were excluded from 
Palestine under the same Ordinance for terms varying from one 
month to one year. » 


17. The great development of traffic on the roads, coupled with 
the carelessness of drivers, has led to a large number of motor 
accidents. ‘Traffic police have been increased and measures taken 
for the more effective control of junctions, especially in the towns, 
by the construction of islands. Automatic traffic control is being 
tried in Tel Aviv. The Palestine Automobile Club has put up 
road-signs in considerable numbers. 


Policy. 


18. The Municipal Corporations Ordinance was enacted on the 
12th January, and copies have been placed at the disposal of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission. LEHlections of Councillors have 
taken place in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance 
in 22 out of the 23 municipal areas scheduled. By the end of the 
year or the beginning of 1935 twenty newly-elected Councils were 
in being, and conditions had thus been created wherein repre- 
sentative Palestinians of all communities and races might acquire 
training in the common management of public affairs under a 
modern code of municipal legislation. 


19. At the beginning of December the High Commissioner, after 
his return from the United Kingdom, explained to a delegation 
consisting of the Acting President and members of the Arab 
Executive Committee the position in regard to the establishment 
of the Legislative Council in the following terms :— 

‘* You remember the announcement made by His Majesty’s 
Government in 1930 as regards the establishment of a Legis- 
lative Council in Palestine. Government stands by this 
announcement. 

‘It is my belief that a Council, with safeguards to ensure 
that the peace and security of the country cannot be en- 
dangered, nor the carrying out of the Mandate hampered, can 
be established and will prove to be of general good to the 
country as a whole. 


8 


‘“ Two years ago I announced at Geneva that Government 
would take steps towards the formation of a Legislative Council 
after the new Local Government Ordinance had been brought 
into working order. I regret that this has taken longer than 
I anticipated. 

‘’ When I was in England last month I discussed this ques- 
tion with the Secretary of State. His views are in entire 
agreement with mine. Consequently, after a reasonable period 
during which I can examine and see into the working of the 
new Municipal Councils, I shall inaugurate discussions with 
leaders of various parties to consider the proposals of Govern- 
ment for the establishment of a Legislative Council and to 
discuss in detail the form of the Legislative Council which it 
is proposed to establish. 

‘“I am sure you will agree with me that such discussions 
will assist Government when taking the necessary steps towards 
the formation of a Legislative Council. = 


Jewish Immigration into Palestine. 


20. The Department of Immigration has been reorganized; an 
extensive measure of decentralization has been introduced ; arrears 
of outstanding applications have been liquidated; formalities have 
been simplified and the time taken to deal with new applications 
has been considerably reduced. 


21. Further measures have been adopted to combat illicit 
immigration in addition to those mentioned in paragraph 44 of this 
section of the previous Report. Additional police have been re- 
cruited for the patrol of the land frontiers to prevent, with the 
assistance of units of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, surreptitious 
entry on the east and north-east; a Marine Preventive Force is 
now based on the ports of Jaffa and Haifa, comprising a British 
police inspector and 25 men, who board all vessels, check the crews, 
search for stowaways, and prohibit the landing of any person who 
is rejected by the Passport Control; persons detained as illegal 
entrants are prosecuted and, on conviction, are required to serve 
a term of imprisonment before deportation. 


22. If they wish their entry to be facilitated, travellers must 
produce a recent photograph of themselves on arrival at the port 
or frontier controls and this is affixed to the entry card which is 
made out in respect of each traveller and constitutes a check on their 
departure within the stipulated time. Travellers who are found 
to overstay the stipulated period of residence are prosecuted and 


deported. 

23. The smuggling of immigrants into Palestine has been carried 
out in a variety of ways. The majority of illicit immigrants enter 
the country by way of the northern and north-eastern frontiers, 
where frontier bands, mostly of Arabs, are known to be engaged in 
this illegal and lucrative traffic. In addition, sailing-boats from 


9 


Syria and Egypt have engaged in the smuggling trade, landing 
their cargoes of illicit immigrants at unfrequented parts of the 
coast ; special steamers have operated in the traffic from bases in the 
Greek islands; and officers and crews of regular steamers calling 
at Palestine ports have been detected participating in the 
surreptitious landing of illicit immigrants. 


Severe penalities of fine and imprisonment have been imposed by 
the Courts in a number of cases on persons convicted of the offence 
of smuggling illicit immigrants into Palestine, and wherever pos- 
sible these persons are also deported. 


24. Besides these measures of prevention, the system of deposit 
has operated to prevent the illicit settlement of travellers. 


23. The control of illicit immigration has been rendered more 
dificult by the unwillingness of the public to co-operate with the 
authorities, and it is practically impossible for the police to obtain 
information from the general public to aid them in detecting cases 
of smuggling or in locating illicit immigrants. 


26. The Palestine Government is indebted to the Egyptian Gov- 
ernment for its co-operation in controlling the traffic in illicit 
immigrants from Egypt by preventing suspect sailing vessels from 
leaving Egyptian ports for Falestine and by keeping known 
organizers of the traffic under close supervision; and also to the 
authorities in Syria who have insisted on the deposit of passports 
and return tickets by travellers in transit. The Royal Air Force 
has lent valuable assistance by aerial observation of the coast, 
and effective use has been made of the police wireless telegraph 
stations and of the tugs at Haifa Harbour. 


27. Illicit immigration is not confined to Jews and there have 
been many Hauranese among the illegal immigrants. Numbers 
of these are detected at the frontiers and are summarily deported. 

The number of persons deported during the year for immigration 
offences was 2,407, of whom 772 were Jews. 


28. Towards the end of 1934, there were grounds for believing 
that the preventive measures taken by the Palestine Government 
had resulted in a substantial reduction of illicit immigration. 


29. Labour schedules were approved by the High Commissioner 
during 1934 for 14,300 Jewish immigrants, 11,915 men and 2,385 
women. .Of this total, 3,577 certificates were allocated to German 
Jews. Under the new system by which the schedule is compiled 
in occupational groups, the second half-yearly schedule of 7,509 
immigration certificates was classified, in the following divisions :— 


3,800 for agriculture. 
1,400 for industry. 
1,100 for building. 

1,200 for other purposes. 


10 


Four hundred immigration certificates of the approved schedule 
for the half-year ending the 3lst March, 1935, have been allocated 
by the Executive of the Jewish Agency for skilled farm labour to 
be selected by the Jewish Federation in close co-operation with the 
Palestine Offices of the Agency abroad. 


The admission of Jewish children from Germany between the 
ages of 15 years and 16 years completed was facilitated by the issue 
of 350 immigration certificates in 1933-34 and a similar number for 
1934-35. These children were admitted on the financial respon- 
sibility of the Jewish Agency and were placed in various Jewish 
settlements and institutions by a special department of the Central 
Bureau for the Settlement of German Jews, which administers, 
together with a Board of Trusteés, specia] funds collected from 
various sources for the training and education of Jewish German 
children in agricultural settlements and suitable educational institu- 
tions. 


30. The number of Jewish capitalist settlers in 1934 showed a4 
substantial increase over previous years, 5,124 Jews in cate- 
gory A (i) (persons in possession of at least £P.1,000) having 
entered the country, as compared with 3,250 in 1933 and 727 in 
1932. 


Arab Affairs. 


31. The Arab community of Palestine suffered a very severe loss 
in the death of Musa Kazem Pasha al Husseini at the age of 
84 years. Musa Kasem Pasha had a long and distinguished career 
as a civil servant under the Turkish authorities, and, since the 
Occupation, he was the leader of the Arab national movement in 
Palestine. He earned the esteem of all sections of the population 
by his personal integrity and disinterestedness. 


His place as President of the Arab Executive has been left un- 
filled, an acting appointment only being made. Yacoub Farraj, the 
Vice-President, holds this acting office. 


32. The Arab Executive concerned itself almost entirely with the 
questions of Jewish immigration and of the sale of lands to Jews, 
and on the High Commissioner’s return from the United Kingdom 
in the autumn they submitted, in an interview, a memorandum 
of their views as to the dangers arising out of Jewish immigration 
and sale of lands. The High Commissioner made the following 
statement in reply :— 


‘" T am very glad to see you here to-day. As you know, I am 
most ready to hear your views on Palestinian questions; to 
what you have to say and to the memorandum which you have 
submitted I will give my close attention. 


‘’ As regards the sale of lands, before I read your memo- 
randum I will only make two statements, which do not cover 


il 


the whole subject but are relevant to the issue which you have 
raised :— 

‘‘ (i) Government is endeavouring to increase produc- 
tivity of the land. You know that I devote much of my 
time to improving methods of agriculture, and I am glad 
to think that our efforts are not unsuccessful. 

‘* (ii) Government has taken steps to protect the welfare 
of cultivators by the Protection of Cultivators Ordinance 
and its amendments. 

‘* You have mentioned the subject of immigration. As you 
know, Government is guided by the absorptive capacity of the 
country when deciding the number of immigrants to be 
admitted. In all countries there are periods of rapid develop- 
ment and periods of slow development. During the last two 
years there has been rapid development in Palestine, conse- 
quently the capacity of the country to absorb capital and labour 
has increased ; indeed in some building and industrial under- 
takings difficulties are experienced in obtaining labour at 
reasonable rates, but when calculating the number of immi- 
grants I have to look to the future as well as to the present. 
I have seen exaggerated figures in the Press regarding the 
figures of Jewish immigration. Government’s estimate for the 
total number of Jews entering Palestine with permits to stay 
during 1934, based on the actual records of immigration during 
the first ten months of the year, is 36,000. 

‘* As regards the question of illegal immigration, we know 
the number of immigrants who stayed in Palestine without 
permits in 1933 was very large. I said a year ago I considered 
this a most serious matter, and I consider it is still serious. 
Government took certain measures to check this, and J am 
glad to say that we estimate the numbers in 1934 will be 
reduced by at least half. I am confident that the numbers will 
again be much reduced in 1935. As regards the number of 
those who entered the country by evading frontier controls, it 
is impossible to give exact figures. But, as I announced in 
my official communiqué, Government has taken further vigor- 
ous measures of control, including the formation of a special 
contingent of Police and of a marine preventive force equipped 
with launches, to patrol land and sea frontiers. As a result of 
these steps the numbers of illegal entrants into Palestine has 
been very materially reduced, and I look forward to further 
steady reductions in the future. We do not consider that the 
numbers of these illegal immigrants exceed 100 per month. As 
you know, Government has made considerable deductions 
from the last two labour schedules on account of illicit settle- 
ment. I do not yet regard the position as by any means satis- 
factory, but it is definitely better than it was a year ago.”’ 


_ 33. The Supreme Moslem Council has made satisfactory progress 
in the re-organization of its administration and finances; and the 


12 
margin between the expenditure and revenue of the Sharia Courts 
has shown some reduction. 

The Council has begun to take an active interest in the question 
of the sale of lands by Arabs and is now vigorously campaigning 
with a view to deterring prospective vendors or to securing that 
land, if it must be sold, is acquired by other Arabs. 


34. Mention is made elsewhere in the Report of the holding of a 
second Arab Fair in Jerusalem during April and May; and further 
indications of increasing interest on the part of Arab leaders in 
commercial development are to be found in the additional capital 
issued by the Arab Bank and the establishment of an Arab Agricul- 
tural Bank, the foundation of an Arab cinematographic enterprise, 
the enlargement of Arab participation in the motor-transport 
industry, particularly in omnibus services, and the appearance of a 
magazine in Arabic devoted to economic affairs. 


Jewish Affairs. 


35. In his opening statement before the Permanent Mandates 
Commission in June, 1933, the Accredited Representative made 
mention of the negotiations which had been undertaken by 
Government, acting as intermediary between the Central Agudath 
Israel and the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish com- 
munity, with a view to providing within the framework of the 
religious courts of the Jewish community for the determination of 
cases of personal status affecting members of the Agudath Israel. 


The hope and intention of Government are by this means to 
satisfy the legitimate requirements of the Agudath Israel without 
perpetuating the schism in the Jewish population of Palestine 
which separate recognition of the Agudath Israel as a community 
under the Religious Communities Organization Ordinance, 1926, 
might involve. 


As a result of these negotiations, provisional heads of agreement 
had been framed by representatives of the two parties ‘and these 
were duly referred to the constituent bodies. This reference was 
productive, as might have been expected, of many suggestions for 
modifying the tentative arrangements, in some cases seeking 
radically to vary the general principles upon which those arrange- 
ments had been founded. It was therefore necessary to resume 
conversations but, owing to preoccupations arising out of the 
municipal elections, these conversations did not advance the issue 
appreciably up till the end of the year. It is hoped that they will 
be shortly resumed again and carried to finality. 


Attention is invited in this connection to page 3 of the report 
of the Representative of Czechoslovakia on the twenty-fifth Session 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission relating to the petition of 


13 


the Waad Adath Ashkenazim for recognition as a separate religious 
community, in which the following passage occurs :— 


“The other petition to which I should like to refer was 
from the Council Waad Adath Ashkenazim of Jerusalem, and 
related to its position as @ private religious community. The 
Commission, after noting the observations submitted by the 
Mandatory Power on this petition, found on the one hand that 
the petitioners enjoy complete religious liberty and that there 
is nothing to prevent the immigration for religious purposes 
of Jews whose maintenance will be provided for; the Com- 
Mission recognized, on the other hand, that the establishment, 
a8 communities which are autonomous from the administrative 
point of view, of all religious groups desiring separate official 
representation with the Mandatory Power is not only 
undesirable but is also impossible.’’ 


Relations meanwhile between the Central Agudath Israel and 
the Vaad Leumi have been cordial and, indeed, the two sections 
co-operated closely and harmoniously in the campaign for the 
nomination and election of Jewish councillors to the Municipal 
Corporation of Jerusalem. Among the six Jewish members elected 
Was one specifically representing the Central Agudath Israel who 
was put forward on the general list of the Vaad Leumt1. 


386. The claim of Vaad Leumi on behalf of the Rabbinical 
Council for a contribution from public funds towards the mainten- 
ance of the Jewish Religious Courts has been dealt with 
in Chapter 10, page 85. 


37. By the intervention of Government, an agreement designed 
fo satisfy the requirements of Jewish orange-growers principally 
for agricultural labour was reached between the Jewish Agency 
and the Jewish Farmers Federation whereunder agricultural 
Workers in rural areas abroad of not less than three years’ experi- 
ence are to be selected by a representative of the Federation sent 
from Palestine for the purpose, acting in conjunction with the 
Agency’s European officers. 


Four hundred certificates of the most recent Labour Schedule 
were received by the Jewish Agency for these needs. 

The claims of the Central Agudath Israel for an allocation of 
certificates to its adherents in Central Europe are similarly met by 


the Jewish Agency’s offices in co-operation with the representatives 
of the Agudath Israel. 


38. A meeting of the General Council of the Zionist Organiza- 
tion, held in Jerusalem in April, was attended by many delegates 
from abroad, including the President of the Jewish Agency, Dr. 
Nahum Sokolow, and members of the London Executive. 

Dr. Ch. Weizmann visited Palestine in February in connection 
with schemes for the immigration and settlement of German Jews, 


14 


and in November entered upon his duties as Director of the Daniel 
Sieff Research Institute for Agricultural Chemistry at Rehobot. 

Chaim Nachman Bialik, generally appraised as the foremost 
Hebrew man of letters and the greatest Hebrew poet of modern 
times, died in July and was buried in Tel Aviv, where he had 
lived for many years. Bialik contributed largely to the modern 
revival of the Hebrew language, and his influence on Hebrew 
literature and on the cultural development of the Jewish com- 
munity in Palestine has been profound. 


Economic Affairs. 


89. Sanguine though they were, the expectations of revenue in 
1934 were more than realized. ‘The revised estimated revenue 
for the financial period 1st April, 1934, to 3lst March, 1935, is 
£P.5,350,000 as compared with the original estimate of 
£P.3,482,655. The principal increase is in receipts from customs, 
port and marine dues, but motor-car licences, werko and tithes 
(notwithstanding considerable remissions in the latter case) also 
exceeded the estimate, and there were important increases also 
in the receipts from stamp duties, from match and tobacco excise, 
court and company fees, and the registration of immigrants. The 
largest single increase was in receipts from land registration fees. 
The gross revenue of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs 
was £P.62,000 more than was expected, and additional profits 
were available from currency. It is estimated that the surplus 
of revenue over expenditure for the year will be approximately 
£P.2,150,000, which will bring the accumulated surplus balance 
of Government at the 31st of March, 1935, to a figure of approxi- 
mately £P.4,660,000. 


When the revenue estimates for 1934-35 were prepared it appeared 
doubtful whether the trade activity then prevailing would con- 
tinue. There were indications that certain of the abnormal in- 
fluences which affect revenue receipts were on the wane; land 
and house property values in urban areas, for example, and land 
values in rural areas showed a falling tendency and there was 
a slight check on the importation of capital from abroad. Actually 
the ‘* peak ’’ conditions of 1933-34 were far exceeded in 1934-85. 
The total of imports increased from £P.11,268,795 in 1933 to 
approximately #£P.15,420,000 in 1934; and of exports from 
£P.3,433,495 to approximately £P.4,420,000. Approximately 
156,000 dunums of land, valued at £P.8,378,000, were sold in 1934 
as compared with 149,899 dunums, valued at £P.5,266,092, in 
1933 ; approximately £P.6,000,000 was invested in buildings as com- 
pared with £P.5,600,000 in the previous year; and the increase in 

the area planted with citrus trees was approximately 50,000 dunums 
as compared with 44,000 dunums in 1933. Two hundred and 
twenty-seven new companies were registered with @ capital of 
£P.2,180,000 compared with 89 and a registered capital of 


15 


£P.540,000 in 1933 ; and 35 companies increased their capital from 
£P.1,737,000 to £P.4,141,000 as compared with the year 1933 
dunng which 15 increased their capital from £P.87,000 to 
£P.180,000. At 31st December, 1934, the currency in circulation 
amounted to £P.4,738,964, or £P.1,159,300 more than twelve 
months previously; it is estimated that at 3lst March, 1935, 
currency in circulation will have increased to £P.5,250,000. De- 
posits with the leading local banks at the 30th November, 1934, 
amounted to approximately £P.14,000,000, or £P.1,700,000 more 
than at 3lst March, 1934, and approximately twice as much as a 
year earlier. 


40. A striking testimony to the confidence which the present 
economic conditions of Palestine and prospects of the country’s 
financial stability inspire in authoritative circles is provided by the 
success attending the issue of new share capital by Palestine com- 
panies and the making of loans to institutions. These comprise 
s loan of £P.350,000 to the Township of Tel Aviv which is under 
negotiation by the Prudential Assurance Company; a loan by 
Lloyds Bank of £P.500,000 to the Jewish Agency; and an issue 
of £P.600,000 additional share capital by the Palestine Electric 
Corporation and of £P.350,000 by Palestine Potash Limited. 


These loans are for long terms, indicating a sense of security 
in the financial future of Palestine, and at exceptionally low rates 
of interest, which reflect the high value placed upon the credit of 
the country. 


41. This year again has witnessed a marked industrial develop- 
ment, the local production of goods increasing by nearly 10 per 
cent. to £P.64 millions. That, in spite of the absorption in 
Palestine of the whole of the much increased local output of cement, 
imports of cement should have increased fourfold is further evidence 
of the activity of the building trade. New enterprises which have 
been established and existing factories which have expanded are 
recorded in Chapter XXIII. 


42. A number of articles were exempted from import duty in 
the course of the year for the benefit of local industries, and a 
number of import duties on agricultural produce and manufactured 
articles were raised for protective purposes. Lists of the articles 
thus affected will be found in Chapter XXIII. Proposals are on foot 
for the establishment of a brewery and a rice-mill in Palestine: 
Government intends, while abolishing the import duty on malt and 
hops, to impose an excise duty on locally-manufactured beer such 
as to place it in a position to compete on fair terms with foreign 
beers, and to adjust the duties on clean and unhusked rice. 


43. Allusion was made in last year’s Report to the decaying 
condition of the olive-oil soap industry, at Nablus. The Com- 
mittee there mentioned put forward a large number of suggestions 
for dealing with this difficult problem, the more important of which 


16 


concerned co-operation, the protection of the ‘‘ Nabulsi’’ trade- 
mark, the possibility of procuring a reduction of the Egyptian 
import duty, the improvement and marketing of Palestinian olive 
oil, heavy import duties on foreign vegetable and seed oils, and 
regulation of imports of acid and neutral oils. The Secretary of the 
General Agricultural Council undertook an exhaustive inquiry in 
England, with the help of the Imperial Institute, and a final investi- 
gation into the subject has now been undertaken by a second 
Committee, which will direct its recommendations more particularly 
to the improvement of the olive and olive oil industry, and of the 
marketing of local oils and oil-seeds in Palestine and abroad, and 
to the questions of protective duties on imported oils, oi!-seeds, 
and fats, and of the adulteration of oils. 


44, Palestine citrus growers were seriously affected by the 
prospects of reduced exports to Germany, due principally to the 
difficulties in which that country found itself in regard to foreign 
exchanges, and to the consequent curtailment of her foreign pur- 
chases. Exports to Germany will certainly be seriously reduced, 
but it is satisfactory to record that, owing to the initiative of the 
Jaffa Citrus Exchange, an agreement was reached whereby a certain 
amount of sterling was to be released to Palestine citrus exporters 
through the operations of a Special Marks Account. The effect 
of this agreement was to make available for citrus imports into 
Germany 70 per cent. of the total foreign exchange received by 
German exporters in payment of orders procured by the Citrus 
Exchange for German exports to the Far Kast, India, and Egypt, 
on condition that the export premium normally allowed by the 
German Government to German exporters should be paid half by 
the Palestine shipper and half by the German importer. This 
arrangement may bring some relief, but the disadvantages of 
making exports of citrus fruit to Germany dependent on the 
exporters making it their business to promote the sale of German 
goods in markets far removed from Palestine are manifest. 


Exporters are also to some extent compensated by the more 
favourable treatment accorded by Poland to Palestinian fruit. The 
import duty on oranges imported into Poland was reduced from 
220 zlotys to 44 zlotys per 100 kilogrammes as from 21st 
December, 1934. In addition, whereas in the season 1933-34 
import quotas of 100 metric tons were granted in respect of the 
period up to the 31st December and of a further 1,000 metric tons 
in respect of the period as from the lst January, for the season 
1934-35 an import quota of 1,000 metric tons has been granted 
in respect of the former period, and, if this entire quota is used 
up in that period, a further quota of 2,000 metric tons will be 
granted in respect of the latter period—this second quota to be 
susceptible of increase if, in the course of the season, it appears 
likely to be exceeded. The quotas were granted on a basis of 


17 


equivalence and reciprocity in the purchase of Polish timber for 
citrus boxes by Palestinian shippers. 

Further, the benefit of a reduction from fl. 2:00 to fi. 1:00 per 
100 kilogrammes of the surtax on Spanish oranges imported into 
Holland has been extended to Falestine; and the application to 
Palestine of the Trade Agreement between Great Britain and 
Lithuania has brought about a reduction of the import duty on 
oranges from lits. 3 to lits. 2°75. , 

Representations of the President of the Palestine-Roumanian 
Chamber of Commerce were successful in inducing the Rumanian 
Government to increase to 113,800 during the season 1934-35 the 
quota for export of citrus fruit from Palestine, which was to have 
been fixed at just half that figure; and to make sterling available 
for payment on importation, and not, as previously, after a three 
months’ interval. 


45. The Road and Rail Transportation Committee which was 
set up in 1933, with terms of reference as recorded in lest year’s | 
Report (page 22, paragraph 72), presented an interim report in 
June. This report contained a number of recommendations 
designed to bring about immediate improvements, some of which 
have been acted upon, while others are still under consideration. 
The following are the measures arising out of the interim report 
which have already been taken :— 

(1) One hundred additional covered goods wagons, twelve 
new boilers, and six passenger locomotives have been pur- 
chased and for the most part delivered. 

(2) Wage increments have been granted to the technical 
staff of the railways in the lower grades, and additional staff 
has been engaged. 

(3) Additional storage facilities for citrus fruit have been 
provided at certain important loading-stations. 

(4) New feeder-roads have been constructed or are under 
construction in the citrus belt. 

(5) The terminal facilities at Haifa have been improved. 
Also, on the recommendation of the Committee, experts are to 
visit Palestine in order to enquire into the possibility of 
diverting the main line so as to give more direct communica- 
tion between Jaffa and Haifa, and into the commercial 
organization of the railways and its system of accounts. 


Agriculture and Land. 


46. The reform of the system of land taxation, consisting of the 
replacement of the Ottoman tithe and werko by a new system of 
urban and rural property tax, is virtually complete. In this connec- 
tion it has been decided to unify in a single department, to be called 
the Department of Lands and Surveys, the administration of all 
matters connected with land, namely, the survey of Palestine, land 
registration, the control of state domain, and land settlement. The 


18 


new Department will be under the direction of Lt.-Col. F. J. 
Salmon, M.C., at present Director of Surveys, as Commissioner. 


47. ‘The annual revision of the distribution of commuted tithe was 
carried out during the year in 1,040 villages and 78 tribal areas. 


48. Various measures were taken during the year for the relief of 
of cultivators and stockowners affected by crop-failure and drought. 
In January the issue of seed and fodder loans in kind authorized at 
the end of 1933 (see Annual Report for 1933, Introduction, para- 
graph 79) was supplemented to the extent of £P.5,500, more par- 
ticularly for villages in the Ghor and on the Jerusalem hills. In 
February, a reduction was made in the customs tariff on wheat, 
flour, rye, and semolina to enable farmers to obtain cheaper wheat 
for sowing, while also giving the consumer cheaper bread. 

49. There was considerable distress among villagers and tribes- 
men south of Jerusalem, in the plateau west of Nablus, in the 
Jordan valley, and east generally of the Jenin-Tiberias road, owing 
to heavy mortality of stock in the severe winter and a succession of 
bad harvests. For the maintenance of these sufferers and their 
sheep and cattle until the crops and grazing were available the 
High Commissioner decided, in March, to spend £P.16,500 on road 
works in affected areas, and to employ the distressed villagers and 
tribesmen on these works. The works were chiefly designed to 
make a lasting improvement in rural communications. In addition, 
£P.4,500 was distributed as forage loans in kind for the feeding of 
oxen, to preserve them in fit condition for the summer ploughing. 


50. In the same month £F.3,400, representing arrears of agricul- 
tural loans and taxation in the Jerusalem District, was written off. 
and the collection of three quarters of the animal tax, namely 
£P.21,000, was waived in favour of owners of cattle, sheep, and 
goats who had sustained severe losses from drought and cold. 

51. In September the local cereal cultivation was safeguarded by 
the stoppage of permits for the importation of foreign wheat into 
Palestine during the last quarter of the year, it having been estab- 
lished that sufficient stocks were available to meet anticipated local 
needs for the time being. 

52. Meanwhile the District Commissioners had been engaged 
upon a detailed study of the extent of crop failures and the economic 
position of the cultivators in relation to the tithe commuted. 
Their investigations, based upon village-to-village inspection, showed 
conclusively that there was good cause to remit a substantial portion 
of the tithe on both summer and winter crops, owing to the con- 
tinued crop failures, the depreciation of cereal prices, and the con- 
sequent depression prevailing in the agricultural industry, except the 
citrus branch. Government therefore granted the following 
remissions :— 

(a) A general remission of 25 per cent. of the winter and 
summer tithe assessment on account of fall in prices, repre- 
senting the difference between the existing market prices and 


19 


the average redemption prices at which the tithe was com- 
muted ; plus 


(6) remission ranging from 10 per cent. to 45 per cent. of the 
reduced aggregate assessment of summer and winter tithes to 
cover individual cases of partial or total failure of winter and 
summer crops; plus 


(c) remission on account of inability to pay, amounting to 
£P.16,507. 
The commuted tithe remained payable in full in respect of land 
planted with orange or other citrus fruit trees. 


53. The financial effect of the remissions granted on the above 
bases was as follows :— 


Remisstons under 
District (a) (b) (c) Total 
Fall in Crop Inability 
prices failure. to pay 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Jerusalem ... 9,413 12,707 231 22,351 
Northern ... 33,638 33,638 16,276 83,552 
Southern 18,323 5,500 — 23,823 
£P. 61,374 51,845 16,507 129,726 


The total aggregate tithe assessment, excluding the tithe on citrus, 
being £P.245,000, a remission of £P.129,726 amounts to 53 per cent. 
of the total amount of commuted tithe that was due. Remissions on 
the same bases, made in the amount of £P.129,726 in respect of 
rental tithe payable by tenants of state domain, are included in the 
above figures. 


04. In November a sum of £P.70,000 was distributed in advances 
to needy cultivators for the winter sowing; and finally a sum of 
£P.18,500 was voted for relief works to provide employment to 
able-bodied men of impoverished villages, in cases where it was 
necessary to supplement the issue of seed loans by making it 
possible for the inhabitants to earn wages and gain increase of sub- 
sistence. As before, the relief works consist of the construction of 
village roads which should create a permanent asset to the villages 
concerned and should eventually add to their income by enabling 


their produce to reach its markets more quickly and in better 
condition. 


59. It is gratifying to note the considerable improvements in 
1934 in the state of the orange groves of the Jaffa District, as 
regards infection by black scale. Thanks to the effects of last year’s 
campaign, much less fumigation was necessary this year. In the 
north 1t 1s obvious that a comprehensive and lasting scheme must 


20 


be devised which will rehabilitate the citrus industry, seriously 
affected by a long succession of scale infestations. 


56. The Citrus Fruit Advertising Committee found itself under 
the necessity of applying to Government for an advance to meet 
the cost of an intensive campaign of publicity in the United 
Kingdom and on the Continent outside Germany in order to make 
up the reduction in sales which was likely to be caused this year 
owing to the virtual closure of the German market 1n consequence 
of the difficulties attending the export of money from Germany. 
Government accordingly granted an advance of £P.8,000 which is — 
to be repaid next season partly out of the larger receipts which the 
Committee will then obtain from an increased rate, to which it has 
agreed, of the advertising fee from 14 mils to 2 mils per case. 


57. Government has arranged that the sugar required by bee- 
keepers for feeding their bees during times of scarcity of natural 
fodder shall be sold to registered bee-keepers at a price which ex- 
cludes import duty. 


(Miscellaneous. 


58. The facilities for civil aviation which at present exist in 
Palestine are largely deper :.nt on the generous assistance of the 
British Air Ministry, by whom the landing-grounds, wireless 
apparatus, and lighting necessary to the operation of the services 
of Imperial] Airways have been supplied. These facilities have also 
been placed at the disposal of other civil aviation organizations such 
as Misr Airwork and K.L.M. (Royal Dutch Air Line) which have 
obtained permission to operate regular services across Palestine. 
It is now the intention to provide at least one airport in Palestine 
completely equipped for day and night use im all states of the 
weather, and other aerodromes for civil aircraft in different parts 
of the country. A provisional civil landing ground near Lydda was 
taken into use in April. Private owners of aircraft not plying for 
hire or reward have no difficulty in obtaining permission to fly over 
Palestine. 


59. A broadcast transmitting station is under construction for 
Government by the Marconi Company. It will be of the latest 
type and capable of serving the whole of Palestine. Local pro- 
grammes will be broadcast in the three official languages, and 
foreign programmes will be relayed. It is intended to make a 
special feature of rural and agricultural news and instruction, and to 
this end Government proposes to instal communal receiving sets 
in a large number of villages at reduced rental charges and without 
licence fees. 


60. Ihe Haifa pipe-line of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company was 
completed during the year and the first shipment of oil took place 
on 27th October. The construction of an oil dock within the 
harbour is far advanced and completion is expected in June, 1935. 


21 


61. The development of the reclaimed area at Haifa resulting 
from the construction of the new harbour has been entrusted to a 
special Committee, with an executive officer. Roads, sewerage, 
and water-supplies are partially or entirely completed. Railway 
sidings are under construction, and leases of sites for warehouses 
have been auctioned. A frontal design has been prepared to which 
all buildings of lessees must conform. 


62. The pipes, valves, amd fittings for the pipeline of the 
Jerusalem water-supply have been delivered to the site; excavation 
for laying the pipes is proceeding over the length of the route; and 
contracts have been placed for pumping-station buildings, 
reservoirs, and permanent staff quarters. Engines, gearings, and 
pumps have been completed and tested in England and will be 
delivered early in 1935. 


63. Tiberias was visited by a cloudburst at noon on 15th May, 
and a flood of water six to eight feet high rushed through the lower 
parts of the town. Thirty-four persons lost their lives in this 
disaster, much material damage was done, and many people were 
rendered homeless and destitute. Police, military, and district 
officers gave all possible assistance to the Municipal Council in 
meeting this emergency. Indeed, had it not been for the gallantry 
and splendid conduct of the police and many others, many more 
would have perished in the overwhelming torrents. The larger 
towns sent gifts of clothing, blankets, and other necessities, 
volunteer workers gave their services unsparingly, and @ relief fund 
was raised for the rehabilitation of sufferers in their trades and 
occupations. The Government advanced the necessary funds for 
the reconstruction of roads, demolition of dangerous structures, 
and payment of compensation to owners of property which had had 
to be destroyed for protective or preventive purposes. The actual 
work was carried out by the Government, and the expenditure, 
from public funds, amounted to £P.30,000, of which £P.10,000 
represents a loan to the Municipality. 


64. Apprehension has been felt in some quarters lest the opera- 
tions of the Palestine Electric Corporation Limited, which involve 
the lowering and raising of the level of Lake Tiberias, should spoil 
the beauty and religious associations of the lake and increase the in- 
cidence of malaria round the shores. A full statement on the subject 
was made by the Secretary of State in the House of Commons on 
2th January, 1935, (See Appendix V). The lake is subject 
to seasonal alterations of level, and it was the unusually low 
level of the lake in the summer and autumn of the last two years, 
due in a large measure to an abnormally scanty rainfall, which 
led, towards the end of 1934, to the expression of considerable 
anxiety. It is true that the changes of level favour the breeding of 
mosquitoes, but the Department of Health anticipates no difficulty 
in taking adequate preventive measures. The religious and aesthetic 
aspect of the matter is engaging the close attention of Government. 

28784 B 


22 


While it is inevitable that the operations of the Palestine Electric 
Corporation should somewhat increase the seasonal changes of level, 
both Government and the Corporation are naturally anxious that 
the appearance of the lake should not be impaired, and there is 
every reason to anticipate that the apprehensions which have been 
expressed will prove to have been much exaggerated. 


65. In the latter part of the year four new companies were 
granted registration of ocean-going passenger steamers to ply 
between Haifa and Mediterranean and Black Sea ports. Rules 
have been made under powers conferred on the High Commissioner 
by the Ports Ordinance, 1926, to ensure conformity with recognized 
standards as to machinery, life-saving equipment, and as to the 
qualifications of officers and engineers. 

It is interesting to note in this connection that marine train- 
ing is now being provided for boys in a school at Tel Aviv. 


66. Sir Elly Kadoorie supplemented his deceased brother’s 
legacy, which enabled Government to build two agricultural schools, 
by a contribution of £P.1,500 for the erection of quarters for resi- 
dent teachers at the Jewish School on Mount Tabor. 


67. A bequest was made under the will of the late Mr. Besso, 
a Manchester Jew, of a sum of £300 for the relief of the poor of 
Jerusalem and Hebron without distinction of creed or race. The 
bequest has been distributed amongst the Jewish poor through the 
Social Welfare Committee of the Va‘ad Leumi and among 
Christian and Moslem poor through the Director of Medical Ser- 
vices and the Social Service Association, Jerusalem. 


68. Work on the new General Post Office and telephone exchange 
at Jerusalem, which 1s also to house the headquarters administration 
of the Department, was begun in February. 


I. JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


In Command Paper No. 1700, issued by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment in June, 1922, the Secretary of State described the Jewish 
National Home in Palestine in the following terms :— 


‘‘ During the last two or three generations the Jews have 
recreated in Palestine a community, now numbering 80,000, 
of whom about one-fourth are farmers or workers upon the 
land. This community has its own political organs, an 
elected assembly for the direction of its domestic concerns, 
elected councils in the towns, and an organisation for the 
control of its schools. It has its elected Chief Rabbinate and 
Rabbinical Council for the direction of its religious affairs. 
Its business is conducted in Hebrew as a vernacular language, 
and a Hebrew press serves its needs. It has its distinctive 
intellectual life and displays considerable economic activity. 
This community, then, with its town and country population, 


23 


its political, religious and social organisations, its own language, 
its own customs, its own life, has in fact ‘ national ’ 
characteristics’’. 

Those characteristics have been strengthened and magnified in 
the course of the following twelve years. To-day there are in 
Palestine almost 300,000 Jews. There is a constantly flowing 
stream of men and money, new industries are being established, 
citriculture is expanding, new settlements are springing up, towns 
are being enlarged by suburb after suburb. 

2. The year opened with a feeling of uneasiness amongst the 
Jewish community, as the 1933 riots were still very present in 
their minds, and anxiety prevailed till the Arab demonstrations of 
January were safely over. | 

Towards the end of the year, the increased sense of security 
and enhanced prosperity enjoyed by the Jewish community mani- 
fested itself in a remarkable increase of its activity and a general 
enlargement of the area of its influence. 

3. During 1934, 42,359 Jews were registered as immigrants, 
of whom 10,882 were working men and women and 5,124 persons 
of the capitalist category (persons with £P.1,000 and upwards). 

Among the measures taken during the year to facilitate Jewish 
immigration, the following may be particularly mentioned :— 

(a) arrangements have been made to admit 500 artisans 
with £P.250 each in Category A (111) ; 

(b) special provisions have been made to facilitate the 
admission of Jewish refugees from Germany ; 

(c) a quota has been introduced for the admission of elderly 
dependants on the collective guarantee of communal] villages 
and agricultural labour groups in numbers not exceeding 20 per 
cent. of the number of working members. 

4. Special facilities have been provided for Jewish residents in 
rural areas to enable them to be naturalized without visiting the 
towns except for the purpose of taking the oath of allegiance. A 
field naturalization officer visited thirty Jewish settlements and 
accepted about eight hundred such applications during the second 
half of the year. . 

5. The time required for dealing with applications for naturaliza- 
tion has been reduced from about eighteen months to two or three 
months and the number of certificates issued has risen from a 
hundred to four hundred a month. 

6. During the year, 62,114 dunums of land were purchased by 
Jews from non-Jews, at a total cost of £P.1,647,9837. 

It is noteworthy that Jewish purchases of land have now extended 
to the south of Palestine. 

7. The Jewish Foundation Fund (Keren Hayesod) contracted 
a loan from Lloyds Bank of half-a-million pounds, in which the 
Anglo-Palestine Bank participated to the extent of £P.50,000, for 
the refunding of its debts at a moderate rate of interest. The 

28784 B 2 


24 


Vaad Leumi was enabled to pay off the loan of £P.23,000, which 
it borrowed from Barclays Bank to meet its educational liabilities, 
on receiving an equivalent advance from the Keren Hayesod out 
of this larger loan. 

8. The Treasurer was instrumental in assisting the Tel Aviv 
Municipality to raise a loan of £P.60,000 from the Prudential 
Assurance Company to provide for the construction of new school 
buildings (Education, Chapter XIX, paragraph 31). 

9. In view of the growth of Tel Aviv, it became obvious that 
some greater independence would have to be allowed it in the 
management of its public schools, under the Jewish Fublic Schools 
system which is under the control of the Vaad Leumi. The 
Palestine Government therefore agreed that Tel Aviv should be 
empowered directly to manage its schools, the nominal authority 
of the Vaad Leumi being preserved by an arrangement whereby 
Government would only deal with Tel Aviv schools through the 
mediacy of the Vaad Leumi. 

10. The following grants-in-aid were made by the Palestine 
Government towards the expenditure of the Jewish community 
upon various services of a public character during the year 
1934-35 :— 


£P. 
Education— 
Grant-in-aid to schools of Jewish Agency ... er cor 28,000 
Health— 
Contribution to Jewish Health Services :— 
£P. 
(a) Technical services, Tel Aviv ne ... 5,250 
(b) Safad Hospital ... ‘ whe ... 1,700 
(c) School hygiene ... site see as .-- 1,620 
(d) Infant welfare work _... sie sis .. 625 
—_ 9,195 
Equipment for Tel Aviv Hospital... si ee 500 
Grant to Hebrew University for antimalaria research iG 150 
Additions to Central Emek ‘Hospital, Affula sas sats 2,000 
Grant for extension of Tel Aviv Hospital ... a sti 1,300 
Agriculture and Forests— 
Grant for citrus research by Experimental Station of Jewish 
Agency si 3,000 
Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farming experiments 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for experimental fruit ene at 
Hillside Station, Kiryath Anavim i 300 
Grant-in-aid to Hebrew University for fowl pox vaccine 
research es 36 150 
Grant to Hebrew University for field 1 mice investigations .. 200 
Grant to Jewish Agency for research— 
£P. 
(a) Field experiments eee are oe .. §00 
(6) Horticulture... ae ... 500 
(c) Animal nutrition and dairying... fe .. 6500 
(2) Mycology... ss sie e ses .. 350 
— 1,850 





Total... sae sae £P. 46,945 


25 


A series of similar grants-in-aid, with proportionate increases 
taking into account the growth of the Jewish population, is under 
consideration for next year. 

The Government has undertaken to make a capital grant to- 
wards the cost of constructing the projected Rothschild-Hadassah- 
University Hospital, subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions 
by the University authorities, and it is proposed that the grant 
should be devoted to the construction of a radium and X-ray in- 
stitute, which will form part of the hospital scheme and which will 
be the only institute of its kind in Palestine. 


1]. As part of the programme of the Palestine Government for 
the encouragement of technical education, a capital grant of 
£P.20,000 has been assigned to Jewish educational and agricultural 
institutions out of the proposed guaranteed loan of £P.2,000,000. 
In consultation with the Jewish Agency, the High Commissioner 
decided that the capital grant should be divided in the amounts 
stated amongst the following institutions :— 


£P. 

Hebrew Technical Institute, Haifa a ... 10,000 
Agricultural School, Mikveh Israel is ... 4,500 
Trade School in Tel Aviv ... sas wae ... 2,000 
Children’s Village, Ben Shemen ... sti .. 1,250 
School for Arts and Handicrafts, Jerusalem ... 1,500 
Professional School of the Workers Organization, 

Tel-Aviv... — seh se se st 750 





Total £P.20,000 





The grants are to be used solely on capital account, the expendi- 
ture being controlled by Government, and are to be applied chiefly 
for the provision of additional workshops and laboratories and of 
up-to-date plant and equipment. 


12. The Government granted a piece of land at a pepper-corn 
rental to the Jewish Playground Committee at Jerusalem. 


13. The budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
Jewish Community of Palestine for the year ending the 30th 
September, 1934, was approved by the High Commissioner, with 
an Order of the Elected Assembly, prescribing the rates and fees 
to be levied by local committees on their members and the methods 
of assessment. 

The budget provided for an estimated revenue and expenditure 
of £P.99,950, the main heads of expenditure being General Ad- 
ministration £P.4,434, Education £P.87,534, and Health £P.6,700. 

The Government arranged, at the request of the Vaad Leumi, 
that facilities should be given for the collection of statutory dues by 
Local Councils on behalf of the Jewish Committee. 

28784 B38 


26 
II. AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


The first step in the procedure for municipal elections through- 
out Palestine under the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934, 
was the appointment of Electoral Committees, each under an official 
chairman selected from the administrative staff, with unofficial 
members representing all classes of voters. 

These Committees prepared the registers of voters and posted 
them in a number of public places, notifying the public that they 
had done so. After the proper interval they considered all objec- 
tions which had been made to the registers, and where the objec- 
tions were upheld added or removed names as the case might be. 

Returning Officers were then appointed, and the place, the time 
and date for nominations notified. After the declaration of 
unopposed nominations, the date for the holding of elections was 
fixed by public notice. 

A statement of the results of the elections is contained in 
Appendix IIT to this Report. 

Election petitions on various grounds were lodged in Jerusalem, 
Hebron, Beersheba, Acre, Beisan, Jenin, Nazareth, Safad, and 
Tiberias. The Hebron and Beersheba elections were declared null 
and void by the District Court. At Nazareth the Court ordered a 
partial re-election: the Jerusalem and Acre petitions were un- 
decided at the end of the year. Elsewhere the elections were 
confirmed. 

Such new elections as were held, resulted in little alteration 
in the rolls of elected councillors. 

In Haifa, Beisan, Nablus, Nazareth, Tiberias, and Tulkarm, 
out of the nine municipalities in the Northern District in which 
elections of councils were held, the former Mayors were re-appointed 
to office. 

The former Municipal Councils of Shefa ‘Amr and Khan Yunis 
remained in office, none of the inhabitants yet possessing the 
voter’s qualifications required under the new Ordinance. 

The occasion of the new elections was taken to increase the 
membership of the Haifa Corporation from 10 to 12, having regard 
to the expansion of the town since the previous elections in 1927. 
Eight candidates were returned unopposed. At Nablus and Tiberias 
all candidates were returned unopposed. 


2. Under Section 102 of the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 
1934, Councils have the right to impose any of the following rates 
with the approval of the District Commissioner :— 

(a) A property rate on owners up to 10 per cent. of rateable 
value. 

(b) A general rate on occupiers up to 15 per cent. of rateable 
value. 

(c) An education rate on occupiers up to 74 per cent. 

(d) A sewage rate on occupiers with no specified limit. 


27 


In Jerusalem the Council decided on a property rate on owners 
of 8 per cent. rateable value, as tending to simplicity and economy 
of collection and assessment, accuracy of estimates, and avoidance 
of serious leakage. In Bethlehem and Hebron a general house- 
rate of 8 per cent. per annum was imposed on occupiers. Ramallah 
and Beit Jala imposed a rate of @ per cent. on buildings and 6 
per cent. on lands. 

By-laws of uniform type are being adopted by all new Councils 
for the discharge of the responsibilities laid upon them under 
Sections 96 and 98 of the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934. 


3. Apart from its new water-supply scheme, which is being 
carried out for it by the Government Department of Public Works, 
the Municipality of Jerusalem has undertaken a new main drainage 
scheme, with the aid of a Government advance of £P.150,000. 


4, The Government Department of Public Works is in charge 
of ascheme for improving the water-supply of Hebron, and Govern- 
ment is advancing £P.10,000 for the construction of a pumping 
station, pipe-line, and reservoir. 


5. The Municipality of Hebron is constructing a new animal 
market of adequate size and approved standards. 

The Municipal Council of Jaffa enacted by-laws for the control 
of nuisances, sale of animals and certain articles, sign-boards and 
nameplates, kites, dogs, timber storage, and also municipal rates. 

The Municipal Council of Tel Aviv enacted by-laws affecting 
entertainment fees, rateable value of buildings, payment of rates, 
and removal of refuse. 


6. The High Commissioner is encouraging Municipal Corpora- 
tions to acquire open spaces with a view to preserving an essential 
amenity of urban existence of which the need has become accen- 
hats by the intense development of building in all the principal 
owns. 

In Jerusalem the Municipality has in mind four different plots 
suitable for conversion into public parks, and a sum of money is 
available for the acquisition of two of these plots, north and south 
of the city. 

In Tel Aviv land is being expropriated for a new Civic Centre, 
and other plans of the same nature are under contemplation, in- 
oe the reservation of green strips on either side of the River 

uja. 

In Jaffa the Municipal Council is actively engaged in considera- 
hon of similar projects. 

_ At Haifa sites have been provisionally selected for open spaces 
in the town itself and at Carmel Point. 

It is the intention of Government, if necessary, to assist Muni- 
cipalities financially in establishing these parks. 


7. The circumstances in which authority has been given to Tel 
Aviv to manage its own schools are set forth in Chapter I, 
paragraph 9. 

28784 B 4 


28 
Iil.—_JEWISH AGENCY. 


On the representations of the Jewish Agency, 1,350 immigra- 
tion certificates were granted in advance of the Labour Schedule for 
the period March-September. Of these, 1,000 were allocated to 
J ae from Germany and 50 per cent. of the total to certain specified 
trades. 

The Jewish Agency submitted an applicatior for 20,100 certificates 
for the period April-September, 1934 ; a schedule of 5,600 was autho- 
rized, 10 per cent. being reserved for men up to the age of 45 years, 
who could produce satisfactory evidence of occupation in a skilled 
trade for not less than four years. In July the Government issued 
a supplement of 1,200 certificates. 

For the period October, 1934, to March, 1935, the Jewish Agency 
applied for 18,600 certificates, and 9,700 were granted, from which 4 
reduction was made of 2,200 on account of illegal settlers who might 
enter the labour market during that period. For the preceding 
half-year, 800 certificates had been deducted on the same account. 

In the October-March schedule, labour demands were so classified 
by Government that certificates could be granted to skilled workers 
older than eighteen years; and 5 per cent. of certificates were 
assigned to persons between the ages of 35 and 45. 

At the instance of the Jewish Agency. certificates are now 
accepted, as evidence of possession of the prescribed capital under 
the category of immigrants of independent means, from al] banks 
possessing £F.25,000 paid-up capital or possessing a minimum of 
£F.10,000 paid-up capital but of ten years standing. 

The Jewish Agency sought and obtained a special youth quota of 
366 certificates for German Jewish children up to the age of 
seventeen. Most of these children have arrived and are under- 
going agricultural and manual training. 


2. The Jewish Agency was associated with the Vaad Leumi in 
representations to Government concerned with the annual revision 
of the Government grant-in-aid of the Jewish school system; and 
was consulted by Government in the allocation of a capital grant of 
£P.20,000 from the proposed new Government loan to Jewish 
agricultural and educational institutions. 


3. Following an outbreak of malaria in the Jewish Settlements 
of Wadi Hawareth and the Sharon, the Jewish Agency, in conjunc- 
tion with the Vaad Jueumi, asked Government to drain swamps in 
the affected areas and to extend anti-malarial control. The Govern- 
ment has, in fact, in hand several important projects for the re- 
clamation of marshlands, including Birket Ramadan, Wadi Kab- 
bani, Wadi Hawareth, Wadi Ramadya, and Ras el Ain, as well as a 
large number of small schemes for clearance works. The Jewish 
staff of the Department of Health consists of seven Medical Officers 
and eleven Sub-Inspectors, and provision is to be made for the 
appointment of additional anti-malaria inspectors to be employed 


29 


in districts where there is increased population, in areas affected 
with malaria, or in places where more difficult situations have 
developed such as the Lake Tiberias and the Wadi Hawareth area. 

Negotiations, in which the Jewish Agency is taking part, are in 
progress for the grant of a capital contribution by Government 
towards the building of a hospital and post-graduate medical school 
to be erected on Mount Scopus by the Hadassah Medical Organiza- 
tion and the Hebrew University. 


4. Discussions are proceeding with Government for the opening 
of a separate reformatory institution for Jewish delinquent boys on 
the lines of the existing Tulkarm school ; ana the Probation Officer 
of Government co-operated with the Social Service Department of 
the Vaad Leumi in the supervision and care of juvenile offenders. 
Small amounts are granted by the Probation Officer to the Jewish 
honorary probation officers for special cases. 


d. Government is considering an ‘application by the Jewish 
Agency for the remission of seed loans granted to certain Jewish 
settlements in 1928. 

The Government Department of Agriculture has rendered help 
to Jewish stock-owners in cases of cattle abortion by providing for 
blood analyses. 


6. The improvement of communications between the Jewish 
villages and the neighbouring towns, and the construction of certain 
roads serving areas of Jewish intensive settlements, have been the 
subject of representations to Government; while advances were 
made from public funds to four Jewish settlements towards the 
cost of drilling for water. 


7. The share of Jewish labour in public works during the financial 
year terminating on the 31st of March, 1934, was 19-2 per cent. of 
the total wage bill of the Government Department of Public Works 
and 7°3 per cent. of the number of men days, a result largely due to 
the superior attractions of private employment. 

The General Federation of Jewish Labour was awarded the con- 
tract for the construction of the pumping stations and reservoirs of 
the Jerusalem water supply to be carried out in 1935. 


8. Other representations of the Jewish Agency to Government 
and consultation between Government and the Jewish Agency were 
related to— 

(a) Jewish representation on Municipalities and the appoint- 
ment of a Jewish Deputy Mayor in Jerusalem ; 

(b) the assignment of the Huleh concession to the Palestine 
Land Development Company ; : 

(c) the position of the citrus trade and other staple in- 
dustries of Palestine v7s-d-vis foreign countries that sell to 
Falestine more than they buy from this country ; 

(d) the trade relations between Palestine and Syria. 


30 

9. In April, 1934, the Daniel Sieff Research Institute, which 
forms an adjunct of the Agricultural Experimental Station of the 
Jewish Agency of Rehovot, was formally opened by the High Com- 
missioner, having been built and equipped through the generosity 
of Mr. Israel Sieff and his family. It provides facilities for re- 
search into the agricultural and industrial problems of Palestine, 
and is under the direction of Dr. Ch. Weizmann. 


10. A scholarship of the value of £P.100 per annum for two 
years for research in agricultural chemistry has been offered by the 
Institute for an Arab student, and an appointment to the scholar- 
ship was made at the end of the year in consultation with the 
Government Department of Agriculture. 


11. The American Economic Committee for Palestine nas 
established a bureau for industrial and agricultural information at 
Tel Aviv and gives information gratis to all enquirers as to the 
possibilities of the establishment of and investment in various trades 
and undertakings. 


12. The Government Department of Agriculture maintains close 
liaison with the Citrus Research Station of the Jewish Agency at 
Rehovot in all matters affecting citrus research. 


13. Government contributes the sum of £P.3,000 per annum to 
the Rehovot Research Station, on condition that the Jewish Agency 
also spends not less than £P.5,000 on such research. Periodic 
meetings of the Citrus Research Advisory Committee are held at 
Rehovot under the chairmanship of the Director of Agriculture and 
Forests to examine work in progress in the laboratories and fields, 
to examine and discuss progress reports, and to apply in practice 
any concrete results of research for the benefit of the citrus industry 
in general. 


14. Colonization.—The Jewish National Fund has now under 
afforestation an area of 6,913 dunums. The Jewish Agency spent 
£P.70,000 during 1934 for the final equipment of the agricultural 
settlements established in previous years, and new colonization 
work was carried out in Wadi Hawareth, which is now inhabited 
by some 450 families living in thirteen settlements. 

The Agricultural Experimental Station of the Agency continued 
its work on crop rotation, plant pathology and prevention of citrus 
pests, horticultural psychology and genetics. It distributed sixty 
tons of selected seeds and rendered advice to farmers, in particular 
to German settlers. The budget of the Station and of its affiliated 
branches amounted to £P.23,450, of which £P.13,000 was contri- 
buted by the Agency, £P.5,450 by Government, while £P.5,000 
was received as income from dairies, field crops, and laboratory 
fees. 

The Women’s International Zionist Organization, which spent 
£P.70,000 on its various activities in the year established a number 


31 


of new school buildings, and introduced improvements in its exist- 
ing institutions. Nearly 300 additional girl students were admitted 
for training from abroad. 


The Palestine Jewish Colonization Association (Pica) settled 44 
farmers in two existing settlements, and assisted the farmers of 
Galilee in introducing better crop systems and new varieties of 
plants. The drainage works of the Association in the Kabbara 
swamps have been completed. | 


The Central Bank of Co-operative Institutions lent £P.289,000 
to agricultural co-operative societies for the acquisition of livestock, 
especially chickens and cattle, the installation of water supplies, 
the erection of packing-houses, and the construction of roads 
between villages. 


Tie General Federation of Jewish Farmers has endeavoured to 
promote and centralize the activities of the various co-operative 
societies of Jewish farmers. It established an agricultural school 
and a farmer’s bank which during the first few months of its exist- 
ence granted loans totalling £P.16,000. Medical treatment was 
continued by the Health Bureau of the Federation, which has an 
annual budget of £P.7,569. 


15. Industry.— During the year about 170 new industrial estab- 
lishments were started by Jews, the most important being a foundry 
and machine-shop, general metal works, a silicate brick factory, 
and an essential oil factory, hollow glass and textile works, 
stationery and packing material, metel-work and oils; and new 
plants are under erection for cotton spinning and weaving, wood- 
working, automobile mounting, and the manufacture of glass 
sheets. 


The investments in new industrial plants are estimated at 
£P.1,000,000. 


16. Urbun Development.—During the year, the Municipality of 
Tel Aviv granted 2,113 licences for the construction of dwelling- 
houses aggregating 13,697 rooms, and of 346 stores covering an area 
of 429,000 square metres and involving an outlay of two and a half 
million pounds. 


These buildings are financed largely by the owners themselves ; 
but assistance has been granted by two local Jewish banks to the 
extent of £P.826,000 at 7 per cent. 


17. The influx of capital from abroad continued, and it is esti- 
mated that Jewish deposits in the banks at the end of the year 
were in the region of £P.14,000,000. If each of the Jewish 
capitalists permitted to settle in Palestine in 1934 brought only the 


32 


minimum qualifying capital of £F.1,000, by this means alone 
£P.5,000,000 has been imported into Palestine during the year. 


The Jewish Agency, together with the Jewish Foundation Fund 
(Keren Hayesod), contracted a loan of half-a-million pounds, 
£P.450,000 of which was contributed by Lloyds Bank, London, and 
£F.50,000 by the Anglo-Palestine Bank. The loan is to be repaid 
in equal instalments over 15 years, with interest at 4 per cent.. 
subject to a maximum of 44 per cent. if the London bank rate 
rises. Repayment is guaranteed by the receipts of the Keren 
Hayesod and by its income from property, in particular the agricul- 
tural settlements. The loan is being used for paying outstanding 
debts and for the final consolidation of the settlements. 


The collections of the Keren Hayesod, which is the principal 
financial instrument of the Jewish Agency, amounted to £P.242,805. 
The following table shows the expenditure of the Keren Hayesod 
during the year 5694 (October 1933-September 1934) : 


Year 5694. 
£P. 
Agricultural colonization ... os a sas 30,200 
Settlement of German Jews _... bed a 38 ,200 
Education ... , ae fae sca whe 2(),500 
Immigration and inbaue a as — ie 38 ,800 
Urban colonization bs os oe 3,500 
National and communal institutions ..... oe 12,000 
Investments Sag i se a as 6 ,000 
Religious institutions abe axe ae ae 500 
Administration ss 8 oa Nee ae 10,900 
Miscellaneous see ee = a as 6 ,000 





£P.166 ,600 


The investments of the Keren Hayesod since 1921, according to 
the principal groups, were as follows. 


£P. 
Agriculture ai ce hee ae oe 1,625 ,400 
Education 997 ,500 
Public works, urban colonization and ‘capital 
investments ... bigs ik eae a 961 ,200 
Immigration... iia sae a ses 481,200 
Health and sanitation ... as = is 295 ,000 


National and communal institutions... se 317 ,800 


30 


The total receipts of the various Zionist funds in 1934 were as 
follows :— 


Jewish Agency (Keren Hayesod) (£243,000 £P. 


collections, on account of debts, £12,800) ... 255,800 
Jewish National Fund ... ae Son ste 207 ,500 
Hadassah Medical Organization cae 70,000 
Wizo (the Women’s International Zionist 

Organization) ... mio sce 40,000 
Central Bureau for settling Gein Tee ae 92,000 

665 ,3800 
Hebrew University and Hebrew Technicum ... 74,000 
£P.739 3800 


It may be added that of the loan of £P.500,000 recently obtained 
by the Keren Hayesod, £P.135,100 had been spent by the Jewish 
Agency by the end of 1934. 


18. Labour.—The statistics of the General Federation of Jewish 
Labour show that at the end of 1934 it had 67,000 members, 45,000 
of whom lived in the towns and 16,600 in the villages, while 5,700 
belonged to workers’ settlements. 


The Federation assists agricultural labour settlements by means of 
loans. It has organized the purchase of land for settlements of 
certain workers, and made itself responsible for the lay-out of 
suburbs and the construction of houses. During 1930-1934, build- 
ing plots were acquired for 3,500 families; so far, houses for 
accommodating 1,500 families have been built or are nearing coim- 
pletion. Expenditure under this head amounted to £P.620,000, 
half of which was invested by the owners themselves. The co- 
operative selling agency of the agricultural labour settlements had a 
turnover of a quarter of a million pounds and has become the chief 
supplier of dairy products for the Jewish population. The turnover 
of the co-operative wholesale society of the Federation reached the 
sum of £P.200,000. 


The Workers’ Sick Fund of the Federation, mentioned in previous 
Reports, continues its beneficient work. 


34 
IV. IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


The net increase in the population of Palestine due to recorded 
immigration during 1934 was’ 47,807, made up as follows :— 








Arrivals. 
(a) Residents returning ... ve oe .. 45,581 
(b) Immigrants _... ae a a ... 389,027 
(c) Exempted persons _... pati site zug 248 
(d) Travellers eis oe ae a ... 91,823 

(e) Persons registered as immigrants who had 

not been recorded on arrival _... yas 2 
Total ... 176,681 

Departures. 
(a) Residents departing... Pe et .. 46,644 
(b) Travellers Si eA re oe .. 82,230 





Total .... 128,874 





Net increase of population due to recorded 
migration ... ag oa a ae w. 47,807 


2. The comparative net annual increase due to recorded migra- 
tion during this and previous years is as follows :— 


(no earlier figures available) 


1923 0. eee nee eee 1,451 
1924. 0... eee nee 18,0538 
1925... eee ne nee nee wee 89,178 
1926... eee 8,458 
1927) wee eee nee nee = 6,767 
1928 gece ee nee nee nee = 8,195 
1929, 0. eee tee nee nee «1,849 
1980 0.00 eee een nae B99 
W931... cee enue nee 4,472, 
1982... eee nee nee ae 15,908 
1983)... eee neve 41,891" 
1984... eee teen ne 49,807 


8. In addition to this increase by recorded immigration, 4 
number of persons are known to enter Palestine illegally from both 
adjacent and European countries and to remain there permanently. 


* The figure of 43,891 in the 1933 report is a mistake for 41,891. 


85 


4. The persons recorded as having entered or left Palestine during 
the year belonged to the following religions :— 















































Jews. Christians. Moslems. Total 
Arrivals. 
(a) Residents returning 14,552 14,942 16,087 45,581 
(6) Immigrants sia 38,244 679 104 39,027 
(c) Exempted persons — 239 9 248 
(d) Travellers : 26,400 48,854 16,569 91,823 
(e) Persons registered as immigrants 
who had not been recorded on 
arrival . 1 1 — 2 
Total ... ...  ... «79,197 += 64,715 = 32,769 ~—s- 176,681 
Departures. 
(a) Residents departing 14,787 15,577 16,280 46,644 
(b) Travellers departing 21,653 45,239 15,338 82,230 
Total ... wee ... 36,440 60,816 31,618 128,874 
Net increase of population due to 
recorded immigration wee 42,757 3,899 1,151 47,807 


d. 4,866 travellers who entered Palestine during the year were 
registered as immigrants. Of these, 4,114 were Jews and 752 non- 
Jews. 


6. The figures of Jewish immigration and emigration in 1934 
and previous years are as follows :— 








Number of approved Persons 
immigrants registercd 
arriving. on learing 
permanently, 
1920 ian voenee) ses us 5,514 - 
192] sa se 9,149 = 
1922... es eats ads as 7,844 1,503 
1923... dass sic ed a 7,42) 3,466 
1924 .., $e ie ae we 12,856 507 
1925... se i _ st 33,801 2,151 
1926 ... as ods es bes 13,081 7,365 
1927... oe ser dst ae 2,713 5,071 
1928 ... sige ds aid a6 2,178 | 2,168 
1929 ... se bie vs sin 5,249 1,746 
1930... ode ave me re 4,944 1,679 
1931... eis es re a 4,075 666 
1932 ... les eS ae sie 9,553 * 
1933... side a ve Sate 30,327 ba 
1934 ... su eve be say 42,399 ss 
Total ... ae ba 191,064 





se i a a 
* Statistics were not collected by religious classification in these years. 


36 


7. The mationality of immigrants registered in 1934 (i.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers and sub- 
sequently registered as immigrants) was as follows :— 


Country of Origin. Total. Jews. Christians. Moslems. 
EKurope— 
Austria a nee im -- 943 928 15 — 
Belgium ses aay saa oe 76 73 — 
Bulgaria ies ne see ... 184 183 l — 
Czechoslovaki es see .. 872 860 12 — 
Danzig oe bee as dae 61 60 1 — 
Denmark... aa ne er 2 1 1 — 
Esthonia _... eae _ nes 31 31 — —— 
Finland aka see se aa 15 15 — — 
France Set ies Se .-. 154 719 74 l 
Germany ... oe “ies .. 7,094 6,941 153 — 
Great Britain tos wale .- 817 376 438 3 
Greece es ee Se ... 1,632 1,598 34 — 
Hungary es Mes Kee ... 289 280 9 — 
Italy ... cee eee ae w. 292 163 129 — 
Latvia ae vie aor s3¢.- ° 709 739 — — 
Lithuania... ies ar .-» 1,126 1,124 2 — 
Netherlands ... ae Swe .- 134 126 8 — 
Norway es sis aiek tas 8 4 4 — 
Poland ee Sete ee ..- 18,028 18,028 — — 
Portugal is _ aes ie 3 3 — — 
Roumania ... i bee .-. 2,038 2,031 7 — 
Russia ine ive oe ... 844 827 17 — 
Spain ... ae avs Sa ois 68 33 28 7 
Sweden ua eae ses aos 7 7 — —_ 
Switzerland ... eg ees ee 50 43 7 — 
Yugoslavia ... et vie .. 153 147 6 — 
Total ... aes see s+. 30,660 34,700 949 ll 
Asta— 

Afghanistan ... a ade .. 149 149 — — 
China ... wee ois sea aa 8 8 — — 
India .. ; 40 37 — 3 
‘Iraq ... jee ie ..- 542 527 8 7 
Persia es see sus oe «=. 237 237 — — 
Syria and Lebanon ... see .. 536 191 222 123 © 
7 


Turkey cg tee ses .. 521 495 19 
Yemen and Aden ... sac .-- 1,964 1,964 — 


Total ... eee aes ee 3,997 3,608 249 140 


Country of Origin. Total. 
Africa— 
Egypt... 301 
Tripoli 41 
Sudan... ae 8 
Union of South Africa ee §2 
Other Countries of Africa ... 19 
Total ... 421 
America—- 
Canada sbi oes eee si 73 
United States of America ... . 1,226 
Central and South America— 
Argentine 42 
Brazil 29 
Mexico me ane ta 33 
Other Countries of Latin America 83 
Total ... 1,486 
Australia 15 


ee Dependencies not specified 32 


Stateless and undefined 


8. The comparative figures for 1933 and 


Grand Total ... 


. 2,532 


1934 of 


Christians. Moslems. 


Jewish 


immigrants from the principal countries of emigration are as 


follows :— 





Lithuania ay vie 
United States of America ... 


ee 


Country. 


1933. 


Number. 


13,133 
5,392 
1,411 
1,256 
1,099 
1,169 


Per cent. 


* Includes 1 of “ other religion.” 


1934. 


Number. 





Per cent. 


38 


9. The sex of immigrants registered in 1934 (t.e., of persons 
arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers and subsequently 
registered as immigrants) was as follows :— 


Boys. | Gtrls. 


























Class. Religion. | Total. | Men. |Women. 
under 16. 
—— eran es renee t 
Immigrants arriving ... | Jews ... | 38,244 | 15,130 | 14,027 | 4,685 | 4,402 
Christians 918 377 279 164 98 
Moslems ... 113 25 25 32 31 
Other 
religions — a = — — 
Total ... | 39,275 | 15,532 | 14,331 | 4,881 | 4,631 
Persons registered as immi- | Jews ... | 4,115 | 2,004 | 1,543 293 275 
grants who had entered | Christians 576 265 232 43 36 
Palestine as travellers or | Moslems... 176 73 41 33 29 
who had not been re- | Other 
corded on arrival. religions 1 1 — — —_ 
Total ... | 4,868 | 2,343 | 1,816 369 340 
Total number of persons | Jews .- | 42,359 117,134 | 15,570 | 4,978 | 4,677 
registered as immigrants. | Christians 1,494 642 511 207 134 
Moslems ... 289 98 66 65 60 
Other 1 1 — — — 
religions 


Ce | aos | eee | mentee | era 


Grand Total | 44,143 | 17,875 | 16,147 | 5,250 | 4,871 


These figures indicate that Jewish women formed 48 per cent. 
of the Jewish immigrants arriving. According to the 1931 census 
Jewish women formed 49°5 per cent. of the Jewish population 
of Palestine. 

10. The age groups of immigrants registered in 1934 (t.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers and sub- 
sequently registered as immigrants) were as follows :— 





Other 
Age and Sex. Total. Jews. Christians. Moslems. religions. 

Under 18 years Male 5.926 5,605 244 77 — 
Female 6,519 5,300 154 65 — 

18 to 35 years Male 11,969 11,453 406 49 l 
Female 10,052 9,688 323 41 — 

36 to 45 years Male 2.353 2,249 89 15 — 
Female 2.236 2,109 83 14 — 

Over 45 years Male 2,937 2,805 110 22 — 
Female 3,241 3,150 85 6 — 

Not stated Male — — — — — 
Female — — — — — 

Total ... Male 23,125 22,112 849 163 1 
Female 21.018 20,247 645 126 — 





44,143 42,359 1,494 289 l 


89 


11. A comparison between the proportion of Jewish immigrants 
arriving in 1934 and of the Jewish population of. Palestine in 
1931 in each age group is as follows :— 


Jewish immigration Jewish population 
1934. 1931. 
Age group bees fees oll ae cece eg 
Number Per cent. Number Per cent 
Under 18 10,905 25-7 64,090 36-8 
18-35 21,141 49-9 67,627 38-8 
36-45 4,358 10:3 14,944 8-6 
Over 45 5,955 14.1 27,643 15-8 


The following figures show the change in the relative proportions 
of immigrants over and under the age of 35 during the last five 
years :— 


Year. Per cent. Per cent. 
Under 35. Over 35. 
1930... sis ee 83°2 16:8 
1931 =i... ie _ 766 23°4 
19382 i... ee se 74:6 25°4 
19383... ges bes 799 20°1 
1934 i... Jah Devs 75:7 943 


12. The categories of immigrants registered in 1934 (1.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers and sub- 
sequently registered as immigrants) were as follows :— 


CATEGORIES OF IMMIGRANTS (INCLUDING ALL PERSONS REGISTERED 
AS IMMIGRANTS DURING THE YEAR). 


Categorves. Total. Jews. Christians. Moslems, 
A(i) Persons with £P. 1,000 and upwards ... 5,193 6,124 41 28 
A(i)2 Dependants of persons in Category A(i) 4,618 4,578 26 14 
A(ii) Members of liberal professions with a 
capital of not less than £P. 500 ne 3 3 — — 
A(ii)2 Dependants of persons in Category A (ii) 7 7 — — 
A(iii) Skilled artisans with a capital of not 
less than £P. 250 eae 437 435 1 1 
A(iii)2 _Dependants of persons in Category A(iii) 698 694 3 1 
A(iv) Persons of minimum income of £P.4p.m. 135 106 27 2 
A(v) Persons with ca cae of not less than 
£P. 500 set 36 33 2 1 
A(v)2 Dependants of persons in 1 Category A(v) 50 42 3 5 
Bii) Orphans coming to institutions ise 7 — a — 
Biii) Persons of religious occupations .. 632 207 325 — 
Biii)2 Dependants of persons in Category B(ii) 325 323 2 — 
Biiii) Students whose maintenance is assured 2,035 1,893 131 ll 
C Persons coming to a ai cea 
Men ... ae ss ... 9,838 9,556 231 51 
Women aut Be ... 1,438 1,326 109 3 


C2 Dependants of persons in n Category C ...11,259 11,153 69 37 
D Dependants of residents of Palestine ... 7,281 6,879 275 127 
K Persons exempted from the provisions 

of the Immigration Ordinance .. 201 — 242 9 


Total... ae ... 44,143 42,359 1,494 290 


40 


13. There is a significant increase in the number of Jews with 
a capital of at least “EP. 1,000 entering Palestine. The comparative 


figures of the past three years are as follows :— 
Proportion per cent. 


of Jewtsh 
Year. Number. wmmigration. 
1932... is ie 127 8 
1933... sts ne 3,250 11 
1934... sis oe 5 ,124 12 


14. The occupations of immigrants registered in 1934 (i.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers and sub- 
sequently registered as immigrants) were as follows :— 











Jews. Christians. Moslems. 
Occupational groups. ————_$ | _—]q_———qq—“—“— 
Men |Women| Men. |Women| Men. |Women 
Agriculture ais 1,737 174 2 2 — — 


Mining, quarrying, mineral pro- 





ducts 6 — 1 — 1 ~- 
Manufacturing industries and con- 
struction (artisans and 
workers) :— 
Textiles as — is 227 15 1 — — — 
Chemical works 2e5 es 88 16 1 — ] — 
Leather works si ae 66 3 — — — — 
Wood works _.... a 948 — 6 6 — 
Metal and mechanical works 1,199 2 20 —— 3 — 
Printing cia ‘ei sal 175 8 2 — 6 — 
Food products .. a aie 330 9 1 — 2 — 
Clothing and millinery a 453 | 456 2 5 2 — 
Boot and shoe- ree i 182 2 1 — — — 
Building Si sk 916 2 5 — 1 _ 
Other trades... eee oe 83 2 ] — — — 
Transport and communication 133 — 7 — 6 — 
Other industries ... ae es 96 26 5 3 — — 
General labourers.. ‘ .-- | 2,642 | 306 4 l — — 
Domestic and personal se service 49 | 117 15 69 7 2 
Commerce, etc. (manufacturers, 
merchants, dealers)... .-- | 2,833 87 39 1 21 —_— 
Clerical and commercial service.. 430 | 171 74 7 7 _— 
Public officials, police and army.. — — 166 1 4 — 
Professional :— 
Physicians, surgeons, dentists 339 79 5 3 5 — 
Architects, engineers ... és 361 5 24 — 2 _— 
Education ee see ete 164 | 132 20 20 3 1 
Arts... a ae 58 20 2 — ] = 
Other liberal professions. es 296 93 10 1 — = 
Religious occupations Se 260 — | 178 | 139 — = 
Students (16 years and over) 337 | 706 37 14 10 = 
Ill-defined occupations ae 46 2 4 l 1 = 
Total ae ... | 15,454 | 2,433} 633 | 267 89 3 
17,887 900 92 
Persons living on income, persons 
of no occupation or of unknown 
occupation, minors and depen- 
dants.... sie aes ag 24,472 594 198 
Nee aE Po Siae | (ee ee |e eee” 


GRAND TOTAL ... aes 42,359 ; 


41 


14a. Of the immigrants entering Palestine under the Labour 
Schedule more than half have had at least one year’s training 
abroad for life in Palestine. This training is carried out in com- 
munal groups organized by the various Zionist political organizations 
in the countries concerned. The largest is the Hehalutz 
(“ Pioneer ’’) Organization affiliated to the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour in Palestine. The training groups find work 
abroad in agriculture or industry. Each group nominates by 
referendum those of its members whom it considers most suitable 
to receive the immigration certificates at the disposal of the Jewish 
Agency. The basis of selection is first, attitude toward working, 
secondly, mental development, thirdly knowledge of Hebrew and, 
lastly, physique. 


15. The relative change in the proportions of Jewish immigrants 
in the principal occupational groups during the past five years is 
as follows :— 








1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 

Per cent. | Percent. | Percent. | Per cent. | Per cent. 

Agriculture ...  ... 9-4 7:1 4:5 5-6 4:5 

ufacturing industries 

and construction ... 16-1 14-4 12-2 15-5 12-2 
Professional ... 2-0 3°6 3°2 5-2 4:3 
General labourers 20-0 13-7 12-6 10-0 7-0 
Commerce 2-6 5-1 6:5 6-0 6-9 
Students sds 1-7 2-2 1-8 1-9 4°8 
Other occupations 2-1 4°5 5-5 4-2 2-5 
No occupation 46-1 49-4 53-7 51-6 57-8 
Total she 100-0 100-0 100-0 100-0 100-0 





16. The relative change in the proportions of dependants among 
Jewish immigrants during the past three years is as follows :— 
a ne ee Oe 


Dependanis. 
Year. All immigrants. 
Number. Per cent. 
ee 
re ae sce 9,563 5,130 54 
i ss ee 30,327 15,653 52 
84, 42,359 24,472 58 


42 


17. The numbers of Jewish immigrants, apart from dependants, 
authorized under labour schedules during 1934, as compared with 
previous years, were as follows :— 


Total, Men, Women. 
October, 1930—March, 1931 __.... 1,480 950 530 
April—September, 1931 ... dhs 500 ~ 200 300 
October, 1931—March, 1932... 350 150 200 
April—September, 1932 “os 2,000 1,500 500 
October, 1932—March, 1933 __... 4,500 3,000 1,500 
April—September, 1933 ... Sas 5,500 4,500 1,000 
October, 1933—March, 1934 _ _.... 5,500 4,250 1,250 
April—September, 1934 sis 6,800 6,315 485 
October, 1934—March, 1935... 7,500 5,600 1,900 


The schedules approved during 1934 contained the following 
conditions :— 


April-September, 1934: 


Men ... 6,315 (5,708 between the ages of 18 and 35; 
607 between the ages of 18 and 45) 
Women... ~—_ 485 ~between the ages of 18 and 45. 
Total ... 6,800 


These figures include a supplementary schedule of 1,200 men 
granted in August, 1934. 


October, 1934—March, 1935. 


Men ... 6,600 (4,535 between the ages of 18 and 35; 
700 between the ages of 18 and 45; 
325 between the ages of 35 and 45; 
40 over the age of 45) 
Women ... 1,900 (1,640 between the ages of 18 and 35; 
250 between the ages of 18 and 45; 
10 over the age of 45) 
Of these 3,800 for agriculture (2,900 men and 900 women) 
1,400 for industry (1,050 men and 350 women) 
1,100 for building (1,025 men and 75 women) 
1,200 for other purposes (615 men and 575 women) 
Of the 7,500 certificates :— 


A. 500 (400 men and 100 women) were for skilled 
workers nominated by individual employers in 
Palestine. 


B. 1,000 (900 men and 100 women) were for skilled or 
trained workers required for posts in individual 
undertakings in Palestine. 

C. 1,250 (400 men and 850 women) were for skilled 
workers relatives of residents of Palestine. 
4,300 were for workers selected by the Jewish Agency. 
450 were for workers selected by the Department of 

Migration. 


Oo 


43 


18. 945 prospective immigrants, of whom 661 were Jews, were 
refused admission to Palestine at the ports during the year. The 


sy figures for Jews for this and the previous year is as 
ollows :— 


Per cent. of total 


Year. Number. tmmigration. 
1933 — a2 a ee 1,269 4.6 
1934 ae sal 25 bee 661 1:7 


19. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers have 
standing instructions to facilitate the return to Palestine of any 
Turkish citizen of Palestinian birth who wishes to come back to 
this country. Among the facilities given are the grant of visas for 
Palestine without reference to the department, to these persons 
and to their wives and minor unmarried children, and of affidavits 
in the place of the passports ordinarily required, if these latter 
are not available. Im short, these persons and their dependants 
are not obliged to carry out the formalities and to satisfy the con- 
ditions normally imposed upon foreign travellers or immigrants 
to Palestine, or to pay immigration fees. 


20. The number of travellers entering and leaving Palestine dur- 
ing this and previous years is as follows :— 


Travellers Travellers Difference 
Year. entering. leaving. + 
1926... is 52,301 50,376 1,925 
1927... ie 59,505 57,359 2,146 
1928... see 63,319 60,452 2,867 
1929... se 60,212 57,365 2,847 
1930... ie 58,832 56,450 2,382 
1931... sis 54,764 52,790 1,974 
1932... Suns 63,253 53,873 9,380 
1933... sii 79,833 66,804 13,029 
1934... se 91,823 82,230 9,593 


21. The number of Jewish travellers recorded as entering in 
1934 who had not left during the year was 4,747 or 18 per cent. 
of the total. The comparative figure for the previous year was 
10,376 or 40 per cent. The reduction is due to the introduction, 
in May, 1934, of a system whereby deposits are required from all 
travellers about whose intentions as regards settlement in Palestine 
there is doubt. A system of indexing the names of all travellers 
arriving and departing and of tracing and deporting those who had 
overstayed their authorized period of visit was also introduced. In 
the absence of co-operation from the public it is, however, impossible 
to trace the majority of the travellers at the addresses given. It 
is hoped that, owing to stricter control by British consular and 
passport officers abroad in granting travellers’ visas, the number 
of travellers remaining illegally will be reduced even more in future. 


44 


22. Illegal immigration has been the cause of considerable con- 
cern to the Palestine Administration. It takes three main forms. 
The first is the entry of persons who have obtained immigration 
facilities either by submitting proof of ownership of capital which 
is not actually in the real possession of the applicant or women 
who marry immigrants and divorce on arrival in Palestine. In 
this category also falls the practice of women who marry Palestinian 
citizens abroad and enter Palestine as Palestinians and then divorce. 


23. The next is the entry of immigrants in the guise of travellers, 
which has been considerably reduced by the introduction of the 
system of requiring deposits from travellers. 


24. The third is the smuggling of immigrants into Palestine by 
land and sea. This has been checked in large part by the recruit- 
ment of additional police for patrol along the coastal and inland 
frontiers, by assistance from the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, by 
the establishment of a small preventive force for service in the 
port areas of Jaffa and Haifa, and by the prosecution of all persons 
arrested, in addition to their deportation. The preventive force 
consists of a British Police Inspector and twenty-five N.C.O.’s and 
other ranks who board all ships, check crews, search for stowaways, 
and prevent persons refused admission from landing. 


25. The number of persons deported during the year for immigra- 
tion offences was 2,407, of whom 772 were Jews and 1,635 non- 
Jews. 


26. In the course of the year the Department has been de- 
centralized, all Inspectors of Immigration being given authority to 
decide applications on a strict interpretation of the Ordinance, regu- 
lations and departmental instructions, under continual supervision 
of the Commissioner, to whom appeals are made. The arrears of 
outstanding applications have been disposed of, and the time taken 
to deal with new applications considerably reduced. A new Deputy 
Commissioner has been appointed, and three posts of Assistant 
Commissioner have been created and filled to keep pace with the 
greatly increased volume of work caused by the increase in the 
volume of immigration. 


27. Towards the end of the year, the Deputy Commissioner 
made a tour of Eastern Europe to inspect the work done on behalf 
of the Department by British Passport Control and Consular 
Officers. 


28. The basis on which the labour schedule is compiled has been 
revised in order to make it more specific. A part of each schedule 
is now reserved for individual skilled workers required by individual 
employers (see paragraph 17). 


45 


29. The Commission has asked to be informed by what means 
the Mandatory Power proposes to establish a closer relation between 
the number of new arrivals and the true economic absorptive 
capacity of the country on the long view. 


The procedure observed by the Government of Palestine in fix- 
ing the half-yearly schedules of labour immigrants was described 
to the Commission by the British Accredited Representative during 
a discussion which took place at the 25th session of the Commission, 
held in June, 1984. Provision has now been made for the establish- 
ment of a Statistical Bureau of the Palestine Government and 
eforts are now being made to obtain the necessary expert staff 
to enable it to carry out its functions. It is contemplated that the 
duties of the Bureau should be as follows :— 


(a) to compile, abstract and publish statistical information 
relative to the commercial, industrial, economic and general 
activities and conditions of the people; 


(6) to collaborate with all other Departments of the Govern- 
ment in the compilation and publication of statistical records 
of administration ; 


(c) to take periodic censuses of Palestine as provided by 
Ordinance. 


_ As at present contemplated the programme of the Bureau will 
include statistics of population, statistics of migration, agricultural 
production, and industrial production, an index of industrial activity, 


statistics of distribution of goods and commodities and _ social 
statistics. 


The Statistical Bureau will be under the general control of the 
Commissioner for Migration and Statistics and will work in close 
liaison with other Departments of the Government, so as to ensure 
that the requisite statistical data are collected and presented in such 
a form as to assist the Palestine Government in the formulation 
of immigration policy and in its administration. 


V. LAND REGIME. 


]. Acquisitions of land by Jews during the year include 18,498 
dunums of land in the village of Kireh Kimoun in the Northern 
District and # block of 3,600 dunums in Beersheba Sub-District. 
Transactions were pending at the end of the year, which, if com- 


pleted, will mean the transfer to Jews of a further area of 12,311 
dunums in Beersheba. 


62,114 dunums of land in all were purchased by Jews from non- 
Jews during 1934, at a total cost of £P.1,647,837; the statistics 
for 1933 were 36,911 dunums at a total cost of £P.854,796. 


46 


2. The number of small transactions, especially in urban and 
suburban building plots, again showed a substantial increase, 
mainly due to purchases by moneyed immigrants. The insistent 
demand for real estate, for plantation and building sites, has brought 
about spectacular rises in the price of land, and there was no sign 
of any halt in the upward movement at the close of the year. 


3. Altogether 36,555 transactions were registered during the 
year, as against 28,293 for the year 1933, and £P.330,481 was 
collected in fees. 


4. Ten applications were dealt with under the Correction of 
Land Registers Ordinance, 1926, and twenty-two new applications 
were received. 


5. In addition to the original entries derived from the schedules 
of rizhts deposited by Settlement Officers, 15,237 transactions were 
recorded in the new registers based upon settlement. No case of an 
unregistered disposition of property recorded in the new registers 
has come to official knowledge, but it is reasonably certain that in 
some settled villages fellahin are exchanging land in order to obtain 
more consolidated and economic parcels. 


6. The policy is maintained of assigning areas of economically 
uncultivable state domain to the Department of Agriculture for 
afforestation. 


Demarcation, survey, and registration of state domain were con- 
tinued ; 315 properties were leased, and £P.5,350 was collected in 
rent during the year. 


Land Settlement. 


OPERATIONS UNDER THE LAND SETTLEMENT ORDINANCE. 


7. The lands of the villages of Mugeibila and Beit Qad in the 
Jenin Sub-District and the lands commonly known as Jabal Canaan 
in the ‘Safad Sub-District were declared to be settlement areas 
during the year. 


8. Notices of settlement were published during the year in 20 
new villages, so that the Ordinance has now been applied to 161 
villages covering # total area of approximately 2,058,420 metric 
dunums in seven Settlement Areas : 


Jaffa Settlement Aree ... ue ah ... 42 villages 
Ramle Settlement Area a de ... 46 villages 
Gaza Settlement Area. ... - a ... 86 villages 
Haifa Settlement Area ... 7 oes ... 12 villages 
Tulkarm Settlement Area... es ... 21 villages 
Jenin Settlement Area ... sa si ... 2 villages 


Safad Settlement Area ... es ve ... 2 villages 


47 


9. The stage of progress is illustrated in the following table :— 








Settlement Area 
Progress Stage. —————_ -_—$]_—_|————_——-— Portal. 
Jaffa. |Ramle.| Gaza. | Hatfa.|Tulkarm.| Jenin.| Safad. 

Villages in which settle- 
ment work has been 

entirely completed ... | 38 31 17 3 6 1 — 96 
Villages in which land 
disputes are being 
prior to com- 

pletion of settlement 3 1] 14 2 9 1 ] 41 
Villages in which final 
stage of investigation 

38 In progress at 1 3 2 3 1 — — 10 
Villages in which pre- 
liminary field investi- 

gation is in progress... | — 1 3 4 5 — 1 14 

Total ... 0... | 42 46 36 12 21 2 2 | 161 





10: The following is a summary of the work completed in 1934 :— 
Claims Recorded :-— 








In Mafruz In Masha’ Total. 
land. land. Number. 

No of claims, original 23,646 79 23,725 
No. of counterclaims 1,282 2 1,284 
Total number of claims 24,928 81 25,009 








Schedules of Claims Published:— 
In Mafruz In built-on In Masha’ 








land. areas. localities. 
No. of registration blocks 577 — _ 
No. of parcels 24,839 — cane 
Approximate area . 344,502 = 11,230 
Total area 355,732 metric dunums. 


Claims settled ea 


No. undisputed 
No. disputed 


Total No. of claims settled 





In Mafruz In Mash 


land. 
17,785 
4,752 





22,537 





land. 


l ole | 


Total. 


17,785 
4,761 





22,546 





48 











Land cases :— 
Number of actions outstanding at the end 
of 1983... — 803 
Number of actions added during 1934 tee 1,271 
Total number of actions... oe 2,074 
Less by amalgamation of counterclaims soe 215 
1,859 
Total number of actions decided during 
1934 :— 
(a) by judical settlement of disputes ... 606 
(b) by amicable agreement implemented by 
judicial decision os as .. 114 720 
Number of actions outstanding at the end of 
1934 a tke oe is eat 1,139 
Number of actions appeuee” to the Land 
Courts a : ua 64 
Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules published :— 
Total No.of Including Covering 
Schedules Published. Registration No. of Total Area. 
Blocks. Parcels. Metric Dunums. 
Mafruz Land— 
Schedules of Rights tee 466 19,339 263,758 
Schedules of Rights to Sites and 
Reputed Owners son ] 111 38 
Masha’ Land— 
Schedules of Partition ... tite 33 1,873 19,668 
Total 500 21,323 283,464 








11. The following is a comparative statement of the area com- 
pleted under settlement operations to date :— 





Preliminary Final 
Investigation. Investigation. 
Bene: Recording of Claims piel pai 
and publication of Schedules of Rights 
Schedules of Claims. and of Partition. 
Metric Dunwms. Metric Dunums. 
June, 1928 to December, 1930 a 212,992 142,799 
During 1931... “s see 255,947 138,387 
During 1932... et re ae 358,303 163,293 
During 1933... se et aa 479,195 334,139 


During 1934 2.00 kee ee 355,732 283,464 
| 





49 


12. Apart from temporary detachment of Assistant Settlement 
Oficers to other departmental duties and to absence of clerks and 
_ officers on leave or on account of ill health, a number of factors have 
affected the speed of settlement and are adding considerably to 
' Work in the field and in the central examining office. There is 
also a steadily increasing number of disputes which must be heard 

and decided before the lands can be brought on to the new register. 
' The villages to which land settlement is extending are situated 
- atconsiderable distances from the Settlement Offices and the Settle- 
' ment Officers have to travel on foot and car, often over very rough 
tracks and over sand dunes and marshes, to carry out inspection and 
inal investigation of rights. 

In one sub-district where four field parties were working, large 
areas were found to be held in Masha’ tenure with an indefinite 
oumber of shares varying in custom in each village. Large areas 
_ are entirely disputed in some cases, as many as 30 claims being 
submitted to one parcel. 

Generally, the work has been impeded by a large number of 
fictitious counterclaims and claims of a frivolous nature, all of which 
must be recorded, examined, and decided. 

On the other hand, arrangements made to relieve the Area Settle- 
ment Officers from practically all routine duties in regard to 
undisputed claims have enabled them to devote themselves to the 
hearing of disputes, and 720 cases were decided by them in 1934, 
a compared with 484 in the previous year. As many as 114 dis- 
putes were settled amicably through the instrumentality of an 
Assistant Settlement Officer. 

Among the disputes most susceptible to mediation and com- 
promise by agreement and persuasion are those arising out of an 
unofficial contract of sale—where the owner, seeing the prospect of 
profit from the fantastic rise in the price of land, is ready to go back 
0 his contract and pay the damages; and those arising out of 
attempts to upset old unofficial partitions or out of mortgages of 
land proved ultimately to belong to someone other than the 
Mortzagor, 

The disputes in land south of the Wadi Ghaza presented features 
which are based on the semi-nomandic mode of living of the Bedu 
and villagers, and upon their peculiar customs. In most of the 
“ses there were no documents in support of pleadings and prac- 
Ucally all the evidence was verbal. Complications were due to the 


es mode of transfer of land prevalent in this part of the 
ntry, 


13. The Settlement Officers heard and decided 9,272 land actions 
uring the year. | 
seit ements have been made to consolidate the position of 
. ‘ment already in hand in order to expedite the publication of 
outstanding Schedules of Rights. 
ot, Avis amount of registration, survey and court fees arising out 
ettlement payable during the year was £P.5,863 of which 


50 


£P.5,212 was collected. From the beginning of settlement opera- 
tions the amount payable was £P.44,584 of which, so far, £P.22,803 
has been collected. 


PARTITION OF VILLAGE MasHa’ IN ADVANCE OF LAND SETTLEMENT. 

14. A special officer was arranged to examine Masha’ villages 
which have not been dealt with either under settlement or under 
advance partition operations during previous years. He established 
that in most of these villages there exist either boundary disputes or 
a customary system of tenure with an indefinite number of shares, 
preventing amicable partition of Masha’. 


URBAN PROPERTY TAX. 

15. Annual revision operations of the Urban Property Tax were 
completed during 1934 in sixteen urban areas ; quinquennia! revalua- 
tion was effected in seven; and initial assessment operations in two 
large agricultural villages. 

The operations of assessment, revision, and revaluation involved 
the survey and valuation of 47,567 parcels; the examining of 
7,616 objections of which 3,423 were allowed, and the hearing of 
856 appeals of which 523 succeeded. 

The following rates of tax have been prescribed :— 

On house property, including the site, except 

house property constructed and used solely for 

the purpose of an industrial undertaking in 

which mechanically-driven machinery is used 124 per cent. 
On house property, constructed and used solely 

for the purpose of an industrial undertaking in 

which mechanically-driven machinery is used 

including the site ... 10 per cent. 
On land other than the site *, Hiaae enopeey and 

land which is used for the cultivation of crops 

and which is subject to the payment of tithe .... 10 per cent. 

Exemption is granted in respect of house property occupied by 
registered owners of which the net annual value is less than 4 
certain minimum, varying from town to town according to 
character. 

The total estimated amount of Urban Tax payable is £P.284,095, 
V1Z :— £P 


House property ae ag Oe se 224 44 
Industrial undertakings _... ee see 2,404 
Land vie ii ae ee toh 56,847 
OPERATIONS UNDER THE COMMUTATION OF TITHES ORDINANCES, 
1927-1928. 


16. The annual revision of the distribution of commuted tithe 
was carried out during the year in 1,040 villages and 78 tribal areas. 

The following is a summary statement of assessment and col- 
lections of the 1934-35 tithes (including Treasury, Wagf and 
rental tithes shares) during the period April to December, 1934: 


51 


Assessments as at 1.4.34 (current and arrears) 
Remissions reported during the period (includ- 
ing arrears from 1933) san - 


Total payable 
Collections (current and arrears)... as 
Balance outstanding as at 31.12.34 


£P. 
379,077 


131,869 





247 ,208 
81,349 
165 ,859 





Fiscan SURVEY AND VALUATION OPERATIONS FOR THE INTRODUCTION 


OF THE RURAL PROPERTY TAX. 


li. The valuation of village lands for the purpose of the Rural 
_ Property Tax and the division of these lands into fiscal blocks have 
been completed during this year throughout Palestine, except in 
"the Beersheba Sub-District, in which it is not at present proposed 


_ loapply the tax to the Bedu lands. 
The main stages are :— 


(1) survey of the land; 


(i) preparation of plans showing topographical features and 


types of cultivation ; 


(1) valuation of the land, and its classification into fiscal 


blocks ; 


(iv) computation of the areas in the fiscal blocks and of the 
area of “‘ cultivation divisions ’’ within the blocks; and 
(v) preparation of classification schedules by block and by 


type of cultivation. 


The total area by Sub-District covered by the operations is 


shown in the following table :— 
No. of villages 


Sub-District. for which fiscal 
blocks formed. 
Safad or a ee oar 109 
Acre se aah Sok stg 54 
Tiberias ro sash oe 46 
Nazareth me es us 44 
Haifa ne “ ss age 74 
Beisan wai ae nus a. 38 
Jenin a me oe! eae 64 
Tulkarm noe ie a 61 
Nablus ses a nk, ae 99 
Ramallah a dit wag 58 
Jericho Sak a ae e 5 
Jerusalem aes ins ag 73 
Bethlehem ud Soe fs 14 
Hebron ae is ee ae 38 
Jaffa on wr ae ies 43 
Ramle ok = Se ve 91 
Gaza oh: At ae oe 59 
Total ide 970 


—_—— 


Area in 
M. Dunums 


694,740 
808 ,105 
451,891 
482,795 
1,000,874 
369 ,070 
870,922 
759 560 
1,643,281 
685 ,127 
337 ,242 
501,918 
535,317 
2,195,145 
300 ,968 
919,623 
1,084,422 





13,641,000 


iad 


52 


The area of 13,641,000 metric dunums has been classified a 
follows in accordance with its type of cultivation :— 


A. Cultivable land— 
(a) Ground Crop Land— 
Irrigable (by free flow irrigation) ... 
Non-irrigable (by free flow irrigation) 


(6) Tree Planted Land— 
Olives ... 
Vines . 
Figs... 
Almonds 
Apricots 
Bananas é 
Orchards (mixed) 


Citrus— 


Planted before 1929... shia 
Planted in and after 1929 ... 


Forests— 


Natural— 
(i) State reserved and closed 
(ii) Private ihe nea 


Planted 


74,082 
72,678 





. 288,5C1 
. 381,332 





669,803 
28,348 





599,321 
117,165 
84,777 
19,183 
2,683 
5,791 
254,298 





146,758 


698,181 





1,083,218 


1,928,157 


Note :—The tree planted areas are those which were found to 
be so planted at the time of the survey of the village lands and do 
not include areas planted with trees subsequent to the survey of 


the village. 


B. Uncultivable Land— 


Marsh or water 

Sand dunes 

Roads .. see 

Railway ‘permanent way, ete. 
Village built-on areas 
Cemeteries and threshing- floors 
Rocky and other 


© barnes 
© USM. ak 


95,224 
286,939 
39,914 
11,499 
30,315 
23,406 


5,369,962 


7,783,741 


5,857,259 





13,641,000 





18. The whole of the land of the country, except the Sub- 


District of Beersheba, 


has been divided into the approved tax 


categories, and draft Rural Property Tax Rolls have been com- . 
piled, showing for each village and each block the area of the land 
falling within one or other of the categories prescribed under the 
Rural Property Tax Ordinance, 1935. | 


o3 ‘ 


, The following table indicates the area falling within each of the 
ixteen tax categories :— 


No. of Tax Description of land Area in 
pate “‘alling within category. Metric Dunums. 

' Acre Sub-District) — — 139,076 

Crllections (cur? District)... 0. eee 7,298 

3 Bananas wie > bee eee ee eee eee eo 5,790 

+ 4 Village built-on area or reserved therefor zat aes 43,910 

5 Ist Grade Irrigated Land 
and oss ae ack dae 4,714 


| *Ist Grade Fruit Plantation 
| 6 2nd Grade Irrigated Land 
! and as Ade ae sa 270,570 
*2nd Grade Fruit Plantation 
7 8rd Grade Irrigated Land 
and San wat Sie aus 640,508 
*3rd Grade Fruit Pla»tation 
8 1st Grade Ground Crop Land and 
4th Grade Irrigated Land and sale a se 337,314 
| *4th Grade Fruit Plantation 
9 2nd Grade Ground Croy Land and 
5th Grade Irrigated ~ 1d and oie oe Mee 224,713 
*5th Grade Fruit Plar ion 
10 3rd Grade Ground Cru.: Land and 
6th Grade Irrigated Lahd and a me sia 846,475 
*6th Grade Fruit Plantation 
11 4th Grade Ground Crop Land and 


7th Grade Irrigated La.id and svi iy di 751,950 
*7th Grade Fruit Plantation 
12 5th Grade Ground Crop Land and 
8th Grade Irrigated Land and =e eae . 983,230 


*8th Grade Fruit Plantation 
13. 6th Grade Ground Crop Land and 


9th Grade Irrigated Land and diss xe ... 1,902,644 

*9th Grade Fruit Plantation 

14 ‘th Grade Ground Crop Land 

and has 745,776 

10th Grade Irrigated Land 
1§ 8th Gxade Ground Crop I ses ie aa sie 230,548 
16 Forests planted andindig is and uncultivable land... 6,506,484 
Total bee eee sei .-- 13,641,000 


* Other than citrus and bananas. 


Surveys. 
19. Triangulation.—Third order work was commenced in the 
~ Beersheba area. Additional points were fixed in area west of the 
Dead Sea in the Sub-Districts of Bethlehem and Hebron for the 
— completion of the 1/100,000 Jerusalem and Hebron sheets. 


_ For the control of block plans a large number of traverse and 
intersected points were fixed. 


_A number of 4th order points had to be restored owing to shift- 
ing sand and interference by cultivators, and restoration work 18 
sll in progress. 

28784 C 


: a4 


TABLE J. 
Trig. and Traverse Progress. 





3rd Order. 4th Order. Traverse. Intersection 
Trvq. 
No. of Area No. of Area No. of Length No. of 
Points. Km.2 Points. Km.2 Points. Km. Points. 
62 810 108 ee 3,235 682 | 5,677 


20. Levelling..-At the request of the Public Works Depart- 
ment, check levelling of the proposed pipe-line from Ras el ‘Ain to 
Jerusalem, a length of 71 kilometres, was carried out. 


21. Precise Levelling.—In May a line of precise levels was 
begun between Jaffa and Haifa and completed by the end of 
December. The length of the line is 106 kilometres, the average 
discrepancy between the forward and backward levelling per 2 kilo- 
metres being 2mm. It will take about six months to complete the 
first closing circuit from Haifa to Tulkarm via Jenin. 


The following bench marks were fixed :— 


Fundamental A - bis oat *3 
“A” Type ... oP 2s ak de 14 
Tertiary ae oe = es bis 34 


22. Topographical Surveys.—Complete surveys on the 1/500") 
scale with contours at 25-metre intervals covering 256 square kilo- 
metres for the new 1/100,000 map series were made in the Hebron 
and Bethlehem areas at a cost of 977 mils per square kilometre. 
In other areas contours at 25-metre intervals are being inserted 
by plane-table on the 1/50,000 scale, the detail being reduced from 
the 1/10,000 fiscal map. 3,520 square kilometres have been com- 
pleted at a cost of 668 mils per square kilometre. 


23. Topocadastral Survey.—A 1/20,000 survey, covering 7 | 
square kilometres, was carried out in the Beersheba Sub-District 
where an area west of the railway is to be added to the Gaza Sub- 
District. 

The citrus belt on the coastal plain was revised on the 1/20.000 
Bcale. 

Three hundred and twenty-three village maps on the 1/10," 
and 1/20,000 scales were traced, and prints, with schedules of areas. 
were issued to the Commissioner of ands. This completes the 
area covered by the Rural Property Tax Ordinance. | 

24. Cadastral Surveys.—During the year, 1,095 block plavs. 
covering an area of 628,524 dunums, were completed. Details are 
given in Table IT. 


__ 
——_—— 


* One at Jaffa, one at Tulkarm and one at Haifa. 


‘BOT OS E+ COS y LIVE 196 








ojgesae: 708 |! ooo 







































































































































































OOryr 


S401 JO "ON VE6! SASOduYNd LNAWSILLAS YOS AAZAYNS JO SS3Y9OUd 8490/G JO ° 


AFAUNS WuLSVGVD 


we meee 


55. 


Two hundred and eighty-three block plans, covering approxi- - 
mately 135,300 dunums, are surveyed and in course of completion. 

Six hundred and sixty-one preliminary block plans, together with 
schedules of areas and lists of claimants, were issued to the Settle- 
ment Department. These plans cover an area of 374,600 dunums 
in 28,650 parcels. 


Five hundred and two block plans were returned to the Settle- 


_ ment Department for final approval. These plans cover an area 


of 279,681 dunums, representing 20,703 parcels, on which survey 
les amounting to £P.5,000 are chargeable on completion of 
recistration. 


The progress of the cadastral survey is illustrated in the diagram 
facing this page. 


_ ‘Tase IT. 
Progress of Cadastral Survey. 





~— 


| Average | * Average cost of 























Category No. of No. | area per| survey per Dunum. 
of Scale. | Block |Dunums.| of parcel, |———— 
Land. Plans. Parcels. | Metric | Field | Office | Total 
Dunums.| Mils. | Mils. | Mus 
— Masha’a ... | 1/2,500 | 52 35,542 260 [136-700 | 22-1 | 3-2 | 25-3 
Mafruz 1/2,500 | 872 561,028 | 34,776 | 16-133 | 26-3 | 12-6 | 38-9 
Built-on area 1/625 14 419 686 | 0-611 |601-1 (619-4 |1,220°5 





rr ft | er | ee | eS | ES | NS | 


Hawakir ... 1/1,250 | 157 31,535 8,233 | 3-830 | 88-6 | 34-2 |122-8 
ee 


SE | | SS | NS | | ES | Le | eS 


Total... 1,095 © | 628,524 | 43,955 | 14-300 
* Includes all costs except overhead and reproduction charges. 


25. Town Surveys.—Jerusalem.—A survey of the proposed 
*xtengion of the urban area is in progress. 
Beit Sahur.—In the Bethlehem Sub-District was completed on 
scales 1/625 and 1/1,250 for urban assessment purposes. The 
area, covered consists of 8 blocks totalling 203 dunums. 

Haifa Harbour.—A survey of the reclaimed area of 6 blocks, 


ae 1,795 dunums, has been completed and is now being par- 
oned into building plots. 


26. Urban Assessment.—During the year, 572 block plans were 


a for urban assessment purposes and issued to the District 
authorities. 
pee Resources Survey.—776 wells and 43 springs, covering 


of the : of 1,424 square kilometres, were investigated, and much 


sr Pet country in the plains has been completed. 
C2 


56 


28. Land Registration Surveys.—The number of plans dealt with 
total 1,823, covering an area of 79,023 dunums. These include 
the checking and examination of 1,428 plans, covering 71,715 
dunums, prepared by licensed surveyors. Of the 1,823 plans, 730 
were mutation surveys of parcels in settled areas. 

The total number of mutations in settled areas is now 1,556. 

The cost of surveys for land registry purposes amounts to 
£P.4,240, of which sum £P.3,093 is returnable as survey fees. 

The cost includes state domain surveys, expropriation surveys, 
and other work for which survey fees are not collected. 


29. Mapping and Publication.—The first 1/100,000 sheet 
“ Jerusalem ’’ has been drawn from reduced topocadastral surveys 
and is now.in hand for printing. 

The Jaffa sheet is in course of preparation. 

Topocadastral sheets on 1/20,000—Nos. 12/16, 13/16, and 13/15 
—have been revised during the year. 

An administration map on scale 1/250,000 was published and 
2,000 copies were printed in three colours. 

Further editions of the motor map of Palestine, scale 1/500,000, 
during the year include :— 


1,100 copies English editions 3rd and 4th. 
1,000 copies Hebrew editions lst and 2nd. 
500 copies Arabic edition 1st. 


245 prints of block plans of Haifa harbour on the scale of 1/1,250 
were issued to the Reclaimed Area Estate Agent for registration of 
leases. 

A communications map of Palestine, scale 1/250,000, was drawn 
and compiled from notes supplied by the Royal Air Force, and 370 
prints were issued to the Services. 

1,000 copies of the 1/50,000 scale Trans-Jordan series, in three 
colours, and 515 of the 1/10,000 scale were printed for the Director 
of Lands, Amman. 

1,200 reprint copies of the 1/20,000 coloured edition were printed 
during the year. 

28,047 zincographed prints, 12,731 ordoverax, and 15,503 sun- 
prints were produced, as well as 21,262 prints from the small 
letterpress machine. 

10,453 prints were issued to Government departments. 

In connection with the Rural Property Tax Ordinance, 5,502 
copies of 920 village maps on the 1/10,000 scale have been printed. 

Sales of maps to the public reahzed £P.1,430. 


30. Plant.—A large copying camera for photo-reproduction of 
plans and maps was installed during the year. Negatives up to 
30 inches by 24 can now be prepared on the premises, greatly 
facilitating the reproduction of drawings on different scales and the 
publication of maps by the photo-zinco process. | 


D7 


Development. 


31. Up to 3lst December, 1934, the Development Officer had 


received 3,236 applications for admission to the Register of Landless 
Arabs, 


So far, 656 heads of families have been admitted to the Register. 
In all; 2,578 claims were disallowed, and two claims were still 
under examination at the end of the year. Only eleven new claims 
were submitted during 1934, the claimants being Arabs who had 
been displaced from the land some years ago, but who for various 
reasons had delayed the submission of their applications. 


32. It has not proved possible to ascertain the information 
sought by the Permanent Mandates Commission in the course of 
the Twenty-Fifth Session as to how many of the Arabs who have 
submitted claims for admission to the Register have béen evicted 
with or without compensation by their compatriots, or, how many 
failed to receive compensation of those evicted after the sale to 
Jews of the land which they tenanted. 


The opportunity is taken to correct a typographical error in the 
total number of claims still under ¢onsideration at 31st December, 
1933, as printed on page 10 of the previous Annual Report; the 
hgure 532 was printed, whereas the actual number of claims then 
outstanding was only 32. 


33. A total area of 17,868 dunums of lands, costing £F.72,240, 
has by now been acquired by Government for the purpose of re- 
settling Jandless Arabs. This represents an addition of 2,999 
dunums to the area recorded in last year’s report, in respect of 
lands for which options were obtained in 1933, but of which regis- 
tration was not completed until the following year. 


34. The Northern Section of the Wadi Hawarith Arabs is now 
settled on a state domain in the Tulkarm Sub-District, known as 
Bassat Sheikh Muhammad. This state domain (which consists 
mainly of swampy land bordered by sands) is 1,571 metric dunums 
In extent. It has been drained and deep ploughed, and has been 
allotted to the ninety families of the tribe who have been admitted 
to the Register. So far the tribesmen have built some thirty houses 
on the sandy lands. 


The members of the Southern Section of the Wadi Hawarith 
Arabs (109 families) are camped on a plot of 150 dunums forming 
part of the Wadi Hawarith lands, but not included in the area 
handed over to the possession of the Jewish National Fund in 1933. 
The tribesmen also farm an area of land in the neighbouring Wadi 
Qabbani which they have bought or leased with the money which 
they received as compensation from the Jewish National Fund 
on being évicted from the Wadi Hawarith. 


28784 C 3 


58 
35. Two experimental schemes, each for the settlement of fifty 
landless families, have been begun by the Development Department 


at the Tall esh Shauk and Mqueibila estates in the Beisan and 
Jenin Sub-Districts respectively. 


Land has been purchased by Government as a camping site for 
68 families of the Arab Zubeid in the Safad Sub-District. The 
Arabs have been given loans, and houses are now in course of 
erection. 


36. All registered Arabs who have signified their willingness 
to take up holdings upon Government estates have been accommo- 
dated. That only a small number of Arabs has come forward 
so far to take up land is due to the fact that there is at present 
plenty of employment to be found in the towns and neighbouring 
orange groves. 


37. The number of observation stations established in the 
coastal plain between Ras el Naqura and Rafa on private and 
municipal wells (see Report of 1933, page 11, paragraph 28) has 
been reduced to 23, owing to the failure of private well-owners to 
forward readings regularly. 

Notwithstanding the series of drought years, observations at these 
stations show but a slight lowering of the water-table throughout the 
coastal plain. 


Regular readings have also been taken of the discharges of the 
Jordan, Auja, and Rubin rivers. 


> 
The experiment in the conservation of flood water in the Beer- 
sheba Sub-District by means of a dam across a wadi continues. 


The dam is holding up well, and should retain sufficient water 
to enable the cultivation of a considerable area of land during the 
summer and at the same time give an irrigation to an area of winter 
cropping. 


VI. NATIONALITY. 


The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order in Council and of 
«i Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine amending 
Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the Report for 
1925 ;* and the text of the amending Order in Council of 1931 was 
printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


2. The qualifications for naturalization are : two years’ residence 
in Palestine out of the three preceding application, good character, 
and the declared intention to settle in Palestine; knowledge of 
Hebrew is accepted under the literacy qualification. In special 





* Non-Parliamentary Publication, Colonial No. 20, 1926. 


59 


cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant naturaliza- 
tion even if the period of residence has not been within the three 
years preceding application. The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. 


3. The total number of persons naturalized in 1934 compared 
with those in previous years is as follows: 


Applications Certificates 
Submitted. Delivered. 








1925-26... ve fp cate. “Ty282 3,599 
1927 4,394 3,188 
1928 3,455 4,713 
1929 5,038 4,051 
1930 1,329 2,757 
1931 1,169 1,458 
1932 1,078 803 
1933 1,186 1,146 
1934 3,216 2 ,794* 
Total ... 28,146 24 509 








4. The increase in the number of applications in 1934 is due in 
part-to the naturalization campaign conducted by various Jewish 
organizations in anticipation of the municipal elections and partly 
to the improved facilities given by the Department. 


5. The race and nationality of the persons to whom certificates 
were issued in 1934 were as follows :— 


Jews. 
Polish ve is as a se ... 04 
Russian au oa a aie ... 438 
Roumanian ... i = a ee Me. LD 
German oe ‘ays See os = .. 66 
Other ee ue sid we oe ... 3504 
Stateless - ou Say ssh ee ... 172 
| Non-Jews. 
Turkish ake ne ate me ee .. = 88 
Egyptian... is 5 és es be 6 
Syrian $a be os i a see. el 
Other sc ae a bs ae .. §=6. 46 


*2,794 certificates have been approved for delivery: the number actually 
delivered will be known later. 


28784 C4 


60 


6. The applications made in 1934 come within the following 
categories of the Order :— 








Submitted. Approved. Rejected. 
Article 7 see 3,195 3,188 7 
Article7 (5)... 18 18 _ 
Article 9(2)... 3 3 = 
Total ae 3,216 3,209 7 








7. During 1934 and previous years the following numbers of 
cases occurred where citizenship was forfeited, certificates of 
citizenship annulled, and certificates of naturalization revoked, on 
the ground that— 


(a) the holders of their own accord divested themselves of their 
Palestinian citizenship on acquisition of a foreign 
nationality; or 

(b) the holders had been ordinarily resident out of Palestine 


for longer than three years and showed no disposition 
to return within the measurably near future; or 


(c) the holders had shown themselves disloyal and disaffected 
towards the Government of Falestine :— 


Loss under Annulment Revocation 
Art. 15. under Art. 5. under Art. 7. 

1926 — = — 
1927 —_ = — 
1928 2 — 2 
1929 8 7 5 
1930 5 21 11 
1931 7 29 8 
1932 54 46 38 
1933 14 25 28 
1934 5 27 32 

Total 95 155 124 


———s 
——— 


The grand total is 374, which 1s 1°53 per cent. of the total number 
of certificates issued. 


8. The number of different kinds of passport services granted 
during the year, as compared with previous years was as follows :— 


61 





6F3'1Z il 88F LEE 96 O€t 8ZL‘S 8c0‘e LES FEST L¥6‘S POLL "PEGI 


90L‘LT | 91 ras LOF ¥F 891 198°T gz6'F | 9ze LI9‘T 74 A) oe 7 | 
FOL'SE | ZI 989 FLY — #83 LOST seo'e | 00 6CF‘T 83'S wer | seer 
SIs‘st | 81 PES Ot -~ — -- cHs‘S | 6&8 6ST 690'T PLg'g | Teel 
sie‘ol | FF CFF SBE — — — gos‘e | £66 ZOF‘T org c669 | °° Oger 
goo'LT | etl 89% 10Z — — — m06'o «| E8e'r 9cF'T SL ILL | ° 6261 
oFO'st | 29 sie I6l — — foe 7os'9 «=| «O8L'T Ool‘T Lg SLOL |’ Sc6L 
LOIS | O@T ece 00Z — — — g66e | Leer ZOL — eeoll | LZ6l 
ee |e ae Te ee, ee eee: COR: aan, Seen eee Sateen! Seer ayes 
*ponauay 

“Pasay pup | ‘panssy |-paneuay | -penssy | -esayiQ | -usnjay | -pansey |-possopuyy | -panouay | -ponsey 

“asboay possopuyy | AnreePT | 
MOT: | SANS a de ee "409 X 
oe Yysijigd ‘g40deeng *SUMUNIOTT saynifej43,) 


Bosy, pun ys | jaws, pun Apyuopy "ens A ‘spodsepg umursazvg 





=e ere 


62 


9. The mcrease in the number of passport services granted in 
1934 is due largely to the following factors :— 


(1) an increase in the travelling population of the country 
due to immigration and general prosperity ; 


(ii) development of business relations with countries beyond 
Palestine ; 


(i) the requirement that a wife and children, if travelling 
alone, should travel with separate passports ; 


(iv) the desire of Palestinian citizens under Article 1 of the 
Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, to be in possession of a 
Palestinian passport as documentary proof of their legal 
presence in the country. 


10. Since 1926, when Palestinian passports were first printed, 
some 59,000 have been issued. 


11. The new Passport Ordinance, 1934, became law in November 
and superseded the Passport Ordinance, 1925. The new Ordinance 
gives wider powers and discretion to the Director, acting on behalf 
of the High Commissioner, in the matter of the grant or with- 
holding of a passport service, the impounding of travel documents, 
and the prosecution of an offender under the law. 


12. The grant of passport services has been partially de- 
centralized, and the Department’s sub-offices at Jaffa and Haifa 
now grant renewals of and endorsements on Palestinian passports 
and return visas on foreign passports without reference to head- 
quarters. This has permitted an appreciable reduction in the time 
taken to grant passport services, which are now performed in most 
cases on the day of application. The technique of officers handling 
passport applications is improving and they are advancing in the 
detection of false claimants. 


13. Passport facilities are now being withheld on the request of 
a religious court only on endorsement by the civil court that the 
person affected comes within the jurisdiction of the religious court, 
and that the request is proper. 


14. Arrangements have been made with the Trans-Jordan 
Government for the reciprocal grant of passport services. 


15. A notice to Palestinian citizens who intend to proceed to the 
Hejaz on pilgrimage has been prepared for issue. Pilgrims are 
advised in their own interest to obtain a Palestinian passport or an 
official pilgrim’s booklet either of which would serve as a means of 
identification of the holder and his nationality. The purpose of the 
notice is to reduce as far as possible the amount expended by 
Government in the repatriation of pilgrims who become destitute 
while on pilgrimage. A deposit is demanded before a pilgrim’s 
booklet is issued. 


63 


16. The following number of changes of names were registered 
in 1934 as compared with previous years :— 


1929... ae oe o— se ... 835 
1930... siti Sis be ine ... 292 
1931 i... bee oh bas ees ... 298 
1932... bes a ce ots ... 251 
1933... se se ee — .. 211 
1934 ; wr sess ... 412 


The majority of these changes are made by Jewish immigrants 
from Europe adopting Hebrew names on the acquisition of 
Palestinian citizenship. 


VII.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 
Legislation. 


The most important Ordinances enacted during the year are the 
following :-— 


1. Municipal Corporations Ordinance.—The object of this Ordin- 
ance is to establish municipal corporations. 

It provides that the municipalities existing prior to the Ordinance 
and the township of Tel Aviv shall become municipalities, and the 
Hich Commissioner is given power, after ascertaining the views 
of the public concerned, to establish more municipalities or to 
abolish municipalities or to vary the existing municipal limits. 

The Ordinance provides that the affairs of municipal corporations 
shall be managed by councils elected by direct election. The quali- 
fications of electors are the same as the qualifications set out in 
the Municipal Franchise Ordinance, 1926, except that community 
rolls have been abolished. The High Commissioner is, however, 
given power, on the representation of a council, to change the 
qualifications of electors. The object of this provision is to meet 
the great difficulty which is experienced in providing a method of 
election satisfactory to all electors. 

The High Commissioner is given power at his discretion, when 
it appears to him necessary in the interests of good government, 
fo nominate not more than two councillors to the municipalities of 
Jerusalem and Haifa. The object of this is to provide for the 
representation of elements of the population—such as foreign com- 
munities—which might not otherwise be adequately represented. 

The gualifications of councillors are the same as the qualifications 
set out in the Municipal Franchise Ordinance, 1926, but the High 
Commissioner is given power, on the recommendation of a council, 
to alter these qualifications for members of that council. 

The Ordinance contemplates that councillors will ordinarily be 
elected for the whole of the municipal area, but the High Com- 
missioner is given power, when it appears to him desirable, to 
divide a municipal area into divisions for the purpose of elections. 
This is intended to facilitate the holding of elections in certain areas, 
such as Jerusalem and Haifa, possessing a mixed population. 


64 


The methods of election are substantially those set out in the 
Municipal Franchise Ordinance, 1926, and provisions have been 
inserted dealing with bribery, impersonation and other offences in 
connection with elections. 

The Mayor and Deputy-Mayor are appointed by the High Com- 
missioner from among the councillors, and councils are given power 
to set up committees to deal with various matters. The District 
Commissioner may appoint an officer of the Government of 
Palestine as an advisory member upon these committees. 

If for any reason a council is dissolved before the due date, or 
ceases to perform its functions, the High Commissioner may either 
order a general election to be held, or nominate a council, or 
nominate a commission to perform the duties of the council. 

In order to meet the wishes of certain sections of the population 
who desire to have additional amenities, the Ordinance provides for 
the establishment of urban committees which will have power to 
approve additional expenditure, the funds for which will be _pro- 
vided by additions to the rates of the persons residing within the 
area, concerned. 

The Ordinance provides that the accounts of all municipal cor- 
porations shall be audited by the Government Auditor and that 
estimates shall be approved by the High Commissioner. 


2. Sharia Courts Pensions Ordinance.—This Ordinance enables 
the High Commissioner to grant pensions and gratuities to 
certain officials of the Sharia Courts. The Ordinance 
follows generally the provisions of the Pensions Ordinance, 
1925, but applies only to the individuals whose names are included 
in the schedules. 


3. Arbitration (Foreign Awards) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
provides for the enforcement in Palestine of arbitral awards 
which have been made in territories to which the Inter- 
national Convention on the Execution upon Arbitral Awards, 
signed at Geneva on 26th September, 1927, has been applied by the 
parties to that Convention. 

The terms of the Convention were applied to Palestine by the 
Arbitration (Foreign Awards) (No. 2) Ordinance, 1931. 


4. Usurious Loans Ordinance.—This Ordinance enables a 
borrower to apply to the Court for relief in usurious trans- 
actions. Under the Usurious Loans Ordinance, 1922, a 
borrower could plead only that the transaction included 
a claim for interest in excess of the legal rate when_ pro- 
ceedings were taken against him for the recovery of a debt. 
This Ordinance, which repeals the Usurious Loans Ordinance, 1922, 
sets out more fully the powers of the court to deal with transactions 
of a usurious nature. The provisions of the Usurious Juoans 
Ordinance, 1922, in regard to the admissibility of evidence have been 
incorporated in the new enactment. 


65 


5. Law of Procedure (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
removes certain doubts which have arisen as to the _per- 
sons who may institute and prosecute criminal proceedings 
in Palestine. It provides that criminal proceedings before a Magis- 
trate’s Court or a Municipal Court may be instituted by the 
Attorney-General or his representative, by any police officer, or 
by any person authorized by any Ordinance. 

It further provides that all criminal proceedings may be prosecuted 
by the Attorney-General or his representative, and that criminal 
proceedings by way of preliminary enquiry and summary trial may 
be prosecuted by the police, while saving the right of any other 
person to prosecute if expressly authorized by any Ordinance. 

Under the Trial Upon Information Ordinance, 1924, any person 
can make a complaint or charge before a magistrate, but doubts 
existed as to whether or not such person either himself or by an 
advocate may prosecute in any subsequent proceedings. 

Similarly, under the Magistrates’ Courts (Jurisdiction) Ordin- 
ance, 1924, the complainant may lay a complaint before a magis- 
trate, and doubts existed as to whether or not such complainant 
may prosecute. 

This Ordinance makes it clear that in such cases the complainant 
himself or his advocate may appear in any proceedings before a 
magistrate and may prosecute in such proceedings. 


6. Revised Edition of the Laws Ordinance. Statute Law Reot- 
sion Ordinance. Revised Edition of the Laws (No. 2) Ordinance.— 
These Ordinances provide for and authorize a revised edition 
of the legislation of Palestine enacted prior to 31st December, 1938, 
under preparation by the Legal Draftsman to the Government of 
Palestine. The Revision will appear simultaneously in the three 
oficial languages towards the autumn of 1930. 


7. Rabies Ordinance.—This Ordinance makes provision for the 
prevention and combating of rabies. 

The only legal means previously available for combating rabies 
were contained in the Diseases of Animals Ordinance (No. 3), 1926, 
principally in rules made by the High Commissioner under that 
Ordinance. 

It has been considered desirable to enact a measure for the 
special purpose of preventing and combating rabies, rather than 
to continue to deal with the problem by means of such subsidiary 
legislation. Those provisions of the Diseases of Animals Ordinance, 
1926, which related to rabies have been deleted. 


8. The following Rules were made by the Chief Justice during 

the year :— 
The Allowance ‘to Witnesses (Amendment) Rules, 1934, 
designed to facilitate the recovery of fees by witnesses from 
the Courts in which they give testimony, and to obviate delays. 


66 


The Land Settlement (Procedure) (Amendment) Rules, 
1934, enabling the Settlement Officer to order a party sum- 
moning a witness to deposit the assessed expenses of such wit- 
ness, failing which the summons may be refused. 

The Magistrates’ Courts (Forms) Rules, 1984. 

The Courts (Forms) Rules, 1934. 

The Advocates Examinations (Payments of Expenses) Rules, 
1934, fixing the fees to be paid to examiners and to invigilator: 
at the Foreign Advocates Examinations and to authorise the 
Legal Board to pay rent for halls in which these examinations 
are held. 

The Succession (Amendment) Rules, 1934, exempting from 
the payment of fees, probates or administrations of estates 
when the property does not exceed in value £P.100. 

The Civil Procedure (Security for Costs) Rules 1934, enabling 
a Court to require a plaintiff in any action, a petitioner in any 
proceeding, or an appellant in any appeal, to give security 
for the payment of all costs which may be incurred by any 
defendant or respondent as the case may be, and providing for 
the dismissal of the action, petition, or appeal if such security 
is not furnished within the time fixed by the Court. 


The High Commissioner made the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdtc- 
tion (Amendment) Order, 1934, bringing within the jurisdiction of 
Magistrates’ Courts offences under the Town Planning Ordinance, 
1921. 


Companies. 


9. The total number of companies registered in Palestine at the 
end of 1984 was 875. During the year, 227 new companies were 
registered of which 213 were Palestinian and 14 foreign. The 
principal Palestinian companies were :— 

Palestine Publishing Company, Limited. 

Industrial & Financial Corporation of Palestine Limited. 

Africa-Palestine Investments Limited. 

Palestine Building Syndicate Limited. 

Nir Limited. 

Palestine Shipping Company, Limited. 
each with capital of more than £P.60,000. 


Among the foreign companies registered were :— 


Emica Association. 

Holland Bank Union. : 

North British and Mercantile Insurance Company, Limited. 
Banque Belge Pour l’Industrie 8.A. 


A number of companies increased their capital during the year, 
the most notable among them being Palestine Electric Corporation 
Ltd. which increased its capital from £P.1,000,000 to 
£P.2,500,000, the Arab Agricultural Bank which increased its 


67 


capital from £P.80,000 to £P.200,000, the Jerusalem Development 
Company which increased its capital from £P.10,000 to £P.100,000, 
and the Judean Estate Company which increased its capital from 
£P.40,000 to £P.100,000. 


Trade-marks. 


10. In all there were 483 applications for registration (137 local 
and 346 foreign) in the current year. The total number of trade- 
marks registered in Palestine is now 3,195. The increase of appli- 
cations compared with previous years is indicative of the growing 
commercial importance of Palestine and the consequent anxiety 
of foreign firms to protect their proprietary rights in Palestine. 
The largest number of local applications was, as usual, in respect 
of food products and tobacco. 

Fees collected amount to £P.1,150. 

An Order entitled ‘‘ The Trade Marks (Industrial Property Con- 
vention) Order ’’’ was made granting certain privileges to appli- 
cants for registration of a mark already referred for registration 
in one of the scheduled countries; and the Trade Marks Ordinance 
has been amended to clarify the procedure in the event of two or 
more persons applying for the same or nearly identical trade marks 
to be registered. 


Patents and Designs. 


11. 198 applications for the registration of patents were received, 
evenly divided between local and foreign applicants, and £P.1,100 
was collected in fees. 

An Order of the High Commissioner-in-Council was published 
notifying the accession of Palestine to the International Convention 
for the Protection of Industrial Property, signed at The Hague 
on 6th November, 1925, and Rules governing applications under 
the Convention were issued shortly afterwards. 

06 applications to register designs were lodged, a very con- 
siderable increase which suggests that the desirability of obtaining 
the protection given by the Patents and Designs Ordinance, 1924, 
In respect of new designs is gradually gaining recognition. 


Judicial. 


12. Municipal Courts.—Municipal Courts continue to exist in 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Gaza, Tel Aviv, and Acre. In the last three 
towns they are presided over by honorary Magistrates, and in the 
other two by one of the salaried Magistrates in Government service. 

The number of cases entered again shows a marked increase. 
24,416 cases were entered and 24,458 decided, while 177 were 
pending at the end of the year. 

The work of the Court in Jerusalem shows some diminution, 
in Jaffa there is a marked increase and in Tel Aviv a very much 
greater increase. 


68 


13. Magistrates’ Courts.—Approximately 50,000 civil cases were 
entered, the same number decided, and 1,836 were pending at 
the end of the year. 

The number of criminal cases entered was 44,444, nearly 9,000 
more than in the previous year, an increase due to improved 
efficiency of the police and to the expansion of the population. 
44,541 criminal cases were disposed of, and only 514 were un- 
settled at the end of the year. 

Taking the Courts individually, in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Haifa, and 
Tel Aviv, there has been a marked increase of work. 

In all the rural courts of the Jerusalem District there has been 
a marked decrease; in the Nablus, Haifa, and Jaffa district rural 
courts, the figures are stationary except at Ramleh, Safad, and 
Tiberias. 


14. District Courts.—The following tables show the total number 
of civil and criminal cases entered and decided in the last twelve 
years :— 


Civil Civil Criminal Criminal Total Total 
Year. Entered Decided. Entered. Decided. Entered. Decided. 
1923 age 1,809 1,761 1,534 1,494 3,343 3,265 
1924 sls 1,750 1,725 1,580 1,590 3,330 3,315 
1925 sa 1,716 1,658 1,471 1,539 3,187 3,197 
1926 .. 2,246 2,217 1,556 1,497 3,802 3,714 
1927 2,241 2,129 1,870 1,863 4,111 3,992 
1928 ee  2yeen 2,292 2,305 2,151 4,530 4,443 
1929 .. 2,206 2,181 2,359 2,309 4,565 4,490 
1930 .. 2,501 2,361 2,282 2,273 4,783 4,634 
1931 .. 2,401 2,289 2,257 2,390 4,658 4,679 
1932 w. 2,490 2,454 2,825 ' 2,868 5,315 5,322 
1933 we =: 2,117 2,286 2,341 2,379 4,458 4,665 
1934 .. 2,403 2,385 2,338 2,339 4,741 4,724 


Table of pending cases for same period :— 


Year. Civil Pending. Criminal Pending. Total. 
1923... sais 193 144 337 
1924... - 218 134 352 
1925... ve 276 68 342 
1926... dis 305 125 430 
1927... eas 417 132 549 
1928... te 350 286 636 
1929... sae 375 336 711 
1930... aay 515 345 860 
1931... is 627 212 839 
1932... Say 663 169 832 
1933... ae 494 13] 625 
1934... ee 512 130 642 


As most of the serious crimes of the country are tried by the 
District Courts, the statistics are, on the whole, satisfactory. There 
is a very substantial drop in the number of criminal cases entered 
in Jerusalem; in Jaffa the number is at about the average for 


69 


recent years; in Nablus, while there is a slight increase, the figure 
is below the average of recent years ; and it is only in Haifa that any 
serious increase is witnessed. This may be in part due to the 
gradual industrial development of the town of Haifa and its 
immediate neighbourhood. 


15. Land Courts.—In the Land Courts 942 cases (compared with 
610 last year) were entered, and 911 decided; but there were still 
760 pending at the 31st December. 


16. Supreme Court.—306 civil appeals were entered, 206 decided, 
and 334 were outstanding at the close of the year. 


Of criminal appeals there were 137, a further decrease attri- 
butable to wider knowledge of the enactment in 1930 of a pro- 
vision by which, in the event of an appeal being unsuccessful, the 
sentence dates, unless the Court otherwise directs, from the decision 
of the Appeal Court and not as previously from the date of the 
decision of the Court of First Instance. Moreover, the Court’s 
increased use of its power, when it thinks necessary, to increase 
the sentence passed by the Court of First Instance has led to a 
diminution of speculative appeals. 


142 criminal appeals were decided, znd only 15 were left out- 
standing. 


li. Court of Criminal Assize.—Forty-nine persons were tried 
during the year on charges involving the capital penalty : 17 were 
condemned to death, 10 were sentenced to imprisonment, 21 were 
acquitted, and in one case the charge was reduced to one triable 
before a District Court. 


Fourteen of the death sentences were confirmed by the Court 
of Criminal Appeal, one was reduced to a sentence of 20 years’ 
and one to a sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment, and in one case 
the conviction was set aside. Of the death sentences confirmed, 
8 were carried out, 3 were commuted by the High Commissioner 
to imprisonment for life, two to imprisonment for 15 and one to 
imprisonment for 10 years. 


18. High Court.—105 petitions were entered in the High Court 
and 107 decided, with an unsettled list of 27. 
The petitions entered may be classified as follows :— 
(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus proceed- 


ings under sub-section (1) of section 6 of the 
Courts Ordinance, 1924... se os ee | 


(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) in Execution matters 74 


(3) Other petitions under sub-section (2) for orders 
directed to public bodies or public officers ... 1 


¢ 
(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for change of venue 5 
(5) Petitions under the Contempt of Court Ordinance 8 


10 


19. Special Tribunal.—This tribunal, which is constituted under 
Article 55 of the Palestine Order in Council 1922 and Section 8 of 
the Courts Ordinance 1924, to decide whether or no a case is one 
of personal status within the exclusive jurisdiction of a religious 
Court, is constituted by two British Judges of the Supreme Court 
and the President, or a Judge nominated by such President, of the 
highest Court in Palestine of any religious Court which is alleged 
by any party to have exclusive jurisdiction in the matter. 

No cases were entered in this Tribunal in 1934; one case was 
pending at the close of the year. 


20. Revenue and Expenditure.—The revenue of the Courts, 
which showed a decrease in the years 1931 and 1932 followed by a 
rise in 1933 to a figure approximately the same as in 1930, in- 
creased by about £P.33,000 in 1934. 

The increase is chiefly derived from Magistrate’s Courts and 
District Courts. 

The expenditure, which in 1932 was in round figures £P.64,500, 
rose in 1933 to £P.70,000 and remained practically stationary in 
1934. 

The excess of revenue over expenditure, which in 1932 was, in 
round figures, £P.16,500, rose in 1933 to approximately £P.20,000 
and in 1934 to £P.53,000. 


21. Personnel.—Majid Bey Abdul Hadi, a District Court Judge, 
was promoted to be a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court. 

Judge J. M. de Freitas, President of the District Court of 
Jerusalem, resigned his appointment on accepting that of a Judge 
of the Mixed Tribunals of First Instance in Egypt. 

Judge C. R. W. Seton, President of the District Court of Haifa, 
was appointed as x Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Jamaica. 

Judge O. Plunkett, a Relieving President of a District Court, 
was promoted President of a District Court in place of Judge J. M. 
de Freitas; and Mr. P. E. F. Cressall, Chief Magistrate in 
Jerusalem, was promoted to be a Relieving President. 

Mr. I. Many, Judge of a Land Court, and Muhammad Yousef 
Eff. El-Khalidi and Muhammad Said Bey Toukan were promoted 
to be District Court Judges. | 

Mr. FE. C. Hubbard, formerly Chief Magistrate and Legal 
Adviser of Solomon Islands, took up duties as Chief Magistrate. 

‘Mr. J. Somerville and Miss H. Hababo were appointed as 
Assistant Probation Officers. 


22. Advocates.—Twelve advocates were reported to the Chief 
Justice under Section 15 of the Advocates Ordinance, 1922, in 
the year 1934 for disgraceful, fraudulent or unprofessional conduct. 
In none of these cases were the charges sufficiently substantiated 
to justify the convening of a Court of Discipline. 


71 


23. Court Butldings.—A new Court has been taken into use 
at Majdal; the acoustics of the Court rooms in Haifa have been 
improved and two small additional Courts are being built on 
adjoining land. 

Arrangements have been made for a Magistrate from Haifa to 
sit one day each alternate week at Hedera, where the amount 
of work justifies periodical visits. 


24. Probution.—There has been a marked development in all 
branches of probation work. In 1933, 197 boys came to the notice of 
Probation Officers ; this year the number was 646, an increase partly 
due to the more general reference of cases. Of these, 450 were 
Moslems, 172 Jews, and 24 Christians. 


Court procedure in the trial of juvenile delinquents has been 
considerably improved at the instance of the Chief Justice, and 
magistrates rely on the investigation and recommendation of the 
Probation Officers. In particular, juvenile cases are conducted 
with as little formality as possible; and, wherever possible, the 
police prefer a minor charge to be dealt with summarily by a 
magistrate, rather than by a charge which for technical reasons in- 
volves the delay consequent on submission to a District Court. 


It is now the established practice in all the Courts that juvenile 
cases, if not heard in chambers, shall be disposed of in a Court 
from which the public has been cleared; and in Jerusalem a 
juvenile Court is held in a separate building. 


Not infrequently after investigation by the Probation Officer 
and discussion with the police, minor cases are not taken to Court 
but put on ‘‘ unofficial probation ’’, which is usually effective, 
and possesses the important advantages that it gives the boy a 
chance to redeem himself. 


Some 84 boys were sent to the Government Reformatory School 
during the year, in most instances for 2-5 years according to age, 
in no instance for less than a year. Close touch is maintained by 
Probation Officers with the school staff, and with the boys, both 
during confinement and after release. 


114 boys were placed on probation, for periods varying from 
6 months to 2 years, in most cases with success. Friendly relations 
have been established with probationers and their families, and 
help has been afforded in various ways, such as placing in school, 
finding employment, purchase of trade licences, medical and sur- 
gical aid, and gifts of clothes. 


When probation fails, the boy is summoned to Court again and 
sentenced to a period of detention at the Reformatory School. 


Part of the remedial influence over young offenders is ensured 
through playgrounds and clubs, maintained by private or muni- 
cipal enterprises, in Jerusalem, Haifa, Tel Aviv, Safad, and other 
centres. 


12 


Invaluable work has been done by the trained and experienced 
workers of the Vaad Leumi among Jewish cases; and in Tel 
Aviv the Municipal Council has opened a home for juvenile 
offenders. 


An Arab lady has been appointed as a part-time Probation 
Officer for the purpose of obtaining access to Moslem harems and 
of exercising influence through the mothers on the younger types 
of delinquent boys. 


There are now honorary probation officers also in Acre and 
Tulkarm: the total number of women and men who give this 
assistance is now 28, of whom 18 are Arabs, 9 Jews, and one 
British. Of the Arabs, nine are Government teachers who from 
their knowledge of the nature of boys are of great value in dealing 
with juvenile delinquents. 


25. Law Reports.—A volume of law reports of cases decided, 
in the years 1920-1933, in the superior courts of Palestine and on 
appeal therefrom to the Privy Council, has been prepared by the 
Chief Justice. 


26. Law Classes.—The number of students enrolled in the law 
classes for the Session 1934-35 1s 137. 


Religious Courts. 


27. Moslem Community.—In the Sharia Courts 4,488 cases in 
first instance were decided during the year and 194 on appeal, 
apart from 1,190 decrees of divorce pronounced and 9,023 deeds 
of marriage issued. In addition 6,871 matters were settled 
affecting confirmation of documents and administration of estates. 
The revenue from fees was £P.6,976. 


28. Jewish Community.—There are Rabbinical Courts at 
Jerusalem (including a Court of Appeal) (881), Jaffa-Tel Aviv 
(1,171), Haifa (348), Safad (74), Tiberias (21), Petah Tiqvah (54), 
Afuleh (35), 4ichron Ya‘aqov (24), Hedera (28), and Raanana 
(26). The classification of suits was: divorces, guardianships, 
charitable trusts, confirmation, wills, and contracts. The num- 
bers shown in brackets represent the number of cases heard by 
each Court during the year. 


29. Armenian Patriarchate.—The tribunal of this Patriarchate 
heard sixteen cases in the year : five concerned wills and guardian- 
ships, and the rest divorce and alimony. 


30. Greek Catholic Community.—The actions before this 
religious court during 1934 comprised three cases of alimony and 
one separation; ten deeds of inheritance, wills and_ kindred 
documents were executed. 


31. Maronite Community.—The Court at Jerusalem heard three 
cases affecting alimony, testamentary disposition, and separation. 


73 


32. Orthodox Community.—There is a Court of Appeal at 
Jerusalem and Courts of First Instance at Jerusalem, Acre, 
Haifa, Jaffa, Nazareth, and Gaza. In all, 531 cases were 
entered, including 15 appeals, the subject-matter ranging from 
change of religion and betrothal to disposal of waqf and annul- 
ment of marriage. In 14 cases divorce was pronounced, in 159 
cases estates were distributed among the heirs, and in 31 cases 
alimony was the issue. The revenue of the Courts from fines 
was £P.290. 


33. Syrian Orthodox Community.—Seven cases were heard by 
the Court, concerning marital disputes or inheritance. 


34. Armenian Catholic Community.—The religious tribunal of 
this community heard only two cases in the year, one of tutelage 
and the other of matrimonal status. 


35. Latin Community.—In the course of 1934 eleven cases affect- 
ing alimony were heard in these Courts, seventy-nine decrees of 
inheritance issued, and thirty-four cases concerning minors and 
ten wills were approved. | 


VITI. ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


The railways of Palestine, its posts, telegraphs, and telephones, 
its ports and roads are in public ownership and are administered 
by the Palestine Government. 

The construction of the Haifa harbour has been carried out by a 
Government department, and an oil dock is being added under 
similar arrangements. | 

Water-supplies are administered, in all cases, by the municipal 
or local council concerned. 

The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 

The principle that all mineral resources of Palestine are the pro- 
perty of the Government and may therefore only be exploited under 
licence by private individuals or corporations is established by the 
Mining Ordinance, 1925. 

There are Ordinances for the control of fisheries, forests, and 
game, for the cultivation, manufacture, and sale of tobacco and 
liquor, for the manufacture and sale of matches, for the manufac- 
ture and sale of salt, and for the export of fruit. 

Reference may be made also to the Mewat (Waste) Lands, 
Companies, Customs Tariff, Urban Property Tax and Collection of 
Taxes Ordinances, and to the measures which are being taken to 
carry out a cadastral survey and a settlement of title to land. 

The terms of the concessions which have been granted by the 
Government in respect of the exploitation or development of any of 
the natural resources of Palestine, or public services, are such as 
to ensure, by means of time-limit clauses affecting the commence- 
ment of the work and the expiry of the concession, genuine and 
expeditious development. 


74 


Where appropriate, the Palestine Treasury is to receive reason - 
able royalties or rents ; the employment of local labour is adequately 
guaranteed ; the Government has the right of inspection of the 
concessionaires’ accounts; and in certain cases there is provision 
for local investment in the capital of the company. In general. 
rights under a concession may not be assigned without the consent 
of the Government, and, as a rule, the right of the Government to 
take over the undertaking in the event of war or similar emergency 
is reserved. Finally, provision is made for the reversion of the 
undertaking and all assets and effects thereof to the Government 
at the end of the term of the concession. 


The provisions of the Mining Ordinance of Palestine are so 
framed that it is possible for the Government to prevent any 
speculative ‘‘ tying-up’’ of undeveloped mineralized areas by 
prospectors. _ 


All leases of state domain land contain a clause enabling the 
Government to resume possession of the whole or any part of the 
area for public utility purposes. 


2. It has not been necessary to arrange with the Jewish Agency 
to construct or operate any pubhc works, services, and utilities, or 
to develop any of the natural resources of the country. The 
Jewish Agency is, however, a large shareholder in the Palestine 
Electric Corporation, which holds the concession for generating 
electricity from the waters of the Jordan and the Auja; and the 
Palestine Economic Corporation of New York, of which the Direc- 
tors are non-Zionist Jews co-operating with the Jewish Agency, 
has a considerable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


3. Reference to the activities of the Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion, the Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation, and 
Palestine Potash Limited is made in Section XXVI, paragraph 
10, of this report. The Mavrommatis Concession for the 
supply of water to Jerusalem has been cancelled owing to 
the inability of the British company which had acquired the rights 
to commence operations within the prescribed period or to accept 
the views of the Government of Palestine as to the rate to be 
charged for each cubic metre of water supplied. The water-supply 
is now being installed as a municipal enterprise with the financial 
assistance of Government by means of funds to be allocated from 
the proposed £P.2,000,000 Government loan and the work has 
been entrusted to the Department of Public Works. Assistance 
towards the interest charges for the first period of years has 
been extended by the Colonial Development Fund. The Tiberias 
Baths Concession is still suspended, and the concessionaires are 
managing the baths for the Municipality under a five years’ 
contract ; they have spent £P.2,000 on improvements. 


75 


History of the Huleh Concession. 


4. The Huleh concession was granted by the Ottoman Govern- 
ment in June, 1914, to Muhammad Omar Beyhum and Michel 
Sursock, merchants of Beirut, ‘‘ for the drainage of Lake Huleh and 
the adjacent marshes.’’ The terms of this concession are printed 
in Appendix IV to this Report. 


d. In March, 1918, the Turkish Ministry certified that the con- 
cession had been taken over by a duly constituted corporation 
known as the Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Company. Towards the 
end of that year, the area of the concession, owing to the circum- 
stances of the occupation of the northern part of Palestine, fell 
partly in the territory occupied by the British, partly in that admin- 
istered by the French, and partly in that administered by the Arab 
Government at Damascus. The concessionaires, as Syrians of 
Beirut, paid the rent demanded by the Syrian authorities for the 
years 1918 and 1919. In 1920 and 1921, however, they defaulted. 
During this time they were not in occupation of that part of the area 
which had been included in Palestine; and it was only in 1919 that 
application was made to the Palestine Administration for the 
recognition of the concession. 


The Secretary of State agreed to recognize the concession and 
obtained the consent of the concessionaires to a revision of the 
terms suitable to the new economic conditions; and in 1924 it was 
arranged that a fresh concession should be substituted for the 
original agreement. 


6. A fresh agreement was accordingly drawn up for considera- 
tion by the concessionaires, but failing to obtain the necessary 
financial backing they fell back on the old Ottoman concession and 
offered to sell their rights to the Palestine Government—an offer 
Which was declined. They then claimed from Government the 
revenue of the Huleh area which had been collected from the time 
of the occupation, with deduction of the rental fixed in the Otto- 
man agreement. ‘They based their claim on the fact that they had 
been in possession from July, 1914, but that in October, 1918, they 
had been deprived of the rents and profits of the lands, although 
they had actually paid rental until September, 1919. 


7. The claim of the concessionaires was disputed by Government, 
and arbitration on the dispute by a President of a Palestine District 
Court was accepted ; but before any award was given the claim was 
settled, and in March, 1930, Government paid the concessionaires 
compensation to the extent of £P.3,585. 


Meantime, in accordance with arrangements made, the con- 
cessionalres entered into possession of the lands on lst January, 
1929. At this handing over they agreed to accept the demarcation 
of the area to be made by the Government of Palestine in accord- 
ancé with the Turkish map. 


76 


8. A preliminary but integral portion of the drainage scheme, 
which involves the deepening of the Jordan channel below its 
outlet from Lake Huleh, is the reconstruction of the Banat Ya‘qub 
bridge across the Jordan. As work had not begun by the end of 
1930, a notarial notice was served on the concessionaires by Govern- 
ment on 17th January, 1931, requiring them to begin the necessary 
works within six months of the approval of the plans and to 
complete them within six years. It was finally agreed that the 
period for the completion of all operations under Article 3 of the 
concession which began to run on 16th January, 1931, would not 
come to an end until 15th September, 1937, instead of 15th January, 
1937, that is to say, the concessionaires were granted an extension 
of some eight months. 


9. A new Banat Ya‘qub bridge was built by the concessionaires 
in 1933 and taken over by Government in 1934. 


10. During 1934 a dam was built across the Jordan river north 
of the bridge, and the deepening and widening of the river was 
begun over a length of some two kilometres. 


11. With a view to determining the exact boundaries of the 
concession and the area to be reserved for cultivators under Article 
18 of the concession, as well as for the purpose of registering the 
concession area in the name of the Government subject to the 
rights of the concessionaires, and subject also to the potential 
rights of the Arab cultivators under Article 18, the area was de- 
clared a settlement area on 12th July, 1933. 


12. By October, 1934, all disputes as regards the external 
boundary were settled, and it was established that the total of the 
concession area was 56,940:027 metric dunums, made up as 
follows :— 


Metric Dunums. 


Marshes ‘ise say ate ie eae 21 452-811 

Lake ... Sie a ee a a 16,919 

Land... sis ee o ee ee 18 568-216 
Total hie bad ek ve 56 ,940:027 


13. Article 18 of the concession confers on certain cultivators a 
future, potential, and conditional right to an area of approximately 
10,000 dunums of land which in 1914 had already béen reclaimed 
by them. 


The Settlement Officer held that these cultivators had no rights 
that could be registered and no equitable rights under this Article 
which were capable of registration under the provision of the Land 
Settlement Ordinance. 


17 


14. As soon as they re-entered into possession of the area in 1929, 
the concessionaires began to have difficulties with the cultivators 
and fishermen. The former refused to pay rent and the latter con- 
tested the rights of the concessionaires to control fishing in the 
lake and rivers. The company also suffered from opposition by local 
Arab leaders. These troubles, coupled with failure to raise the 
very large sums needed to carry out the necessary work of re- 
clamation and drainage, caused them to offer the concession for 
sale. 


15. In May, 1933, an agreement was reached between one of 
the concessionaires and a director of the Palestine Land Develop- 
ment Company, a Jewish company, for the acquisition of the con- 
cession, and in November, 1933, an agreement was made between 
the Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Company (as holders of the con- 
cession) and the Palestine Land Development Company to purchase 
the concession for £E.187,000 (£P.191,794). 


16. The Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Company informed the High 
Commissioner in writing that they had entered into this agreement 
and requested him to recognize the Palestine Land Development 
Company in negotiating the transfer of the said rights. 


17. The Palestine Land Development Company was in due course 
informed that the High Commissioner would be prepared to accord 
his approval of the assignment of the concession on the following 
conditions :— 


(1) The reservation for Arab cultivators within the concession 
area of an area not exceeding 15,000 dunums. 


(2) Approval of the assignment of the concession should not 
carry with it any implied commitment on the part of the 
Palestine Government to carry out sanitary measures, anti- 
malarial or other works in the region outside the area of the 
present concession. 


(3) Should Government decide subsequently to undertake 
any such measures or other works outside the area of the 
present concession, it would ask the Palestine Land Develop- 
ment Company, as concessionaires, to share in the expense of 
such measures or works. 


(4) The Palestine Land Development Company, as con- 
cessionaires, would be responsible for the reclamation of all 
lands within the present concession area at their own expense, 
including the reclamation of the land now occupied or to be 
occupied by Arab cultivators to an extent not exceeding 15,000 
dunums—reclamation to comprise major drainage and major 
urigation ; but should not be entitled to recover any part of the 
cost of such reclamation from the Arab cultivators or from 
Government. 


78 


(5) The Palestine Land Development Company, as the 
assignees of the present concession, would be liable for all 
sums payable to Government by the present concessionaires 
under the terms of the present concession as at the date of 
assignment. 

(6) The present concession would be amended in such a 
manner as to give effect to the understanding reached. 


18. These conditions were accepted and formal approval of the 
assignment of the concessionaires was notified by Government on 
29th September, 1934. 


19. The actual area was handed over to the Palestine Land 
Development Company in the presence of Government officials on 
29th November, 1934. 


20. On Ist December, 1934, the High Commissioner made the 
following announcement :— 

‘““ Since I first came to Palestine I have been most anxious 
that drainage and development should be undertaken in the 
Huleh on sound lines and on a large scale, for two chief 
reasons :— 


(1) Round Huleh more sickness and suffering are caused 
by malaria to more people than in any other district in 
Palestine. 

(2) When the area has been drained many thousands 
of dunums will be made available for cultivation on a 
fertile soil under greatly improved health conditions. 


The original concession was granted in 1914, and I am sure 
the concessionaires were anxious to carry out the necessary 
work, but twenty years have passed and they have been unable 
to raise the very large sums needed to carry out the necessary 
work. 


The concessionaires have the approval of Government in 
transferring their concession to another group for three principal 
reasons :— 

(1) The new group has much larger funds at its dis- 
posal; consequently drainage and anti-malarial work will 
be started within a reasonable period. 

(2) The old concessionaires were obliged to set apart 
10,000 dunums for local Arab cultivators. Under the new 
concession, Government has insisted that as much as 
15,000 dunums shall be set apart if this be found necessary 
for the local cultivators. 

(3) Under the new concession, unlike the old, the major . 
drainage and major irrigation works of that area will be 
carried out without any expense to the cultivators. 


19 


I attach no blame to anyone, but during the 20 years 
very little drainage has been achieved. As High Commissioner 
I think that it is for the good of the country that there is now 
every prospect that about 40,000 dunums of marshy land, of 
little value at present to anyone, will be drained and made 
available for cultivation, that the economic position of local 
Arabs will be improved, that malaria will be greatly reduced, 
if not wholly eradicated, with the best results to the health 
and happiness of the inhabitants of that district.’’ 


21. Since the new concessionaires entered into possession they 
have confined themselves to scientific investigations in the area with 
a view to drawing up a comprehensive scheme of drainage and 
reclamation, which it is estimated may cost in the region of 
£P.500,000 to carry out. 


22. The new concessionaires employ a number of Arabs on the 
fisheries and as watchmen and for other services ; and they intend to 
employ many: more on cutting papyrus and in due course in 
reclamation works. 


23. The latest balance sheets of the several companies holding 
concessions are furnished in Appendix I to this Report. 

The Falestine Electric Corporation has been authorized to in- 
crease its capital by a further £P.1,200,000 in addition to the in- 
crease of £P.300,000 in share capital approved in 1933 but not 
issued, by an issue of 600,000 44 per cent. redeemable cumulative 
preference shares of £P1. and 600.009 ordinary shares, the procéeds 
to be used (a) for the repayment of debentures totalling £P.550,000, 
(b) £P.300,000 for the various works in hand, (c) as to about 
£P.250,000 for the conversion into cash of the depreciation and re- 
serve funds now invested in the assets of the undertaking, and 
(d) the remaining £P.100,000 to provide for capital expenditure 
during 1935. 

The Palestine Potash Company has been authorized to make 
an issue of 400,000 £P.1 participating preferred ordinary shares to 
provide the Company with adequate working capital to embark on 
large scale production. 


24. The difficulties placed by the Ottoman regime in the way of 
foreign persons acquiring land in their own name and the pro- 
hibition against any foreign corporation holding land have been 
removed by the Falestine Government and all foreign persons, 
Whether individuals or corporate, may hold land upon the same 
terms ag any Palestinian individual or corporate person. The 
special tax which was imposed by the Ottoman Law upon immov- 
able property owned by corporate bodies was abolished last year. 

Economic equality as regards mining rights is secured by the 
provision of the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 


25. There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime 
nor in the Customs Regulations of the Palestine Government. The 


80 


special privileges in respect of import duty, State and municipal 
taxation and tithes which were enjoyed by certain foreign charitable, 
religious, and educational institutions prior to the War under the 
Ottoman Law of Silhi 1281 A.H. and various firmans are maino- 
tained 1n toto by the Palestine Government, but no fresh privileges 
of the kind have been granted. 

Apart from this, foreign nationals are hable to the same taxation, 
state or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. The Ottoman Law 
of Professional Tax (Temettu), which was assessed only upon 
Ottoman subjects and not upon foreigners, has not been applied by 
the Palestine Government. 


26. Under the Urban Property Tax Ordinance the net annual 
value of all immovable property in towns is assessed by committees 
on which the public and the Government are represented in equal 
proportion. 


27. The Rural Property Tax, which 1s prescribed by an Ordinance 
published as a Bill on 18th December, 1934, will replace the Tithes, 
Commuted Tithes, Bad] Ushr, and House and Land Tax in all: 
rural areas. The Rural Property Tax is a tax per dunum on all 
agricultural lands which were valued and graded by official valuers 
into 16 tax categories according to type of cultivation and fertility 
of the soil. The tax will be distributed by District Officers on 
‘“ settled ’’ areas where ownership has been established and re- 
corded and on non-settled areas by village distribution committees 
under the supervision of the District Officers. As under the Urban 
Property Tax Ordinance, there is provision for objections and 
appeals to protect aggrieved parties. 

With the introduction of the Rural Froperty Tax, the last vestige 
of the Turkish system of taxation on immovable property in rural 
areas will have been removed and a new unified and uniform tax 
per dunum introduced. 

Taxation on immovable property will henceforth be of two kinds: 
The Urban Property Tax, which is a rate on net annual value in all 
urban areas, and the Rural Property Tax which is a tax per 
dunum of land in all rural areas. 


28. The Palestine Government will be ready to extend facilities 
for the setting up of free zones in the port of Haifa for transit 
traffic, in which the Governments of ‘Iraq and Persia are specially 
interested. The facilities would include the landing, warehousing 
and transhipment of goods, and a certain degree of manipulation ; 
each free zone would, of course, be under the general control of the 
Palestine Customs, and subject to any prohibitions or restrictions 
as to importation into Palestine that were required by international 
conventions or local needs. Officials of the foreign Government 
concerned would be allowed to take charge of all processes within 
the zone, and would be granted reasonable concessions in respect of 
local taxation. 


81 


29. Negotiations proceeded during the year towards the con- 
clusion of a Customs Agreement with ‘Iraq in regard to certain 
selected articles as well as improvement of desert communications 
with a view to the encouragement of trade between the two 
countries along the direct motor route from Bagdad to Haifa ; and at 
the end of the year practical accord had been reached as to the 
terms of this arrangement. In the direction of the improvement 
of the desert communications from Bagdad via Amman and Mafrak 
to Jaffa and Haifa respectively, the Palestine Government made 
available a sum of £P.28,300 for the improvement of the section 
of this route which lies in Trans-Jordan west of Mafrak, so as to 
make 1t negotiable by motor traffic in all weathers. 


The work is being carried out by the Trans-Jordan Department 
of Public Works with the advice and subject to the inspection of 
the Palestine Department, which is also lending rollers for this 
service. The work began at the end of October, and to date on 
the Irbid-Hosn section a length of 32,000 metres of earthwork has 
been completed and soling for 9,000 metres is ready, while 24,000 
metres of rolling has been done. 


Employment upon the construction has been given so far as 
possible to indigent tribesmen and villagers in Trans-Jordan, and 
at the end of the year there were 361 persons working on the road. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES. 


A difference arose between Moslem and Jewish authorities in 
regard to the placing of benches for aged pilgrims and children by 
the Jewish beadle in the ante-chamber to Rachel’s Tomb, and the 
proposal of the Moslems to effect certain alterations to the ante- 
chamber. 


The shrine was restored some 90 years ago by Sir Moses 
Montefiore, and the Jews have held the keys during that period. 
[t is stated that the ante-chamber was built at the same time as a 
special place of prayer for Moslems. It was ruled in 1921 that 
repairs should be undertaken by Government for the time being, 
Jewish rights to the shrine and Moslem rights to the ante-chamber 
being recognized. Applying this ruling to the existing dispute, the 
Government caused the Jews to cease from whitewashing the ante- 
chamber and placing benches in it and the Moslems to respect 
the Jewish right of passage through it to the shrine, and to refrain 
from any altering or repairing of their portion of the building. 


2. In May, the Jewish authorities protested that the opening by 
the Moslems of a door giving indirect access to the Wailing Wall, 
and their proposal to establish a school in the adjacent building, 
were 1n conflict with the Wailing Wall Order in Council, 1931 (see 
Appendix I to the Annual Report for 1931*). 


* Non-Parliamentary Publication Colonial No. 75, 1932. 





82 


The Municipality took steps, at the instance of the District Com- 
missioner, to secure the closing of the door for the reason that the 
due permit for its opening had not been granted. 


8. At the end of 1933 considerable anxiety was felt with regard 
to the condition of the structure of the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre, and an expert was engaged by Government to report 
on the measures of restoration which would be necessary. 

Having carried out a structural survey, the expert reported in 
March, 1934, that the fabric was in imminent danger of collapse. 
Government thereupon, as a temporary measure, spent £P.2,500 
on shoring the pillars and walls most seriously affected and en- 
circling the dome of the Katholicon with a steel chain to prevent 
further spreading. 

The question of the nature and extent of the permanent measures 
of restoration and the method of raising the necessary funds will 
be settled in consultation with the communities after publication 
and study of the expert’s Report.* 


4, The same expert was appointed to survey the Basilica of the 
Nativity at Bethleham, and his report* revealed grave weakness in 
the vault of the Narthex. Temporary repairs were immediately 
undertaken by Government to make the west entrance safe for 
public use. Interesting mosaics were uncovered during this survey. 


5. A complaint was lodged by the Syriac Metropolitan of 
Jerusalem of an assault by the Armenian community upon Syriac 
monks during a service in the Church of the Virgin, in Gethsemane, 
during August. The dispute centred around the right of the 
Armenians to cense the altar of St. Bartholomew at which the 
Syriacs were conducting their service, the Syriacs claiming that 
the Armenians caused an unjustified interruption of their service. 

On the following day, in the early hours of the morning, when 
the special force of police were not on duty, a brawl occurred in 
which several persons were injured and some damage done to the 
church. The District Commissioner at once called the parties 
together and arranged a pact, permitting censing by the Armenian 
without disturbance of the Syriac service, and all has been quiet in 
the church since then. 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete hberty of conscience and of religious observ- 
ance throughout Palestine. 

The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescrip- 
tions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows :— 

‘‘All persons in Falestine shall enjoy full liberty of con- 
science, and the free exercise of their forms of worship subject 
only to the maintenance of public order and morals. Every 


* Copies of these reports will be furnished to the Permanent Mandates 
Commission. 


83 


religious community recognized by the Government shall enjoy 
autonomy for the internal affairs of the community subject to 
the provisions of any Ordinance or Order issued by the High 
Commissioner.”’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change of 
religious community is regulated by the Change of Religious Com- 
munity Ordinance, 1927, and is directed to secure that there wiil 
be public notification of the change of legal status which is 
involved. 


An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High Com- 
missioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to make 
regulations for the organization of any religious community which 
applies therefor. Separate regulations are to be made in each 
case suited to the special circumstances and organization of the 
community concerned. . The regulations may provide for the con- 
stitution of councils or boards of the community which shall have 
juristic personality and may confer on them power to impose con- 
tributions and fees for communal purposes which shall be recover- 
able in the same way as municipal taxes and fees. 


The only regulations of this kind which have so far been made 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish community, which con- 
tain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion to Jews 
who wish to hold aloof from the established community. 


Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, 
s0 as to allow every labourer to enjoy, in freedom of conscience, 
that weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, subject to technical 
exigencies or considerations of emergency ; and a six-day working 
week 1s general in such works. The precise method of securing 
this end depends on the kind of work to be done, the period fixed 
for its completion, the locality in which it is to be carried out, and 
the different racial and religious elements of the labour employed 
on it. The matter is usually susceptible of adjustment by the 
District Commissioner concerned, in consultation with the under- 
taker or contractor responsible for the work and, if need be, with 
the religious head of the community affected. 


There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual craftsmen 
who can do their work in their own time. 


As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.) undertaken by 
Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours to 
avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour unavoidable 
to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions as migat 
encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All Government 
officers are granted the weekly day of rest observed by the religious 
community to which they belong. But in the case of certain 
departments, such as the Railways, Post and Telegraphs, and 
Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff. the racial distribution of 
technical skill, and the essential continuity, for example. of watch 


86 


the administration of the Jewish law of personal status by the 
Civil Courts. The reply of the Va‘ad Leumi was not received 
until the beginning of November, and its renewed submissions were 
still under consideration by the Palestine Government at the end 
of the year under review. 


XI. MILITARY CLAUSES. 


Police and Prisons. 
The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prisons in 
1934 was £P.501,957. 
The strength of the Force and the Prisons Service on 31st 
December, 1934, was as under :— 






































Officers. Inspectors. Other Ranks. | 
Christ- Christ 
mans. 1ans. a 
2 s oa 
é g] le : e . 3 
= ae & S % = = 5 = 3 
iS le] [elope Sle] 12/5]<¢/2] § a Oh le 
SIS /E/SEISISEISIS/E/ SIS/S] SB | SIS! B | s 
‘~ J ss S =~ s = m= 19 < ~ ‘= | = = > 
SIM RSIS MAISIS S/S) S10) & Sisi & 1s 
The Police Force (\82) 6 | 4| 4!—1/46/18]16/42)21] 1] 98 en pee 1,121 267] 5| 2,311) 2.40 
The Prison Service — |—/—|—] 2| 5|I—| 41 3il— 12: —|} 41} 212) 6—| 259) 27 
Totals fa 6 4 4 —« 23116/46124| 1 Ho}67 298| 1,333/263! 5] 2,570) 2,72 


2. To man the new Division of Tel Aviv, to reinforce the Haifa 
constabulary and the Criminal Investigation Department, and to 
strengthen the Wireless Telegraphy Section, the establishment was 
increased by an Assistant Superintendent of Police, a British 
Inspector, five Palestinian Inspectors, a sergeant, two corporals, 
and twenty-two constables of the British Section, and two 
sergeants, four corporals, and forty men of the Palestinian Section. 


3. The health of the force was uniformly good throughout the 
year, and there was little recurrence of the malignant malaria 
formerly prevalent in the Beersheba Division. 


4. Seventy British and 150 Palestinian policemen and 27 war- 
ders passed the Proficiency Pay Examination; these numbers com- 
pare favourably with previous years and indicate that the general 
standard of education in the force has been considerably raised. 
British non-commissioned officers are now obliged to present them- 
selves for re-examination every two years to show their eligibility 
for further promotion. 


87 


5. Three hundred and thirty-five British and Palestinian recruits 
were accepted and, with a balance of 76 who were under training 
at the end of 1933, the roll of recruits during the year was 411. 
Of these, 25 were discharged for inefficiency or other reasons and 
022 were posted to districts. The remainder had not completed 
their course at the end of the year. 

Two hundred and two policemen attended refresher or promo- 
tional courses at the depots, and of the Palestinian non-com- 
missioned officers attending, five were appointed to the inspectorate. 

One hundred policemen qualified for the first aid certificate, 37 
for the voucher, and one for the medallion of the St. John 
Ambulance Association. 

The standard of British recruits is still high and many well- 
educated young men were enlisted. One member of the British 
Section was appointed to commissioned rank in the force, two 
received similar appointments in the Arab Legion of Trans-Jordan, 
and two were appointed to posts of Inspector in the Straits Settle- 
ments. 


6. Colloquial language examinations were held in Arabic and 
Hebrew for British constables; in the higher examination 20 
passed in Arabic and 3 in Hebrew, and in the lower 148 in Arabic 
and 15 in Hebrew. 

Forty-four Palestinian officers and men passed the higher stan- 
dard examination and 249 the lower colloquial examination. 


7. Thirteen permanent wireless telegraphy stations are now 
maintained by the force, and are operated by 34 trained wireless 
personnel. The stations for the most part are situated in the 
desert and areas possessing no telephonic communication. 


8. A separate Tel Aviv Division was created with a view to 
effective control of the rapidly expanding area; a new police station 
was opened at Neve Shanaan, a suburb of Tel Aviv, and posts 
were opened at Khuneizir (Beisan), Kefr-Berim (Safad), Qubab 
(Ramle) and Abu Kebir (Jaffa), the first-named on account of a 
high incidence of agrarian crime and the last in view of extension 
of building and commercial enterprise. 


9. A new police district has been constituted of the former 
Beersheba District and the old Gaza Division, of which the attach- 
ment hitherto to the Southern District proved unsatisfactory owing 
to its distance from headquarters and the difficulty of road com- 
munication in the winter. Furthermore, politically and economi- 
cally the areas of Gaza and Beersheba are one, while their agri- 
cultural troubles, their categories of crime, and the Beduin problems 
are identical. | 


10. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners has been uniformly 
good. At 31st December, 1934, there were 20 inmates of the 
criminal lunatic section and 17 of the tubercular ward of the central 
prison at Acre. No prisoners escaped from the precincts of the 


28784 D 2 


88 


central prisons; one, however, escaped from a lock-up and is still 
at large, and of eleven prisoners who escaped whilst on outside 
labour six were recaptured. ‘Twenty boys escaped from the 
Reformatory School, of whom 17 were either re-captured or returned 
of their own accord. 


Eleven thousand four hundred and eighty-four prisoners were 
released under the Penal Labour Ordinance and employed on various 
services of public utility. No wages are paid to the prisoners for 
the work. 


A daily average of 740 convicted prisoners in jail labour com- 
panies work on road-making, quarrying, and railway ballasting. 

In the central prisons convicts are employed on making and 
repairing furniture for public offices, earth baskets for the Public 
Works Department, prison clothing, mats and sandals, iron grilles 
and doors, and carpets, and on mending mail bags. A _ small 
printing plant is run with prison labour. 


The numbers of prisoners in confinement on 31st December, 1934, 
were as follows :— 


Un- 
Convicted. convicted. 

Central Prison, Jerusalem = ‘eg 328 89 
Central Prison, Acre ov en se 549 146 
Jail Labour Company No. 1 _... gi 340 — 
Jail Taabour Company No. 2 oe he 404 — 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem _... ssi 41 22, 
Jerusalem District lock-ups a4 on 40 7 
Northern District lock-ups ee ais a4 15 
Southern District lock-ups sess as 62 68 
Nablus District lock-ups bik a 21 29 
Gaza District lock-ups ahs — 28 17 


Total 1,867 453 


The distribution of sentences was as follows :— 


Debtors, 57; up to 3 months, 445; 3-12 months, 539; 1-5 © 
years, 398; 5-15 years, 353; over 15 years, 21; life, 52; capital 
punishment, 2. 

There were 161 convicted offenders and four boys awaiting trial 
in the Reformatory. The average age on admission was twelve 
years. 


During the year, 1,274 debtors were imprisoned; in 1933 the 
number was 1,484. 


11. Criminal Investigation Department.—This department is con- 
trolled by a Deputy Inspector-General of Police and is divided 
into four branches: Admunistration, Political, Criminal Records 
and General Investigation, each in charge of a superior police 


89 
officer. The subordinate staff consists of four inspectors, three 
sergeants, two corporals, and twenty constables; the increase over 


last years’ establishment was found necessary to cope with illegal 
immigration. 


The duties of the Department are to prevent and detect crime 
by the collection of information and evidence and by investigations 
in collaboration with the district police, to watch and report upon 
political movements, to repress seditious activities, to maintain 
criminal records, finger-prints and photographs, to examine the 
regular organs of the Press and occasional pamphlets with a view 
to action in case of seditious, inflammatory, or obscene articles, 
to prevent the smuggling of arms, drugs, and illegal immigrants, 
to scrutinize applications for naturalization, to arrange deporta- 
tions and extraditions and to preserve liaison with the corresponding 
departments in Egypt, Syria, Trans-Jordan, India, ‘Iraq, and 
Europe. Censorship of newspapers from abroad is occasionally 
undertaken. | 


12. The Criminal Records Office and Fingerprint Bureau hold 
29,325 convict dossiers, of which 4,549 were filed during 1934. 
Apart from this 6,070 fingerprint slips were received for search and 
previous convictions were traced in 1,555 cases. 


13. The following are comparative statistics of crime during the 
past five years :— 
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 


Indictable Offences --- 6,015 4,815 4,133 2,881 2,172 
Non-Indictable Offences ... 29,036 28,008 17,950 9,271 8,454 


The decrease in both categories is gratifying, particularly if regard 
is had to a recorded increase of the population by 68,000. 


The following are the figures of serious crime :— 


1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 
Murder... aus wee 126 119 119 108 109 
Attempted murder set 179 145 118 97 122 
Highway robbery eis *28 98 57 34 32 
Theft by breaking into 
premises soe a 1,357 811 1,040 493 337 


* This figure is based on an old classification where the term highway robbery 
was confined to cases of theft with violence on a highway by armed parties at 
night. Other figures given include all cases of theft from & person on a public road 
or track, accompanied by threat or violence, no matter what the time of day or the 
number of the aggressors. 


In most of the murders and attempted murder a knife or dagger 
was the weapon used. This feature has called for comment by the 
Bench, and severe sentences have been imposed. 

Highway robbery was commonest in the Tulkarm and Acre 
Divisions, but energetic police measures resulted in detection and 


28784 D 3 


90 


prosecution in almost every case, and salutary sentences, ranging 
from four to ten years penal servitude, for seven of the ring-leaders. 


Cases are multiplying of fraud by means of forged cheques and 
promissory notes. 


There has been an unpleasant manifestation of juvenile crime 
in Jaffa and Tel Aviv. One gang was brought to book which 
planned and carried out thefts of jewellery and goods, selling them 
for cash and spending the proceeds on cinemas, sweets, cigarettes 
and trinkets; the members have been placed on probation or are 
awaiting trial. 


Another gang of six boys in Tel Aviv engaged in picking pockets 
during the Purim festival ; four were sent to reformatory and the 
other two were birched and placed on probation for two years. 


Four other youthful gangsters in Tel Aviv were birched and 
placed on probation for two years, after perpetrating seven thefts; 
and a similar gang of four boys in Jaffa were sent to the reformatory 
for three years for pick-pocketing and thefts from shops. 


14. The Modus Operandi and Supervisees Scheme inaugurated 
last year 1s now in complete working order and the close contact 
which the police are thus enabled to maintain with known offenders 
and suspects has been the means of preventing many crimes and of 
effecting early arrests of criminals. The criminals who cultivate — 
regular methods of procedure are few in Palestine, and the scheme 
of supervision and contact reports was consequently extended to 
large numbers of habitual offenders. The movements of about 800 
persons known or suspected to be house-breakers are recorded by the 
police unostentatiously and without interfering with the liberty of 
the supervisee so long as he conducts himself properly. 


15. Ten persons were extradited from Palestine to Syria, seven 
from Syria to Palestine, nineteen from Palestine to Trans-Jordan, 
and five from Trans-Jordan to Palestine. 


16. Fifty-three persons were prosecuted for offences under the 
Criminal Law (Seditious Offences) Ordinance in connection with 
subversive communist activity and in forty-six cases convictions 
were obtained. 


Forty-six militant communists were ordered to be deported but, 
owing to difficulties encountered in verifying their nationality and in 
obtaining the consent of the Governments concerned to accept them, 
only twenty-one were actually expelled. 


Orders were made excluding 69 undesirable persons from the 
country, mainly for connection with subversive communist 
propaganda. 


91 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, including the 
Reserve, at 31st December, 1934, was 1,039, made up as follows :— 


Arabs. 
Pan ore 
. *% Bo. 
” 4 *% 
” © = ° pad © a 
s - ro 3 2 2S. Ss 3 
= .5 2 38 & °° 
Q | oS oO Ss AR RA Sy 
Officers ... ro 24 7 8 8 3 — 2 52 
Warrant Officers 6 — — = — a — 6 
Staff Sergeants... ae 3 — — — — — — 3 
N.C.QO.’s and Troopers... — 407 195 132 23 39 16 812 
Total deh oe 33 414 203 #9140 26 39 18 873 
Reserve N.C.0O.’83 and Men — 115 21 20 = — 10 166 
Total 83 529 224 #2160 26 39 28 1,039 


17. During the year 125 recruits were enlisted, of whom 56 
were Arab Moslems, 39 Arab Christians, 14 Circassians, 4 Jews, 
4 Druzes, and 8 Egyptians and Sudanese. 

One hundred and thirty-six men were discharged on termina- 
tion of contract or otherwise, and 18 of these enrolled in the 
Reserve. 

One hundred and thirty-seven other ranks, time-expired, were | 
re-engaged for a further contract. 


18. The general health ‘of the Force was satisfactory. Four 
hundred and four cases were treated in hospitals of the Force. 
There were 162 cases of malaria. 


19. Minor operations were carried out in the Jordan area in co- 
operation with the police, for the prevention of smuggling, and 
of illegal immigration. 

Individual and collective training and co-operational training 
with the Royal Air Force were carried out in accordance with 
the programme laid down. 

The annual courses for rifles, machine-guns, and light auto- 
matics revealed a satisfactory standard in weapon training. 


20. The progress of educational classes was satisfactory, and 282 
other ranks passed the examinations for 2nd and 8rd class 
certificates. 

Schools have been opened for children of local personnel, and 
there are already nearly 100 attendances. 


21. The approved estimates of expenditure of the Force for the 
year 1934-35 amount to £P.208,890, including £P.32,628 for extra- 
ordinary works, and approved grant-in-aid from the Imperial 
Government is £P.149,000. 


28784 D4 


92 


XII.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 


AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syria 


Country. 


Syria 
Trans-Jordan 


Country. 


Egypt 
Egypt 


Egypt 


France 


Great Britain 


‘Traq isis 
Switzerland 
Syria 


Syria 


Syria 


of Palestine. 


(1) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum 
Amendment ... 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramleh. 
11.7.21 Palestine. 
15.7.21 Syria. 

10.1.24 Palestine. 
28.1.24 Syria. 
11.9.33 Palestine. 
23.9.33 Syria. 


(11) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Customs Agreement ... 


Transit Agreement ... 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Convention concerning the Reciprocal 
Enforcement of Judgments. 

Agreement concerning the Measures 
to be applied for the Control of 
Dengue Fever. 

Arrangements for the Transit of 
Palestinian Pilgrims through 
Egyptian Territory. 

Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of Palestine on 
the one part and by France on 
behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

Agreement between the Post Office 
of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland and the Post 
Office of Palestine for the Exchange 
of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement : 

Agreement concerning the Importa- 
tion of Antiquities. 

Agreement to provide for the Distri- 
bution of certain Receipts from 
Animal Tax. 

Parcel Post Agreement 


Date of Signature. 
4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 

Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


Date of Signature. 
12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


28.12.33, Cairo. 
(Effective date), 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Jerusalem. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 
28.10.29/7.11.29. 


Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 


93 


Country. Name. 
Syria vee .-- Money Orders Agreement ... 


Date of Signature. 
17.1.30/25.2.30. 


Syria — ... Agreement regarding Measures to 30.3.27. 


combat Cattle Plague. 


Syria and the Agreement for the Reciprocal Grant 20.8.32, Jerusalem. 


Lebanon of Gratis Visas. 


5.9.32. Beirut. 


Trans-Jordan ... Agreement for the Taking of 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
Evidence on Commission for the 6.3.29, Amman. 
purpose of any Criminal or Civil 


Matter. 


Trans-Jordan ... Agreement as to the Circulation of 14.11.29, Jerusalem. 


Motor Vehicles. 


Trans-Jordan ... Agreement regarding the Inter- 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 


change of Judicial Documents. 


6.3.29, Amman. 


Trans-Jordan ... Agreement regarding the Convey- 1.10.29. 
ance of Corpses from Palestine for 
Burial in Trans-Jordan and from 


. Trans - Jordan for Burial 
Palestine. 


in 


United States of Convention regarding the Rights of 3.12.24. 
America. the Government and Nationals of 
the United States of America in 


Palestine. 


Agreements concluded in 1934. 
Syria fos ... Agreement to facilitate the move- 3.1.34, Jerusalem. 
ment of certain animals from 
one territory into the other for 
purposes of grazing and watering. 


Trans-Jordan ... Extradition Agreement 


28.7.34. 


Trans-Jordan ... Agreement to Regulate the Service 23.11.34, Amman. 
of Judicial Documents between 13.12.34, Jerusalem. 


Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Name. 


International Convention prohibiting the Use of White 
(Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Opium Convention and subsequent 
relative papers. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. 

Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 
Waterways of International Concern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. 
Declaration recognizing the Right toa Flag of States 

having no Sea Coast. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 
‘Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 

matters). 
International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Formalities. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
Berne. 
13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
Berlin. 


23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
The Hague. 
20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
Berne. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 9.10.22 
Barcelona. (Ratification). 
12.9.23, 23.5.27. 
Geneva. 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
Geneva. 
3.11.23, 29.8.24 


Geneva. (Ratification). 


94 


Name. 


4 


Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Ports and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electric Power and Protocol of Signature. 

International Agreement as to Contagious Diseases 
of Animals. 

International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Exploration 
of the Mediterranean Sea. 

International Convention for the unification of certain 
rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 


International Radio-telegraph Convention 
Universal Postal Convention 
Agreement Concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 


Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial Navi- 
gation and Additional Protocol of May, 1920. 


International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 
International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


- 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Field. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Trafiic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement regarding False Indications 6.11.25 


of Origin on Goods. 


International Convention for the Protection of 


Industrial Property. 


International Conventions adhered to in 1984. 


European Broadcasting Convention 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25 
Geneva 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
25.1.24 13.7.27 
Paris. 
21.6.26, 9.10.28 
Paris. 
26.4.29, 19.12.29. 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31 
Brussels (Effective 
date). 
24.4.26, 4.12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date). 
25.11.27, 15.8.30. 
Washington 
28.68.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
28.86.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
13.10.19. 11.7.22 
(Effective 
date). 
22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
Paris. 
19.2.26, 25.9.28 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 26.5.31. 
Geneva. 
27.7.29, 23.6.31 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
ioe 6.5.32 
4.6.10 : (Effective 
etait date). 
Paris. 
30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 
Geneva. 
12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 
6.11.25 12.9.33 
The Hague. (Effective 
date). 
19.6.33, 15.1.34, 
Lucerne (Effective 


date.) 


95 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United Kingdom 22.7.26 
and Albania. 
Austria se 3.12.1873 
26.6.1901 
( 29.10.01, 
Belgium 5.3.07, 
Belgian Congo 3.3.11, 
Ruanda-Urundi .. | 8.8.23 and 
(2.7.28 
Bolivia ‘ . 22.2.1892 
Chile : 26.1.1897 
Colombia 27.10.1888 
2.12.29. 
Cuba ... 3.10.1904 
17.4.1930. 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Denmark ae 31.3.1873 
Ecuador 20.9.1880 
Estonia 18.11.25 
Finland ' 30.5.24 ... 
Germany 14.5.1872 and 10.12.1928 
Greece 24.9.10 ; 
Guatemala 4.7.1885 
Hayti ... 7.12.1874 ‘ss 
Hungary 3.12.1873 and 26.6. 1901. 
‘Iraq ... 2.5.1932 . o 
Latvia : 16.7.24 ... 
Liberia ; 16.12.1892 
Lithuania 18.65.26 .. 
Luxemburg 24.10.1880 
Monaco : 17.12.91 
27.11.30. 
Netherlands ... 26.9.1898 
Nicaragua : 19.4.1905 
Norway ; 26.6.1873 
18.2.1907. 
Panama Se 25.8.1906 
Paraguay ‘ 12.9.1908 
Peru ... wie 26.1.1904 
Roumania_.... 21.3.1893 
San Salvador 23.6.1881 
Siam ; 4.3.1911 a ae 
Spain ; 4.6.1878 and 19.2. 1889 
Switzerland . 26.11.1880 ; 
29.6.1904. 


United States of America ... 


Yugoslavia... 


Poland... é — 
Portugal see ae 
San Marino 


9.8.1842 (Article 10) 
12.7.1889 
13.12.1900 
12.4.1905 

6.12.1900 


Treaties applied in 1934. 


11.1.1932. 
17.10.1892. 
20.1.1932. 
16.10.1899. 


Date of Application. 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


— 23.1.28. 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


18.2.28. 
13.1.28. 
5.12.30 (Effective date). 


12.12.31 (Effective date). 
15.7.27. 


10.2.28. 

19.1.28. 

10.3.27. 

25.11.26. 

17.8.30 (Effective date). 
19.4.28. 

11.9.29. 

13.1.28. 

25.4.28. 

15.6.33 (Effective date). 
7.6.26. 

16.10.28. 

29.3.27 (Ratification). 
28.1.28. 

5.7.31 (Effective date). 


27.1.28. 
12.1.28. 
13.12.29. 


24.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
11.1.29. 
8.8.30 (Effective date). 
27.2.28. 
13.2.28. 
19.9.29. 


3.12.25. 


1.11.28. 


12.3.34 (Effective date). 
23.6.34 (Effective date). 


.-. 19.7.34 (Effective date.). 


96 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 
list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has been applied to the following 
countries :— 


Argentine. Mexico. 
France. Tunis. 
Italy. Uruguay. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. Name. Date of 
A pplication. 
Between Great Britain 
and. 
Austria Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.26. 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks ut tie 2.12.27. 
13.4.28. 
Bulgaria Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.29. 
12.11.25. 
Czechoslovakia Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 a 5.6.25. 
Egypt Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6. 30, Cairo 11.6.30. 
Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of 16/19.2.33. 
Finland Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.26. 
14.12.33. 
Finland Convention regarding the Suppression of 13.10.33 
Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 
into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 
Germany Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.26. 
2.12.24, London. 
Greece... Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 21.6.29, 
Origin, 21.6.29. 5.7.29 
(Effective 
date). 
Greece... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3.27. 
16.7.26. 
Hungary Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.7.26 9.7.29. 
Japan Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.6.30. 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 
Latvia Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.24. 
22.6.23, London. 
Lithuania Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 24.4.23. 
tions, 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 10.12.29. 
Panama Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2/19.9.32. 
25.9.28. 
Poland Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.24 
26.11.23. 
Portugal Notes on Flag Discrimination in Portuguese 14.10.33. 
Ports, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 
Spain Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.31. 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 
Spain Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.28. 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 
Yugoslavia Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.28. 


12.5.27. 


97 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Country. 


Austria 


Belgium 


Czechoslovakia 


Estonia 


Italy 


Denmark 


Netherlands ... 


Countries which apply to Palestine 


Name. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 31.3.31, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 21.6.22, 

London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 11.11.24. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 22.12.31, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 2.2.22, 
London. 

Extension to French Colonies and Terri- 
tories under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 1.8.33. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 20.3.28. 


Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certificates 
and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 25.1.29. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 

in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
17.12.30, London. 

Notes respecting Documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.31, London. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 30.1.31, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 26.8.31, 
Warsaw. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters 9.7.31, 
London. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil:and Commercial Matters, 27.6.29, 


London. 

Convention regarding Legal in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 28.8. 30, 
London. 


Conventions applied in 1984. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercia] Matters, 29.11.32, 
London ... 

Convention regarding ‘Legal Proceedings in in 
Civil and Commercial ne 31.5.32, 
London 


Date of 
Application. 
1.4.32 
(Effective 
date). 
13.3.25 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 
date). 
11.10.33 
(Effective 


(Effective 
date). 
11/25.8.30. 


25.8.32 
(Effective 
date). 
13.4.3] 


1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 
14.11.31 
(Effective 


23.2.31 
(Effective 
date). 


27.3.34 
(Effective — 
date). 
23.5.34 
(Effective 
date). 


98 


XITI.—_ ANTIQUITIES. 

The Department of Antiquities in Palestine adheres to the 
policy laid down in the Mandate, on which the Antiquities 
Ordinance, 1929, and Regulations are based. The texts of the 
Ordinance and Regulations were printed in Appendices VII and 
VIII to the Report for 1929.* References to new or amending 
regulations have been made in succeeding reports. 

Ihe Antiquities (Amendment) Ordinance, 1934, was promul- 
gated to remove certain restrictions on the exportation of antiquities 
recently imported into Palestine, and to confirm the validity of 
the Provisional Schedule of Historical Sites and Monuments 
published on 15th June, 1929. 

The High Commissioner has delegated to the Director of the 
Department of Antiquities the following powers :— 


(i) to acquire antiquities in accordance with the provisions 
of the Antiquities Ordinance, 1929; 

(11) to grant licences to excavate or to make soundings ; 

(iu) to grant dealers licences ; 

(iv) to authorize the sale of antiquities which are the property 
of the Government, and which, in the opinion of the Director 
and the Advisory Board, are not required for the Palestine 
Museum. 


2. Licences have been issued for archaeological excavations, 
soundings or clearances, at the following sites :— 

(a) Tabgha, by Dr. A. E. Mader, for the Orientalisches 
Institut der Gorresgesellschaft zu Jerusalem. 

(b) Isbeita, by Mr. H. Dunscombe Colt, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(c) Tell el Jerisheh, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(d) Tell el-‘Ujal, by Sir W. Flinderg Petrie, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Egypt. 

(e) Tell el-Mutsallem (Megiddo), by Mr. P. L. O. Guy, 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(f) Et-Tell, by Madam Krause Marquet, for Baron Edmond 
de Rothschild. 

(g) Tell Duweir, by Mr. J. L. Starkey, for the Wellcome 
Historical Museum. 

(h) Wadi el-Mughara (Athht), by Miss D. A. E. Garrod, 
for the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem and the 
American School of Prehistoric Research. 

(t) Beitin, by Professor W. F. Albright, for the American 
School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem and the Pittsburgh- 
Zenia Theological Seminary. 

(7) Abu Shusheh, by Mr. Alan Rowe, for the Palestine 
Exploration Fund. 


* Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 47, 1930. 


99 


(k) Jebal Kafzeh (near Nazareth), by Monsieur R. Neuville, 
for l'Institut de Paleontologie Humaine, Paris. 

(1) Tombs in the Kedron Valley (Clearances), by Dr. E. L. 
Sukenik, for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(m) Ard el Baten (Bethlehem), by Miss E. W. Gardner, 
for the Wellcome Archaeological Research Expedition to the 
Near East. 

(n) Tell el-Sultan (Jericho), by Professor J. Garstang, for 
the Institute of Archaeology, University of Liverpool. 

(o) Balata (Nablus), by Professor E. Sellin and Dr. 
Stecheweh, for the German State Institute of Archaeology. 

(p) Hederah (Soundings), by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(q) As-Samu’ (Clearance), by Professor L. A. Mayer and 
Dr. A. Reifenberg, for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(r) Deir el Banat, Urtas (Soundings), by the Reverend 
Father Duvignan. 

(s) Al-‘Affuleh (Clearance), by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 


3. The Inspectorate of the Department has been occupied in 
preventing damage to historical sites and monuments, and in in- 
vestigating, by systematic excavation and other means, discoveries 
of antiquities made either by the Department or in the course of 
agricultural, industrial and other works. 


Excavations by the Inspectorate during the year include clearance 
of a Byzantine Church at Jericho, two mosaic pavements at Tell el 
Mastaba, part of a 3rd-4th century cemetery and several individual 
tombs of different periods discovered in Jerusalem and Silwan, 
a middle bronze age tomb at Khirbet Kufin, a cave containing 
a scarab and objects of the late Bronze Age in the grounds of 
Government House, Jerusalem, an Iron Age tomb at ed Dahariva, 
Roman cisterns containing pottery objects at Beit Natif, frag- 
ments of a prehistoric elephant at Bethlehem, Roman tombs at 
Beit Fajjar, a sounding at Tell Ras el Ain, a painted Byzantine 
tomb at Khirbet Mas‘ub, a Roman tomb at Deir el Asad. Excava- 
tions are in progress in the citadel of Jerusalem. Articles describing 
the results of most of this work have been prepared for publication 
in the Quarterly of the Department. 


The Department’s work at Athlit has continued under the direc- 
tion of the Field Archaeologist and has included the clearance of 
the Crusaders’ cemetery and the stable, and further, investigation 
of the outer defences of the castle. A general survey of the castle 
Was initiated. 


4. Library and Records. 

Library.—Work on the subject-catalogue is well advanced. The 
classification has been made and the cards have been typed. 

Accessions during the year are 400 (697 volumes). 


100 


Exchanges of the Quarterly have now been arranged with 6&4 
periodiculs, and 126 periodicals ure received. 

Records.—The principal activity has been the re-arrangement 
of records on a loose-leaf filing system. Information about in- 
dividual sites, including excavators’ and inspectors’ reports, plans, 
photographs, etc., is thus made easily accessible, together with 
bibhography and references. 

In co-operation with the Museum, a programme is arranged for 
the staff photographer which will ensure full photographic records 
of all important sites, buildings, ete. 

An important part of the activities of the Records’ office has 
been to give assistance and supply information to scholars and 
students. At the request of the Egyptian Committee for the Map 
of the Roman Empire, which is being prepared by the International 
Geographical Union, this office prepared a map of Roman South 
Palestine for incorporation in the Cairo sheet. 


5. Quartcrly.—Parts 1 and 2 of Vol. IV (1934) have appeared 
and parts 3 and 4 are in the press. It has been arranged that 
the publishers should supply this publication direct to the 
Permanent Mandates Commission. 


6. Museum.—During the year, some 8,000 new accessions were 
inventoried and 2,000 objects catalogued in detail with bibliography, 
etc., for the card catalogue of the Museum. 

The services of a specialist were engaged for the purpose of 
cataloguing the Department’s collection of ‘Egyptian objects (seals, 
scarabs, amulets, etc.). 


7. Broadly, the operations needed for the conservation of 
antiquities are :— 
(a) the conservation of movable antiquities ; 
(b) the conservation of immovable antiquities, that 1s, histori- 
cal monuments and historical sites, 


The movable antiquities acquired by the Government either as the 
result of licensed excavations or of excavations carried out by the 
Department are conserved by cleaning, mending, repairing, and 
other treatment carried out in the repair shop and laboratory of the 
Museum. Certain highly specialized work is done by qualified 
persons or bodies. 

The Department does not at present include a technical conserva- 
tion section staffed and equipped for the specialized work of con- 
serving ancient buildings. Therefore the work of the Department 
in regard to immovable antiquities is confined to the following :— 


(1) The preparation of reports for submission to the Gov- 
ernment or to the Department of Public Works, on the condi- 
tion of monuments, together with general suggestions as to 
the measures needed to prevent collapse. A token vote is 
included in the budget of the Department of Antiquities for 


101 


the purpose of defraying the cost of any works that may be 
carried out by the Department of Public Works, while other 
provision is made under the heading ‘** Public Works Extra- 
ordinary ’’ in the budget of the Department of Public Works. 

(2) Reporting to the Government in regard to any proposed 
destruction of monuments in order to enable the Government 
to decide whether any given monument that may be threatened 
with destruction shall be destroyed or retained. 

(3) Recording, by photography, drawings, and description, 
any antiquities found in the course of industrial or other works, 
of which the preservation is not possibile. 

(4) Preventing, by means of the Department’s Inspectorate, 
illicit excavation for antiquities. 

(5) Freserving, so far as possible unimpaired, the value of 
historical sites as fields for scientific excavation. 

(6) Making recommendations to the Government in regard 
to any action that may be needed for protecting and enhancing 
the amenities and historical integrity af important historical 
sites against the dangérs of commercial and industrial encroach- 
ment. 


8. During the year, as the result of reports prepared by the 
Department, surveys have been carried out by an expert appointed 
by the Colonial Office for the purpose of ascertaining the structural 
condition of and making recommendations in regard to the con- 
servation of the Churches of the Holy Sepulchre and of the Nativity. 

Reports and investigations by the Department have also resulted 
in works of consolidation being carried out by the Department 
of Public Works to St. Helena’s cistern at Ramleh, to the Citadel 
at Khan Yunis, and to the Walls of Jerusalem; while protective 
works have been begun by the Department of Public Works for pre- 
serving tm situ an important group of mosaic floors discovered at 
Beisan. Other mosaic floors that have been discovered in different 
parts of Palestine have either been reburied after complete records 
have been made or have been lifted and removed by the Department. 


9. Count de Penha Garcia at the Session of the Permanent Man- 
dates Commission in June, 1934, made reference to the apparent 
decrease in the expenditure of the Palestine Government on the 
preservation of antiquities since 1929, The actual position is that 
in 1928 the total budget appropriation for antiquities services, 
excluding the salaries of the permanent staff of officers, was 
£P.6,330 and that in the succeeding years the sums provided have 
been as follows :— 


*  £P. 
1999...) gg eae 8,785 
1930... ... eee BYTES 
19891... eee G,705 
1932-33 eae ee ~~ 6,820 


1933-34 sa ath a 6,460 


102 


The annual requirements vary owing to technical considerations 
and the exigencies of the Service. 

The unusual reduction in expenditure in 1929 was due to the tem- 
porary suspension of work on Jerusalem City and its Walls. That 
work has since been resumed. 


XTV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance with 
Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which reads 
as follows :— 

‘* All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of the 
Government and all official notices of local authorities and 
municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the High 
Commissioner, shall bé published in English, Arabic and 
Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates and 
discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to any 
regulations to be made from time to time, in the Government 
offices and the Law Courts.”’ 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to the 
use of English, Arabic and Hebrew in the Law Courts was more 
exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows :— 


‘“In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a trilingual 
area, every process, every official copy of a judgment, and 
every official document shall be issued in the language of the 
person to whom it is addressed, and written and oral pleadings 
shall be conducted in any of the three official languages. The 
Legal Secretary may from time to time issue rules* restricting 
the languages of pleading in any Court or class of Courts outside 
the trilingual areas. 

‘‘ In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court shall, 
and in other area may, accept a declaration and register a 
document in any of the three official languages.’’ 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, Haifa, 
and Jaffa, and also the district of Jaffa and sub-districts of Tiberias 
and Safad. The recognition of the three languages in the Courts 
involves some complication in the hearing of cases, and occasionally 
trials are protracted. The rules have, however, on the whole worked 
smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 


magistrates. 


* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


103 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and 
committees, and departmental publications are published in English, 
Arabic, and Hebrew. 


4. It has now been found possible to arrange for the introduction 
on an experimental basis from 1st January, 1935, of a system 
whereby telegrams written in Hebrew characters will be accepted 
in Jewish towns and settlements, if addressed to places where 
treatment by non-Jewish staff is not likely to be entailed. These 
facilities will be available in twenty-one places in the first instance, 
but the possibility of extending the service will be considered as 
opportunity offers. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognized as holy days by the 
various communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix IX to 
the Report for 1930.* 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 


See separate pages on Trans-Jordan on pages 238 to 273. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


The international labour conventions applied to Palestine are set 
out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 1933. The 
only change during the year was the revision of the basis on which 
unemployment statistics are compiled. 


2. The previous definition of unemployment was :— 


‘“A man or woman of the working class who, being 
dependent entirely or mainly on his or her wages for his or her 

_ livelihood, is in need of and seeking employment at the time, _ 
or is employed for less than three days a week.”’ 


This definition included Arab peasants who normally work on the 
farms, but happen to be in need of outside employment at the 
time of the return. It excluded unemployed landowners, small 
traders and craftsmen working independently who were not actually 
seeking employment at the time of the return. This definition 
differed radically from that adopted in other countries. 


The new definition excludes peasants who are in need of outside 
work during the agricultural dead seasons and those classes of 
persons whose usual source of livelihood is not based on contractual 
service. 


* Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 75, 1931. 


104 


3. Pending the collection of figures on the revised basis, the 
submission of monthly unemployment statistics to the International 
Labour Office was temporarily discontinued between April and 
November, 1934. 


4. In August a provisional estimate of unemployment was made 
which showed that Jewish unemployment was practically non- 
existent in Palestine, except for persons incapable of physical work, 
workers changing employment, and recent immigrants who have 
not yet entered the labour market; the number of Arabs out of 
work was estimated at about 3,000 persons or 1:4 per cent. of the 
Arab wage-earners in Palestine. 


From August, 1934, to the end of the year there was no 
appreciable change in the state of unemployment, while employ- 
ment absorbed additional labourers entering the country as immi- 
grants. 


5. The compilation of adequate statistics of employment and 
unemployment will not be possible for some time and, in any case, 
not until the proposed Office of Statistics 1s well established. 


6. The unemployment funds of the General Federation of Jewish 
Labour at the end of the year were stated to be £P.15,000. 


7. According to data supplied from Jewish sources, there has 
been a considerable increase during the year in the number of 
Jewish wage-earners employed in industry and construction, as 
shown in the following table* :— 

Industry. Construction. 


1931 October ace ae ee 6,400 2,300 
1932 October oe oh - 8 ,050 4,150t 
1933 April ... bes a ... 10,370 6,400 +t 
1933 October woe ae ... 18,170 10,570+ 
1934 February iu es i — 10 ,080 
19384 September... ve ... 17,500 11,900 


8. This increase is due primarily to the large volume of capital 
imported into Palestine and invested by Jewish immigrants, 
estimated by the Jewish Agency at about £10,000,000 during the 
year. Part of this capital has been invested in the construction of 
houses for new immigrants, part in industrial undertakings and 
part in agriculture, chiefly citrus plantations. The increase in 
each branch is shown by the following figures. (Those for building 





* Figures for 1931-1933 were estimates by the Department of Immigration; 
for 1934 they are estimates by the Jewish Agency. 

+ Including a number of workers employed in industries connected with 
construction. 


105 


include buildings owned by non-Jews, about one-third of the total 
at Jerusalem and Haifa.) :— 


Average area of floor area 
of buildings for which 
permits are issued 
monthly in Jerusalem, 


Butlding. Tel Aviv and Haifa. 
Sq. Metres. 
1931 oie ane wis a: mee 27,000 
1932 ee au er bes es 27,000 
1933 ie see ae ae 58 ,000 
1934 (ten months) a set ae 74,000 
(Figures supplied by Municipal Corporations.) 
Number of Number of Annual 
Industry. Establishments. Jews engaged. Output. 
£ 
1930 ... ed 2,475 10,970 2,235,000 
1933 (end)... 3,388 19,600 5,371,000 


(From censuses of industry taken by Jewish Agency.) 


Citrus-Growing. 
Area in dunums (4 acre) of bearing and non-bearing groves :— 


Owned by Owned by 
Jews. Arabs, etc. Total. 
1930 ae tas 60,000 50,000 110,000 
1931 sue bas 66,000 59,000 125,000 
1932 oe ae 86,000 74,000 160,000 
1933 Bak eae 120,000 84,000 _ 204,000 
1934 ba 150,000 115,000 265,000 


(Figures sapliea by the Department of Agriculture and Forests, the Statistical 
Abstracts of Palestine—D. Gurevitch, the Co-operative Bulletin, June, 1934, and 
the Statistical Department of the Jewish Agency.) 


9. The rapid development of construction caused a considerable 
shortage of labour and a temporary withdrawal of Jewish workers 
from agriculture, as shown in the following table :— 


July, 1933. July, 1934. Change. 
re Aas 
Urban workers wee .-- 20,000 30,000 
Agricultural smallholders 4,000 6,000 " a 
Agricultural labourers .-- 7,000 4,500 36 ] 
Non-agricultural labourers 12,000 14,500 a} + 20 
in rural areas... ee 5,000 10,000 


36,000 (approz.) 50,500 (approz.) + 38 
(From figures supplied by the General Federation of Jewish Labour.) 


10. The increase in employment among Jews was accompanied 
by an increase in deposits with various workers’ savings banks and 
co-operative societies. 


106 


11. The increase in wages which began in the building industries 
in 1932 has spread to all branches of production in which Jews 
are employed and to certain groups of undertakings employing 
Arab labour, causing @ considerable shift of workers from low-paid 
to high-paid work, chiefly in the towns. 


12. The prevailing wages for Jewish workers at the end of the 
year in the building industries were from 40 per cent. to 50 per 
cent. higher than those at the beginning of 1933. The minimum 
wage for Jewish unskilled labour was 300 mils (6s.) a day while 
highly-skilled workers received on the average 750 (15s.) a day. 
Wages in Tel Aviv and Haifa were higher on the whole than in 
Jerusalem. 


13. Wages for Jewish workers in other industries rose by 10 per 
cent.-20 per cent. during the year. There was a slight increase in 
the wages of Jewish agricultural labour, that of ordinary orange- 
grove labour rising from 200 mils (4s.) to 250 mils. (5s.) a day. 


14. Arab wages during the year showed little increase except 
in constructional trades and for workers employed together with 
Jews, for example, in certain orange-groves. There the wages of 
Arab labourers rose by 10-15 per cent. 


15. Towards the end of the year, the increase in wages generally 
slowed down, partly owing to stabilization by wage agreements 
reached between Jewish employers’ federations and Jewish labour 
unions. 


16. Most Jewish industrial workers observe an eight-hour day, 
although in hotels, restaurants, barber shops, the smaller work- 
shops, etc., the hours are longer. Night-work continues in bakeries 
and for those handling dairy produce. Many Jewish industrial 
undertakings now work in two or three shifts to keep pace with 
demand. Municipalities now have power to pass early closing 
by-laws. 


17. Accident insurance is now customary in industrial under- 
takings employing Jewish labour where machinery or dangerous 
tools are used. 


18. While no compulsory health insurance exists yet in Palestine, 
many Jewish employers contribute to the Jewish workers’ sick 
fund. Some employers give sick-leave with pay. 


19. In the larger Jewish industrial establishments workers are 
given regular annual leave with pay. Maternity leave is customarily 
given without pay and in two factories with full or half pay. 


20. The establishment of new factories and the transfer of old 
factories to the outskirts of the towns has led to an improvement 
in the hygienic conditions under which workers are employed, but 
there is still much overcrowding, especially in the smaller workshops. 


107 


21. Industrial labour disputes to the number of 49 occurred during 
_ the year, including 8 cases where there was no actual stoppage of 
work. The nature and effect of the strikes and lockouts during this 
' Year as compared with previous years is shown by the following 


figures :— 


Total number of saat ali which came 

under notice 50 67 57 49 
. Number of disputes over wages, hours 
of work, and improvement of con- 


1931. 1982. 1933. 1934. 


ditions of employment wie 12 24 24 23 

Namber of disputes over discharge of 

workers 9 8 2 4 
Number of disputes over employment 

of union labour a 16 21 6 8 


- Number of disputes < over employ- 
ment of Arabs in Jewish under- 


; takings... 4 8 19 12 

| Stlement of disputes which + were con- 

cluded during each year :— 

' Number of instances where the workers 
were successful 26 33 29 26 

- Number of instances hace the wenn 
failed we i ll 14 18 15 
Number of compromise ‘settlements . Al 17 9 6 

- Number of industrial strikes and 
lockouts : 33 47 45 40 

Number of establishments affected by 
strikes and lockouts ... .20 ca ceee 53 112 242 87 


Xumber of workers involved (approx. ). 1,400 1,300 2,050 2,030 
Number of working days lost (approxz.) 6,800 10,060 19,100 17,230 


22. The disputes over wages were mostly settled quickly by 
arbitration : those over employment of union labour were more 
troublesome and of longer duration, sometimes accompanied by 
assaults necessitating police intervention. ‘Those concerned with 
the opposition by Jewish workers to the employment of Arab labour 
by Jewish employers were the most difficult and reached a climax 
during the spring of 1934 in connexion with orange-picking. ‘The 
intensity of feeling aroused endangered public security, and an 
amendment of the existing labour legislation was enacted limiting 
peaceful picketing to disputes where no racial question was involved. 


23. There are no official labour exchanges in Palestine. Jewish 
labour is supplied largely through the labour bureaux of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour, which also prescribes minimum 
wages. Joint labour bureaux managed by representatives of both 
employers and workers exist in three Jewish agricultural settle- 
ments, and there are two bureaux managed by Jewish local councils. 
These are mostly concerned with labour supply and not with wages. 
The Labour Distribution Committee set up by the Municipality 
in Tel-Aviv in 1933 to allocate work between Jewish workers be- 
longing to different political parties has only been able to deal with 


108 


municipal works, which form an insignificant part of the total work 
done at Tel-Aviv. 

24. A number of new Arab trade unions were organized during 
the year, but few of them actually function. Some contain in- 
dependent artisans as well as wage-earners, and a few are unions 
of employers rather than of workers. Some Arab workers are 
members of Arab sections of Jewish trade unions. The only union 
which is truly a mixed union is that of Railway, Post and Tele- 
graph Employees, established in 1920, with has about 400 Jewish 
and 500 Arab members. 


25. The increase in rent in towns and in the larger agricultural 
settlements has stimulated the construction of workers’ flats and 
suburbs through workers’ co-operative building societies. 


26. The regulations in force in regard to labour were given in the 
Annual Report for 1930. Apart from the amendment to the Intimi- 
dation Ordinance, 1928, regarding picketing, no change has been 
inade. 


27. The administration has no powers to control labour contracts 
in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment on the part of employer and 
employed, nor has it power to prevent any abuses in this respect. 


28. There is no single authority responsible for the application 
of labour legislation, the work being divided among the District 
Administration, the Department of Medical Services, the Govern- 
ment Welfare Inspector, the Police, and the Department of 
Migration. 


29. After consideration of the reports of the Labour Legislative 
Committee (see 1933 Report, page 101, paragraph 12) in regard to 
the revision of the existing legislation for the protection of women 
and children im industrial employment, the Government decided 
that the scope of the legislation should be extended to cover also the 
non-industrial employment of women and children. 

The amending legislation, which is now under consideration, 
accordingly provides that the minimum age of children in in- 
dustrial undertakings should be 14 years instead of 12 years; that 
no child should be allowed to work in any undertaking for a period 
exceeding seven hours in any period of 24 hours, and that every 
woman and child employed in any undertaking should be allowed 
one day’s rest in every seven days. The schedule of dangerous 
trades is to be extended to include any trade in which phosphorus, 
mercury, arsenic, or explosives are used. 


30. Further legislation is contemplated for regulating the re- 
lationship between employers and employed persons in regard to 
the fixing of mmimum wages and in regard to notice of termination 
of employment (see 1933 Report, pages 101-102, paragraphs 16 and 
17). This legislation will be designed so as to give the High Com- 
missioner powers to appoint advisory boards to enquire into the 


109 


terms and conditions of employment in any trade and to impose a 
minimum wage. It will provide that any person paying less than 
@ minimum wege so imposed shall commit an offence and shall be 
liable to a penalty, and also that any person who has been paid less 
than @ minimum wage may recover the difference between the 
amount which he has received and the minimum wage. 


31. Consideration has also been given to the question of providing 
by legislation for a compulsory day of rest in Palestine, as recom- 
mended by the Labour Legislation Committee, and it has been 
decided to amend the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934, in 
order to vest in Municipal] Corporations power to make by-laws as 
to the closing hours of shops. 


32. Legislation to give effect to the recommendation of the 
Tabour Legislation Committee in regard to workmen’s compensa- 
tion is under consideration. It will extend the cases in which such 
compensation is payable to accidents caused by machinery in agri- 
cultural as well as in industrial operations and to the following 
occupational diseases :— 


(a) poisoning by lead and its alloys, mercury, or arsenic; 
(b) anthrax infections. 


The definition of workman in the existing Ordinance is to be 
amended so as to include non-manual labour in certain cases. 


33. The Employment of Females Ordinance (see 1933 Report, 
page 56, paragraph 4) has not been specifically invoked during the 
vear, but its existence has already helped the District Admuinistra- 
tion to obtain, by amicable arrangement, the release of children 
from an unsatisfactory form of domestic service. 

Generally, it appears that the practice followed by some Arab 
householders in Nablus of paying sums of money to parents and 
guardians in order to secure the employment of their children for 
long periods as household servants is declining ; and in the three or 
four such cases which came to the notice of the District Administra- 
tion during the year it was possible, as stated, to arrange that the 
children should be sent back to their own homes. 


34. In reply to a question raised at the examination of the 1933 
Report of the Permanent ‘Mandates Commission, the following in- 
formation is supplied regarding the conditions of labour in the 
ports of .Palestime, excluding lightermen who are permanent and 
skilled employees, and few in number. 


35. Manual labourers at Haifa are employed in stevedoring opera- 
tions, viz., the unstowing and slinging of import cargoes for delivery 
overside and the reception and stowing of export cargo, consisting 
principally of boxes of citrus fruits, within ships’ holds; porterage 
between quay and transport sheds and dumps, sorting and move- 
ment within sheds and dumps; the offloading of export cargo from 
railway wagons, and the loading of import cargo into trucks and road 


110 


vehicles for despatch. A comparatively small quantity of coal is 
imported, necessitating discharge from ship to lighter amd from 
lighter at the quayside into trucks. 

The conditions under which the work is performed are good. 
The harbour is sheltered and the movement of lighters and small 
craft is unrestricted by adverse weather conditions; the quay is 
well suriaced and there are good asphalt roads within the port 
area ; the transit sheds are close to the berths, and the distances to 
be traversed by porters are comparatively short. The goods which 
the labourer handles are the ordinary bagged and cased commodi- 
ties of commerce, largely foodstuffs. Cranes are provided for 
handling heavy packages, and use is made of trolleys and horsed 
carts. An experiment with motor trolleys is about to be made. 


36. The number of manual labourers varies between an average 
of 300 in the slack season and of 1,200 in the busy season. ‘Most 
of the men are Palestinian Arabs. Several hundreds have brought 
their families with them and are settled permanently in the town; 
these form a labour nucleus and are employed more or less con- 
tinuously throughout the year. 

From 400 to 500 Trans-Jordanian Arabs present themselves at 
the port when labour is not required in their homes. 

Jewish labour, indigenous or immigrant, is little used except 
in the handling of citrus fruit exports, being able to command 
higher wages in semi-skilled work on building. 

A group of trained Jewish porters were brought from Salonika 
to work in the port, but all except a few who have been retained 
to clear iron and timber have been enticed away by higher wages 
obtainable elsewhere. 


37. The wages paid range from 130 to 200 mils a day for 8 or 
10 hours’ work, according to fluctuations of demand and supply. 
In many cases, during the busy season, labourers voluntarily work 
longer than 12 or even 14 hours, with breaks for food, receiving 
equivalent sums extra to the normal wage, and for seven days a 
week. 

388. There are about 120 regular and from 3800 to 500 casual 
porters at Jaffa. They are paid on a share basis and their earnings 
throughout the year average some £P.7-8 per mensem. The average 
working hours are 12-14 for seven days a week, but during the 
winter months work often ceases for three to four consecutive days 
in bad weather. . 

Stevedores are paid a daily wage; a master stevedore on the 
average £P.1 and an ordinary stevedore 300-400 mils. Overtime is 
paid. 

39. Very little sickness is experienced amongst the labourers; 
they are hardy and in good condition, and in general peaceable and 
law-abiding. There is very little trouble among them and only 
on very rare occasions is police intervention necessary. They are 


111 


well aware of the availability of police protection and it is im- 
probable that any cases of ill-treatment, either physical or financial, 
would be endured in silence. 


40. At the examination of the 1933 Report by the Permanent 
Mandates Commission, information was given to the Accredited 
Representative of reports concerning the alleged ill-treatment of 
porters in Haifa. It is true that many of the porters in the harbour 
are dressed in tattered clothes and go barefoot but this is not a 
consequence of any oppressive conditions of work; it is the usual 
manner of attire of these villagers. The distance which has to be 
covered by porters carrying goods depends upon the space available 
for stacking at the time of discharge and the berth at which the 
discharging vessel is moored, and unnecessary deviations are avoided, 
although it is sometimes necessary for porters to take a step or 
two out of their direct path in order to hand tally cards to a Customs 
official. Without this procedure it is not possible accurately to 
check cargoes of stacked goods. 

There is no foundation for the statement that two overseers 
assaulted porters wildly and beat them. The overseers carry 
sticks but they are only used, as a means to accelerate the pace of 
working, to tap the thick pad of sacking which each porter wears 
on his back. The labourers are not abused or cruelly treated. 
Illiterate though they are, they would not hesitate to strike or to 
lodge complaints if they were subjected to such treatment. They 
are, generally speaking, happy in their work and content with the 
pay which they receive, although, possibly, a passing visitor might 
derive a different impression from their appearance. 


XVIII._TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 


In October a large consignment of arms and ammunition (96 
automatic pistols and 2,300 rounds) was seized by the police at 
Haifa, while being smuggled in a Hungarian ship by a Jewish 
passenger in league with some of the ship’s officers. 

In another case the police ambushed a party of smugglers in 
the Nazareth Division and confiscated four rifles. 


2. Twenty-three Jews were convicted for assembling to practise 
the use of firearms. 


3. The total seizures of firearms and ammunition during 1934 
were :— 


I. FIREARMS. 


Description. Serviceable. Unserviceable. Totals. 
Rifles = re ve 288 13 301 
Pistols and Revolvers... 274 47 321 


Shotguns... ss - 226 9 235 


112 


II. AMMUNITION. 


Rifle Ammunition, live rounds... Ses tan Say 4,922 
Pistol and revolver ammunition, live rounds... os 1,799 
Bombs and grenades, serviceable... side ses as 31 


The indications are, generally, that the number of unlicensed 
arms in the country has increased in the last few years, but as 
regards traffic across the Jordan the extent and circumstances of 
seizures on or near the Palestine—Trans-Jordan frontier suggest 
that no organized or wholesale contraband in firearms exists. 
Transactions have been small and individual, and in no case was 
a confiscated weapon of recent manufacture: all appeared to be 
relics of the War. The following is a list of seizures effected 
within ten kilometres of the frontier :— 


Date. Firearm seized. Circumstances of seizure. 

January 29th ... l rifle, German ... ... From a Palestinian Arab who had 
purchased it in Trans-Jordan. 

February 3rd__... l rifle, German ... ... From a Palestinian Arab who had 
purchased it in Trans-Jordan. 

February l7th ... l rifle, German ... ... From a Palestinian Arab returning 
from Trans-Jordan. 

February 17th ... l rifle, German ... ... From a Trans-Jordan Arab on the 
Palestine side of the frontier. 

February 17th ... l rifle, German ... ... Accused alleged that a Trans-Jordan 


Arab had left it at his home for 
safe custody. 


February 20th ... Ll rifle, Greek ... ... Found in a house during search for 
contraband. 

March Ist ..- L rifle, German ... ... From a Trans-Jordan Arab on the 
Palestine side of the frontier. 

March 8th ... L rifle, German ... ... Confiscated by police patrol from a 
Bedu near frontier. 

March 10th ... Ll rifle, Turkish ... ... Confiscated by police patrol from a 
Bedu near frontier. 

July 14th ... Lrifle, German ... ... From a Palestinian Arab who had 
purchased it in Trans-Jordan. 

July 18th ... l revolver, make unknown Found on accused during investiga- 


tion of a case of theft. 


August 6th ... lL revolver, make unknown From a Palestinian Arab who had 
purchased it in Trans-Jordan. 


September 4th ... l rifle, German ... ... Purchased by accused from.a Trans- 
Jordan Arab in Palestine. 

November 2nd ... Lrifle,German ... ... From a Palestinian Arab returning 
from Trans-Jordan. 

November 14th ... 1 revolver, make unknown From a Palestinian Arab returning 
from Trans-Jordan. 


December 2nd ... 1 rifle,German ... ... From a Palestinian Arab returning 
from Trans-Jordan. 


113 


An Order was issued by the High Commissioner on 11th 
September, prohibiting the exportation from Palestine, whether 
by land, water or air, to Bolivia and Paraguay of arms, war 
materials, aeroplanes and aeroplane motors and separate parts of 
either, and munitions. 


4. The police review the list of licence-holders closely and with- 
draw any licence which appears to be no longer necessary. In 
some cases a licence is issued for a shotgun instead of a revolver 
and, altogether, 396 fewer licences were granted in 1934 than in 
the previous year. 

LICENSED FIREARMS. 


1933 and 1934. 





1933. 1934 
District Pistols Pistols 
Rifles. and Shotguns. | Rifles. and _—_—|Shotguns. 
Revolvers. Revolvers. | 
Pek COS Learnt eee, | A OE eS Fe eee eee ee ene Re ceiaee | eee eet 
Jerusalem... 37 101 876 33 82 750 
Northern ... 57 174 1,545 40 166 1,605 
Southern 5 18 1,088 5 43 979 
Nablus 35 14 507 31 12 380 
Gaza 48 6 188 17 5 155 
Total | 182 313 4,204 126 308 3,869 
Decrease : 56 5 335 
Liquors. 


_9. During the year 1934 police vigilance in the supervision of 
licensed premises was intensified. Applications for licences were 
subjected to closest scrutiny and no licence was granted which 
in the opinion of the authorities did not supply a real need. Regu- 
lations as to the hours fixed for sale of intoxicating liquors were 
everywhere rigidly enforced. 


So far as Palestine is concerned, there is little connection between 
‘nme and drink. In the majority of cases a person who becomes 
Intoxicated is incapable of committing a deliberate criminal act, 
but is arrested for boisterous or obscene behaviour. 


The habit of drinking arak is almost entirely confined to town- 
dwellers, and it is rare to find a villager or a Bedu who will touch 


alcoholic liquor, so that there is practically no drunkenness in 
Tural areas. 


With the large additions to population during the past two 
years, mostly from Europe, the consumption of alcoholic liquor 
a8 been correspondingly greater. The following statistics of 


114 


locally-manufactured and imported liquor released for local con- 
sumption indicate, however, that the increased consumption was 
by no means immoderate, and that it was principally in beer :-— 


Litres. Litres. 
Year. Locally Manufactured Imported Inquors. 
Wines. Spirits. Arak.* Wines. Beer. Spirtta. 
1931... 724,831 350,136 243,743 43,691 829,377 35,584 
1932... 795,772 359,957 242,967 49,566 839,318 42,489 
1933 —..._-|:1,066,416 415,820 249,259 39,823 | 1,041,859 52,969 
1934 ... } 1,350,850 | 444,269 236,323 26,000 | 1,525,000 60,000 


* Included in previous column. 
t Import figures in respect of 1934 are approximate. They are based on the first 
eleven months’ actual figures. 


6. The licence fee for the manufacture of wines was reduced 10 
1934 as follows :— 
£P. 
For the first 10,000 litres, or part thereof, manu- 
factured during the previous year ... cee 10 


For every subsequent 1,000 litres or part thereof . 1 


Provided that the maximum amount of licence feo 
payable shall not exceed... bie ... 100 


In the case of a person applying for @ licence for 
the first time, or in respect of premises for 
which no licence has been issued during the 
preceding year, or for which a licence has 
been in force, but no intoxicating liquors 
other than spirits have been manufactured 
during the preceding year ... oh ie 10 


The following are comparative figures of imports, local pro- 
duction, and exports of intoxicating liquors in litres :— 


Imports. Production. . Exports. 
Arak Wines. Arak Arak 
Year. and other and and other Wines. and other Wines. 
Spirits. Beer. Sptrits. Spirits. 
1930 ... — — 691,722 | 4,250,926 — 


1931... 44,000 871,400 395,000 | 2,839,000 21,600 | 1,015,000 
1932... 40,623 891,576 634,576 | 3,155,923 30,710 | 1,376,198 
1933... 52,969 | 1,080,357 846,588 | 1,629,125 26,757 933,253 
*1934 ... 60,000 {| 1,551,000 | 1,098,960 | 2,346,544 30,000 810,000 


* Import and Export figures in respect of 1934, are approximate, they are based 
on the first eleven months’ actual figures. 


I15 


Note.—The quantity of arak produced as shown above represents 
that quantity resulting from first distillation. In 1934, 206,734 
litres of alcohol of fruits (included, on first distillation, as other 
spirits) were re-distilled into arak, producing 204,371 litres. 


It cannot, however, be assumed that the quantity imported and 
produced, less the quantity exported in the year, was locally con- 
sumed ; a certain quantity remains in bonded stores and in manu- 
facturers’ vats under excise control. 


The excise duty on beer was raised from 5 mils per litre not 
exceeding 15 degrees of alcohol to 10 mils per litre. 


The Order under the Customs Ordinance prohibiting the im- 
portation of essences or extracts intended or suitable for use in 
the manufacture of spurious or imitated alcoholic beverages, 
particularly essence for brandy, cognac, champagne, malaga, 
medoc, port, rum, vermouth, and whisky, was replaced by @ new 
order, authorizing the importation of such essences by any firm 
manufacturing products solely for exportation and under excise 
control, and by any licensed pharmacist under permit from the 
Director of Customs, in such quantities as may be recommended as 


necessary for medicinal purposes by the Director of Medical 
Services. 


The large increase in the production of wines is due to the re- 
duction of licence fees with effect from 1st January, 1934. 


Licences issued during the years 1930-1934 :— 





. Manufacture of Intoxicating Sale of Intoxicating 
Liquors. Liquors. 
Year. 
| Distilleries. | Wine Presses. W holesale. Retail. 
| 
1930 die 22 16 108 955 
1931 se, 22 14 98 965 
1932 etd 23 15 96 958 
1933 See 18 15 89 884 
1934 aes 17 15 88 1,153 


| 











7. Although the licensing authority in urban areas is the 
municipal council, no licence can be issued without the approval 
of the local police, who report on the premises for which it is re- 
quired, on the conduct of the business if one was previously held, 
and on the fitness of the applicant. Many licences previously held 
for premises which were found to serve little public need except 
for premises which were found to serve little public need have been 
suppressed. On the other hand, in newly-opened residential areas, 
particularly in Tel Aviv and growing Jewish settlements, licences 
for hotels and restaurants could not reasonably be withheld. 


116 


8. Liquor licences issued :— 





oe | cae ees fetter eS | ee ED pga creer ee SES | 





Jerusalem District 24 133 131 26 121 127 
Haifa Urban Division... 14 90 98 12 90 91 
Haifa Rural Division ... 2 18 20 2 18 22 
Acre Division : — 9 — — 9 — 
Nazareth Division 2 33 13 2 33 12 
Tiberias Division 5 5 15 4 6 ll 
Safad Division — 11 2 — 11 2 
Nablus Division — 3 — — 3 — 
Tulkarm Division F 9 l — 22 1 
Jenin Division ...... — — — — — — 
Jaffa Urban Division ... 13 17 14 4 18 19 
Jaffa Rural Division ... 16 16 28 20 39 42 
Tel Aviv Division ae 21 91 121 22 131 172 
Ramle Division eats 3 8 12 2 11 17 
Gaza Division ... sae — 3 3 — 3 3 
Beersheba Division ... — 2 — — 2 — 

Totals wal 100 448 458 04 517 519 


The increase in retail licences reflects an increase in the number of 
customers, not necessarily increased consumption of liquor by 
individuals. Palestine is not entirely free from habitual drunkards, 
but the percentage of these is extraordinarily low. The police 
exercise special rigour in prosecuting intoxicated persons. 


PERSONS CONVICTED FOR DRUNKENNESS. 


| 1933. 1934. 





No. of persons convicted. | No. of persons convicted. 





On 4 On 4 

On 2; On3! or On2|On3 | or 
Once. | occa- | occa- | more | Once.| occa- | occa- 

sions. | stons. | occa- 8t0ns. | stons. | occa- 

StONS. sions 
Jerusalem District... 68 2 2 1 95 4 l 2 
Haifa Urban Division... 99 5 — 139 7 l 1] 
Haifa Rural Division ... 2 — — — 2 | — — 
Acre Division... ... 14 — 1 1 13 2 l l 
Nazareth Division _... 12 — — — 12 l — — 
Tiberias Division sits 20 2 — — 13 — — — 
Safad Division oe 4 1 — — 3 — — 
Nablus Division a 10 — 1 — 16 1 1 l 
Tulkarm Division ae — — — — — — — 
Jenin Division ik 2 — — — — — — — 
Jaffa Urban Division ... | 278 2 2 1 344 12 — — 
Jaffa Rural Division ... 6 — — — 2 — — — 
Tel Aviv Division i 2 — — — 5 — — — 
Ramle Division pus 7 1 — — 12 2 — — 
Gaza Division 8 1 — — 5 — — — 
Beersheba Division — — — — 1 — — — 
Totals ... ..- | 532 14 6 3 662 30 4 5 





117 


_. Based on an estimated population of 1,208,000 on 31st December, 
934, statistics of drunkenness during the year may be expressed 
_hus :— 
First Offenders—one person in 1,800. 
— Convicted on two occasions—one person in 40,200. 
Convicted on three or more occasions—one person in 134,000. 


’ The estimated increase in population of Palestine during 1934 
Was :— 


Moslems ... — een ee ae ... 15,000 
Christians ee ae ae ~ ...  §,100 
Jews ane - bee a sae ... 48,000 


: Incidence of drunkenness among these communities is shown 
‘In the following table :— 





1933. 1934. 








No. of persons convicted. No. of persons convicted. 


SS ES | CE ED 








8t0ns. 
Mcslems ... 541 28 4 4 
Christians 72 2 — I 
~ Jews 49 — x ae 
Totals 662 30 4 5 








Thus, whereas the numbers of first offenders has increased 
(Moslems 23 per cent., Christians 22 per cent., and Jews 48 per 
cent.), the Moslem and Christian communities show the same 
number of habitual drunkards, eight and one respectively, as in 

1938, and no Jewish case of a repeated offence has occurred. That 
there were seventeen more cases of a second offence among Moslems 
‘uzggest greater activity on the part of the police rather than a 
gteater proclivity towards drunkenness. 


Drugs. 


9. No new legislation was introduced during the year for the 
control of traffic in dangerous drugs, which still continues to be 
regulated by the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance of 1925 as amended 
by the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Ordinances, 1928 and 1932. 

28784 E 


118 
INTERNATIONAL OPIUM CONVENTION. 


10. The number of import certificates granted during 1934 was 
82. 


Actual imports were as follow :— 


Grammes. 
Opium medicinal _... ase shi ... 8,000 
Opium in form of preparations _ z ... 10,765 
Morphine in the form of salts and preparations .. 1,706 
Heroin . sais 205 


Cocaine in the form ‘of salts and preparations ... 4,374 
Cocaine in preparations containing more than 
Ol per cent. of cocaine made direct from 


the leaf es an 78 
Codeine in the form of salts and preparations ..« 11,005 
Dionin = oe secs oe .. 1,845 
Eucodal and preparations ee sos ig — 200 
Dicodide and preparations ... iss dase sis 100 
Dilaudide and preparations ag Sis as 71 
Acedicone _... ae en ee 25 
Pantopon and preparations sé - 911 


Indian hemp in the form of galenical prepara- 
tions (extracts and tinctures) in terms of 
Indian hemp ... ae = ss .. 93,432 


11. There is still a flow of hashish from Syria through Palestine 
to Egypt, but there are indications of an ebb; the fluctuation in 
prices of Syrian hashish in Egypt points to the fact that nowadays 
supplies are received sprsmodically. On the other hand, it is re- 
ported that, as the value of the Syrian pound 1s so high, Palestinian 
smugglers, who hitherto have purchased hashish in Syria solely 
for transmission to Egypt, are now endeavouring to. create a market 
for the drug in Palestine in order to save transport costs and 
middlemen’s expenses. The police have applied themselves 
seriously to the problem of dealing with this development if it 
should materialize, but up to the present there has been no notice- 
able increase in local consumption. As will be seen from the 
following return of seizures during 1934, the consumption of drugs 
other than hashish is very small. No individual seizure presented 
features of importance. 


Narcotic Drugs Seized by Police During 1934. 


Hashtsh. Opium. Cocaine. Sutal. Others. 
Kuogrammes. Grammes. Centigrammes. Kilogrammes. 
62-965 222-6 20 4:5 Nil. 
Results of Prosecutions. 
No. of Persons Total Amount of Total Amount of 
Convicted. Fines Imposed. Imprisonment Awarded. 


127 £P. 462-050 mils. 6 years 8 months 20 days. 


119 


Individual fines varied from 500 mils to £F.40 and terms of im- 
prisonment ranged from 4 days to one year. | 


12. The apprehension felt last year owing to reports of drug 
smuggling to Egypt by aeroplane was removed by the crashing 
and destruction of the suspected machine during one of its periodic 
visits to Cairo. The potentialities of aircraft as a means of 
smuggling narcotic drugs are not, however, overlooked. 


13. Close liaison is still maintained with the Syrian and Egyptian 
Police in an endeavour to reduce the traffic in narcotic drugs to @ 
iinimum and to make the profession of smuggling increasingly 
dificult and dangerous. The Central Narcotics Intelligence Bureau 
in Cairo continues to provide # fund for rewards to informers. 


XIX. EDUCATION. 


The educational work of the Government Department during the 
school-year 1933-34 has been normal. General progress has been 
achieved and preparations have been made for further expansion. 

2. Local education authorities were set up, under the Education 
Ordinance of 1933, in four Arab and ten Jewish localities, and have 
in the main justified their existence. 

38. The number of classified officers employed by the Department 
in November, 1934, was 905, of whom thirteen were British. The 
remainder, with very few exceptions, were Palestinians. 

4. The Department’s expenditure in the school-year 1933-34 on 
educational services was as follows :— 

















£P. £P. 
(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Arab and 
Hebrew) :— 
Salaries ... are ae ae ae --- 16,747 
Other Charges ... sit oe sa sa 371 
17,118 
(6) Schools :— 
(i) Government (Arab) :— 
Salaries ... ane aa4 sa me --- 118,327 
Grants to local authorities for school buildings 997 
Books, furniture, and equipment tae 9,986 
Scholarships, maintenance allowance, etc. ... 4,799 
134,109 
(ii) Non-Government :— 
Block grant to Jewish pablic system .- 26,627 
Per capita grants to other schools :— 
Jewish ae dee es sa ae 1,614 
Moslem... wai es or “is 883 
Christian (including foreign)... sais 1,027 
30,151 
(c) Miscellaneous :— 
Grant to Board of Higher Studics... a ie 500 
Transport and Travelling ...  ...  ...  «. 3,601 
Other minor charges bx se wae ae 657 
4,758 
£P. 186,136 





2 
8784 E2 


120 


The revenue from the sale of books and materials in Govern- 
ment schools amounted to £P.1,135 and from school fees to 
£P.2,997. 

5. The distribution of educational benefits to Arabs and Jews 
was based on the proportion of the school-age population, and 


educational expenditure incurred by other Government Depart- 
ments was included in the calculation. 


The actual expenditure by the Department umder ‘‘ schools ”’ 
was apportioned as follows :— 





Arab Schools :— £P. £P. 
Government ... es es nk aoe ..- 134,109 
Non-Government ... ves has ne ts 1,910 

136,019 

Hebrew Schools :— 

Jewish Public ores 203 mn oe ..- 26,627 
Others So Bas Ge eas sists 1,614 
28,241 





The expenditure on Arab schools is gross, and should be reduced 
by £P.4,132, on account of sales and fees mentioned in the pre- 
ceding paragraph. 

6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1933-34 
by other Government Departments upon educational services :— 





Approximate 
Department. Object. Amount. 
£P. 
Agriculture ... Supply of trees for Arbor Day, ete. ... set 148 
Health ... Hygiene and medical care of pupils... Se 1,596 
Secretariat ... Printing and Stationery .. ae oe sia 345 
Treasury Housing allowance es 108 
Public Works... Rents, repairs, furniture, and water supply ase 8,247 
£P.10,444 





These figures exclude overhead charges for salaries or other ad- 
ministrative expenditure, and expenditure on Works Extraordinary. 

The net expenditure of all Departments, except the Department 
of Public Works, was distributed as follows :— 


£P. 
Arab education oe ‘a ii da ... 160,566 
Jewish education... .. 31,882, 


or, approximately in the proportion of 5: l. 


7. There are no exact figures of the total expenditure of private 
bodies and especially of foreign organizations. The figures for the 
Jewish Public System are given in paragraph 26 below. 


8. The figures of children of school age (5-15) at the time of the 
1931 Census were approximately :— 


Boys. Girls. Totals. 
Moslems... ie eae 85,700 71,900 157,600 
Christians See sist 9,940 9,140 19,080 


Jews... ea ae 17,160 17,440 24 RO 


121 


The pupils attending schools in 1933-34 were as follows, classi- 
fied by religion :— 











Boys. Girls. Totals. 
Moslems ... _ me 31,923 8,165 40,088 
Christians she 6 9,086 8,368 17,454 
Jews... ye ses 23,244 21,585 44,829 
Others... sie sig 455 170 625 
64,708 38,288 102,996 











These figures do not include pupils in a number of Christian 
shools which have rendered no statistical returns. The number 
of pupils in these schools is estimated to be about 2,500. 


ScHOOL FEES. 


9. Arab Public System.—In the Government kindergartens and 
elementary schools education is free. In the secondary day schools 
students are required to pay £P.3 a year. Day students at the 
Government Arab College and the Women’s Training College pay 
£P.6 a year and boarders £P.24. A number of poor pupils in the 
secondary schools are exempted from payment of any fees. 

In the Kadoorie Agricultural Schools the students pay £P.24 
a year for tuition and board. 


Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees 
pad very rarely exceed £P.1 a year, and are usually less than 
300 mils; in places the practice of paying fees in kind persists. 

In the town schools the fees rise to £P.2.500 mils a year. In 
Rawdat al-Ma‘arif College at Jerusalem the tuition fees in the 
elementary classes are £P.6 a year and in the secondary classes 
rise to £P.8. The boarders pay £P.36. 


Jewish Schools.—The education rates and other revenues which 
support the Jewish public schools are, in many localities, supple- 
mented by school fees assessed according to the means of the 
parent and the grade of the class. Total exemptions are 
frequent. 

In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or main- 
tained by local authorities, the fees range from £P.6 to £P.12 a 
year. In the elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to £P.12 
a the higher classes of the secondary schools rise as high as 


In the bulk of the purely private schools the fees charged are 
ha much lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciably 

gher. 

At the boarding section of the Reali Secondary School at Haifa 
aaa Pupils are charged £P.9 a month and pupils from abroad 


At the agricultural boarding-schools the fees charged vary from 
EP.30 to £P.50 a year 
28784 E 3 


122 


In the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, . 
the fees, if any, are generally small. 

Christian Schools.—No information is available regarding the 
fees charged in the schools under the Latin Patriarchate and the 
Archbishop of Galilee. Most of the foreign schools which submit - 
returns through the Consuls are unwilling to disclose financial 
details and do not state the fees charged. 

In some of the German secondary schools the maximum fee is 
£P.6 a year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the secondary 
classes. In the Syrian Orphanages the maximum fee paid by a 
boarder is £P.20 a year. 

In the European and American missionary town schools the 
maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in most cases the fees are very much lower. In the secondary 
classes the fees range from £P.6 to £P.15 a year. In 
addition to tuition fees, boarders pay boarding fees which do not 
usually exceed £P.35 a year. In the English Preparatory School 
of the Jerusalem Girls’ College the charge 1s £P.57. 

Generally speaking, no fees are charged in the village mission- 
ary schools or in the schools of the Orthodox Patriarchate. 


ARABIC (GOVERNMENT) PUBLIC SYSTEM OF EDUCATION. 


10. At the beginning of the school-year 1933-34 seventy new 
teaching posts were filled, and fifty-seven additional classified 
teaching posts were filled in September, 1934, for the school-year 
1934-35. | 

Of the 865 classified teachers employed by the Department in 
November, 1934, 860 were Arabs (627 Moslems and 233 Christians) 
and 5 were British. There were also 127 unclassified teachers, 
mostly in villages, paid from Government funds and 29 paid 
locally by the villagers. 

In the following paragraphs will be found, in references to the 
establishment of new schools in towns and villages, the strengthen- 
ing and development of existing schools, and the plans envisaged 
for the expansion of female education, testimony to the steps 
which are being taken by the Palestine Government to make the 
benefit of education more generally available, especially for Arab 
children. 

11. Elementary Educatton.—In the summer term of 1934 there 
were 318 elementary schools with 30,714 pupils, as against 297 
schools with 26,553 pupils in the previous summer, and arrange- 
ments were made during the summer holidays to open thirty 
new village schools. 

In September, 1933, 14,383 pupils applied for entry into Govern- 
ment schools, but only 8,690 could be admitted owing to lack of 
accommodation and staff. In September, 1934, 16,185 applied 
and 10,047 were admitted. The following table gives an analysis 
of these numbers. 


123 


Towns Villages 
1933 1934 1933 1934 
Per Per Per Per 
cent. cent. cent cent. 
Accepted ... | 4,398 62 4,345 59 4,290 59 5,702 64 
Deferred ... | 2,736 38 2,994 41 2,959 41 3,144 36 


oS | | ES |S |S | | | LT 


12. Special consideration was given to female education, but 
the lack of teachers and the difficulty of accommodating unmarried 
women in Moslem villages made it possible to prepare for the 
opening of only five new girls’ schools. 

However, Government is fully aware of the importance of female 
education and is developing it as fully as possible within the 
lmitation imposed by— 

(1) the financial provision ; 
(ii) the available Palestinian personnel ; 
(i) the relative strength of the local demand for boys’, and 
girls’ schools. 

At the beginning of the Occupation there were very few literate 
women who might be employed as teachers. 

Moslem parents, for several years, were reluctant to send their 
daughters to the Training College. This difficulty has gradually 
been overcome. 

Girls are recruited for training from the elementary schools, 
which, for want of trained teachers, were long inefficient. In 
such conditions the development of female education has been slow 
and costly. 

The construction of a new and superior building for the 
Women’s Training College is now included in the building pro- 
gramme of Government and four Palestinian girls have been 
selected for training in England as teachers in the College or in 
schools. A scheme for the training of rural women teachers has 
been prepared. 

July, 1928, there were in towns and villages combined 314 
schools with 19,331 pupils. Thereafter the number of schools 
dropped until in J uly, 1932, there were 305 schools with 24,837 
pupils, as follows :— 


Boys. Girls. 
July, 1923 abe aa we so 16,046 3,285 
July, 1932 cat - ve eee 19,658 5,179 


Thus in nine years the number of boys increased by 22°5 per 
ae in towns and villages combined, and the number of girls by 
16 per cent., almost entirely in towns. : 
: five-year scheme of educational expansion in towns began to 
ake effect in September, 1933, and has now progressed for two 
28784 E 4 


124 


years, during which the annual number of admissions to town 
schools has increased as follows :— 


Boys, by 64 per cent. (from 1,511 to 2,485). 
Girls, by 124 per cent. (from 830 to 1,860). 


13. Limited space still retards progress in the grading of 
classes by age. Entries are deferred for one, two, or three years, 
making the age-range of the lowest class too wide and the aver- 
age age of entry too high. 


14. The number of pupils who repeat the lowest class has been 
further reduced, but the figures for the lower elementary course 
as a whole are still somewhat high. The average length of — 
school life is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


15. Town Schools.—In September, 1933, nine new town schools 
were opened, and in the summer of 1934 there were 63 schools 
(including Training Colleges) with 14,709 pupils. The following 
are comparative figures for two years :— 


1932-33. 1933-34. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Town schools for boys ... 31 7,126 34 8.577 
ss a girls ... 21 4,748 27 6,004 
52 11,874 61 14,581 


The nomenclature of classes in all Government schools was 
changed, the ‘‘ preparatory ’’ class being named “‘ first ’’, the 
‘* first ’’ becoming ‘‘ second ’’, and so on, the top elementary class 
being now known as “ seventh ’’ and not ‘‘ sixth ’’ as hitherto. 
In July, 1934, a seventh class existed in eighteen boys’ schools 
with 833 pupils end eleven girls’ schools with 109 pupils. Of these, — 
209 boys were known in September, 1934, to be continuing their 
studies in the secondary classes of Government schools, and 20 in 
other schools, and 58 girls were similarly furthering their studies, 
while 50 boys are known te have found employment, 

The boarding section for the sons of Bedu Sheikhs at the Beer- 
sheba School was extended to hold fifty boarders. The boys receive — 
free tuition, board, and lodging. 

After completion of the course in their village schools, 832 village 
boys and 24 village girls attended town schools. A hostel was 
opened at Lydda for boys from the adjacent villages, who pay for 
their board and lodging. 


16. Domestic science subjects are now taught with success in 
eleven girls’ elementary schools. 

The top classes of some girls’ schools continued to visit infant 
welfare clinics for observation and practice. 


125 


In May, 1934, when the town of Tiberias suffered badly from 
floods, the Nazareth girls’ school made garments for destitute 
children, while the Tiberias girls’ school became # centre for sewing 
parties so long as help was needed. 


li. Rural Schools.—One school was closed owing to low attend- 
ance, while thirteen schools were opened. The figures for two 
vears are as follows :— 





1932-33. 1933-34. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 7 
Village schools for boys 238 13,997 247 7 15,281 7 
9 . girls 7 682 10 852 
245 14,679 257 16,133 7 


In September, 1934, 30 new village schools were opened, while 
others were strengthened and developed. 


18. Eleven villages erected new school buildings at a total cost of 
£P.1,830, while over £P.4,000 was raised in various villages for 
Tepairs to school buildings and for furniture. 


19. Practically all rural schools have now developed a fourth 
class, thus affording four years of imstruction. In 1927, 93 such 
schools had not even a third class. 


20. There were 326 pupils in secondary classes in Government 
schools, including the two Training Colleges but excluding the post- 
matriculation class of the Government Arab College. The second 
secondary classes that existed at Hebron, Tulkarm, Safad, and 
Acre, and the third secondary class at Jaffa were temporarily closed. 

In July, 1934, 60 pupils completed the second secondary class. 
Of these, 27 entered the Government Arab College and 7 the 
Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarm, 8 joined private schools, 
and 5 found employment. 


21. Government Arab College.—Twenty-five new students were 
admitted in September, 1933, bringing the total to 84 (67 Moslems 
and 17 Christians). 

Twenty-five students of the fourth class entered the Palestine 
Matriculation Examination in July, 1934. Seventeen passed, while 
eight qualified for the ‘School Certificate. Eighteen were selected 
for training in the fifth class of the College, one was elected to a 
scholarship at Beirut, and four were given teaching posts. 


Fourteen students of the fifth class obtained the teachers’ certi- 
fieate and were appointed to permanent teaching posts. 


126 


22. Women’s Training College.—Sixteen new students joined 
in September, 1933, bringing the total to 61 (45 Moslems, 15 
Christians, and one Bahai). 

For the first time in the history of the College all the girls of 
the fourth class, sixteen in mumber, passed the diploma examina- 
tion, and were subsequently appointed to teaching posts. 


23. Scholarships.—Four Government scholars, including one 
blind student, were maintained in universities and training 
colleges in Great Britain, six at the American University at Beirut, 
six in technical schools in Egypt, and three in non-Government 
secondary schools in Palestine. One of the scholars sent to the 
United Kingdom returned after obtaining the B.A. and Ph.D. 
degrees in Arabic at London University. Two new scholars were 
sent to the United Kingdom in September, 1934, one to London 
University for the study of Arabic and Semitics, and one to the 
Central School of Arts and Crafts, London. An officer of the De- 
partment was also sent on a year’s study leave to the Institute of 
Education, London University. One of the scholars at Beirut 
University returned on graduating and was replaced by a fresh 
scholar. The scholars who returned were appointed to teaching 
posts. 


HEBREW PUBLIC SYSTEM. 


24. The Executive Education Committee, consisting of repre- 
sentatives of the Jewish Agency, the Va’ad Leumi, the Tel Aviv 
Municipality, and the organized Jewish settlements (other than 
Labour centres), continued to be responsible for the administration 
of the Jewish public system. A representative of the Government 
Department of Education attended most meetings of this Com- 
mittee. Apart from financial and ordinary routine matters, a few 
major problems of a pedagogical or administrative nature were 
considered. 


25. During the year, there was @ growing tendency to question 
the system of centralized administration at present in force. A 
scheme of decentralization was championed by the authorities of 
Tel Aviv and the organized settlements, with the aim of giving 
greater administrative powers to the localities, and for the followimg 
reasons :— 


(a) the repeated disorganization of schools at the beginning 
of the school year; (b) the weakness of the administrative 
power of the central authority; (c) the increased financial 
burden placed on the localities together with the decreased 
contribution from the central authority; and (d) the objection 
taken to privileges granted to the ‘‘ Labour ’’ schools, viz., 
immunity from inspection by the Ve‘ad Leumi’s staff of in- 
spectors, and direct appointment of teachers by the supervising 
council ef the Labour Federation. 


127 


The Va‘ad Leumi and the Teachers’ Organization opposed the 
scheme, but Tel Aviv and the settlements were insistent. A dead- 
lock was averted in October, 1934, by the appointment of a com- 
mittee of inquiry, which at the end of the year had not yet con- 


cluded its deliberations. 


26. The estimates of the central Jewish authority for 1933-34 
showed a decrease of some £P.12,000, as follows :— 


Revenue. 

1. CentRaL AUTHORITIES. 
Jewish Agency 
Government ss ee ae ee 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association 


2. Loca, AUTHORITIES. 
Tel Aviv Municipality... 
Other Local Authorities ... 
School Fees Sits 
Various 


3. MISCELLANEOUS. 
TOTALS 


Expenditure. 

1, ADMINISTRATION AND INSPECTORATE. 
Salaries : 
Other Charges ; ace 
Grant to Labour Federation 


2. ScHooLs. 

(i) Maintained Schools. 
Salaries es sek 
Rent and Maintenance 
Furniture and Equipment 


(ii) Assisted Schools. 
Grants to Labour Schools 
Grants to other Schools ... 


3. MIscRLLANEOUS. 
Transport and Travelling see cae 
Pension contributions, compensation, etc. 
Unforeseen Expenses eis _ sane 


TOTALS 


1982-83. 
SP. 
40,000 
19,190 
5,090 £P. 
64,280 





21,455 
6,000 
10,124 





37,579 
40 
40 





£P.101,899 


1932-88. 





2,945 








£P.101,899 


1983-84. 
£P, 
20,000 
26,632 
3,425 SP. 
50,057 





22,100 
6,375 
9,755 
1,064 





39,294 
211 


211 





£P.89,562 


1983-34. 


578 £P. 
& 480 











1,985 





£P.89,562 





The Government grant was at the rate of £P.25,254 for the 
period October, 1933-March, 1934, and at the rate of £P.28,000 
for the period April-September, 1934. Generally speaking, the year 
Was one of financial stability, due to some extent to a loxn obtained 
from a bank, which enabled arrears to teachers to be paid. 


128 


27. The tendency to diminish the financial support from Jewish 
central funds and to increase the burden borne by local authorities 
and parents persisted. The estimates of fhe Executive Education 
Committee shown in paragraph 26 are only in respect of services 
maintained by the Jewish Agency prior to the devolution of educa- 
tion on to the Va‘ad Leumi. All expanded end new services are 
provided for entirely by the local or school authorities. The follow- 
ing table gives an account of the actual cost of maintaining the 
schools under the tutelage of the Executive Education Committee, 
and the sources of revenue :— 


Sources of Revenue covering cost of the Jewish Public System. 


Type of cen Conival From Local Authorities. 
School. Authorities. 
Local | Fees Total. Total 
bodies 
£P. Per £P. £P. £P. Per £P. Per. 
cent. cent. cent. 
Kindergartens 1,442 5 | 20,316 6,681 | 26,997 | 95 | 28,439 | 100 
Elementary ... | 36,824 35 | 55,664 | 18,417 | 74,081 65 | 110,905 | 100 
Training Colleges} 5,155 62 698 2,490 3,188 | 38 8,343 | 100 
Secondary... 970 3 1,757 | 27,597 | 29,354 | 97 | 30,324 | 100 
Commercial ... — — 535 4,950 5,485 | 100 5,485 | 100 
Trade ... we 487 38 808 15 823 | 62 1,310 | 100 
Administration 9,436 100 — — — — 9,436 | 100 
Total ... | 54,314* 27 | 59,778 | 60,150 | 139,928 | 73 | 194,242 | 100 





* This was madeup as follows : from Government grants £P.26,632 (or 
50 per cent), from the Jewish Agency grant £P.20,000(ur 37 per cent), from 
the Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association £P.4,988 (or 9 per cent), and 
from special contributions from abroad £P.2,694 (or 4 per cent). 


Percentage expenditure on each type of school to the total 
expenditure on the Jewish Public System. 


From Central From Local 





Type of School. Sarees Ge ieeee: Totals. 

Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
Kindergartens... a2 0-7 13-0 13°7 
Elementary es se 18-0 39-0 57-0 
Training College ... uve 3°0 2:0 5:0 
Secondary... ve sits 0:5 15-0 15-5 
Commercial se sas — 3-0 3:0 
Trade sais fae oe 0-3 0-5 0-8 
Administration sid 5-0 — 5-0 


Totals Re ike 27°5 72°5 100:0 





129 


28. The following tables give comparative figures regarding 
schools and pupils :— 


Table I (Administrative Groups). 





1932-33. 1933-34. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
General... 134 14,663 138 17,270 
Mizrahi - 54 6,695 50 6,769 
Labour ae 77 2,832 103 4,184 
265 24,190 - 99) 28,223 


Table II (Type of Schools). 








| 
1932-33. i 1933-34 

Schools Pupils. Schools Pupils 

Kindergartens 137 4,965 152 5,361 

Elementary... 111 16,275 123 19,644 
Secondary  (in- 
cluding com- 

mercial) 7 2,024 7 2,562 

Teachers’ | 

Colleges ... 4 374 4 366 

O° aes 4 170 4 174 

Agricultural 2 382 1 116 

265 24,190 291 28,223 





29. Compared with the previous year, there was an increase of 26 
schools and 4,033 pupils, of whom 3,369 were in elementary grades. 


30. The grants from the central Jewish authority to secondary 
schools were reduced to £P.900 for four schools. ‘he number of 
pupils in the purely secondary classes of these schools was 711. 


_ 31. The Tel Aviv Municipality obtained a loan of -£P.60,000 
from the Prudential Assurance Company, London, for the purpose 


of constructing school buildings to contain at least 72 classrooms of 
Tm. by 8m. each. 


82. Kitchens serving over 4,400 children with meals were 
Maintained in 21 schools and 47 kindergartens, and over 1,900 
pupils received instruction in cooking and dietetics. In addition, 
courses In dietetics were held for women graduates of the train- 
Ing colleges. This work cost £P.5,342 in 1933-34. 


130 
33. Common final examinations were again conducted by the 
Education Department of the Va‘ad Leumi in six of its secon- 
dary schools. The examinations were largely written and their 
scope was extended. Eighty per cent. of the pupils examined (101 
out of 125) were successful. Examinations of a more limited 
- nature were also held for the Training Colleges. 


34. The Government Inspectors of Hebrew Schools drew up 
memoranda on the teaching of English, arithmetic, Hebrew, 
biology, and geography; and collaborated with teachers in the 
publication of text-books on Hebrew grammar and arithmetic. 
A pamphlet of suggestions on the teaching of arithmetic and 
geometry in elementary schools was published by the Government 
Department. 


A conference of teachers of biology was convened in July by 
the Jewish Department in collaboration with the Government 
Department and the Hebrew University. A training course for 
English teachers in Jewish schools was also held during the year 
by the Government Department, and a training course in physical 
training by the Jewish Department. 


35. The supply of new Hebrew text-books continues to be 
plentiful. 


OTHER SCHOOLS. 


I. Moslem Schools. 
36. The following are comparative figures for two years :— 





























, 1932-33. 1933-34. 
Pupils. Pupils 
Schools. S 
Boys. | Girls. | Total. Boys. | Girls. | Total. 


ES | 
eS | NS | ES | A | | 


Schools other 
than of 7 
Kuttab type. 66 | 5,972 | 1,503 | 7,475 74 | 6,326 | 1,419 7,740 
Kuttabs ees 108 | 2,947 176 | 3,123 100 | 3,070 92 | 3,162 


ES 








ee | oe | 
—— ames | oe 


Totals... 174 | 8,919 | 1,679 | 10,598 174 | 9,396 | 1,511 | 10,907 


Il. Christian Schools. 


87. The following table gives comparative figures of Christian 
schools for two years. It does not include the schools under 
the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem or those under the Greek 
Catholic Archbishop of Galilee. During the year no returns 


131 
_ Were obtained from the schools under French and Italian pro- 


tection, and the figures for 1932-33 have therefore been used for 
1933-34 also :— 





1932-33. 1933-34. 





Schools. 

Catholic .. 14 

Protestant 46 
- Orthodox 27 
: Others as 7 


154 








38. The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by Palestinian and foreign bodies, except those 
- excluded in the last paragraph :— 


(a) Palestinian. 





1932-33. 1933-34. 

Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 

Greek Orthodox 
Patriarchate 16 948 16 860 

Syrian ox 
Patriarchate 2 120 2 125 

Armenian Orthodox 

Patriarchate 4 645 4 642 
Orthodox Societies sh 6 965 6 965 
ia di Terra Santa 15 2,541 15 2,757 
ee — Be 12 521 12 687 
Totals ... w.. 54. 5,740 55 6,086 


(b) Foreign. 


1932-33. 1933-34. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupius. 
Se a ys 
each Sie tie es 38 4,991 *38 *4,901 
tibh 19 2,066 20 2,142 
Mn... |. 20 1,954 20 2,008 
ase) ae ae 14 1,739 #14 *1,739 
; a ie te 8 556 4 397 
ese | aS 1 197 l 221 
Total... 100 11,503 97 11,498 


Na a en see, 
* 1932-33 figures ; 1933-34 figures not available. 


132 


III. Jewtsh Schools (not included in the Hebrew Public System). 
39. The following table gives comparative figures for two 


years -— 
1932-33 | 1933—34 
Schools Pupils Schools Pupils 
Alliance Israelite Universelle —.:. 8 4,108 9 4,172 
Anglo-Jewish Association ... sae 1 363 1 377 
Women’s International Zionist 
Organisation... iss 2 122 2 142 
Agudat Israel Organisation. 8 762 8 763 
Ben Shemen Orphanage (J udische (Previous|ly under l 280 
Waisenhilfe, Berlin). Jewish Pubjlic System) 
Under private cofttrol _.... ize 105 7,866 155 9,677 
Totals re cia ee 124 13,221 176 15,411 


40. At the suggestion of the Government Department of Educa- 
tion, the Alliance Israelite Universelle agreed to erect a new school 
building at Tiberias., 

A Conservatoire of Music was established in Jerusalem in the 
summer of 1933. 


SECONDARY AND Post SECONDARY EDUCATION, AND EXAMINATIONS. 


41. The following summaries show the numbers of schools in 
which secondary education was given :— 


1932-33 1933-34. 







No. of No. of pupils No. of No. of pupi 





No. of es in Sec. classes.| No. of in Sec. classe 

~y A ec. ° 

Schools. Oe crema Schools. Weel i 
"| Boys. | Girls. ; Boys.| Girl 


Arab Public System. 















































Training Colleges 25 2 7 79 59 2 7 67 6} 
Secondary Schools ees 1] 21 212; — 1] 17 198 | — 
13 28 291 59 13 24 265 6] 
Hebrew Public System. 
Training Colleges ee 4 17 103 | 271 4 17 98 | 26 
Secondary Schools 7 32 498 | 415 7 30 593 | Sz 
ll 49 601 6s6 | 11 47 691 | 796 
Private Ee eeneas Schools. 
Moslem ... 2 6 141 — 2 6 131; — 
Christian 
Teaching in English 11 43 300 219 11 47 308 241 
Teaching in French... 8 26 197 56 8 26 197 | 6 
Teaching in German 7 10 38 42 7 11 30 | 3 
Teaching in Arabic... 7 15 7 41 4 8 2% | 2 
33 94 605 358 30 92 561 | 348 
Jewish ; 66 21 237 | 287 6 22 | 258 | 351 
Grand Tota] _... ice 65 198 |1,875 Ls 390 | 62 191 | 1,906 | 1,556 


133 


42. Two hundred and thirty-eight Palestinian students were 
registered during 1933-34 in the upper departments of the American 
University of Beirut. 

In 1934 107 candidates sat for the Palestine Matriculation 
Examination, of whom 34 obtained the Matriculation sa 33 the 
Secondary School Certificate. 


43. Hebrew University.—A commission of survey under the 
chairmanship of Sir Philip Hartog enquired into the working of 
the University early in 1933-34. Some changes in the adminis- 
tration were introduced during the year. 

A number of academic appointments were made from special 
funds for German refugee scholars and scientists and a new chair 
was established for Hebrew. 

At the end of the year there were 21 professors, 25 lecturers, 
8 assistants, and 27 junior staff members. The number of students 
rose from 188 to 270, of whom 23 were research students. Forty 
per cent. of the students came from Palestine, and sixty per cent. 
from other countries. Seventeen students were awarded the M.A. 
degree in December, 1934. 

Expenditure during the academic year exceeded £P.58,000. 

Ten candidates entered for the entrance examination, of whom 
four passed. Other admissions were granted on the ground of 
school or other certificates presented. 

University extension courses were held in Tel Aviv by 24 Univ- 
sity teachers, and about 500 students were registered. 


434. In the Minutes of the 25th Session of the Permanent Man- 
dates Commission the accredited representative is recorded as having 
said, in reply to a question by Lord Lugard, that Arabs were not 
admitted to the Hebrew University at Jerusalem. 

The accredited representative actually intended to convey that, 
so far as he was aware, there were no Arab students at the time 
attending the University, and he explained this position by referring 
to the probable difficulty which was presented to Arab students 
by the use of Hebrew as the medium of instruction. It is now 
learnt that there are now, and always have been, some Arab 
students at the University and that the National and University 
Library is used to a considerable extent by Arab students. 


44. Language Examination for Government Officers.—Ten out 
of fourteen candidates passed the elementary examination in Arabic 
and two out of three in Hebrew. Two out of four candidates passed 
in advanced Arabic, and one out of four in advanced Hebrew. 


45. Teachers’ Examinations.—Of 41 candidates for the Teachers’ 
Lower Certificate Examination, 4 passed in Part I (Pedagogy) and 
Yin Part II (school subjects). In the Higher Certificate Examina- 
tion 15 candidates entered in Part I and 11 in Part II; of the 
former 6 passed, and of the latter one. 


134 


46. Foreign Examinations.—Forty-two candidates, many of them 
residents of Egypt, entered for various examinations conducted 
under the Government Department’s supervision by the University 
of London, and 15 passed. Examinations conducted by three 
other English institutions were also supervised for fiva local 
candidates. 


AGRICULTURE EDUCATION. 


(a) Government Schools. 


47. The High Commissioner made a further donation of £P.300 
for the improvement of school gardens, of which £P.250 was given 
to Arab schools and £P.50 to Jewish schools. 

Bee-keeping is practised in 14 schools, poultry-raising in 11, and 
rabbit-breeding in 5. 


48. One hundred and sixty-four schools had gardens with a total 
area of over 1,000 dunums (250 acres). Nurseries for fruit and 
forest trees were started in 35 schools. 

On Arbor Day, 23,000 trees were planted by Government schools. 


49. Eleven boys completed the senior course at the Kadoorie Arab 
School, and ten of them, including two from Trans-Jordan, were 
selected for a year’s training at the Rural Teachers’ Training Centre 
attached to the School. Fifteen students completed the course at 
that Centre in July, 1934, and were appointed to teaching posts. 

The High Commissioner gave a private donation for the addition 
of a new wing to the School building, to enable more students to be 
admitted. Thirty new boys were selected in July, 1934, including 
three from Trans-Jordan, making a total of 58, compared with 44 
last year. 

The Kadoorie Jewish School at Mount Tabor was opened in 
June, 1934. Seventy-nine boys applied for admission, but only 
twenty-eight could be accepted in the first year. 


50. Improvement of Rural Life-—The Near East Foundation 
reduced its grant from £P.1,000 to £P.850, which was devoted to 
the Rural Teachers’ Training Course at Tulkarm. The welfare 
worker of the Foundation continued to visit Arab villages, and has 
done useful work on the lines mentioned in the Report for 1933 
(page 131, paragraph 49). 

A party of six students and a qualified doctor from the American 
University of Beirut lent their voluntary services for a month 
during the summer vacation, and carried out welfare work im six 
villages in Galilee. 

(b) Other Schools. 


51. The following non-Government schools give instruction in 
theoretical and practical agriculture. No figures were received for 
1933-34 from the three schools administered by the Roman Catholic 
orders, and the figures for the previous year are here repeated. 


135 


Number of pupils. 
1932-33. 1933-34. 
L Christian Schools. — 
Agricultural School at Beit Jamal (Salesian Order) ..... 21 21 
Agricultural School at Rafat (Latin Patriarchate) soe 28 28 
Agricultural School at Latrun (Trappist Order) ... re 9 9 
i. Jewish Schools.— 

Agricultural School at eh Israel (ee Israelite | 

Universelle) ace 206 197 
School of Domestic eines and Apis at Tel Aviv 

(Women’s International Zionist Organization) bee 52 52 
Agricultural School for Girls at Nahalal Saas 8 

International Zionist Organization) ... 70 90 
Children’s ee at Meir oe oe Hadassah 

of U.S.A.) . a 124 116 
Children’s Village at Ben share: C Hitisehs Waisenhilfe 

of Berlin) bg wae 258 280 
Five Training Farms be Girls (Women’ 8 Tsenitional 

Zionist Organization and Jewish Workers’ Council) . — 184 
Girls’ Agricultural Farm School at Talpiyot, Jerusalem, 

(General Federation of Jewish Labour)... — 42 


MANUAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION. 


02, Satisfactory progress continued to be made in the teach- 
ing of drawing and handwork in Government schools. Carpentry 
benches and tools were issued and many schools were provided 
With special carpentry rooms. An exhibition of drawing and 
manual work was again held in the spring. 


The expenditure of £P.43,500 out of loan funds was approved 
for the erection and equipment of a Government Trade School at 
Haifa, A suitable site has been secured in Haifa and plans have 
been prepared and passed. Accommodation will be arranged for 
about 90 Arab students, of whom 70 will be boarders. Building 
is to begin in 1935, 


93. Two new Jewish trade schools were opened, one at Haifa 
and one at Tel-Aviv. 


The sum of £P.20 000 was allocated from loan funds towards 


capital grants to J ewish technical and agricultural institutions, 
as follows :— 


£P. 

Haifa Technical Institute and Tech- 
nical High School _... 10,000 

*“ New Bezalel ’’ School of Arts and 
Crafts, Jerusalem ae 1,500 

** Max Pine ’ ’ Labour Trade Sélisol. 
Tel Aviv ae 750 
A proposed Trade School, Tel Aviv 2,000 
Agricultural School, Miqve Israel _.., 4,500 


Children’s Village, Ben Shemen ... 1 250. 


136 


EDUCATION OF DEFECTIVES. 


54. Blind.—The number of totally blind children in Palestine 
between the ages of 5 and 15 as shown by the Census of 1931 was 
338, including 137 girls. 


Instruction is given to the blind in the following institutions in 
Jerusalem :— 


Boys. Girls. 
Syrian Orphanage .. ie oe bie 9 7 
Moslem Oienee ie am 9 4 
Jewish Institute for the Blind . — 10 14 


The Jewish Institute had in addition eighteen adult inmates 
attending courses in various crafts and in music. 


A blind Arab scholar of the Department was transferred from a 
college in Edinburgh to spend the second year of his scholarship 
at the Royal Normal College for the Blind in London. 


55. Deaf and Dumb.—Facilities existed at the following institu- 
tions, also in Jerusalem :— 


Children. 
Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul cee Sy oe 13 
Miss Chapman’s School ha ai 6 
Alliance Israelite School for Deaf ghd Dumb ee 94 


In the first-named school, trades are taught, while in the other 
two schools reading, writing, and speech are taught by modern 
methods. 


56. Mentally Defectives.—There were three schools, all for Jews, 
one municipally-owned at Tel Aviv, and the other two privately- 
owned, one at Tel Aviv and the other at Jerusalem. In addition, 
expert treatment was given at the Straus Health Centre at Tel Aviv 
to pupils sent there from the ordinary schools. 


PHYSICAL TRAINING, ATHLETICS, ETC. 


57. Physical training was further extended during the year, more 
particularly in village “schools. The new syllabus recently issued 
by the Board of Education has been adapted and is now in use 10 
all Government schools having trained instructors. 


A summer training course for instructors was held in August at 
which 67 teachers received special instruction in new exercises. 


At the annual Government schools sports, held in Jerusalem in 
May, students gave a public display of physical training and 
athletics. 


137 


58. The Boy Scout and Girl Guide Movements continued to 
develop. In October, 1934, there were 2,091 Scouts and 147 
Scouters ; while the number of Guides and Cuiders was 461 and 52 
respectively. 


Training courses both for Scouters and Guiders were held during 
the year. 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 
1. Epidemic Diseases. 


The total number of cases of notifiable disease reported was 
sreater than last year. Measles, enteric fevers, influenza, 
diphtheria, and cerebro-spinal meningitis were more prevalent and 
were mainly responsible for the increased incidence of disease. 
Pneumonia and measles caused 477 and 301 deaths respectively, 
and, as in previous years, were the most important cause of 
mortality in this group. There were 195 deaths from enteric 
fevers. The case fatality rate in these diseases was lower than 
last year except in the case of pneumonia. Cerebro-spinal menin- 
gitis, with 120 cases, reached its highest recorded incidence since 
1920. This is no doubt correlated with a general high incidence 
in neighbouring countries where in some cases serious epidemics 
Were reported during the winter and spring of 1934. In Palestine, 
though the increasing number of cases was a matter of some con- 
cern, the disease fortunately remained sporadic in incidence and 
distribution. | Typhoid fever was unusually prevalent in Haifa 
during June and July, and a large proportion of the total increase 
of cases is due to this. A larger number of cases was reported 
from Jerusalem, Jaffa, and Tel Aviv but, taking into consideration 
the rapid increase of population in these centres, the relative in- 
cidence was not appreciably higher than formerly. 


_ Diphtheria was'more prevalent in the latter months of the year 
in the Jaffa-Tel Aviv and Haifa areas. 


There were three separate invasions of smallpox. Twenty-two 
cases, of which two were fatal, occurred in Beisan district in 
Spring. Infection was introduced by a recent arrival from Syria. 

ven cases of extreme virulence occurred in an isolated group of 
Beduin in Beersheba sub-district in June. Four of these cases 

ed. The source of infection in this desert area was not definitely 
ascertamed. The third occurrence was in Haifa in December, 
where a traveller from Damascus fell sick a few days after his 
arrival in Palestine. This case was reported at an early stage of 
the disease and immediate measures were taken to prevent spread 
of infection. No secondary cases have so far occurred. 


Scarlet fever was less prevalent; 168 cases were notified com- 
Pared with 383 in 1933. In general the infection is mild in 
“gree and there was only one fatal case. Two hundred and 


1388 


seventy-nine cases of erysipelas were reported, 26 of which were 
fatal. These were fewer cases of typhus and relapsing fever. 


Amongst other conditions reported were five cases of hydro- 
phobia, thirty-three of anthrax, and two of blackwater fever. 


Conditions in the spring of the year favoured intensive mosquito- 
breeding. There was a slightly higher incidence in malarious 
areas generally, and in one or two rural localities sharp outbreaks 
occurred. In towns the incidence remains satisfactorily low. Of 
22,666 children examined in towns, 1:64 per cent. showed enlarged » 
spleens. The corresponding index in 1933 was 1:37. 


The highest spleen index is shown in :Tiberias and Beisan, where 
it was 29 per cent. in 456 children and 69 per cent. in 403 children, 
respectively. If the figures for these towns are excluded, the 
spleen index for the remainder of the town children of Palestine 
is less than one-half of one per cent. 


In rural areas 41,587 children’ were examined in 549 villages. 
The spleen index found was 5:4 per cent. as compared with 43 per 
cent. in 1933. The highest indices occur in Tiberias and Safad 
districts—26 per cent. and 24 per cent. respectively. These dis- 
tricts include the Huleh marshes, Lake ‘Tiberias, and the northern 
portion of the Jordan valley. 


Considerable progress was made in the survey of tuberculosis by 
the Specialist Officer appointed in December, 1933. Though the 
survey is as yet incomplete, the information available to date 
furnishes records of over 3,000 cases of this disease examined and 
registered. The figures appear to indicate that the problem of 
dealing with the disease is one of considerable magnitude.  In- 
fection is not confined particularly to any one class or community, 
but is distributed throughout the whole population, and. indications 
suggest that the disease 1s increasing amongst the Arab section. 
Extensive measures, both preventive and curative, will be required 
to cope with this disabling condition. Though statistics of deaths 
are incomplete, owing to the fact that it is only of deaths occurnng 
in towns that the cause must be certified by a medical practitioner, 
it is significant that 324 deaths were attributed to tuberculosis 
in 1934. 


The investigation regarding hookworm disease, previously con- 
fined more particularly to the Jaffa District, was during the year 
extended to other areas suspected of harbouring infection. It 
is accompanied by instruction and propaganda. It has been shown 
that, while a certain amount of infection exists in other localities, 
the distribution of the disease is definitely associated with citrus 
cultivation and irrigation. 


The effects of treatment and sanitation already carried out in 
the infected areas will be reinvestigated during 1935. 


139 


InFroTious DISEASES 

















| 1s. 
Diseases. —————- ——_--—_—_- 
| Cases. | Deaths. 
Acute Poliomyelitis ... sie He ss 9 3 
Anthrax oe ine was Lea eek 39 9 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis ...  ... 0. 4 2 
Diphtheria ow, cue een 210 21 
i. 414 30 
Encephalitis Lethargica wa — 
Influenza = 164 15 
Veasles 4,998 372 
Paratyphoid 259 7 
Pneumonia 696 415 
Puerperal Fever 47 22 
Relapsing Fever 23 — 
Scarlet Fever 383 — 
Smallpox 31 ] 
Typhoid... 1,055 107 
Typhus ... siete es — - seh 29 1 
Undulant Fever wus ous sie vs 6 l 
Blackwater Fever a5 es = ae 2 l 
Totals 8,369 1,007 
2. Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality. 
: Infantile 
Birth- | Number | Hstimated| vi mber | Death- mortality, 
Year. | rate of popula of rate Infantile | t.e., deaths 
per 1,000| births | bon deaths | per 1,000| deaths. | of children 
year) year of age. 
1930 | 48-03 44,587 | 928,148 19,513 21-02 6,879 154-28 
1931 | 48-07 46,011 | 957.181 21,149 22-09 7,826 170-09 
1932 | 44-14 43,538 | 986,329 21,958 22-26 6,669 153-17 
1933 | 44°38 46,089 |1,038.331 20,866 20-09 6,656 144-4] 
1934 | 41-59 45,944 |1,104,605 24,129 21-84 7,240 157-58 
Births and Deaths by Religions, 1934. 

Estimated population. _|Christians.| Moslems.| Jews. Others. Totals. 
40th June, 1934 99,532 | 740,627*| 253,700 | 10,746 | 1,104,605* 
Deaths lk, 1,618 | 19,760 2,419 33 24,129 
Death-rate per 1,000 of 

Population ase noe 16-25 26-68 9-53 30-89 21-84 
Births = gg sw | 8,840 | «34,489 | 7,666 449 | 45,944 
Birth-rate per 1,000 of 

Population ets Sr 33-55 46 - 56 30°21 41-87 41-59 

Deaths Infante under 1 year 509 | 6,041 599 91 7,240 
t Mortality rate per 

1,000 births ee at 152-39 176:15 78°13 202 - 67 157-58 
Natural increase per 1,000 

of population .. | 17-81 19-88 | 20-68 | 10-88 19°74 


ST na ne ne ee 


* Not including nomadic Beduin population numbering 66,553 at the date of the 
November, 1931. 


140 


The population figures given in the tables are estimates of the 
settled population based upon the Census of 1931 after taking into 
account recorded births, deaths, and immigration; and the rates 
given are “‘ crude ’’ birth and death rates. 

Recorded births were only 145 less than last year, while recorded 
deaths were 3,263 more. The absolute figures of infant deaths 
were 600 approximately more than last year. 

The calculated crude birth-rate is 42 per 1,000, the death-rate 
22, and the infant mortality 158; the corresponding figures for 
1933 were 44, 20, and 144. 

In the three communities there has been a rise in the death-rate, 
higher in the Christian and the Moslem groups than in the Jewish. 

The infant mortality rate has also risen in the first two groups 
and declined slightly in the third (Moslems, 175 compared with 156 
in 1933; Christians, 152 compared with 128, and Jews, 78 com- 
pared with 80). 


3. Regulation of Trades and Industries. 

The number of premises and trades controlled was 15,696—an 
increase of approximately 1,100 over 1933. 

The governing Ordinance was extended to additional rural areas 
so that trades developing there might be brought within the scope 
of the regulations. 

The following were added to the scheduled trades :-— 

Stone-crushing machines. 
Factories for the canning and preserving of vegetables and 
fruits. 

Special conditions were issued for the regulation and operation of 
the following industries :— 

Match factories. 
Rag and secondhand clothing establishments. 
Factories manufacturing or using non-inflammable solvents. 

Rat-proofing regulations were issued for warehouses in port areis 
and the Petroleum Regulations were revised. 

The Fublic Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance was published 
as & Bill in December. Its object is to consolidate and bring 
up to date the law relating to the sale of adulterated, unsound and 
sophisticated articles of food, and to give power to the Director 
of Medical Services, with the approval of the High Commissioner, 
to prescribe as may be necessary standards of quality for particular 
articles of food. 

Power is being taken also to control the addition of preservatives 
to food and the labelling of foodstuffs in regard to both quality and 
weight. Provision is made to regularize the taking of samples 
by appointed officers (both of Government and Loca] Authorities) 


141 


for analysis. Selling by false weight will be penalized if the net 
weight does not correspond with that stated on the label or where 
such sale is to the prejudice of the purchaser. 


4. Drainage. 


The main collecting sewer for the west of Jerusalem has been 
completed. The construction of a main sewer to serve part of 
Jaffa and Tel Aviv was begun, together with improvement works at 
the existing sea outfall. Plans are in preparation for the main 
drainage of Haifa. Approval was given by Government for the Tel 
Aviv and Jaffa Corporations to contract loans for similar purposes. 


5. Village Sanitation. 


During the year, 2,871 bored-hole latrines were installed in 
14 villages of the Southern District and outlying portions of Gaza, 
and 58 in two villages in the Northern District. In hill villages 
of Jerusalem District similar work has started, and 1,454 latrines 
of suitable type were installed in 15 viilages. 


6. Water Supplies. 
Towns. 


Progress was made with the Jerusalem water supply scheme, 
which is expected to be ready in 1935. Investigations are proceed- 
ing for the selection of a suitable source of supply for Haifa Town. 
Work is proceeding on the main supply for Hebron. 

The scheme for Nablus was completed, and Ramleh and Lydda 
have embarked on improvement of existing supplies from wells. 


Villages. 


A Committee under the chairmanship of the Director of Medical 
Services was appointed by the High Commissioner in October, 1933, 
to make arrangements for permanent amelioration of village water- 
supplies, and a sum of £P.45,000 is reserved from loan funds for this 
work, 

During the year under review, 97 schemes were approved by the 
Committee at an estimated cost of £P.22,350. 

About 115 villages throughout the country, having an aggregate 
population of approximately 87,000 persons, and livestock to the 
number of approximately 155,000, will benefit directly and sub- 
stantially from these schemes. 

Funds to the extent of £P.50,000 are being made available for 
further improvements during the forthcoming year. Villages who 
can afford it are called upon to pay 50 per cent. of the cost; but in 
case of indigence or distress this contribution is reduced or 
altogether waived. 


7. Quarantine and Moslem Pilgrimage. 


The accommodation at the Quarantine Lazaret, Haifa, was im- 
Proved by the completion of a new dormitory building. The new 
disinfecting station at the port is now in working order. 


142 


The Moslem pilgrimage was of small dimensions : 374 Palestinians 
and 9 Trans-Jordanians took part under official arrangements and re- 
turned safely and in good health, except for three who died in the 
Hejaz. All were vaccinated against smallpox and cholera before 
leaving and were provided with special passport booklets containing 
tickets for the return journey. 104 foreign pilgrims passed through 
Falestine en route, and 330 passed on their way back. 


8. Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc. 


During the year, the number of persons licensed to practise 
medicine increased by almost 50 per cent. The total number of 
licensed doctors is now 1,515. There is, therefore, approximately 
one doctor to 729 persons of the settled population. 

No. of per- No. of Licences *No.of per- 
sons licensed New Licences withdrawn sons licensed 
to practiseat Issued andcancelled to practise at 
end of 19388.  in1934. during 1934. end of 1934. 


Doctors ie vies 1,023 492 8 1,515 
Dentists Ma: ee 295 122 1 416 
Pharmacists ... den 220 35 4 252 
Midwives ae oes 368 34 8 _ 398 


9. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 


There was an appreciable expansion of hospital accommodation 
for the public, but several areas of Palestine populated by Arabs 
still require increased facilities and with the high natural increase 
of population, 20 per 1,000 per annum, existing institutions must 
be expanded. 

An infectious block of 16 beds and pupil-nurses’ quarters were 
constructed by Government at the Watan Hospital, Nablus. 

The accommodation for the increased incidence of infectious and 
communicable disease during the summer was insufficient in Haifa 
and Jerusalem and barely sufficient at Jaffa. The natural increase 
and immigration of Jews, more susceptible to these diseases than 
the indigenous population, present a problem which will have to 
be solved by provision of additional accommodation at an early 
date. 

A considerable number of private or specialized hospitals were 
established. Several maternity hospitals, designed for the Jewish 
section of the population, were opened in Tel Aviv and Haifa, and 
a surgical hospital conducted by an Arab surgeon was established 
in Jaffa. The Tel Aviv Municipal Hospital, to which the Govern- 
ment contributes, was enlarged from 125 to 184 beds. 

The Scottish hospital at Tiberias added a new outpatient and 
small isolation section. 

The C.M.S. hospitals and the English hospital continued their 
good work. The Jerusalem and the East Mission at Hebron was of 
special service to the poor population of that District. The 





* Including 8 doctors, 1 pharmacist, and 4 midwives whose licences had 
been previously withdrawn but were re-issued in the current year. 


143 


Edinburgh Medical Mission Hospital at Nazareth fulfilled its 
functions satisfactorily. 


The ophthalmic hospital of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, 
with increased staff, was again the principal centre for operative 
treatment of eye disease, while the special Government clinics at 
existing hospitals and dispensaries, and the recently established 
Government centres for the treatment of epidemic acute 
conjunctivitis proved of great value. 


The Hadassah and Kupat Cholim hospitals and the Shaare Zedek 
and Bicur Cholim in Jerusalem dealt very satisfactorily with the 
bulk of the general cases of sickness amongst the Jewish popula- 
tion outside Tel Aviv, while the Government infectious sections 
gave accommodation for communicable and infectious diseases of all 
sections of the population. 


The French, German, and Italian surgical hospitals took a con- 
siderable part in treating the sick amongst the Arab population. 


Means of treating or relieving the many Arab consumptive cases 
do not yet exist. A small hospital at Safad, established by the 
Hadassah Medical Organization, and aided financially by Govern- 
ment, provides for a small number of Jews. Projects have been 
i oa for a Government Tuberculosis Hospital and outpatient 
clinics, 


The comparatively small number of lepers are cared for by the 
Moravian Mission or at the clinics of the Government Department. 

The following is a summary of new patients admitted to hospital 
or attending dispensaries and clinics during the year :— 


Unclassified 
Moslems. Christians. Jews. and Totals. 
others. 
In-Patients :— 
Government and Municipal 
Hospitals sxe ae --- 6,880 2,001 6,216 20 15,117 
Voluntary Hospitals ... we =, 824 4,215 13,715 2,402 28,156 
Out-Patienta :-— 
Government and Municipal 
Dispensaries oe .-- 105,247 = 14,107 20,431 122 139,907 


Voluntary Organizations ... 121,352 43,238 332,048 5,057 601,695 


The following tables provide information as to the activities of :— 
A. Government and Municipal Hospitals. 
B. Voluntary General Hospitals. 
C. Special Hospitals— 
(a) Voluntary. 
(b) Government. 


144 


86P ¥-909 LOUFI| 16 LIUSt| 02 912° | 200% | O88‘ 6¢ rE 691 LOP | °° STeqO, 
6P Z:09 19e‘t | 321 16P‘I = L cg GIFT P Z 02 79 aye (tre38 AA) ENIQeN 
80 POLI Olé | ITE ILO’ = 6ccF | 8 P 0¢ = 02 PI | °°) diqsumoy, ary [oy, 
I Psi G69 €f 629 = I oP 989 z rd 6 02 ss (tedroranyy) ezex) 
GL 9°SL 1Z¢S | SLI 969° ¢ SSL L¥G LI9‘T € L Ih I? id (jedrorunyy) sger 
8 1°32 £F9 OF 899 as OT LL 18h — = 83 = "** (yuouruIeA0y)) peseg 
19 P-06 99e'2 | Ser L8P‘S LI 8E9 929 902‘T 8 Nd OF OL "°° (qUeUTTLIaAON)) Byreyy 
*8 €-18 669% | LEI 919° = SLI Le6 LYG‘T 91 91 Il €L (yUoWMIEAOr)) Wo[vEnIEL 

: . “gun ‘Anu *u0t 

se i sea "70j0T, | “84ay1Q | “Ssmar a "eulapsojT) _ 1, W “Ystjegd -) a [D4dUI/p 

paidnso0| fo-on | ‘sabsnyo | . $l cr q_ i <q. 1ioai i$ cc ciq_ cr —- ‘epondso 
speq | ebnsain “917 yo 

fo-on | 4poq "SUuoterULpD "ypbuase-paq POUsULO NT 


"PEBL ‘SIVLIdSOP{ IVdIOINNDJ GNV LNAWNUAAOY) (¥) 


ae NO OF | mt 


145 
aeons See! Seed tes 


F16'9S 


68F 


302'T 


ol 








"sjU0}}¥d SNOTMoIEQNy, Joy epoq OF S9PNIOUT » 


Z0F'S cr'st | cree | wes", | 989'T | 


cepreencemrrremmeatommes | queen | Oe cen | ee | ES RE ee See ee 





96 1st ZES 09 
ra #8 LL 09 
09? 608 stg OF 
S LST 09 02 
18 266 zor't | 09 | 
| sett | @ , £9 
rd $12 £78 99 
86 693 166 06 
g £29 6¥Z 0s wrayqory70q 
6t 89 620 OST 
L68'T 7 9 98 
26 — 9 9% 
¥98'T T 3 8g 
PEP'T — — ZR 
% — — 03 
gI¢ I T Gl 
293 — — S$ 
083 Szt 982, 09 
, 291 gost | O02 
T g 929 28 
oSt'T 08 $I OL 
— 16 gel oF 
l ~~ — — $9 
I — — —_— Lg 
#88 g LY +Se 
082‘ , 6 PPT 
“u0psp084 | ea aaa | ae ea 
$ a ue |. 
oor” swe | sayy | SuetOW waduene 
ates Ne ete Ne oe ae ame 
‘suojssiupy | 


‘FPEBL ‘SIVLIIGSO]T IVHANAL) AUVINOIOA (£1) 








ese ese sTe}0] 


‘0d 
‘OULOL 
[Pp BSURVyT VUoHUN ouOfzejVONsy 
SOfIVTD “98 JO $10781§ JO JOPIO 
es as AAQa0g ejdmoey, 
“apeqg WB YPOMIOTVY JOq] UpazeA 
UssseTORVid JayoaTTeydyso M q a 
‘mvpiojsury ‘puey AjOH 
043 OU} AyjanuIWMI0D YRMor OR JO 
Sreciosg PIS SEINE, ee NTIS 
e eee eee ese od 
aee eve od 
eee eee aoe - Teydsoy qouelg 
ee °** Bye jo Aqunaiu0D Ys} moe 
eee "0d 
0d . 
“OUAseVT Uj INogeyT qsmoL 
jo ToOHBsepey oP 30 puny HO 
"CV'S'N Pus “WN Apeour ‘peorqe 
pus spun) [eoo]) MOYO Moq Aon 


{reueis puv [eco] 
‘sUO}IVUOP YVAN) "YOUpe] quasi 
puvpjoog Jo YoINYD oa17 poyun 
£40P0g VOT [SO;PON YAINQUIpT 
Lol Wey og} pus WoresnIOL 
ae SMOr 0} DOSS YONGD 
ceo eee 00d 
eee eco "od 
ret, Agopog Arvuopsery yong) 
eee 0d 
“sopieury JO UOT} 


<VZJUVBIOQ 4STUOTZ 8,UOWOM YeeseptH 





“wopyws;uDesQ 107}080T 


146 


moysTeq | quommmreA0H | °° =“ ON "od 
wmoyeTqzeg | JUCMUIBAOf) | °° ne T “ON [¥9jdsoH [8] TORY 
“e7onyaso § muswuseaop) (9) 


*sofqemouy pus ouvsuy 
weresnier | UvUQSeTVT | 10J oWOH “AQQjoog UNjYSEN yIwITT 

“uopuoy ‘A49]00g UeTA 
WIg[VENor |/[eUOPCUIE,UT | -BIOW [VU] vUIE,U] «qe 1d001 zodeT 

“puyjsug Uj woremser yo UYOL 49 
UIETVETLIO ¢ WEA | 30 JepIO oy} Jo [eyJdeoy o q4d0 

: H s 104 (8 
"uoxMO0T «=| ‘AnpDUCI NT "uonwz;UDoLO ponds0 





"PEGL ‘S'IVLIdSOH IvVl0ddS (A) 


147 


10. Government Grant-in-aid to Jewish Health Services. 
The grants for the current year were as follows :— 


£P. 

Jewish School Medical Service ... aaa ee 1,620 

Infant Welfare Services ... ai sae 356 925 
Contribution to Jewish Tuberculosis Hospital at 

Safad ane Sis 1,700 


A grant of £P.150 was also made to the Hebrew University as a 
contribution towards the cost of malaria research work. 


11. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services. 


An expansion of these services was effected, more especially 
in the direction of providing village infant welfare centres of a 
simple nature under graduate midwives with welfare training. 

Four such centres were established and a supervisor was appointed 
to develop still further the village services in the southern and 
poorest areas. 

Gynaecological clinics in the town centres and antenatal clinics 
in four centres continued, and projects for female medical super- 
vision and expansion are envisaged. 

It is considered that the time has come when women doctors could 
usefully be appointed to take part in the gynaecological and ante- 
natal work which is conducted by Government in connection with 
infant welfare and maternity centres, and Government is taking 
steps accordingly to make appointments in 1935. 

Four Superintendents of Midwifery conducted and supervised 
the 24 Government and Government-aided maternity and infant 
Welfare centres. In addition, 20 centres are maintained by the 
Hadassah Medical Organization and four by the Womén’s Inter- 
national Zionist Organization for the Jewish communities. There 
are also two other centres maintained by voluntary committees. 

development of the service for Arabs is very important, but is 
delayed by the difficulty of obtaining a sufficiency of trained staff. 

The maternity section of the Jerusalem Government hospital 
dealt with 563 deliveries, and 15 midwives graduated after a six 
months’ course of training at the Midwives Training School con- 
ducted in connection with the section and the maternity and infant 
welfare centre in the Old City of Jerusalem. 


12, Ophthalmic Service. 


The special ophthalmic service, established in 1933 for the treat- 
Ment of acute purulent conjunctivitis, operated with success in the 
South. The early assistance provided by medical orderlies in village 
rentres, and the mobile unit with Medical Officer and nurses in 
“ty and trailer which was able to offer intensive treatment in 
affected centres, undoubtedly curtailed many epidemics of this 
acutely infectious disease and saved the sight of many villagers. 


148 


Six additional village centres were opened during the year making 
twelve village centres in all, based on two special and two pre- 
existing ophthalmic clinics. 

The other six ophthalmic clinics continued to treat both acute 
conjunctivitis and trachoma, while the Government school medical | 
service and the Hadassah medical service dealt with eye disease | 
amongst pupils, and instructed them in the Ree hygiene of | 
the eyes. 

The following cases were treated :— 


New Total 
cases. Attendances. 
Special and subsidiary village 
ophthalmic clinics ... uae, % BOsDLS 294 206 
Ordinary ophthalmic clinics ... 10,884 105 ,815 


The total number of treatments given by the school ophthalmic | 
service of the Department was 2,484,844, and by the Hadassah 
service 989,460. 


Cases, especially perforating ulcer cases requiring operative treat- 
ment, are either dealt with at ophthalmic clinics or sent to the 
ophthalmic hospital of the Order of St. John. This hospital, with 
its 45 beds, dealt with 1,044 in-patients, 20,586 new  out- 
patient cases, and 97,613 total attendances. 


13. Laboratory Services. 


Services provided by the central Government laboratories in 
Jerusalem and quarantine laboratories at Haifa and Jaffa have 
fully met Palestine’s diagnostic requirements. The staff of the 
central laboratories has prepared and issued all prophylactic and 
curative vaccines required in Palestine and Trans-Jordan ; it has 
also been responsible for the identification and classification of 
insects and animals of medical importance, for the recognition of 
animal parasites affecting man, for the investigation of problems 
concerning public health such as water and milk supphes, syphilis 
and rabies control, tuberculosis and anti-enterica measures, for 
research in pathology, bacteriology, serclogy, chemistry and 
entomology, for the maintenance of a roster of blood donors, for 
the provision of a fully adequate analytical service for all Govern- 
ment Departments and for the public, for carrying out all médico- 
legal, veterino-legal and chemico-legal work undertaken with a 
view to the scientific detection of crime, for the provision of a 
complete bio-chemical service, and for the maintenance in good 
order of the Government standard weights and measures. The 
staffs at the quarantine laboratories have, in conjunction with their 
efforts to identify the rat fleas of Jaffa and Haifa, collected and 
examined bacteriologically more than 1,000 rats for plague; at the 
same time the species of rat has been determined. 

During the year, the bacteriological division has dealt with 
224 ,000 “routine specimens sent for laboratory investigation, an 


149 


- Increase of 40 per cent. over 1933; it has prepared 628,400 doses 
of calf-lymph, 160,000 c.c. of carbolized antirabic vaccine, and 
116,000 ¢.c. of anti-enterica prophylactic, a total unit dosage of 
904,400 as compared with last year’s 588,920. Vaccine issues have 
- included 314,990 doses of calf-lymph, 148,790 c.c. of antirabic 
- vaccine, and 117,930 c.c. of T. and T.A.B. During the autumn 
_ the central laboratories have, at the request of the Colonial Office, 
provided accommodation for and gave assistance to a research 
student of enterica serotherapy. | Research work has included 
investigations into the structure of renal calculi, into the nature 
and degree of agglutinin production following the use of various 
enterica antigens, and into the type of mycobacterium responsible 
for human and bovine tuberculosis in Palestine. 

The work of the entomological division has, on account of 
_ shortage of staff, been temporarily limited to the identification of 
- anopheline and culicoid species and identification and classification 
of rat fleas collected at the ports. 
_ In the chemical division 7,100 samples and specimens have. been 

dealt with, apart from 3,800 milk samples examined in 12 provincial 
centres equipped for the purpose. The examination of 2,121 
samples of edible oils and fats has shown adulteration to occur 
in the following percentages : olive oil 20, sesame oil 8:6, butter 
and samneh 4°4, the chief adulterant of olive oil being peanut 
oil. An investigation of the factors influencing the acidity of local 
olive oil is in hand, and a new series of experiments on the corrosion 
_ of aluminium alloys submitted by the Research Department at 
Woolwich has been begun. 


14. Housing conditions. 


Great activity was shown in the building trade. House con- 
struction in all towns of Palestine has progressed to an amazing 
extent. Yet there is still a shortage of accommodation, especially 
in Haifa and Tel Aviv, mostly on account of Jewish immigration. 
This, however, is not the only factor. The rural Arab and Beduin 
population is increasing rapidly, and two bad years of drought 
and failing crops have induced a movement to the towns, where 
work can be found. Cheap accommodation for Arabs is not avail- 
able and the result has been that shacks and shelters of primitive 
description abound on vacant plots of land. . . 

Overcrowding in the newer Jewish quarters in Haifa and Tel 
Aviv is acute, chiefly on account of the high cost of accommodation. 

Government is particularly concerned that cheap housing schemes 
should be executed for the labouring classes, Arab and J ewish, 
and is prepared to assist private enterprise in this direction by 
placing at its disposal suitable State Domain land on long lease 
at low rental, subject to conformity with State and municipal re- 
quirements in planning, design, roads, lighting, and sanitation, 
and to State control of the scale of rents. One such scheme 18 
now under consideration for Jewish workmen south of Jaffa. 


28784 F 


150 


In this connection reference is invited to the mention of co-operative | 
housing plans in chapter xxvili, paragraph 10, of this Report. 

A Rent Restriction Ordinance is in force in Tel Aviv, Jaffa, 
and Haifa, and has proved a considerable boon to tenants without 
giving to landlords reasonable cause of complaint. The text of 
the Ordinance is set out in Appendix II to this Report. Otherwise | 
there is nothing to be added to paragraph 12 of Chapter XX of | 
the 1933 Annual Report. 


15. Child Marriage. 


Child marriage is dealt with in the following clauses of the draft 
Criminal Code Ordinance, which was published as a Bill in June, 
1938 : 

‘* 182. Any person who— 


* * * * * 


‘“* (b) marries, celebrates or in any capacity assists at the cele- 
bration of a marriage of a female who is under the age of fourteen 
years completed, . . . . is guilty of a misdeameanour and is lable 
to imprisonment for six months. 

“* 188. It shall be a good defence to a charge brought under 
paragraphs (b) ... . of section 182 of this Code to prove: 

‘* (a) that, subject to the laws of guardianship, the marriage 
took place with the consent of any living parent or guardians 
of the female, and 

‘ (b) that ‘at the time of the marriage the female had 
reached puberty, and 

‘“‘ (c) that no physical ill-effects to the female would follow 
the consummation of the marriage.’’ 


The Ottoman Family Law, affecting the vast majority of the 
population of Palestine, namely the Moslem community, contains 
the following provisions :— 

(a) For a marriage contract to be valid, the female party 
must have completed 17 years. 

(b) Subject to the consent of her paardiatk the Qadi may 
allow the marriage of a girl under 17 if it is claimed that 
puberty has been attained and her appearance supports the 
claim. 

(c) In no circumstances may @& girl under the age of 9 years 
completed be married. 


16. It is desirable to correct the impression that the practice of 
child marriage is widespread in Palestine. The Ottoman Family 
Law, as appears, provides safeguards against it; and the Codes 
of the Christian and Jewish communities are, if anything, more 
specifically directed towards its prohibition. While precise statistics 
are not available, child marriages may be said to be very rare 
in the Christian community; they occur occasionally among the 
Eastern sections of the Jewish community where their number 
is decreasing year by year; and among Moslems only in rural areas 


151 


ar in some backward towns, such as Hebron. Moreover, it is often 
not marriage that takes place, but a form of betrothal; and con- 
summation is delayed until the bride attains due physical develop- 
ment. Contact with European culture and ways of conduct and 
the spread of education generally are now beginning to make 
themselves felt; in the enlightenment, however circumscribed at 
the outset, which follows in their train, child marriages, even 
without restrictive legislation, must become progressively less 
common. Social consciousness, once awakened by these stimuli, 
will be the effectual deterrent. 


Government and private welfare centres are working to this end ; 
lacilities for the education of girls in town and village are being 
extended ; obstetric and district nursing services are enlarged year 
by year, and the engagement of women doctors by Government is 
contemplated. 


lj. Having regard to the comparatively limited extent of the 
evil in Palestine, and the practical steps which are being taken to 
create a state of mind and society in which the idea of child marriage 
will be repugnant, it is considered advisable not to attempt a drastic 
prohibition by Ordinance, but to proceed by degrees and with the 
consent of all communities. The clauses quoted from the draft 
Criminal Code Ordinance providing for a minimum age of fourteen 
years completed, and allowing certain lines of defence to a charge 
under the Ordinance, are regarded as a judicious compromise con- 
sidering the diversity of custom and tradition in the social conditions 
of the various communities in Palestine. 


18. It may be remarked that there seems no ground for apprehén- 
sion that the fixing of the minimum age at fourteen years completed 
mill involve the lowering of communal practice in this respect of 
those communities in which a higher minimum is already 
‘oluntarily observed. 


19. The Government is, nevertheless, continuing to explore the 

possibilities of bringing the provisions of the draft Criminal Code 

ance in respect of child marriage into closer approximation to 

the rules observed in European countries, whether by raising the 
Minimum or limiting or altogether abolishing the qualifications. 


20. Public Morality. 

There is no regulation of prostitution in Palestine by means of 
reserved districts or licensed houses; nor is there any registration 
of prostitutes or compulsory medical examination. 

é law provides severe penalties against procurers and against 
hose living on the earnings of prostitutes, under the Criminal Law 
endment Ordinance, 1927. 
jo rothels are illegal, a brothel being defined as a place ‘‘ where 
¥0 or three prostitutes carry on their trade.” 

All possible steps are being taken to reduce prostitution ; special 

Precautions are taken to prevent the surreptitious entry of foreign 
28784 | F 2 


152 


prostitutes ; and the admission of prostitutes is forbidden by the 
Immigration Ordinance, 1933. Those who contrive to enter are 
invariably from Egypt and Syria, and generally of Egyptian, Syrian. 
or Turkish nationality, but they very often contract marriages with 
Palestinians so as to avoid deportation. Some of them are so-called 
artistes and dancing-girls, who have been allowed to enter with a 
view to performing in cafés for a limited period. It is believed that 
in most cases these women come to Palestine on their own initiative. 

Supervision is exercised by police and health authorities over 
places of amusement and persons employed at such places, and 
enforced by Regulations under the Intoxicating Liquors and Public 
Entertainments Ordinance, 1922; and all employment agencies 
in Palestine are subject to police registration. 

No traffickers are known by the police to operate in Palestine ; 
the traffic in young girls from Palestine to Egypt and Syria or 
elsewhere for immoral purposes is practically non-existent, although 
it is attempted from time to time by traffickers operating outside 
this country. Where attempts have been made to entice girls to 
leave the country, it is always with a promise of lucrative work. 
No instance of the use of force has come to notice. All such cases 
are referred to the Government Welfare Inspector by the police or 
immigration authorities and the departure of the girls is 
thus prevented. 

There is no trafic in women and young girls through Palestine 
as the sea route is considerably cheaper and obviates the necessity 
for passports and for immigration papers and visas for Palestine, 
which are difficult to obtain. 

It has not been necessary for the Palestine Government to invoke 
the process of extradition against traffickers in any case. 

The following institutions and officials in Palestine concern them- 
selves with the problem of combating the traffic in women and 
children :— 

(a) The Social Service Association, which is composed of 
women representing all communities in Palestine, and which 
includes in its activities the protection of women and children 
from all forms of vice. 

(b) The Government Welfare Inspector. 

(c) Various Jewish societies which are not primarily for 
the purpose of protecting women and children but include it in 
their activities. 

The Jewish Agency affords protection to Jewish immigrants to 
Palestine through reception agents at the ports; and Christian and 
other girls are given protection by the Y.W.C.A., of which there 
are branches in the three principal towns. 

21. The following are statistics of prosecutions in the three chief 
towns for the offence of brothel-keeping :— 

Jerusalem. Haifa. Jaffa. Tel-Aviv. 
1932 Sik 1 4 2 _— 


1933 wa l 5 14 2 
1934... 7 2 14 — 


153 


Convictions were obtained in 1932 in four cases, in 1933 in 
nineteen cases, and in 1934 in seventeen cases. The sentences 
ranged from one and a-half to six months’ imprisonment and to 
fines from £P.5 to £P.100. 

Magistrates are aware of the gravity of these offences and deter- 
rent sentences will be more regularly inflicted in the future. 


22. A draft Ordinance amending and consolidating the existing 
legislation in regard to the sale of intoxicating liquors was published 
in August. It contained certain important provisions in regard to 
the employment of women in this connection, namely, that no 
female between the age of 17 and 20 years completed shall be 
employed after 7 p.m. nor any female over the age of 20 years 
completed after that hour, unless the Licensing Board grants special 
permission. No female under the age of 17 years will be allowed 
to be employed in any circumstances. 

It will be an offence under the Ordinance, punishable by a fine 
of £P.10 or imprisonment not exceeding 15 days and to increased 
penalties in case of subsequent offences, to permit licensed premises 
to be the resort of or place of meeting of prostitutes. 


XXI. PUBLIC FINANCE. 


The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from Ist 
— duly, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Government), to 
_ dist March, 1934, are set out below :— 


Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. £P. 
Ist July, 1920, to 31st March, 

1921, ~ des a 1,136,951 1,259,587 
1921-19292 2,371,531 1,929,341 
1922-1923 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-1924 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-1925 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-1926 2,809,324 2,092,647 
1926-1927 afi we 2,451,365 2,128,568 
1927 (April to December) 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 i a ae 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 2,389,546 2,536,504 
1931 su ee et 2,333,895 2,374,867 
1932 (January to March) 657,289 511,656 
1932-1933 ot Ks 3,015,917 2,516,394 
1933-1934 3,985,492 2,704,856 

30,928,212 
Surplus Balance at 31st March, 
1934, se ia sa 2,510,932 


£P.33,439,144 33,439,144 


28784 F3 


154 
Revenue and Expenditure (1933-1934). 


2. Summaries of the revenue and expenditure under Heads are - 
contained in Appendices I and IT to this Section, with explana- — 
tions of variations of note. 


3. The revenue for the period under review aggregates 
£P.3,985,492 and the expenditure amounted to £P.2,704,856, or - 
an excess of revenue over expenditure of £P.1,280,636. 


4, The revenue under Head I,’ Customs, shows an increase of — 
£F.581,653 over the revenue from that source in the preceding | 
year. The increase is mainly due to expansion of consumption 
owing partly to increased population; to substitution of imported . 
commodities for local agricultural products owing to the local — 
failure of crops; to increase of imports of building materials; and 
to increased trade activities generally. 


The revenue under Head II, Port and Marine, shows an increase 
of £P.40,667 over the revenue under this Head collected in 19382- 
1933. The increase is due to the increase in the total tonnage of © 
steam and sailing vessels which entered and cleared in the foreign | 
trade of Palestine from 4,092,119 tons in 1932 to 6,503,604 tons 
in 1933 ; to the imposition at Haifa Port, as from Ist August, 1933, 
of berthage, mooring, wharfage, pilotage, and towage fees. The 
gross increase includes an increase of £P.4,005 under light dues 
which resulted from the increase in shipping calling at Palestine 
ports. 

The revenue from Head III, Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted to 
£P.857,180 as compared with £P.824,443 collected in 1932-1933. 
The main increases are £P.9,914 under road transport licences; 
£P.10,848 under house and land tax (including urban property 
tax); £P.19,920 under stamp duties; £P.4,063 under matches 
excise; £P.25,470 under tobacco excise; £P.6,115 under wine and 
spirit excise; and £P.10,177 under fines and forfeitures. On the 
other hand, there are decreases of £P.14,805 under animal tax due 
to heavy mortality among livestock caused by the failure of pastures ; 
and of £P.43,968 under tithes, owing to remissions, amounting to 
£P.214,000 on account of the widespread failure of crops due to 
three successive years of drought and to the prevailing low prices 
obtainable for the cereal crop, notwithstanding the protective in- 
creases introduced in the customs tariff on wheat flour in the 
interest of the local farmer. 


The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £F.534,355 as against £P.332,488 in the preceding 
year. The main increases are £P.8,822 under court fees; 
£P.6,663 under overtime fees; £P.3,404 under quarantine fees; 
£P.4,793 under registration of companies and partnerships fees; 


155 


£P.17,177 under registration of immigrants’ fees ; £P.118,086 under 
registration of land fees; £P.5,411 under sale of departmental 
stores; £P.16,811 under warehouse rent; and £P.7,849 under 
citrus fruit advertisement fees. The advertisement fees are levied 
under the Citrus Fruit Advertisement Ordinance, 1933, at the rate 
of 15 mils per case of citrus fruit exported, and the revenue s0 
derived is devoted to the expenses of an advertising campaign. 
The sum of £P.7,849 was collected during the year and placed to 
the credit of an Advertising Fund, but certain initial advertising 
expenses were incurred, and the balance standing to the credit of 
the fund at the 3lst March, 1934, was reduced to £P.5,186. The 
increase of £P.118 ,086 in the fees received in respect of the registra- 
tion of land was mainly due to transfers of urban and suburban 
building plots to moneyed settlers, but transfers of two large agni- 
cultural areas also occurred, embracing 11,985 dunums. Land 
values rose considerably during the year in Tel Aviv and Haifa, 
and to some extent in other urban areas. There was also a general 
tendency for prices to advance, principally in areas suitable for 
Intensive cultivation. 


The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphs, amounted to 
£P.287 843 and was £P.58,024 in excess of the amount collected in 
1932-338. The main increases are £P.4,059 under parcel post, 
£P.33,977 under sale of stamps, £P.4,062 under telegraphs, and 
£P.15,620 under telephones, all of which reflect the prevailing 
economic situation. 


The revenue from Head VI, Revenue from Government property, 
shows a decrease of £P.1,797. 


The revenue from Head VII, Interest, amounted to £P.56,896 as 
compared with £P.83,775 realized in 1932-1933. The revenue in 
1932-1933 included £P.16,208 in respect of arrears of interest from 
the Joint Colonial Fund and £P.16,328 in respect of the accumu- 
lated interest on agricultural and seed loans, previously held on 
deposit. The receipts from interest on investments show an in- 
crease of £P.4,547 over the receipts for the previous year. 


The revenue under Head VIII, Miscellaneous, amounted to 
£P.121,337 and shows an increase of £P.41,399 which is due, 
mainly to an increase of £P.40,000 in Palestine’s share of the profits 
of the Palestine Currency Board. The share amounted to 
£P.90,000 for the year ended the 3lst March, 1933, as compared 
with £P.50,000 in the previous year. 


The revenue under Head IX, Land Sales, amounted to £P.26,609 
and shows an increase of £P.7,927 in comparison with the previous 
year, due mainly to further re-payments of the transfer price of 
lands under the Ghor-Mudawara Agreement by transferees who 
Were allowed to dispose of their holdings. 

28784 F 4 


156 
The revenue under Head X, Grant-in-Aid, consisted of the 
following :— 
: £P. 
Three-quarters of the expenditure under Head 
XXIII, Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, during 
the year 1933-1934 (£P.172,318) _... ... 129,239 
Whole expenditure on capital Works in Trans- 
Jordan under Head XXXI, ‘Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force Extraordinary, during the year 
1933-1934 ... ee ai Se - ste 8,521 


£P.137,760 


The total receipts from the Parliamentary grant-in-aid for the year 
1933-1934 amounted to £F.138,639, but the sum of £P.879 was 
transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit Account for adjustment of 
the grant in the current year. 

The receipt of £P.24,006 under Head XI from the Colonial 
Development Fund represents a grant (together with interest 
earned thereon) to meet Palestine’s share of the cost of an aerial 
survey of a possible railway route between Haifa and Baghdad by 
a party of the Royal Engineers. Disbursements on this account 
are shown under Expenditure, Head XXXIII, Colonial 
Development. 


EXPENDITURE. 


5. The variations in expenditure in 1933-1934 as compared with 
the expenditure of 1932-1933 are due to the following causes :— 


Pensions.—The expenditure under this Head in 1932-1933 in- 
cluded gratuities paid to officers retrenched during that year. These 
are not recurrent charges, and it is mainly for this reason that a 
decrease of £P.7,877 is shown in 1933-1934 as compared with the 
expenditure in the preceding year. 


Public Debt and Loan Charges.—The expenditure under this 
Head shows an increase of £P.2,843 over the expenditure in 1932- 
1933, due to the increase in the rates of the half-yearly contn- 
butions to the Sinking Fund from 11s. 8d. per centum to 13s. 1d. 
per centum as from 1st May, 1933, owing to a drop in the interest 
rates obtaining on investments. 


District Administration.—The total increase is £P.12,957 of 
which £P.1,691 occurs under personal emoluments ; £P.2,230 under 
cost of living allowances (charged to the respective Departments 
in the year under review instead of to Head XXVIII. 
‘* Miscellaneous ’’ as formerly); £P.8,317 under assessment ex- 
penses of the Urban Property Tax; £P.2,393 under remuneration 
of mukhtars, due to an increase from 2 per cent. to 5 per cent. in 
the percentage of the fee payable on collections; and £P.2,670 
under minor village works which is a service provided for the first 


157 


time in 1933-1934 for carrying out works of minor improvements in 
villages with the assistance, where necessary, of the Public Works 
Department. 


Judicial Department.—The total increase amounts to £P.5,075 
of which £P.2,248 occurs under personal emoluments and £P.2,832 
under cost of living allowances transferred from Head XXVIII. 


Customs, Excise and Trade.—Increase £F.17,628. The opening 
of the new harbour at Haifa and the general increase in the volume 
of trade are reflected in the additional expenditure incurred by this 
Department, mainly on personal emoluments (£P.15,995) (in- 
cluding overtime fees which were shown as a separate item in 
1982-1933) ; on cost of living allowances (£P.1,844) formerly in- 
cluded under Head XXVIII; and on the maintenance and insur- 
ance of tugs (£P.1,773). There was, however, a decrease of 
£P.2,804 under rewards owing to a change in the scale of payments. 


Department of Health.—Increase £P.24,786. The main in- 
creases Occurred under personal emoluments (£F.8,928) ; cost of 
living allowances (£P.2,677) ; hospital diets (£P.1,500) ; contribu- 
_ tion to Jewish health services (£P.3,700) ; furniture and equipment 
for Safad Hospital (£P.1,400); and lorry and trailer for the 
_ ophthalmic mobile unit (£P.1,508). 

During the year steps were taken to extend the ophthalmic service 
by the establishment of two centres at Majdal and Hebron and the 
opening of six village clinics. 

Expansion was also undertaken of the scheme for villiage sanita- 
- tion by the installation of latrines in the villages of the hookworm 


. area associated with citrus cultivation in the J affa District and in 


connection with the ophthalmic campaign in Hebron and Majdal. 
A modified type of latrine was also installed in hill villages. 

The year also witnessed the appointment of a tuberculosis expert 
whose duties include a survey of the local incidence of tuberculosis 
and general responsibility for the treatment of epidemic diseases in 
Palestine. Additional provision was made for staff and equipment 
In respect of a new Government Hospital at Safad and an infectious 
diseases pavilion at Nablus, where such institution was badly 
needed ; and additional Welfare Centres were established under the 
charge of Superintendents of Midwifery. 

A contribution of £P.3,700 was made to Jewish health services, 
covering the following :— 


£P. 
(a) Maintenance Grant to Tuberculosis Hospital 
of the Hadassah Medical Organisation, 
Safad ... on ee ee en a 1,700 
(b) School hygiene and ophthalmic services ... 1,500 
(c) Infant welfare services of the Jewish Agency 500 


£P.3,700 


158 


Department of Education.—Increase £P.20,115. The main in- 
creases occur under personal emoluments (£V.7,793) ; cost of living 
allowances (£P.5,813); grant-in-aid to schools of the Palestine 
Jewish Agency (£P.1,266) ; technical instruction (£P.1,473); and 
school furniture (£F.1,219). 

The vote for the Department of Education for the year under 
review contained provision for departmental expansion by the 
appointment of 70 new teachers and for additional class space. — 
Forty of the teachers were required to deal with the increase in 
the number of first admissions to Arab town schools and thirty to 
supply existing deficiencies in the staffs of urban and rural schools. 
As a consequence, school places were found for some 1,500 pupils ia 
the lowest class, in addition to the number accepted in the previous 
year. Delays occurred, however, in the provision of additional 
accommodation and consequently in appointing the additional staff — 
and the vote for personal emoluments was not fully expended. 
During the year increased accommodation in state domain buildings, 
as distinct from hirings, was afforded in nine Arab town day-schools. 

The provision in the approved estimates for grants-in-aid to 
schools of the Palestine Jewish Agency was increased from — 
£P.19,190 in 1932-1933 to £P.25,254 and was fully expended. 

The progress in technical education achieved by pupils in Govern- 
inent schools warranted the extension in 1933-1934 of that branch of | 
the curriculum and the provision in the Estimates was increased — 
from £P.500 to £P.2,000 for weaving, instruction in carpentry and 
other crafts, handwork and drawing. A sum of £P.1,932 was ex- 
pended on technical instruction during the year. 


Department of Agriculture and Forests.—Increase £P.28,561. 
The main increases were incurred under personal emoluments 
(£P.3,325) ; cost of living allowances (£P.1,379) ; upkeep of agricul- 
tural and horticultural stations (£P.2,105) ; eradication of pests and 
diseases (£P.4,868) ; fruit inspection service (£P.1,026) ; grant-in- 
aid to the Kadoorie Agricultural Schools (Tulkarm and Mount: 
Tabor) (£P.1,192); grant for citrus research by the experi- 
mental station of the Jewish Agency (£P.3,000); and Citrus 
Advertisement Fund (£P.7,849) (for the transfer to the special — 
fund of the actual collection of fees levied under the Citrus Fruit. 
Advertisement Ordinance, 1933). 

Extensions were made in 1933-1934 to the Agricultural Stations at 
Acre, Jericho, and Farradiya, and to the Horticultural Station at — 
Acre, while a new horticultural station was established at Nablus 
and preliminary works were carried out in connection with a further 
station at Farwaneh. A new poultry station was also established at 
Majdal. The votes for upkeep of agricultural and_ horticultural 
stations and the purchase of agricultural machinery were augmented 
in order to provide for these enlarged and new stations. 

Work during the year was commenced on the establishment of a 
Government citrus demonstration grove, in the centre of the orange 


159 


_ belt near Jaffa, for the purpose of citrus research work; while 
£P.3,000 was granted to the experimental station of the Jewish 
_ Agency at Rehovot in return for research services rendered. 

The coat of the fruit inspection service was increased by reason 
of the increase in the number of cases of exported citrus fruits. In 
1932-1933 the number of cases exported was 4,360,000 cases, while 
in 1933-1934 the number was 5,414,000 cases. 


Land Settlement.—Increase £P.4,526. The main increases occur 
under personal emoluments (£P.2,926) and cost of living allow- 
ances (£P.941). 


Survey Department.—Increase £P.11,436. The main increases 
occur under personal emoluments (£P.6,956) ; cost of living allow- 
ances (£P.1,333); and camp equipment (£P.1,217). The increase 
under personal emoluments is due to the employment of additional 
stall for an enlarged and accelerated programme of work in connec- 
tion with land settlement. 


Police and Prisons.—Increase £P.11,563. The main increases 
occur under personal emoluments (£P.8,696) and cost of living 
allowances (£P.2,214). The increase under personal emoluments 
is due to the absorption of municipal police into the genera] Police 
Force, but this increase is off-set to a considerable extent by 
vacancies in the establishment. 


Immigration Department.—Increase £P.2,655. The main in- 
. ceases occur under personal emoluments (£P.1,507) and cost of 
living allowances (£P.771). The increase under personal emolu- 
ments was due to the need for additional temporary staff to deal 
_ with the continued influx of immigrants. 


Defence.—There was an increase of £P.11,000 under contribution 
_ to the Imperial Government towards the cost of the Royal Air 
Force, Armoured Cars and Army units employed in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan over the cost of such forces at their normal stations. 
including cost of local services. The separate item hitherto pro- 
vided to cover the cost of local services, which amounted to 
£P.3,522 in 1932-1933, was discarded, the expenditure being in- 
cluded in the general contribution. ‘There was also a decrease of 
£P.3,274 under the item provided to cover the difference between 
public rates and preferential rates on the Palestine Railway and 
operated lines for Royal Air Force and Army units, owing to an 
over-estimate of the amount required. These rates have now been 
substituted by fixed rebates of 25 per cent. on military traffic pass- 
ing over the Falestine Railway, for the reason that the former 
Tebate failed to cover operation costs. No rebate is given in respect 
of traffic on the Kantara-Rafa and Hejaz Railways. 


Posts and Telegraphs.—Increase £P.12,256. The main increases 
“cur under personal emoluments (£P.6,656) owing to increased 
— demand for postal facilities; conveyance of mails (£P.2,627); and 
_ ‘Feat and repairs of buildings (£P.1,561). 


160 


Public Works Department.—Increase £P.4,303. The main in- 
creases occur under personal emoluments (£P.2,210), and cost of 
living allowances (£P.1,217). 

Public Works Recurrent.—Increase £P.11,351. The main in- 
creases occur under rent of offices and quarters (£P.8,183) due to 
the need for additional accommodation and increased rentals, and 
maintenance of roads and bridges (£P.2,977). 

Muiscellaneous.—Decrease £P.16,927. Increases occur under 
stationery and printing (£P.4,775) ; passages (£P.2,884) ; brokerage, 
commission and stamp duty (£P.1,016); grants to municipalities 
(£P.2,994); payments in heu of tithes assigned to private waqfs 
(£F.2,912); drawbacks of customs duty (£P.24,483) (treated as a 
refund from revenue in previous years) ; compensation to lessees of 
land in the customs area, Jaffa, for increased storage of timber 
(£P.1,500) ; payments to municipalities in lieu of their share in the 
collections of Urban Property Tax (£P.17,901) ; compensation to 
Jerusalem Municipality for the evacuation of a site near the new 
Palestine Archaeological Museum occupied by municipal abattoir 
and incinerator (the removal of which was one of the conditions of 
Mr. Rockefeller’s gift) (£P.5,687); contribution to Trans-Jordan 
Government on account of their share in the profits from currency 
(£P.2.843) (due to the increase of £P.40,000 in the contribution 
received from the Palestine Currency Board during the year and 
to the increase in the percentage of the payment to Trans-Jordan 
Government from 6°5 per cent. to 6°77 per cent.); and loss on 
investments (£P.6,341) (incurred on the sale during the year of 
investments in respect of surplus funds). On the other hand, de- 
creases occur under cost of living allowances (£P.24,765) (charged 
to the respective Departments in the year under review) ; Palestine 
census expenses (£P.4,267); settlement of the claim of the late 
James Finn (in respect of land at Mount Scopus, Jerusalem) 
(£P.4,277) ; payment to the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council in 
lieu of assigned waqf tithes (£P.35,750) (the payment in 1932- 
1933 included a lump sum payment of £P.30,000 in compensation 
for the remission of tithes for the years 1930 and 1931 and £P.5,700 
at the rate of £P.23,000 per annum for the period 1st January to 
31st March, 1932); and write-off of uncollectable agricultural and 
seed loans (£P.24,893). 

Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary.—Increase £P.12,815. The 
amount expended under this Head was £P.27,487 and exceeds the 
amount expended in 1932-1933, owing to increased programme of 
works, mainly in respect of telephones in the four principal towns. 

Public Works Extraordinary.—The expenditure for the year under 
review falls under the following groups :— 


£P. 
(1) Works and buildings ... see es 41,401 
(2) Construction of roads and bridges ae she 72 ,696 
(3) Miscellaneous ... ae ee tie sus 20,262 


£P.134,359 


161 


This amount exceeds by £P.40,119 the expenditure under this 
Head in 1982-19383, the increase falling chiefly under construction of 
roads and bridges (£F.36,579), but this figure falls short of the 
approved estimated expenditure by a sum of £P.31,394. The under- 
expenditure is due mainly to the non-completion of works in pro- 
gress or to the non-commencement of works contained in the 
Estimates, thereby necessitating a revote of the expenditure in the 
subsequent year. Some part of the under-expenditure is also due 
to savings on completed works. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary.—Owing to an ex- 
tended programme of works, the expenditure under this Head during 
the year under review exceeded by £P.7,941 the amount expended 
in 1932-19383. The chief items of expenditure concerned the con- 
struction of men’s married quarters in the Jordan area (£P.3,029) ; 
and in Zerka and Ma‘an (£P.6,991). The approved provision for 
the year exceeded the actual expenditure by £P.5,336 as it was not. 
found possible to complete the construction of the men’s married 
quarters and the unexpended provision has been revoted in the 
year 1934-1935. 


Colonial Development Fund.—The amount spent under this Head 
was £P.24,008 and represents the moiety of the cost of the aerial 
survey of a possible railway route between Haifa and Baghdad. 
An equivalent amount was received from the Colonial Development 
Fund and was classified to Revenue Head XI. 


Railways. 


6. There was a decrease of £P.57 ,414 in the amount of the deficit 
charged to Government expenditure on account of the railways, the 
deficit being £P.116,673 and £P.59,259 in the years 1932-33 and 
1933-34 respectively. 


The revenue from each of the four railways showed an increase 
during 1933-34 over the revenue for the previous year, the incidence 
of revenue being shown below :— 














Palestine Kantara-Rafa Hejaz Petah-Tikvah Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Railway. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Coaching— 
esp ies -.. 123,921 68,666 24,453 — 217,040 
ies . 150,708 72,319 25,162 — 248,1 
33-34 7 89 
1932-33 ... -.. 198,466 33,915 65,244 1,436 299,061 
4 1933-34 .., . 241,796 32,545 65,428 2,503 342,272 
scellaneous— 
ee Sas 31,014 1,487 7,645 4 40,050 
33-34 ... 39,202 1,944 7,855 44 49,045 
Total— 
i se --. 353,401 104,068 97,242 1,440 556,151 
3-34 .., --. 431,706 106,808 98,445 2,547 639,506 














162 


Details of the expenditure of the railways during the two years 
under review is shown below, and it will be noted that the total 


expenditure on all sections amounted to £F.680,143 as compared 
with £P.662,466 in 1932-33 :— 


Palestine Kantara-Rafa Hejaz Petah-Tikvah Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Rarlway. 

















£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Maintenance and 
Renewals of Ways 
and Works— 
1932-33 ... ... 63,521 26,562 19,440 — 109,523 
1933-34 ... ... 64,438 25,055 21,554 — 101,047 
Maintenance and 
Renewals of Loco- 
motives and Rolling 
Stock— 
1932-33 ... .. 62,144 16,191 22,086 — 100,421 
1933-34 ... ..- 60,308 18,648 23,097 — 102,053 
Transportation 
Expenses— 
1932-33 ... ... 87,407 21,083 29,840 — 138,330 
1933-34 ... ... 94,145 20,108 33,750 — 148,003 
‘General Charges— 
1932-33 ... ... 36,753 27,063 12,974 840 77,630 
1933-34 ... ... 37,641 26,082 11,927 840 76,490 
1932-33 ... ... 249,825 90,899 84,340 840 425,904 
1933-34 ... ... 246,532 89,893 90,328 840 427,593 
Debt Charges— 
1932-33 ... ... 152,962 — — — 152,962 
1933-34 ... ..- 156,458 — — — 156,458 
Extraordinary | 
Expenditure— 
1932-33 ... .- 27,287 — 16,313 — 43,600 
1933-34 ... w. «4, 377 — 3,128 — 7,505 
Renewals Fund— 
1932-33 ... ..- 40,000 — — — 40,000 
1933-34 ... ... 40,000 — — — 40,000 
Deficit from Previous 
Years— 
1933-34 ... ne — — 48,587 — 48,587 
Total— 
1932-33 ...°  ... 470,074 90,899 100,653 840 662,466 
1933-34 ... we 447,367 89,893 142,043 840 680,143 


The financial position of the four railways in the two years under 
review was therefore :— 


1932-33 1933-34 
Surplus(+) Surplus( +) 

Defici(—) — Deficst(—) 

£P. £P. 

Palestine Railways ... 117,354 —25,824 
Petah-Tikvah Railways ... + 600 + 1,707 
Kantara-Rafa Railways ... + 13,169 -+ 16,915 
Hejaz Railways ... .. — 3,411 —43,508 


163 


In 1932-83 a sum of £P.181 was credited to Palestine Railway 
revenue from the surplus obtained on the Kantara-Rafa Railway, 
while the whole of the surplus from the Petah-Tikvah Railway was 
also credited to Palestine Railway revenue. 

The surplus of £P.16,915 on the Kantara-Rafa Railway in 
1933-34 was divided equally between the Palestine Government 

and the Special (Renewals) Fund, reducing the deficit on the 
Palestine Railway to £P.15,660. The latter railway paid His 
Majesty’s Government a rental of £P.4,000 for the use of the line. 

The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 
for the period 1st April, 1933, to 8lst March, 1934, were as under :— 











Revenue— £P. EP. 
Coaching and Goods .. 392,504 
Miscellaneous — ans 39,202 
431,706 
Expenditure— 
Ordinary : £P. 
Ordinary... 246 532 
Renewals... 40,000 
Debt Charges 156,458 
—— 442,990 
Capital _ Improvements _ 4,377 
447,367 
Deficit des bas ee 6 ae £P.15,661 





The deficit of £P.15,661 on the Palestine Railway proper was 
charged to expenditure under Head XXXII in the Palestine Govern- 
ment account. 


_ 1. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railway proper to 
sist March, 1934, is appended :— 


From loan funds— 


cod ll LP. 

Purchase of assets from 

His Majesty’s Govern- 

ment (included in Item 

II of Appendix VI) ... 840,647 

Other expenditure (see 

Item I of Appendix VI) 1,638 ,645 2,479 ,292 
From Revenue— 

Capital improvements to 

31.3.33 .., oe eo 580,504 

Capital improvements to 

1983-34 ... a ; 4,377 584 881 


£F.3,064,173 


164 


8. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah-Tikvah Railway 
Were as under :— 


Ce 
Revenue for the ee Ist ae 19338, to 
dlst March, 1934 . ae sae 2,547 
Expenditure for fie ‘period Ist April, 1938, to 
dist March, 1934 . 840 
Net earnings ... oa dies ... &£P.1,707 


In accordance with the terms of the agreement between Govern- 
ment and the settlers the earnings are first applied in payment of 
interest charges at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum on the capital 
provided by Government and the landed proprietors of Petah- 
Tikvah respectively, namely £P.34,019 and £P.20,513 (£E.20,000), 
with priority to Government in the matter of payment, and in amor- 
tization of the latter sum which was provided by the way of loan by 
the colonists. The surpluses in previous years have been insufficient 
to pay this interest in full, and at 3lst March, 1934, after distribu- 
tion of the year’s surplus there was an outstanding debt of 
£P.9,339 due as under :— 


£P. 
To Government tne ee — oe a8 1,308 
To Petah Tikvah settlers ... sae Se foe 8,031 


9. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway were as 
under : _ 
£P. £P. 
Revenue for the period Ist ee 1933, 
to 3lst March, 1934 a 98 ,445 


Expenditure for the period Ist April, 1933, 
to 3lst March, 1934 : 





Ordinary — cist oe ... 90,328 
Extraordinary ... ai a ... 98,128 93 ,456 
Surplus a ois _ aie a £P.4,989 


———— 


Deficits had accumulated in previous years which at the 3lst 
March, 1933, amounted to £P.48,587. The surplus for 1933-34 
reduced this deficit at the 31st March, 1934, to £P.48,598, and 
this amount was charged to expenditure under Head XXXII in the 
Palestine Government Account, making the total amount charged 
to this Head £P.59,259 (i.e., £P.15,661 deficit on the Palestine 
Railway proper for the year 1933-34 together with £P.43,598 in 
respect of the accumulated deficit on the Hejaz Railway). 


165 


10. The revenue and expenditure of the Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) 
Railway were as under : — 


ol eee 
Revenue for the period 1st April, 1933, to 31st 
March, 1934 __... ... 106,808 
Expenditure for the period Ist April, 1933, to 
3lst March, 1934 she. _ 89,893 
Net earnings sa pas ee ae ... £P.16,915 
The net earnings were apportioned as under :— 
£P. 
Renewals Fund ... a 8,458 
Rent to His Majesty’s Government . aa 4,000 
Palestine Government... ae oat 4,457 
£P.16,915 


Special arrangements were entered into regarding the Sinai 
(Kantara-Rafa) Railway with effect from 1st April, 1933. Prior 
to this date a moiety of the profits of the Railway was credited to 
the Special (Renewals) Fund and a moiety of the profits was 
divided between His Majesty’s Government and the Palestine Rail- 
Way in proportion to their capital interests in the Railway. This 
method of division entailed a special and complicated system of 
accounts, to avoid which it was proposed, and agreed to by Ifis 
Majesty’s Government, that the allocation of profits on a percentage 
basis should give way to a commuted payment on a rental basis. 
A sum of £P.4,000 was agreed upon as the annual rent to be paid 
by the Palestine Railway for the use of the line, subject to recon- 
sideration at the end of three years. The profits resulting from 
the operation of this railway were apportioned as shown above; 
and the revenue of the Falestine Railway, therefore, includes a 


sum of £P.8,457, while the expenditure also includes a rental pay- 
Ment of £P.4,000 on this account. 


ll. The revenue from the Posts and Telegraphs Department 
amounted to £P.287,843 and the expenditure, other than from lozn 
funds, to £P.194,732 as under, or an excess of revenue over expendi- 
ture of £P.93,111 :— 


£P. 


Posts and Telegraphs_... sae . 167,245 
Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary sei a5 27 ,487 
£P.194 ,732 


The Department bears no direct charge in respect of interest on 


the capital expenditure of £P.188,126, defrayed from loan funds 
(ee Appendix VI). 


166 


Defence. 


12. A sum of £P.108,000 was provided in 1933-34 to cover the 
contribution to the Imperial Government towards the excess cost 
of the Royal Air Force units and Army units in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan. This amount is paid quarterly on the basis of one- 
fourth of the sum provided in the United Kingdom Estimates as 
Palestine’s contribution towards the cost of defence. The amount 
due for the last quarter, however, is adjusted so as to allow for 
the latest estimate of excess cost received from the War Office and 
Air Ministry, and is sufficient to cover the balance of the contn- 
bution according to those Estimates. Under this arrangement the 
total sum paid during 1933-34 amounted to £P.101,000, and any 
overpayment or underpayment in respect of the actual #s compared 
with the estimated amount is adjusted in the subsequent year. 

The following contributions have been made :— 

Financial 

period in 
which payment Amount. Financial year in which liability was incurred. Amount. 

was made. 


£P. £P. 
1928 53,500 1927-28 (1 year) ave sag uae ..- 31,000 
1928-29 (9 months) as Ss ae ... 22,500 
1929 30,375 1928-29 (3 months) ine di sis ... 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) ne iia dit ... 22,875 
1930 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) oe 7,625 


1930-31 (payment for 6 months at the original 16,750 
rate of £P.33,500 per annum, which was sub- 
sequently revised to £P.75,250 per annum). 


1931 86,000 1930-31 (payment of balance of contribution 58,500 
for the year at the revised rate of £P.75,250 
per annum). 
1931-32 (6 months) fee ee di ... 27,500 
1932 27,500 1931-32 (6 months) ere ye aie ... 27,500 
(January 
to March) 
1932-33 90,000 1932-33 (12 months) _.... ae mee ... 90,000 
1933-34 101,000 1933-34 (12 months)... si su --» 101,000 





Total £P. 412,750 





Assets and Liabilities. 


13. The assets and liabilities are set out in Appendix III. At 
81st March, 1934, the surplus balance amounted to £P.2,510,932 
as under :— 


£P. £P. 
Surplus balance at 3lst March, 1933 1,230,296 
Revenue for the period 1st April, 
1933, to 3lst March, 1934 _ ... 3,985,492 
Expenditure for the period 1st April, 
1933, to 31st March, 1934... 2,704,856 





Surplus for the period lst April, 
1933, to 3lst March, 1934 _... 1,280,636 


Surplus balance at 31st March, 1934 £P.2,510,932 





167 


Municipalities. 


14. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities are sum- 


manzed as under :— 


Jerusalem— 


Ain Farah water supply—Pur- 
chase of plant from Sir John 
Jackson, Ltd. ... 


New abattoir and incinerator ... 
Haifa— 
Oil storage area ... 


Other Municipalities— 
For works and services ... 


oP. 


6,185 
17,894 


Re ee 


24,079 


9,143 


955 


Total £P.34,177 


In addition, a sum of £P.29,523 has been advanced to the Jeru- 
salem Municipality in connection with the city drainage scheme. 
This appears in the Statement of Assets and Liabilities under 
“ Advances in anticipation of new loan ’”’ 


Agricultural Loans, 
15. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of 


loans are summarized as under :— 


(a) Agricultural loans (1919-23) £P.576,319 


(Northern, Southern and Jerusalem Districts) 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1933 ; 
Repayments during the year 1933-34 . 
Amounte watten off a 


(Percentage of arrears to the total instal- 
ments due 2-7 per cent.) 


(b) Agricultural loans (1928)  £P.19,366 
(Northern District) 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1933 
Repayments during the year 1933-34 ... 


(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
26-5 per cent.) 


(c) Agricultural loans (1930-31) £P.29,979 
(Northern and Southern Districts) 

Outstanding at 3lst March, 1933 ae 

Repayments during the year 1933-34 ... 


(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
78-5 per cent.) 


£P. 


LP. LP. 
19,320 
2,910 
= 16,410 
5,227 
99 
a 5,128 
24,212 
672 
= 23,540 


168 


(2) Agricultural loans (1931-32) £P.17,136 LP. £P. LP. 
(Southern District) 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1933 and 13,277 
Repayments during the year 1933-34 ... 3,585 
— 9,692 


(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
56-6 per cent.) 


(e) Agricultural loans (1932-33) (Northern, 
Southern and Jerusalem Districts) 
Total loans issued at 3lst March, 1933... 52,965 
Total loans issued during the year 1933-34 572 


Repayments during the year 1933-34 ... 3,236 


(Percentage of arrears to the instalments 
due 91-4 per cent.) 


(f) Agricultural loans (1933-34) (Northern, 
Southern and Jerusalem Districts) en 7,109 
(g) Fodder loans (1933-34) Northern, Southern 
and Jerusalem Districts) sae an ae 18,896 


(h) Bee-hive loans (Southern and Jerusalem 
Districts) 
Total loans issued during the year 1933-34 286 


Repayments during the year 1933-34 __... 15 
—— 271 


—_————— 


£P. 181,347 





With the exception of £P.780 under (a), the instalments com- 
prising outstanding balances of (a), (6), (c), and (d) are now over- 
due. The majority of loans under (e), (f), and (g) are repayable in 
one instalment, and the loans under (h) are repayable in three equal 
instalments. 


Earthquake Reconstruction Loans. 


16. The position with regard to advances made on account of 
earthquake reconstruction loans is as under :— 


iP. 
Advances outstanding at 3lst March, 1933 __... 21 ,089 
Repayments during the year 1933-34 ... Be 2,151 
Total outstanding _... oe ie ... £P.18 ,938 


These loans were made principally to persons residing in Lydda, 
Ramle, Nablus, and Nazareth. The arrears of due instalments at 
31st March, 1934, amounted to £P.9,623. 


169 
Deposits. 


17. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.—The 
balance of this account is made up as under :— 


Ee ae 
Amount of the fund at 3lst March, 1933 _... 287 323 
Profits on stock realized during the year 
1933-34 ... bee ae oe es si 966 
Appreciation of investments held at 31st 
March, 1934, at the mean market value _... 9,788 
£P.298,077 





The interest received from the investments of this fund has been 
carnied, hitherto, to a separate account, but with effect from 1934-35 
it is carried to revenue, while the expenditure incurred on the 
maintenance of the Museum is charged to expenditure. 


18. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Account.— 
When Mr. John Rockefeller Jr. undertook to provide $2,000,000 for 
the cost of construction and endowment of this museum it was esti- 
mated that the building would be completed in 1930, and the gift 
was promised on the understanding that the last payment would be 
be called for not later than Ist January, 1931. Owing, however, to 
unforeseen difficulties, construction has not proceeded according to 
schedule and had not been completed at 3lst March, 1934. Never- 
theless, a sum of $1,000,000 was received in November, 1929, and an 
endowment fund created. Subsequently building grants, on a dollar 
basis, were also made from time to time with an extension of the 
veriod of call to the Ist of January, 1933. 


Owing, however to the fall in the value of sterling, the dollar 
values of the building grants were considerably in excess of the 
original sterling equivalents, while the enactment of the United 
States gift tax law in June, 1932, increased by almost 100 per cent. 
the cost to Mr. Rockefeller of his benefaction. Moreover, the delay 
in construction of the museum had delayed the necessity for main- 
tenance, and interest accrued on the endowment fund accordingly, 
although certain expenditure was inevitably incurred on staff and 
research work in connection with the classification and arrange- 
ment of archaeological material, records, and library. 


In view of these changes, it was suggested that the original pledge: 
should be replaced by a new arrangement which ultimately took 
the following form :— 


(a) The cost of construction of the museum, originally esti- 
mated at £P.200,000, should be reduced to £F.193,000. This 


was made possible by economies on certain items of equipment 
and fittings. 


170 


(b) £P.14,000 of the unexpended balance of income derived 
from the endowment fund at 3lst March, 1934, should be trans- 
ferred to the construction account. 


(c) The endowment fund should be reduced by the amount 
required to complete construction, after taking into account 
the sum of £P.149,308 already paid by Mr. Rockefeller and 
the transfer of £P.14,000 from the balance of the current 
account. 


The amount of £P.25,733 shown in the Statement of Assets and 
Liabilities is made up as under :— 








£P. 
Amounts received from Mr. Rockefeller to 
3lst March, 1934 side 149,308 
Amount transferred from eee interest 
In current account fe eet at ea 14,000 
163 ,308 
Less : amount expended to 31st March, 1984... 137,575 
Balance in hand at 31st March, 1934 ... .. £F.25,733 





19. Palestine Archaeological Musewm Current Account.—The 
amount of £P.438 shown in the Statement of Assets and Liabilities 
represents the balance in hand of this account at 31st March, 1934, 
as shown in the following summary :— 








£P. 

Total receipts on this account since income 
first accrued to 3lst March, 1934 ahs he 40,860 

Total recurrent costs charged to this account 
to 31st March, 1934... - ~ ae 96 ,422 
14,438 

Less: amount transferred to construction 
account... Mes si ee on see 14,000 
Balance in hand at 31st March, 1934 ... .. £P.438 





20. Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest.—The bequest was made to His 
Majesty’s Government, who appointed the Officer Administering 
the Government of Palestine to be the local representative for the 
administration of the trust. 


171 


The balance of £P.12,242 shown in the Statement of Assets and 
Liabilities represents the amount available locally at 31st March, 
1934, from remittances made by the Crown Agents, London, for 
defraying the construction expenses of the Arab Agricultural School 
at Tulkarem and the Jewish Agricultural School at Mount Tabor 
and part of the maintenance of these schools. 


The trust fund invested by the Crown Agents at 31st March, 
1934, was £P.85,150, and the cash balance held by the Crown 
Agents was £P.6. 


Investments. 


21. The cost price of stocks held on Government account in 
respect of available balances and loan funds at Ist April, 1933, was 
£P.615,415, and during the year further surplus funds were invested 
to the extent of £P.1,080,873, making a total investment of 
£P.1,696,288. The value of these stocks at middle market price 
on 3lst March, 1934, was £P.1,725,203, as shown in Appendix V. 
Investments held on behalf of funds in the custody of Government 
consist of stocks forming the endowment fund of the Palestine 
Archaeological Museum, valued at £P.298,077, and the investment 
of the surplus balances of the Police Fines F'und, valued at £P.3,559. 
The total investments, therefore, at the mean market value at 31st 
of March, 1934, amount to £P.2,026,839 as compared with total 
investments amounting to £P.928,821 held on the 31st of March, 
1933. 


Loan Expenditure. 


22. The expenditure from loan funds is shown in Appendix VII. 
The Palestine loan of £4,475,000, 5 per cent. guaranteed stock, 
issued at £100 10s. per centum, realized £P.4,497,375. 

The expenditure during the year amounted to £P.193,755, and 
was incurred on the following works :— 


£P. 
Railway workshops ba ssa - ae 9 227 
Jaffa port improvements su 7 ae 21,969 
Haifa harbour construction _.... ot wis 159,517 
Acquisition of site of the Government Printing 
Office... a ae ie 7. ae 3,042 
£P.193,755 





23. The total expenditure from loan funds at the 31st March, 
1934, amounted to £P.4,243,908, leaving a balance of £P.253,467. 


172 


24. The Palestine Government proposes to raise a loan of two 
million pounds for the following purposes. 


Ee 

1. Resettlement of displaced Arabs ... aC 250,000 
2. Water-supply and drainage schemes for 
Jerusalem and Haifa, water-supply for 
Hebron and various villages, and survey 

of water resources ... a = wiese 933 ,000 

3. Agricultural credits... sia 200,000 
4. Construction of oil-berth and eeclunation 

scheme at Haifa _.... = 210,000 
5. Public buildings, including ene Post 
Office and various educational buildings, 
and purposes incidental to, or connected 
with, any of the purposes mentioned in 
this schedule, including the raising of the 

loan... oe bei act a a) 407 ,000 

£P.2,000,000 


The bulk of the loan is to meet the cost of Municipal water- 
supplies and drainage schemes the annual charges of which will 
ultimately be revenue-earning. His Majesty's Government have 
approved free grants from the Colonial Development Fund of the 
interest payable on the loan in respect of the capital cost of schemes 
as under :— 

Jerusalem water-supply £P.9,000 in 1934-385 
£P.12,000 in 1935-36 
£P.5,000 in 1936-37, and 


£P.5,000 in 1937-38. 


Jerusalem drainage scheme 5 years at full rate. 

Hebron water-supply 5 years at full rate and 
5 years at half rate. 

Village water-supply 5 years at full rate. 


Application will be made for grants in respect of the Haifa water- 
supply and drainage schemes as soon as estimates of cost are 
approved. 


The provision of £P.250,000 for the resettlement of Arabs is 10 
conformity with an undertaking given by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment in 1930 that provision would be made for the resettlement of 
those Arabs who might be found, after enquiry, to have bee 
displaced from the lands which they occupied in consequence © 


173 


the lands passing into Jewish hands, and who had not obtained 
other holdings on which they could establish themselves or other 
equally satisfactory occupation. 

During 1933-34 a sum of £P.70,635 was expended on this scheme, 
of which £F'.68,682 was incurred on the purchase of land. 

The water-supply and drainage schemes provide for the follow- 
Ing services and the amounts allocated to them and expended 
during 1933-34 are shown below :— 











Expended 
Total im 
Provision. 1933-34. 
LF. LP. 
Jerusalem water-supply 370,000 58 ,983 
Jerusalem drainage scheme 150,000 29 523 
Haifa drainage scheme 130,000 398 
Haifa water-supply 200,000 — 
Hebron water-supply ... 10,000 4,177 
Water resources survey 6 ,000 669 
Underground water investiga- 
gations seal at 22 ,000 _ 
Improvements of village water- 
supplies a sate wid 45 ,000 — 
£P.933 ,000 93,750 
Currency. 
(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report 
for 1929.) 


25. During the year under review the Currency Board paid an 
amount of £P.90,000, being Palestine’s share in the profits from 
currency. 


26. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the total 
‘alue of currency in circulation at 31st March, 1934, amounted to 
£P 4,069 664, or an increase of £P.1,248,000 as compared with the 
Value of currency in circulation at 31st March, 1933 :— 


Denomination. Coins and notes in circulation at 
31st March, 1933. 31st March, 1934. 
a £P. £P. 
Silver colns. 
100 mils 143 ,500 181 ,500 
50 mils 140 ,000 174,000 








Face value of silver coins 283 500 


3095 000 





174 


Nickel-bronze coins. 








£P. EP. 
20 mils ass a 16,000 19,500 
10 mils ae sat 18,400 23 ,200 
5 mils ies sek 12,900 15,900 
Face value of nickel- 47,300 - 58,600 
bronze coins. 
Bronze coins. 
2, mils i ve 1,168 1,520 
1 mil ise — 1,776 2,464 
Face value: of bronze 2,944 3,984 - 


COIDS. 








Face value of all coins £P.333,744 £P.418,084 








Notes. £P. £P.. 
£P. 100 ... sae Be 8,400 5,600 
£P. 50... ve oe 70,200 68,250 
£P. 10 5a ae 2 310,960 564,270 
£P. 5 ore oe St 751,825 1,226,075 
£P.1 sid he fot 1,164,856 1,532,740 
500 mils... set ee 181 ,679 954,645 
Face value of notes ... bee 2,487 ,920 3,651,580 


Face value of coins and notes £P.2,821,664 £P.4,069 ,664 





Monopolies. 


(See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 81 of the Annual Report for 
1929 and paragraph 29 on page 165 of the Annual Report for 1933.) 


Banks. 


As stated in the previous report, a Committee was appointed, 
under the Chairmanship of the Treasurer, comprising a mixed uD- 
official membership representing the more important banking 4? 


175 


commercial interests. The Committee has submitted a report em- 
bodying recommendations for better control of banks, and legislation 
giving effect to the Committee’s main recommendations igs under 
consideration. 


APPENDIX I. 
Summary of Revenue for the years 1930 to 1933-34.(a) 





1932 1932-33 1933-34 
Heads of Revenue. 1930. 1931. (1st January| (Ist April | (1st April, 
to 1932 to 31st | 1933, to 31st 


31st March).| March, 1933).|\ March, 1934). 


a ee eee 


£P. £P, £P. £P. £P. 
toms 991,688 922,080 | 257,107 | 1,286,945 | 1,868,598(b) 
rand Marine 9,703 10,531 9,789 15,822 56,489(c) 
aces, Taxes, ete. ... | 740,664 604,771 173,355 824,443 857,180(d) 
& of Court and Office, 
ae . | 248,371 248,631 68,807 332,488 534,355(e) 
*» and Telegraphs 220,384 207,758 55,254 229,819 287,843(f) 
‘eaue from CGovern- 
went Property 14,613 13,591 3,595 16,217 14,420 
EE eee 87,485 52,793 4,271 83,775(9) |  56,896(g) 
wellancoug wa, 28,465 42,001 26,395 79,938(h) | 121,337(h) 
tdSales 6,887 8,830 3,382 18,682 26,609 
MiAid 41,286 222,909 27,734 127,788 137,760 
ilways (excess of Re- 
tue over Expenditure) on ae 27,600(:) a me 
nial Development 
Md - — — — 24,006(4) 
Tid .. gp] 2,389,546 | 2,333,805 | 657,289 | 3,015,917 | 985,493 


en | 


(2) The figures for the periods prior to 1930 are shown on page 32 of 
the Annual Report 1929. 


a The proportionate increase is mainly due to larger imports of benzine, 
and ae wheat, sugar, building materials, tobacco, cigarettes, cigars 
in th mbac, and other commodities generally. Though there was an increase 

8 Importation of wheat flour, the revenue derived from duty on this 


ommodity fel] by approximately £P.25,000 due to the decrease in the 
Tate of duty. 


(¢) The Proportionate increase is chiefly due to the imposition, at Haifa 

ort, as from 1st August, 1933, of berthage, mooring, wharfage, pilotage, 

as Wage fees consequent on the opening of the new harbour. ‘There 

wh; ay & general increase in the total tonnage of steam and sailing vessels 
a entered and cleared the foreign trade of Palestine. 


176 


(d) The proportionate increase is due mainly to increases in the collec- 
tions of house and land tax (including urban property tax) in the excise 
duties on matches, tobacco, and wine and spirits, and on stamp duties. 
There was, however, a falling off of revenue under animal tax and tithes 
due to heavy mortality among livestock and to remissions. The total 
receipts under this head for the period to 3lst March, 1932, are exclusive 
of tithes assigned to waqfs and collected by Government. The amounts 
so collected were as under :— 


£P. 
1930 us a us ae ae ia ae sie 29,220 
1931 bi sd a — ms ee had ites 7,721 
Ist January to 3lst March, 1932 ang ae aa 3,843 


£P.40,784 


Commencing from Ist April, 1932, such collections have been included under 
this head and paid from expenditure. 


(e) The principal increase falls under registration of land fees owing to 
an unprecedented increase in registered land transactions and to the con- 
siderable rise in land values in Tel-Aviv and Haifa and to some extent in 
other urban areas. Substantial increases occur also under court fees, over- 
time fees, registration of immigrants fees, citrus fruit, advertisement fees 
and warehouse rent. 


(f) The chief increases occur under sale of stamps, and receipts from tele- 
phones owing to the prevailing economic situation. 


(g) Arrears of interest from the Joint Colonial Fund for the period Ist 
July, 1931, to 3lst December, 1931, were brought to account in the year 
1932-33. In the same year the accumulated interest on agricultural and 
seed loans, previously held on deposit, was transferred to revenue. 


(h) Includes £P.25,238 and £P.23,016 respectively from appreciation on 
investments. Palestine Government’s share of the profits from currency for 
the year ended 3lst March, 1933, was £P.40,000 in excess of the amount 
received for the preceding year. 


(i) No payment of debt charges in respect of the Palestine 5 per cent. 
guaranteed loan fell due during this period. 


(j) This amount represents a grant, plus interest, from the Colonial 
Development Fund to meet Palestine’s share of the cost of an aerial survey 
of a possible railway route between Haifa and Baghdad by a party of Royal 
Engineers. 


177 


APPENDIX II. 
Summary of Expenditure for the years 1930 to 1983-34.(c) 


| 1932-33 1933-34 





1932 
Reads of Expenditure. 1930. 1931. (lst January| (1st April, | (lst April, 
to 1932, to 31st | 1933 to 31et 
31st March).|March, 1933).| March, 1934). 
| £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
03... 16,829 16,925 5,033 32,070(n)|  24,193(s) 
bic Debt and Loan 
larges hee 112,609 124,396 — (h)| 124,355 127,198(é) 
| Excellency the High 
xmmissioner ... 7,211 7,823 2,143 9,199 9,313 
Wariat =. 21,330 21,956 5,452 23,437 25,433 
itict Administration 89,590 91,791 22,480 84,755 97,712 
al Department 8,578 8,757 2,308 10,155 10,451 
fal 82,562 84,949 22,330 84,459 89,534 
a 15,579 15,807 3,985 14,550 15,746 
Sit Department 9,034 11,845 3,033 11,096 12,181 
Won, Exciseand Trade| 71,153 70,759 16,955 16,767 94,395 
uth Department 105,481 105,918 26,161 111,062 135,838 
‘aton Department 143,555 146,988 30,322(%) | 159,520 179,635 
meulture and Forests | 102,518(d) 81,227 463 86,515(0) | 115,076 
iuities Department 7,239 7,119 1,682 7,064 8,359 
td Settlement... 21,280 23,358 5,706 22,772 27,298 
ods Department 17,369 17,551 4,256 18,283 20,024 
my Department ... 42,206 44,947 11,038 48,571 60,007 
partment of Develop- 
ni te aes nee — 1,910 1,595 6,618 7,822 
aid Prisons = iss | «| 475,861 469,516 111,329 475,042(p)| 486,605 
partment of Immigra- 
gk, Og = a 4,702(j) 18,737(4 21,392(j) 
en Frontier : 2 
in, es | 209,212(c) | 174,815 35,599(%) | 169,701 172,318 
ty", os | 109,675(d)] 121,681(f)] 36,846(2) | 105,922 110,125 
Sa Telegraphs ... | 147,338 151,631 9,611 154,989 167,245 
ie orks Department 48,662 48,720 11,869 45,193 49,496 
— Recurrent | 164,649 180,686 35,112 178,018 189,369 
sae | = 268,768(e) | 151,404 27,368 206, 189,908(u 
bts mad Telographs 8(e) 835(q) 908( 
Bis Works 7, 26,096 11,452 2,678 14,672 27,487(v) 
oes 160,671 104,947 18,050 134,359(» 
diye trtta0 22,868 8,078 3,550 5,134 13,075(0) 
Ys (Exceas of Rx. 
Pit Revenue)| 19,592 67,916(g) —(m)\ 116,673(r)| 59,259 
Total £P,| 2,536,505 | 2,374,867 511,656 | 2,516,304 | 2,704,856 


Ma at a rn ba WO ee a ct He Be eee 





178 


(2) The figures for the periods prior to 1930 are shown on pages 34-35 
of the Annual Report for 1929. 


(b) Includes £P.26,848 in respect of anti-locust measures. 
(c) Includes £P.27,776 for purchase of vehicles for mechanization. 


(d) Includes £P.68,193 for cost of local services to British troops in 
Palestine, and £P.17,107 in respect of the difference between public rates 
and preferential rates on the Palestine Railways and operated lines for 
Royal Air Force and Army units. 


(e) Includes £P.101,135 for compensation on account of damages incurred 
in the 1929 riots and £P.31,178 in respect of a special grant to the Jerusalem 
Municipality. 


(f) Includes £P.25,423 for cost of local services to British troops in 
Palestine, and £P.11,158 cost of difference between public rates and pre- 
ferential] rates on the Palestine Railways and operated lines for Royal Air 
Force and Army units. ; 


(g) Due to economic depression. 
(hk) No payment of debt charges was due during this period. 


(1) Proportionate decrease is due to non-payment of the grant to the 
schools of Palestine Jewish Agency during the period. The amount was 
paid in the subsequent quarter. 


(7) Formerly included in the Police and Prisons estimates. 


(k) The proportionate decrease is due mainly to delay in the payment of 
claims for material purchased during the period. 


(l) Includes £P.13,750 being arrears of the contribution to His Majesty's 
Government in respect of the last quarter of 1931. 


(m) No debt charges were payable during the period and no contribution 
was made towards the establishment of a railway renewals fund. 


(n) Includes £P.14,796 being gratuities paid in respect of retrenched, 
retired and deceased officers. 


(0) The sum of £P.86,515 is distributed as under :— 


£P. 
Department of Agriculture ... we te ... 43,299 
Department of Forests ... wes ae sat ... 17,333 
Department of Animal Health ... a ar ... 20,883 


(p) Includes an increased provision of £P.20,233 under personal emolu- 
ments and £P.3,362 under other charges in respect of the absorption into 
the general Police force of all municipal police forces and the Tel Aviv 
Township municipal police force from lst April, 1932, and Ist July, 1932, 
respectively. The additional cost of the municipal police forces is, however, 
recoverable from municipalities in monthly instalments which are credited 
to revenue. 


(q) Includes (1) payment to the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council in lieu 
of assigned wagqf tithes as under :— 

(a) Compensation for the reduction in the commuted tithe <£P. 

in 1930 and 1931 (lump-sum payment) ste see znd ... 380,000 


(6) In respect of the period lst January, 1932, to 3lst March, 


1933 (at the rate of £P.23,000 per annum) ... see 28,750 


£P.58,750 


179 


and (2) Write-off of uncollectable arrears of agricultural and seed loans, for 
which authority was granted during the year, made up as under :— 





£P. 

(a) Agricultural loans, 1919-23 wie 23 ve ee 17,897 
(b) Agricultural loans to Beersheba eulevatons: 1927 . 548 
(c) Seed loans, 1928 _... ba ah es Bae ae 6,448 
£P.24,893 





(r) The Palestine Railways expenditure in 1932-33, apart from the con- 
tnbution of £P.40,000 to the renewals fund, includes the following amounts 
in respect of payments relating to previous years :— 


£P. 
(2) 72:610 kilometres of second line of Kantara-Rafa 
Railway she s ; we S36 : ie 16,692 
(b) Interest on His Majesty’ 8 Geoceminenvs shuee of 
moiety of profits of Kantara-Rafa ers for the ener 





Ist April, 1923, to 38lst March, 1932 ... : re 2,327 
(c) Reconstruction of E] Arish Bridge ... - 5,963 
(d) Deficit on Kantara-Rafa ney for the year 

1924-25 a 505 : : sa ~ 2,345 

£P .27 327 





() The expenditure under this head in 1932-33 included gratuities paid 
to retrenched officers not annually recurrent. 


(t) Due to the increase in the rate of the half-yearly contributions to the 
ae fund from 11s. 8d. per cent. to 13s. ld. per cent. from Ist May, 


(u) Includes £P.24,483, drawbacks of customs duty (treated as a refund 
fm revenue in the previous years). 


(v) Due to increased programme of works. 


Ae ) Moiety of the cost of an aerial survey, by a party of Royal Engineers, 
"8 possible railway route between Haifa and Baghdad. 


180 


‘NVO'T AGN E6L'SEF sybuM oyeaLg 
GLE ILE‘FSS fO NOILVdIOILNY NI SaONvAay ‘s}UNODDy 
3E9'299'EL6 SEF LIE‘ZP yeodog syduisojey, pus eys0g 
829° 186'F ‘**  syumoooy Apung LZ1°90€'F puny seuly eoljog 
*Tlounory *JUNOOOY qUeLIMY) 
000°000°@ eleyg woisoyy oulcidng OI SEP UINEN [Vosojow@yory ounyseped 
FIZ 689'E eas syUNODDY esIOF] eoT0g ‘yuNOoDY WOljoNI48U0/) 
“syUNODOY 6LF'SEL‘Gs Uneasy] [BOldojowyory ouryse[eq 
SOL’ 1EF‘SI eoueApy syderdopy, pue 9380g ‘puny juouMopuy 
Cre 1F8‘SI1 i * [BLOU9s) 19788480 F 616°9L0'86Z wunasnp] [BoZojowyory eurysepeg 
689° LE0'1Z * sJUBWIMIEAOY) I0TO £79 6988S " yueg [2InyNousy ueU10}109 
‘szisod 026'6PL‘T * OYVQOIVI4VG XopoyyO 
000°F88‘sI “aq: /Selneduin)  “ cousmnsuy 996'S29'T “* sarqrpedroronyy 
196°S6S‘E "S190 TJO JUSUITLIBAOL) 6FLL6%S eae SWILIZ[I Boop] 
O9T'SI1L‘S Be0I0,q IBeqy) S19°896'E 899}}TUIWIOD UOT]eONpY [Boo] 
"sUvOT 968°€23'9 "sqisodeq Ajsizey puwy 
699° LE6‘ST Uor}OnNysuODeEy oxenbyyseq 000° FE8 ‘SI saajUBIENt) Sormvd uO) souvINsUT 
669°SOL eee eee eee sfeapiey O86'°SSL‘EI **-g99}UBIENK) suBISIOIUy 
I68°9LI ‘FE saryipedrorunyy LOG SIL puny jaroy oxenbyqiegq 
*SIOVBA *ZUNODOY 4salojUy ‘suUBOT 
OLL‘OFEIST -IYNQ 04 suUvOT JeINyNOUsy CER £9 F woWons4suodeY exyenbyzaeg 
G6E°TL0'8 mopsuly pozlU Ls) 94} Ul syUB_ IS 86a°SF s}isodeqy suoysn¢) 
000°000°TS9 ““pung [BIuojopH juror CoP IST ‘Se "** sqisodeq 8}n0gQ 
*SHONVAGY 89F'660‘8 syisodac{ ,8104081400C 
666°S81°S puny JUSUIES!PIOA PY PINT SNIZI/) 
O10 PIF PL eee ose eee eee HSV) "SLISOdH(] 
syd “dF SIU ds "91088 Y SIU “dF slut “dF “SON QOUT 





"POGT “WOIVA ISTE 38 SONTTIQeT pus sjossy Jo yUEMIS;EIg 
‘THT XIGNHddV 


181 


969°S0'C9E'E | 





PIE '69L'9Z 


PI8'8E8‘9Z0°S 


86 IDF‘ 


| 





TE 


“di 





ci sydvisoloy, pus 860g 








1Z6'96E‘ET 
€66°193'S qunoooy A11end syI0 AA ONQN 
OOF OST*TT S910} [BIOUEY) SHIOA O|QNT 
‘SHAOLG AHLVOOTIVNG) 
LEL'899°¢ ie 8 puny souly Sood 
‘puny juomMOpUg wMNes 
616°9L0°86Z “ny [Bodolow#yory oUlzse[Bd 
‘spun 
SIL'S0S‘ISL‘1 | WeOY pus soouye” sQslvayv 
“*SLNEWLSEANT 
SLSAUIWT 


.Y 


969°C0'C9E'E 


908'°ZE6 019% 
€90° LOPES 
LPS TET 


069° 16°L69 





OIZ'E89°L 
628086 F 
€88°8I9 
FEI FELT 


TE6t9E'T 
LOT“906 
IQO'SFS‘SI1 
€T8°EL9‘O 


"d3 


"SS6l ‘Aepy 987 043 
wo se wunjueo sod “pg 89 IF 
JO 0781 04} 7% PosealOUl Useq sey 
‘OSGI “AequIeAON 48T OY} WOI} se 
uinjueo Jod ‘pp ‘sg [F Jo o7Bl 
eq} 48 Sem YOM pung Zurquig 
oq} 0} WONNqiyu00 [vnuUe EYL 
aa ces “BIOP[OY 
Q00'SLE -H00}G-UBOT  ocU»yse[¥q 

5 Lagq] Gwanng 


‘(counjeg snjding) sar 
kecebase | aZAO SLESsy fO SSROXU 
se “= INQODDY NvoT 
SHONVLLINGY AONV SLivaq 


ors ---sunoooy Arpung 


epeoy paw soyddng oye BMT 
ve = Kqtodo1g powrepouy) 
‘(pry -ul- quvI+)) 


e.1Oog JoyuoIg uUvpjios - SsuvIT, 
‘yrounoy 


BiTeqS _ ureTsOyy eurordng 
ee ; s7ysoq oo1o0g peroodg 
qe mnbasg o1s00pey SI 71S 
*- Agsodoay e37gS Uvresny 


28784 


182 


669°S0L'AF ane eh des 
pus mossy jo 4U0mIa}"qg 
9€L°89 


£96°9€9 
RI “ds 


“LINSVOLL OY} Ul xUNOSOY OOUCAPY Ss, JOZeULY TeIOUSy O43 YM SHUNOIOY AVMTTVY O43 Ul JUNOSOW s,JOIMS¥aIL Jo UOMeTJoUOI[Y 


£79'°899 61 l' dF 
1S FS0'TL _ SISO Lae BAINZ§ PozBOO|[BU/) 
GIS FEL‘ZS “+ gg0UBAPY 
G29'0FE'9 ** SABAITRY 03079 UBIydsdyT 
ZLoBES ‘SI ene eee eee yseg 
BU *dF 

"97989 F 


males x 


(II xmpueddy) sonniqery 


ey} Ul UMO4s se yUuNODDY souvAPY 8,losvUV,Y eloUsXy) JO ocoULeg 


(peyen{pe Zuteq) eAearrey Aq swez! poysnfpeuy) : ppy 


GANGS JUSTIO}BIS UI UMOYS 8B JUNOOOY 8 Jomsvoly, 


€49'899611' ds 

£96 969 gunoeey. 8 JONSBL], 
69E'E8'F pe ee Ne * pung soulg 
920° 9L6‘01 eee eoe eo0o szisodaqy 
IS6LL96I *"" * gunoooy ney —An0109 Yeayty, Youjeg 
090°S08'89 puny sfeaousy Avaprey (wyeyY-eIeUTY]) TeUIS 


FEZ 6EE'ST puny sjemoucy Avayrey oursoreg 
BM “dF 
“Ott pQDeyTs 


"PSGT ‘ole, ISTE 38 JUCTIMIOAO OUT)Se[vg oy} Aq poxelodo SALMTVY OY} JO SOTNITIqQUpy pus Sjossy OY} JO yUSTIE}EIg 
"AI XIGNUddVv 


MAO TW Id SO 


183 
APPENDIX V. 


Statement of Investments. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS: 


(1) Awzlable Balances and Loan Funds— 


Middle Market 
Nominal Cost Price on 31st 
Value. Price. March, 1934. 
£ «8. d. £P. mils £P. mils 
Ceylon 3} per cent. Stock 1934/59... 26,570 14 4 26,570.717 26,836.424 
Cevlon 3 per cent. Stock 1940 29,956 10 6 30,093.800 30, 256.090 
Gold Coast 3 per cent. Stock 1927/52 83,594 18 9  78,610.954 81,923.039 
Hong Kong 3} i cent. Stock 

1918/43... 51,650 0 8 51,714.901 51,650.034 
Jamaica 3} per cent. Stock 1958/68 5,000 0 0 4,975.000 5,075.000 
Kenya 34 per cent. Stock 1957/67... 20,000 0 0 = 19,800.000 = 20,000.000 
Natal 3} per cent. Stock 1914/39 . 7,107 3 8 7,231.558 7,320.298 
Southern Nigeria 34 Be cent. Stock 

1930/55... 32,303 17 1 32,390.370  32,303.854 
Northern Rhodesia 34 ass cent. 

Stock 1955/65 i 20,000 0 0 — 19,600.000  20,400.000 
Straits Settlements 3} be cent. 

Stock 1937/67 4,940 3 0 4,927.800 4,989.551 
Trinidad 34 per cent. Stock 1958/68 45,000 0 0 44,700.000  45,900.000 
Trinidad 3 per cent. Stock 1922/44... 91,049 0 9  89,457.252  90,138.547 
Bradford 42 per cent. Stock 1940/60 8,126 10 2 8,908.683 8,776.628 
Brighton 44 per cent. Stock 1940/60 13,000 0 0 = 13,994.854 = 13,910.000 
Burton-on-Trent 3 ial cent. Stock 

1953 zs 25,000 0 0 23,382.092 24,000.000 
Canada 4 per cent. Stock 1940/60 .. 74,062 19 6 76,858.433 77,025.494 
Canada 34 per cent. Stock 1930/50... 44,187 6 4 44,494.783  44,629.190 
Canada 4 per cent. Stock 1953/68 .... 30,107 2 7 29,511.872 32,515.699 
Canada (C.P.R. = 34 Per cent. Stock 

1938 34,951 10 10 35,531.751 35,650.573 
Cape of Good Hope 3h 1 cent. 

Stock 1929/49 : 14,972 2 0  14,385.479 15,421.263 
Commonwealth of Australia 5 per 

cent. Stock 1945/75 dex : 5,397 17 0 5,816.408 5,991.613 
Commonwealth of Australia 4 oe 

cent. Stock 1943/48 17,000 0 0  17,486.538 —-17,510.000 
Conversion Loan 5 per cent. Stock 

1944/64 Be 50,000 0 0  58,375.000 58,125.000 
Conversion Loan 2} per cent. Stock 

1944/49 “A”... ... 213,616 610 200,687.033 202,401.484 

28784 G 2 


184 


Middle Marke 
Nominal Cost Price on 31s 
Value. Price. March, 1954. 
£ s. d. £P. mils £P. mils 
Edinburgh 4} per cent. Stock 

1940/60 18,800 0 0 20,233.500 20,304.00 
Hull 5 per cent. Stock 1941 61 50,000 0 0O 55,039.100 55,000.000 
India 5 per cent. Stock 1942/47 27,000 0 0 27,064.863 30,240.00 
India 4 per cent. Stock 1948/53 20,337 10 0 20,836.725 21,456.062 
Jamaica 3 per cent. Stock 1922/44 45.795 2 11 45,331.975 45,108.218 
Natal 3} per cent. Stock 1934/44 ... 64,074 14 8 64,415.715  65,996.975 
Natal 3 per cent. Stock 1929/49 47,725 16 1 45,502.279  46,771.258 
Newfoundland 3} - cent. Stock 

1950 sits 24,000 0 0 23,947.800  24,240.060 
Newfoundland 3} ane cent. Bt 

1952 Bes 31,500 0 0 31,441.450 31,815.00 
New Zealand 4 - cent. BS teale 

1945 : 4,446 8 7 4,768.796 4,757.679 
New Zealand 4 aad cent. “Sisek 

1933/43 33.459 17 1 33,684.189 34,129.05] 
New Zealand 3} per ene Stock 1940 24,211 6 4 23,670.940  24,695.543 
New Zealand 3 per cent. Bonds 1945 60,597 5 7 57,775.329 = 58,7'79.360 
New Zealand 3} per cent. Stock 

1949/54. 50,000 0 0 48,963.017 50.000.000 
Queensland 3 per cent. Slouk 1922/47 26,568 18 11 24,260.484 25,240.499 
Qucensland 3} pcr cent. Stock 1945 27,110 2 9  25,977.365 27,110.138 
Southern Rhodesia “2 per cent. Stock 

1953/63... ; 4,454 11 8 4,411.501 4,565.947 
South Australia 33 per cent. Sisek 

1926/36 12,500 0 0 12,620.428 12,750.000 
South Australia 4 per cent. " Stock 

1916/35 sie .. 12,500 0 0 12,636.054 12,687.50 
Ulster 33 per cent. Stock 1943 39,606 4 2. . 39,876.547 40,794 .394 
Union of South Africa 4} i cent. 

Stock 1955/75 26,664 9 6 29,264.263 30,397.501 
Union of South Africa 4 per cent. 

Stock 1943/63 16,000 0 0 16,850.800  16,960.000 
Union of South Africa 5 sent: 

Stock 1945/75 1,052 10 2 1,159.163 1,199.859 
Victoria 3 per cent. Stock 1929/49... 10,100 13 9 9,343.133 9,595.654 
Western Australia 33 pe cent. Steck 

1920/35 : - 31,481 12 9 31,914.513 32,111.271 
West Ham 8 per cent. ‘Stock 1945 . 2,800 0 0 2,705.500 2,660.000 

1,660,381 8 11 1,653,200.707 1,682,115.820 


India 3} per cent. Stock 1954/59 
(67 per cent. paid) 


65,000 


1,725,381 


0 0 


43,087.338 


43,087.338 


8 11 1,696,288.045 1,725,203.158 


185 


(2) Palestine Archeological Museum‘SEndowment Fund— 


28784 


Middle Market 
Nominal Cost Priceon 31st 
Value. Price. March, 1934. 
£ 8. d. £P. mils £P. mils 
New Zealand 34 Aas cent. Stock 

1949/54 15,000 0 0 14,611.237 15,000.000 
Commonwealth of Aatedlin, 32 re 

cent. 1948/53 sas se 10,000 0 0 9,921.975 10,300.000 
Consolidated 4 Bee cent. Stock 1957 

orafter... 31,267 11 4  26,030.875 34,863.337 
Guaranteed 3 per cent. 1. Stock 1939 0 or 

after oes 27,000 0 0 17,711.000 24,435.000 
Guaranteed 2? per cent. Stook 1933 

or after 47,819 810 29,699.900  40,168.331 
London County 3h per cent. | Stock 

1929 or after aise .. 15,050 6 9 10,780.331 15,426.595 
London County 3 per cent. Bical: 

1920 or after ... 116,472 17 2 76,864.200 105,990.30] 
India 3} per cent. Stock 1931. orafter 31,843 18 4 25,873.342 29,455.623 
Northern Rhodesia 34 Ee cent. 

Stock 1955/65 5,000 0 0 4,900.000 5,100.000 
Conversion Loan 3} er cent. Stock 

1961 sist es 6,347 6 3 6,363.487 6,537.732 
Dominion of Catan 4 per cent. 

Stock 1953/58 10,000 0 0 10,518.812 10,800.000 

315,801 8 8 233,275.159  298,076.919 
(3) Police Fines Fund. 
£ ed £P. mils £P. mils 
South Australia 4 per cent. Stock 

1917/36... sia 492 9 2 500.000 499.845 
New Zealand 4 per cent. " Stock 

1933/43 1,181 5 4 1,187.546 1,204.892 
Commonwealth of Acacias 38 p per 

cent. Stock 1946/49 1,800 0 0 1,755.000 1,854.000 

3,473 14 6 3,442.546 3,558.737 
Total £P.2,026,838.814 


G 3 


186 


16 16F'SLS‘T 


EOL F8E ‘S01 


000°000'000'T 


LOS F¥9'8E9'T 


OSL°S99‘FFS 


gi "dF gy “dS 


SLI-LOL‘LOI‘T 


L90°6L6°E6E‘T 


*m0140n.148 
-uOZ) ANOqIU], Bjreyy °Z 
“s]00Ul 
-eAOIdWI] QIOg Byee ‘| 
—: s}U0Ul 
-eaAoldmy 410g puv 
uoIjOnIYsUOD «=ANOqIBy 
“TIT 04] 


*QUOUIUWLIOAOL) 

a Ayeolep, sly WO 

sjoasse [eyIdeo 10q30 
pus Avalrel Jo oseqomg 
“TT W097] 


-(payajduroo) 
SHIOM AVMIVY IBYIO “Z 
sdoysxI0A, Avapiey *T| 


—: shemypivy 

“ore 
IIE 
‘veel 


“T Ws] 000°9LE°L6F'F 


ya “ds 





“fuUnouUp 


‘ainpipuadxg "a0 qunoup 


“PEGT “Nolen STE 38 JUNODOY UOT 


‘IA XIGNUddV 


ra 
000‘0%e8*t_ ——_—_————- 
68 ns peyBooTTVay) °*¢ 
"BHIOM 
Peo reel Avapey 19030 ‘*Z 
‘sdoys 
LLZ‘ShS -HIOMM ABU *T 
—: sABANEY 
"dF "dF 
‘I w9}] 
"9709g Jo ArBjaI0ag 


eq} Aq poaoiddes sve uvoy jo uonvooy 


"(L6T “oouvUIpPIO UBOT 
eulysaitq Aq postioyyne) ‘yuao Jed 
"BOT OOTS 48 Ponss! 0OO'ELE'FS JO YOOIG 
posyusiuny eulysaeg %g jo spesoolg 


"sydtacany 


187 


ee ea 
000°SLE‘L6F‘F| “dF 000°SLE‘L6FP | ‘dF 





$90'LOF‘E9Z _* ie coursed GLE‘LOV‘h' ds 
GLE‘909 








G0E0ZI weoT Barwrez jo 4809, 
‘oo ZungUg 
jo gyuceudmby puv 
uoKVOn.ySsUO;Z, +puB 

TPS‘L6I se0IJO YUeUTUIEAOL) 
| ‘souoyd 

. T‘S8I -918L, puv sqdersoiay, 

"AT W193] 





000198 ‘T "mOTPON.TSUOY) 
L¥6'L068¥S F 000‘09S‘T moqreH =: BTS °F 
‘sy USMIEAOId 
661 ILL‘'Zeg | ——————— OOOO “Wl Mog syve *T 
SSF 08 0ZI "** UBO'T SUTETBI JO 4801) — syueureaold 
‘oOBoO “Wy POT pus oly 
L¥Z SPOS BZuTyUIg JUIUIUIEAOS) “onzysuotyy §=sMnoqrey 
000°008'T2 “+ aqts Jo uorrembow ‘TIT m4] 
—: sZuIpiing JUSUITLIOAOY) *7UeUl 
-wI9A04) 8,Aq80[epq 
StH Woly 90888 
-souoyqd Teyideo 10430 pus 
POP OST ‘SST 99, pues sydeisejoy 000‘000‘T AvaTer JO osvqomg 
"AI 07] "TT w08qy 





G 4 


28784 




















188 








ILL’ZE8'ds 9LE‘909 ds 
£08 ‘031 £08031 Teo] Fayeper JO 4800 
eoO 
SPE ‘FS TFS‘L6I «= BaMU Jo quemdmby pus UoMoNAsUCD PUY seOYJO JUOUTUIAOE 
9Z1‘S8T 1E3‘88I * seuoydejay, puw sydessojoL, 
"dF ‘dF —! Jepun se dn opeyy (2) 
LOP‘ESS 806'Sh3'F OLE‘LOvF 000‘009"F 000°009"F 
| |] — “UBO'T 04} JO Zulstel oy} Zurpnyour 
‘eInpeyog siq} UI peuoIyuem sesod.imd 
eq} jo Aus alm peqyoouu0O JO 04 
[eyueprour sesodind puv ‘yueurdojosop 
jo syJoM Jour ‘shoamns ‘seuoqd 
#00°9E (P)LLL‘°EE (»)¢2¢°909 000‘609 000‘SFL -9[04 puw syduisejo, ‘s#urpymq onqng “> 
*g}UCTIEAOIM 
809°9TZ Z6P‘SLS'T 000‘T9¢‘T 000‘TSE'T 000‘SsII‘T “WY YOg pus UoyonIysuoO;T IMOqIEH °¢ 
"quOTTUIAAOY) 8,Aqsofe] ST] WOIy By0888 
_ 000'000‘T 000‘000'T 000‘000‘T 000‘000‘T Teyidvo s0y}0 puw Avmjrer jo opeqoing °Z 
gg¢‘T S¥9°SE9'T 000‘0+9'T 000‘0F9‘T 000‘0F9'T " sKempey *T 
"dS "dS "d3 "dS Ki 
‘FECT “unoT fo "arng fo ‘961 Dp suDnoT 
"sounrog ‘YouD AT BITE spov001d fiumpasoag oy1 =| voLefy woe pup pee 
popusdxauyy | 0 asnppuadxgy ronan fo fig poaosddn ouseoqDy 140M 
ppnpy Wos70001 FT UOMDIO]ID-O O} apn peyoy 


"PEGT ‘WOIVW ISTE 38 SooURIEM UvOT Jo yuOTIO;E)S 
‘TIA XIGNAddV 


189 


"‘pepyseg puv vyivy uoamjoq eynor Aves ojqissod v@ jo ‘slcomZuq pesoy 


jo Ayived @ Aq ‘Aosins [view uv Jo 4800 04} J9AOO 07 pung yUcmdojeacg [BIUOTOD oY} WOT yse10jUT SsNid 4uUBId ‘900'FZ' GF SepnjoUyT (2) 


"029°6SL'd3 


JO pvoysUl OZO'ECI' dF Prol plnoys sinsg siyy, “ELEl Joy qaodey oy Ul porIMOD0 YoIyA JOIJIo ZuyWd ¥ 074 UMVIP SI U01WUE}4Y (q) 


‘SpUNJ ULO[ 0} PosIvYO pus BIBEd SNOIAeId Ul UOYLZJIpUN SYIOM MNOIVA JO JOodse1 Ul 1Z6'COS'dZF JO QUOMASHI ps UB sepNjoU] (Dv) 





PES‘ELE 
IS#LIE 
180‘S9 
CSE PES 
286 Z8E 
L¥6‘00€ 
FIL‘GEE 
(0) 8Z9‘GO 
I€l‘IIé 
FLOLIZ 
FOE‘FC1 
99¢‘LFI 
CSe‘61s 
¥6E‘F0I 
009‘LS1 
"d3 


"8440 M 
919d 


SE8‘CET 
ocOLIT 
191 ‘9% 
816°COI 
I8F‘cOl 
F98‘101 
ISS‘86 
SG8EL 
919'16 
IL¥‘S8 
OFF'F8 
869°€6 
FLOLIT 
96¢°9F I 
GLZ ISI 
“dF 


“47109 HT 
9319" 


910‘STT 


GIS‘98 
E9F 06 
L&S‘18 
81S°Z0I 
FIL‘OL 
O9E'SL 
OGF'ES 
G1€°c9 
680°LE 
169°GE€ 
0€g"9E 
O19°8E 
LEE‘or 
9F0'TE 
"dS 


‘aanjznoubp | ‘uotwonpy 


uo quads yunomp 


CE9°6L1 


(9) OcS‘6ST 


GE 0E 
886 9FI 
Coo ‘erl 
68L‘6EI 
SII‘LEI 
6£0‘00I 
OIs‘9IT 
266'E0I 
999°COI 
GLL'66 
Oce‘16 
81F‘06 
6L0‘09 
"dd 








LOL‘E8‘E 
6Z1‘888'S 
9¢o'629 

98601 1S 
093'StES 
GF0'662' 
029SFa'S 
CE0‘60L‘T 
688‘F96S 
OFF 'F09'S 
028°696'T 
S8L‘SL9O'T 
1€8°608'T 
18o‘ILe‘s 
F88°CElT 

“dS 


*ea0ANOE 
pousayca 
woLf 
uni} 42470 
gmnuszaay 


(2)99L‘T9L 
S8L‘LZI 
FELL 
606'Z62 
Q8s‘IF 
£69'FS 
LOL‘SE 
CFE ‘OE 
9L¥‘98 
SL8‘F0G 
9s ‘S6I 
ZC9 OFS 
000°S62 
"d3 


*srunsi8B 
37QD4900004 


“UON 





"s20UDADP 
pun UDOT 


‘BIOANOY POUbI}L 7 


woLsf anusaay 
“soMstiwis [vjoeds 
"“HITA XIANGTAATYV 


000‘SL¥‘F 
000°SLEF 
000'SLP‘F 
000‘°SLP‘F 
000°O LFF 
000‘SLP‘F 
000°SLP‘F 
000‘SLP‘P 


*(sasnbif 
8901) 


199 
19% 


ic FEGI-EE6I 
0 €E61-SE6I 
"'  €EG1 ‘Yorvpy 07 Arenuee 
ag Ce, Ie6I 
Og6I 
6261 
8Z6I 
LEGI ‘Joqwuaceg 03 judy 
Pa = tae LZ61-9Z6I 
ee 9261-9261 
GZ61-#261 
a $261-€E261 
€Z61-GC6I 
2261-1261 
‘Oley ISTE OF ‘OZEI ‘AOL 481 





‘400 satppynuupy 
40 yorounussy 


190 


XXII. DEMOGRAPHIC STATISTICS. 
Attention is invited to pages 135-138 of the Report for 1931. 


2. The excess of persons recorded as entering Palestine over 
those recorded as leaving during the year was 47,805, of whom 
39,275 (38,244 Jews, 918 Christians, and 113 Moslems) were 
registered as immigrants on entry. 91,823 persons are recorded as 
having entered Palestine as travellers, and of these 9,593, of whom 
4,747 were Jews, were still in the country at the end of the year. 
In the course of the year, 46,644 residents of Palestine left, either 
temporarily or permanently, and 45,581 returned, some of them 
after long absences. 


3. Vital Statistics.—The following are the vital statistics since 
1921; those from 1923 onwards include estimates of population, 
other than nomadic Beduin :— 














Infantile 
Birth Estimated | mortality, 
sb Number | popula- Number Death t.e., death of 
Year. ner 1.000 | F births tion of deaths rate children 
P livin registered. | (mid-year | registered. | per 1,000. | under I year 
g: estimates). | of age per 
| ae births. 
1921— | 
Town... 27-4 -— ~- ~- 16-1 209-6 
Country 28-4 —- —- ~~ -— 123-3 
1922... — — — 18-75 -- 
1923... 47°43 31,402 662,013 16,9 994 25°67 184-76 
1924 ... 51-31 34,955 681,245 17,672 25-94 184-83 
1925... 49-31 35,479 719,508 19,611 27-25 188 - 64 
1926... 53°47 40,471 761,896 18,620 24°43 163-03 
1927 ... 50-35 29,193 | 778,369 21,806 28-01 200 -46 
1928* ... 48-78 | 42,895 | 879,532 23,054 26°21 186-33 
1929... 46-32 41,742 901,080 21,632 24°00 186-47 
1930... 48-03 44.587 | 928,148 19,513 21-02 154-28 
1931 ... 48-07 | 46,011 | 957,181 21,149 22-09 170-09 
1932... 44-14 43,538 | 986,319 21,958 22-26 153-17 
1933... 44-34 46,049 1] ,038,331 20,834 | 20°06 144-43 
1934... 41-59 45,944 /|1,104,605 | 24,129 21-84 157.58 








* The figures from 1928 onwards are estimates of mid-year populations based 
upon the census of November, 1931. 


4. Immigration and Emigration.—The following is a table show- 
ing immigration and emigration in respect of Falestine of Jews 
and non-Jews for the years 1920 to 1934 inclusive :— 








Immagration 
Year. 

Jews Non-J ews 

1920 (Septembexr—October) ... 5,514. 202 
i } ee pee ae 9,149 190 
1922 Sete see a 1,844 284 
1923 : 7,42) 570 
1924 12,856 697 
1925 33,801 840 
1926 13,081 829 
1927 2,713 882 
1928 2,178 908 
1929 5,249 1,317 
130. 4,944 1,489 
fre ye te on 4,075 1,458 
= su ge Tae 9,553 1,736 
- ; nese nee | 30,327 1,650 
sy 42,757 5,050 


Emigration. 

Jews. Non-Jews. 
1,451 1,348 
3,466 1,481 

507* 604* 
2,151 1,949 
7,365 2,064 
5,071 1,907 
2,168 954 
1,746 1,089 
1,679 1,324 

666 680 

T T 

t t 

Tt Tt 


a Pa al ee a at se 


198 


countries 


“ 


29 026 ) Rou 


States of 


Citizens en 


and 
na ll 


XXITI.—_ CUSTOMS, EXOISE AND TRADE. 


* Figures for July to December. 


{t No statistics of emigration were compiled. 


035 Jewish immigrants entered Palestine. 


d. Since 1919, according to the records of the Jewish Agency, 


The principal 


of origin were the following: Poland 77,425, Russia 
mania 8,599, Yemen 6,045, Lithuania 6,003, United 
America 4,363. During that period 15,209 German 
tered, but if to these are added 2,537 Jews of German 
other citizenship who formerly resided in Germany, and 1,339 
vers who were authorised to remain, the total of immigrants 
tom Germany comes to about 19,100. 


The year 1934 presented many difficulties for the Department, 


bringin 


: Jaffa and Haif 


dad to b 
In Tespe 


8 Now 


8, a8 it did, large increases in the number of steamers calling 
a and in the tonnage of goods handled. The staff 


© considerably strengthened in consequence, particularly 


thie ct of guards, boatmen, clerical officers, and _ pilots. 
; § Master has been engaged for Haifa, and a Port Manager 


A 


ap In charge of all services within the Harbour. There is also 
ort Manager for Jaffa. 


otwithstandin 
8 1s alre 
Inward and 


Dlans for 
facilities. 


f 


g recent additions, the accommodation at both 
ady overtaxed by the unexpectedly great expansion of 
outward traffic, and Government is actively considering 
urther development of storage and quay space, and other 


2. Tonnage of import and export cargo handled at the Ports of 


192 


Jaffa and Haifa during 1930-1934 :— 


Jaffa. Haifa 
Year. —_— | |  ———qxuKx- 
Discharged Loaded Discharged Loaded 
Tons. Tons Tons. Tons. 

1930... 133,241 100,862 174,862 61,425 
1931... 151,975 77,873 214,893 48,303 
1932... 221,113 106,824 273,411 54,164 
1933... 348,797 96,888 401,410 41,632 
1934... 486,974 120,967 589,203 99,756* 


* Exclusive of crude oil. 


3. A third transit shed was completed at Haifa in December. 


During the winter, climatic conditions at Jaffa necessitate the 
diversion of much cargo to Haifa and the transfer of many citrus 
shipments to that port. To improve matters at Jaffa, an extended 
programme of works was undertaken, including new roads, a 
transit shed, a shed for citrus fruits, new quays, open dumps, and 
a sea wall, and the lease of additional areas outside the Customs 
Zone, for the siting of stores. While thése works are in progress, . 
occupying space, it has been necessary to prohibit the landing of 
cement, coal, building timber, and iron bars and girders. 


4. On several occasions the periods of franchise allowed for the 
storage of goods in the transit sheds and on the open dumps were 
reduced, and the charges for storage increased, with a view to the 
rapid clearance of goods and the avoidance of congestion; and 
merchants were encouraged to clear by direct delivery so as to 
obviate the use of the transit sheds wherever possible. 


5. In December a new lighthouse was built north of Tel Aviv 
for the better guidance of shipping, supplementing the old light 
in the port. 


There are Chambers of Shipping at Jaffa and Haifa, with which 
the Department maintains cordial relations, and by frequent con- 
ference it has proved possible to resolve many questions satis- 
factorily. | 


6. The Department is also in constant touch and conference with 
the Chambers of Commerce, and with the Committee of the 
(Jewish) Manufacturers’ Association. 


7. The total net revenue of the Department for the five years 
1930-1934 was :—1930, £P.1,234,957; 19381, £P.1,169,924; 1932, 
£P.1,511,149; 19838, £P.2,071,370; 1934, 2,937,267. 


8. The principal articles imported from which the bulk of the 
import duty 1s derived and the amount of import duty received from 


193 


each in 1934, based on the actual figures of the first eleven months, 
are set out below :— 


Articles. 


Benzine 

Sugar 

Motor Cars ... 

Cement — 
Cotton Piece - goods 
Kerosene 

Wheat Flour 

Wood for building ... 


Iron bars 
Girders, 


and 


Silk Tissues ... 

Tabacco leaves 

Cigarettes 

Wheat 

Woollen Tissues 

Rice .,, es oes 

Rubver Tyres and 
Tubes, 

Coffee Beans 


Unit. Quantity. 
Litres 40,500,000 
Kilos 19,000,000 
Number 3,600 
Kilos 150,000,000 

i 3,950,000 
Litres 48,700,000 
Kilos 25,000,000 

M* 205,000 
Kilos 85,000,000 

55 595,000 

5 125,000 

48,600 

. 45,430,000 

- 425,000 

5 13,800,000 

‘3 500,000 

1,200,000 


” 


Value 
£P. 
205,000 
150,000 
577,000 
270,000 
515,000 
152,C00 
930,000 
470,000 
569,000 


300,C00 
31,000 
28,000 
320,000 
248,000 
120,000 
68,000 


59,000 


Rate of Duty. 


Mils. 11 per litre 
Mils. 10 per kilo 
25 per centum 
Mil. 0°85 per kilo 
Various rates 
Mils. 12 per litre 
Various rates 
Mils. 300 per M? 


Mils.0°8 &0°-5 per 
kilo. 


Various rates 
Mils. 400 per kilo 
Mails 1,000 per kilo 
Various rates 

12 per centum 
Mils. 2 per kilo 
Mils. 50 per kilo 


Mils. 15 per kilo 


Duty 


Collected 


£P. 
443,000 


190,000 
141,000 
120,000 
110,000 
85,000 
68,000 
61,000 
57,000 


51,000 
50,000 
48,000 
44,000 
29,000 
27,600 
23,000 


18,000 


9. Excise Duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 
methylated spirits, salt, and matches. 


The receipts during the 
last five years were :— 

















1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 

Tobacco, Duties 150,541 153,720 201,722 222,864 255,588 

Licence Fees ... 6,076 5,872 6,281 6,672 7,420 
Intoxicating Liquors 

Duties ... 31,941 33,262 34,457 38,853 42,260 

Licence Fees ... 6,223 6,725 4,290 3,720 3,753 

Methylated Spirits, 

Duties... = = 3,175 5,132 7,406 

Salt, Duties... 11,341 11,410 12,000 12,550 14,300 

Matches, Duties ... 10,447 +11,895 16,382 14,626 21,785 

Licence Fees ... 100 100 50 50 50 

Total £P. 216,669 222,984 278,357 304,469 352,562 


10. The number of licensed tobacco, tombac 
during 1930-1934 was: 


Tobaeco and Cigarettes ... 
MBH hc, eae ath 
Tombac ... 
Snuff 

Total... 





1930. 
10 


14 





1931. 
1] 


15 





1932, 


i 
olen! w 





1933. 
10 


—_, 


13 





and snuff factories 


1934. 


| wel © 


194 


Their output was :— 


Out Heisheh 
Year. | Cigars. | Tobacco Cigarettes.| Tombac. | Snuff. 
; |” Rilos. Kilos. Kilos Kilos. | Tobacco. | Cigarettes 

Kilos. Kilos 
1930 ... — 20,301 | 487,587 | 96,899 2,225 —- | — 
1931 ... — 24,570 | 493,741 | 95,923 5,444 — — 
1932 ... — 20,798 487,022 | 78,709 4,805 1,228 839 
1933 ... — 17,666 | 537,348 | 71,930 6,310 2,039 1,644 
1934 ...| 1,032 15,852 636,832 | 75,294 6,848 4,021 7,766 


The excise duty on tombac was reduced from 350 to 250 mils per 
kilogramme in October. 


11. The number of tobacco growers in Palestine was 2,776, com- 
pared with 1,250 in the previous year. 


The annual crops for 1929-1933 in kilograms were :— 


Tobacco. Tombac. 
1929... Sa a o 1,183,196 10,748 
1930... ee ee om 954,424 3,531 
1931... = ois be 503 ,641 558 
1932... a as ve 565,617 5,771 
1933... ae so an 402 ,623 17 ,905 


12. The production of salt at Athlit (by sea evaporation) and at 
Jebel Usdom (rock formation) and of methylated spirits and 
matches was as follows :— 


Salt, 9,889,040 kilograms; Methylated Spirits, 493,712 kilo- 
grams; Matches, 175,758 gross of boxes. 


13. The value of exemptions granted during the year 1934 was :— 


Exemption under Exemption under 











the Customs the Syrian 
Duties Exemption Palestine Customs Total. 

Ordinance. Agreement. 

3 £P. £P. £P. 

Food, Drink and Tobacco awe 440,000 492,000 932,000 
Goods mainly unmanufactured ... 448,000 12,000 460,000 
Goods mainly manufactured ... 2,280,000 415,000 2,695,000 
Miscellaneous and Unclassified ... 1,916,000 — 1,916,000 
Total ... ... £P. 5,084,000 919,000 6,003,000 











These exemptions do not include benzine and other oils supplied 
free of duty from bonded installations in Palestine to certain under- 
takings. 


195 


14. The value of goods imported by consular officers, charitable 
and religious institutions, and archaeological societies during the 
past five years was :— 


Under the Under the Customs Duties 
Ottoman Law. Exemption Ordinance. 
Year es ee ee Total 
Religious Charitable and 
Orders. other Institutions. Consuls. 
£P £P. £P £P 

1930 27,097 13,007 3,404* 43,508 
1931 32,647 9,960 3,828* 46,435 
1932 33,971 7,690 7,382* 49,043 
1933 31,152 19,309 7,629* 58,090 
1934 30,779 16,331 6,574" 55,685 





* Including benzine, etc., delivered from bonded installations. 


15. The following is an analysis of customs taxation and exemp- 
hons for the years 1930-1934 :— 


1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 


£P. £P. £P. SP: £P. 
Total Value of Imports ... 6,985,000 5,940,000 7,769,000 11,123,000 15,200,000 
Less value of Government, 678,000 591,000 1,303,000 1,479,000 1,215,000 
Military, N.A.A.F.I. and 
‘Irag Petroleum Co. 





Stores. 
Net Value of Imports ... 6,307,000 5,349,000 6,466,000 9,644,000 13,985,000 
Net Duty collected -- 992,000 922,000 1,194,000 1,658,000 2,430,000 
Corresponding rate of duty 15°5 17 18-5 17-5 17-5 
percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 
Net Value of Imports ... 6,307,000 5,349,000 6,466,000 9,644,000 13,985,000 


Leas value of goods exempt 1,445,000 1,243,000 1,427,000 2,559,000 3,869,000 
under the Customs Du- 
ties Exemption Ordin- 


ance but including goods 

of Syrian origin. 
Value of ordinary Imports 4,862,000 4,106,000 5,039,000 7,085,000 10,116,000 
Net Duty collected .-- 992,000 922,000 1,194,000 1,688,000 2,430,000 
Corresponding rate of duty 20-5 22-5 23-5 24 24 


per cent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 





Value of ordinary Imports 4,862,000 4,106,000 5,039,000 7,085,000 10,116,000 
Less value of goodsexempt 501,000 644,000 598,000 718,000 919,000 
under the Syria-Pales- 
tine Customs Agreement 


Value of Dutiable Imports 4,361,000 3,462.000 4,441,000 6,367.000 9,197,000 

Net Duty collected -» 992,000 922,000 1,194,000 1,688,000 2,430,000 

Corresponding rate of duty 22:5 26-5 27 26:5 26-5 
percent. percent. percent. percent. percent. 





196 


1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 


£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Net Value of Imports... 6,307,000 5,349,000 6,466,000 9,644,000 13,985,000 
Value of goods exempt 1,445,000 1,243,000 1,427,000 2,559,000 3,869,000 
under the Customs Du- 
ties Exemption Ordin- 


ance. 
Percentage to Net Value 23 23 22 26-5 27-5 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 


Value of goods exempt 601,000 644,000 598,000 718,000 919,000 
under the Syria-Pales- 
tine Customs Ayvreement. 

Percentage to Net Value 8 12 9 7°5 6-5 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 


Total value of exemption 1,946,000 1,887,000 2,025,000 3,277,000 4,788,010) 
undr Customs Duties 
Exemption Ordinance 
and Syria-Palestine 
Customs Agreement. 





Percentage to Net Value 31 35 31 34 34 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 
Totai Value of Imports ... 6,985,000 5,940,¢00 7,769,000 11,123,000 15.200,000 


Total Value of Exemptions 2,123,000 1,534,000 2,730,000 4,038,L00 5,054,0: 0 
under C.D.E.C. including 
Government, Military, 
N.A.A.F.1. and ‘Iraq 
Petroleum Co. Stores. 


Percentage to Total Value 30 30°5 35 36°5 33-5 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. percent. 


Value of goods exempt 601,000 644,000 598,000 718,000 919,000 
under the Syria-Pales- 
tine Customs Agreement. 
Percentage to Total Value 
of Imports. 7 ll 8 6-5 6 
percent. percent. percent. percent. per cent. 


Grand Total of Exemptions 2,624,000 2,478,000 3,328,000 4,756,000 6,003,000 
Percentage to Total Value 37 41-5 43 43 39-5 
of Imports. percent. percent. percent. percent. per ccnt. 





Commerce and Industry. 

16. The year under review witnessed a further large development 
in all branches of industry and agriculture in Palestine. Many 
new industrial undertakings were established and the amount now 
invested in industry is estimated at £P.1,000,000 to £P.1,500 000. 
Agricultural investments, chiefly for the plantation of new citrus 
groves, were approximately £P.2,500,000. Investment in buildings, 
commercial and residential, is estimated at £F.6,000,000. 

About 170 companies with a total capital of about £P.1,700 ,000 
were registered, and 30 companies with a total registered capital 
of about £P.340,000 increased their capital to nearly £P.1,200,000. 
Deposits in banks at the end of 1934 were estimated at 
£P.15,000,000, an increase of £P.3,000.000 over the preceding year. 


197 


17. Factories for silk, glass, essences, tiles and bricks, chocolates 


: and sweets, jams and marmalades, chemicals and drugs, cigars, 
metal goods, toilet preparations, and hosiery are among the new 
industrial undertakings of the year. 


In addition, many enterprises enlarged their plant and increased 


_ their pay-roll, particularly those engaged in making citrus fruit 
. juices, textiles, artificial teeth, cement, cement products, and 
~ furniture. 


Goods to the value of £P.6,500,000 were locally produced, repre- 


senting an increase of nearly £P.1,000,000 over 1933. 


18. About 90,000 tourists, pilgrims, and travellers in transit 
entered Palestine during 1934. 


19. The fifth Levant Fair, 1934, was a successful venture: the 


' area covered was 60,000 square metres, 30 permanent and 43 tem- 


WEL ite 3 


ce oe 


ci 
ile. 


porary pavilions were constructed, and over £P.100,000 was spent 
in the construction of the buildings and the development of the site. 


Permanent pavilions were occupied by Great Britain, Belgium, 
Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland. Thirty-two foreign coun- 
ines and 2,217 foreign firms were represented, and 644 local firms. 


The attendance was 600,000, direct sales exceeded £P.500,000, 


much business was negotiated, new commercial contacts were 


established and agents appointed. 


20. A second Arab Fair was held in April and was largely 
attended; about 150 firms, almost entirely Arab manufacturers in 


_ Palestine and adjoining countries, took part, and a wide range of 
products was displayed. 


The purpose of this Fair is to create regular marketing organiza- 


Hons in various centres and to promote trade between Arab 
countries, 


21. Building activity was sustained almost at fever heat in the 
four principal towns. 


Mention may be made of offices of the Assicurazioni Generali 
i Trieste, the General Post Office and Government Printing Press 
in Jerusalem ; a new business centre and commercial buildings in 
aifa; and the Levant Fair building and several large commercial 
blocks in Tel Aviv. 


In Consequence, local producers of constructional materials and 
Manufacturers were fully occupied in supplying the needs of 


uulders, and imports of building materials also increased 
appreciably. 


The following table shows the value of such imports during the 


last five years :— 


198 


1980. 1931. 1982. 1988. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Timber and Wood for building 167,564 153,381 184,267 253,777 470,000 
Iron bars, angles, rods and 101,746 83,629 96,683 240,096 569,000 
girders 
Sanitary Ware ... on .. 20,993 19,824 39,288 66,041 180,000 
Electrical Fittings and In- 38,884 22,704 29,475 68,491 100,000 
sulated Tubes and Pipes. 
Cement ... ee i 16,996 14,459 25,264 88,328 270,000 
Paints and Colours .. 18,445 18,963 24,471 39,339 58,000 
Plate Glass and Window Glass 15,953 15,3872 21,984 34,431 57,000 
Tiles and Bricks as ... 18,618 16,068 20,849 34,523 85,000 
Iron manufactures 57,3846 47,912 52,524 96,079 160,000 


The approximate total investment in building in twenty centres, 
including the four principal towns, during the last five years was 
as follows :— 


£P. 
1930 2,448 670 
1931 2,720,678 
1932 2,945,708 
1933 5 600,732 
1934 6,000,000 


22. Direct shipments of oranges and grapefruit began early m 
November. The average prices realized during 1934 ranged from 
9-13 shillings per case of oranges and 10-15 shillings per case of 
grapefruit. 

About 5,250,000 cases of oranges and 350,000 cases of grapefruit 
were exported. 

Exporters have encountered difficulties in the markets of 
Germany, Poland, Denmark, and Austria, and have been forced 
to concentrate on other markets, in particular the United Kingdom, 
Roumaniz, and Sweden. 

Approximately 30,000 dunums were planted with citrus trees 
during 1934. 


23. The approximate value of imports for home consumption in 
1934 was £P.15,200,000. 

The increase of £P.4,000,000 was due to the entry of immigrants 
with personal effects, implements and machinery and to the exten- 
sive importation of building materials and house fittings. 

The local wheat crop, although good, did not suffice for the 
needs of the increasing population, and large quantities of wheat 
and flour had to be imported. 

There were noticeable increases also in imports of seeds and 
nuts for expressing oil, acid oils, offal, and unrefined olive oil for 
the manufacture of soap, cotton piece-goods, woollen and silk 
tissues, wearing apparel of all kinds, benzine and kerosene, motor 
vehicles, rubber tyres and tubes, motor engines and pumps for 
irrigation, machinery, chemical fertilizers, fresh vegetables and 
fruits and dairy products. 


to 


199 


Imports of raw materials and semi-manufactured articles for use 
in local industries also increased. 
24. A comparative table showing the principal articles imported . 
during 1933 and 1934 :— 





| ee | eye | pence | a ergererenengeeny 


Wheat 
Wheat Flour | 


Animals for slaughtering ... 
Butter 
Fish in brine, dry, salted, 


olacee sia 


Seeds, "Beats: and “nuts for 


expreasing oils 
Cement... 


Iron bars, angles, rods and 


girders 


Tron tubes, pipes a and d fittings 


thereof 
Sanitaryware 
Electric goods —.... 
Agricultural machinery 
Industrial machinery 
Wood for building... 


Wood a beepared for F oitras 


Plywood * 
Cotton piece-goods.... 
Woollen tissues 
- tissues .. wie 
Pparel, all sorts Kat 
Drugs 
ae 
me .,, 
Motor cars . 


Parts and atenaonea of 
mechanically propelled 


vehicles, .., 


Rubber tyres and tubes 


Chemical fertilizers 
Government stores... 
Military stores 


‘Inq Petroleum Co, stores 


NAAFI. stores ... 
Personal effects 


8 


1933. 

Quantity Value. 

£P. 
Kilos | 15,712,530 | 132,238 
- 60,047,256 | 448,236 
35 26,918,993 | 264,679 
Nos. 123,080 | 164,409 
Kilos 873,672 | 75,424 
% 2,953,629 | 98,968 
Nos. | 34,315,479 | 63,245 
Kilos 5,801,466 | 73,429 
6 982,783 | 52,403 
= 16,067,346 | 141,865 
35 9,753,278 | 45,257 
eS 58,007,000 | 62,443 
5 16,243,387 | 201,031 
“ 39,409,000 | 88,328 
9 45,038,048 | 240,096 
re 11,978,075 | 214,958 
— — 66,041 
— — 144,865 
— — 56,376 
— — 466,699 
M?* 115,619 | 253,777 
a 41,553 | 145,097 
Kilos 1,788,770 | 27,659 
Pe 3,017,712 | 410,572 
3 375,503 | 201,559 
s 437,782 | 231,733 
— — 386,980 
— — 71,119 
Litres | 42,088,267 | 115,563 
5 27,878,604 | 177,408 
Nos. 1,969 | 370,879 
— —_ 54,466 
Kilos 388,843 | 66,091 
‘3 10,789,997 | 95,968 
— — 325,561 
— — 343,639 
— — 694,588 
— — 79,228 
— — 437,048 


13,800,000 
45,430,000 
25,000,000 
262,000 
1,650,000 


4,300,000 
54,000,000 
10,450,000 

1,200,000 
19,000,000 
13,300,000 
55,000,000 


15,100,060 
150,000,000 


8,500,000 
20,500,000 


500,000 
12,750,000 


ae of 1934 are approximate, they are based on the first eleven 


200 


25. Exports of Palestine produce amounted to nearly £P.3,250,000, 
compared with £P.2,591,617 in 1933, the increase being chiefly 
in respect of citrus fruits. 


For the first time in four years the barley crop gave a good 
yield, and 3,820 tons were exported. 


Exports of locally-manufactured articles were, on the whole, 
satisfactory, with the exception of cement, soap, stockings and 
socks, and olive oil: in many instances, exports were curtailed 
owing to increasing local demands. 


26. Comparative table of principal exports of local manufac- 


tures :— 


Article. 1930. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 
SP. EP. £P. £P. £P. 
Cakes of all sorts for eee 
animals : 1,660 22 | 8,980 7,594 | 12,500 
Biscuits and cakes 2,138 2,505 2,728 1,517 1,200 
Bread eee) 3,902 2,386 3,430 2,292 1,900 
Cheese .. 3,255 2,438 | 4,401 7,111 700 
Chacolates 974 1,084 1,653 548 300 
Confectionery 1,636 1,513 1,813 2,118 1,500 
Fruit Juice and Syrup 2,651 3,318 | 4,509 6,793 7,000 
Brandy and eae ie 1,142 2,703 2,740 2,206 6,000 
Wines... . ses 31,411 | 30,592 | 30,737 | 22,270 | 23,500 
Olive Oil ; 19,394 | 29,227 | 32,414 | 20,786 20H) 
Sunflower Oil .. 3,211 3,447 | 29,353 612 
Oils; other: edible 1,338 5,281 473 | 26,459 | 35, 000 
Cement 28,702 | 20,450 | 22,151 14,063 1,600 
Mirrors 389 2,222 | 3,551 3,249 1,700 
Bedsteads and parts ‘thereof 1,708 2,817 4,343 818 500 
Tin manufactures 2,553 523 | 1,117 1,464 1,400 
Olive wood manufactures 3,319 2,320 | 1,667 1,726 1,800 
Cotton Yarn and Thread 2,517 840 2,039 2,533 1,900 
Cotton manufactures.. 5,450 2,536 | 2,338 1,795 900 
Stockings and Socks . 19,722 | 16,075 | 12,538 | 11,584] 8,000 
Wearing apparel of all ids 19,059 17,081 | 16,508 26,959 | 37,000 
Soap ... .. | 206,259 | 119,941 | 108,101 | 79,342 | 71,000 
Paper and Cardboard goods... 2,475 3,787 2,544 1,768 4,000 
Curios and articles of piety .. 6,604 4,078 2,819 3,936 6,000 
Beads and Mother-of- Peail 
manufactures 11,532 | 10,662 | 9,569 8,634 | 7,000 
Leather Handbags 6,274 6,023 | 5,290 7,249 | 6,000 
Stationery... 2,727 | 3,834 | 6,770 | 4,620 | 1,000 
Artificial Teeth : 10,325 | 16,152 | 13,429 | 23,674 | 28,000 
Essences of all kinds... 158 703 | 2,285 3,993 | 8,000 
Other manufactured goods ... 35,577 50,394 | 95,433 | 108,755 126,200 
Pac ley meas eos Baca ee 
Total £P| 438,062 | 364,954 | 435,623 | 406,398 | 421,600 


He ae eee coe ng ee ee tte ee, Se 


201 








000‘099‘F G96‘886'E OF LZE'F 8Z0‘LZS‘S 9ceces's de HOT, be 
000‘0¢8 SLS‘1F8 296‘G09'T LOF‘9SS ¥9'T ek s etoeds jo syodxy 
000‘0LZ Z0E61E LOO‘EFS SEE‘I9S 20S OST ek speed uSras0y Jo ey10dx0-o4 
000‘0S O8Z‘SF oe oe =. a see eee eco wee puoq WOly sqiod xa 
000‘0FS €88‘L81 9LE‘06I ZOTLLT Q8E‘SsT i re qisueay ul Byodxy 
000‘092‘E LI9‘169'Z 16r18E'S 190‘ZL9'T G60‘968'I fee eonpoid ourysa/8q jo syaodxay 

‘d3 "dF ‘d3 "dF "dF 

"PEG “SE6I "SS6l "TE6I “OS6I "9440027 

! 

000‘099‘ST SLO‘OOF'II LOL‘OZI‘S LSL‘6I1'9 CLS‘EFL'L "da HOT, 
000‘0&% 908 ‘OFT 109°QcT G20°S 622° rte tee tee tee see grads Jo syiodury 
000‘0FZ €88‘L81 918961 ZOTLLI Gse‘Sol we Me ae qIsueI} Ut s710d uz] 
000‘002‘ST 68FESI‘II 0Z6'89L‘L 000‘0F6‘S 893‘986'9 oe uorduinsuoo Jo; 8}10dury 

"d3 "dF "d3 "d3 "d3 

PEGI "PE6I "SEG L861 “Of6I ‘gusodusy 


—: FEBL pue ‘PEBT ‘ZEET ‘IGGL ‘OG6T 410} 8e1qey eATZeredUI0D ‘sqz0dxe pue sziodull [B8j0} Jo on[v@A “LG 


202 














— PS6L PUB “EEG ‘EEL ‘TS6L ‘OS6T 10¥ sesse[o Aq sq10dxe pue sy1odurt Jo onjeA “gz 











000‘098'E L19‘169'°Z 16P‘TSE‘S 190‘ZL9'T 960‘'968'T ‘d5 °° en a 1P10,], 
000°S IL9‘L 81g 893°E €89°S ne °° PSYIESB[OUN PUB SNOOUB][SOsT Ay 
000‘ZI§ 360‘90E 26E‘ZIE SEP‘08S oOce ‘SOE Powered pe Rea bake 10 Ayjoqas sOpoIPy 
000‘S¢ GSI6‘1E LI6‘GP 26989 6661S pu * pemyzoey 
“nowarun an S9OIVIV PUY B[VLIIVUL AVY 
000088‘ 6609'S ¥99°920'S £99°622'T OLO‘OLF‘T a a ~ oooBqoy, pus YULIGT ‘pooy 
"dé “d3 “dF ‘dS ‘dF 
‘PEGI "SE6T “Of6L *TE6T “OS6T “40dxq 
000‘002 ‘ST 68PEZT ‘IT 026‘S9L‘L | 000°0F6'S 893‘G86‘9 ‘de °" et ey 1P1.L 
000°030‘S S6L‘LIIS SIL‘9IgT SSI ‘SSL OFS‘LZ6 ais _ “we PeYlssefOUN PUB SNOSUY| [90ST] 
000°092'6 FOE ‘EPL‘S II¥‘OI6‘S G8L‘19%'E GEI‘L90°F Een eee Ajuyeur Jo AfjoyM sapory 
000°090‘T C8P‘9E8 996'99¢ | 406 LIP PLS‘L6G ait “*) peINnzpoRjNUsuL 
-um Alareut B9[0I}IV PUB F[VLIajvUl Mey 
000‘098°Z LI8‘°SSP'S 0&8 F8L'T BSL ‘SES'T 600°E6E‘1 ; oooBqoy, pus yaLIG “poo 
“d3 ‘dd “d3 ‘d3 'd3 
"PEGI "SE6I “SEG mr fe "TE6r “OS6I "epsoduty 


—— 


29. Imports by countries during 1933 and 1934 :— 


Countries. 


peated States of "America 
countries ... 


Total ... 


203 


Value by Country | Value by Country 


whence consigned. of Origin. 

1933. 1934. 

£P. £P. 
1,949,936 3,020,000 
452,087 514,000 
186,822 340,000 
346,740 660,000 
88,614 145,000 
312,943 500,000 
74,191 126,000 
459,575 436,000 
1,193,303 1,670,000 
117,900 245,000 
54,394 116,000 
357,022 475,000 
289,718 476,000 
581,635 978,000 
157,637 205,000 
122,213 190,000 
73,944 170,000 
65,509 176,000 
1,208,227 450,000 
349,859 582,000 
81,592 173,000 
942,663 1,066,000 
364,056 490,000 
838,774 1,290,000 
454,135 707,000 
. | £P.11,123,489 £P.15,200,000 





30. Exports by countries of destination during 1933 and 1934 :— 





Countries of Destination. 





United Kingdom ... 
British Possessions 


Other Countries ... 


United States of “Awiética 


Total 





. | £P.2,591,617 


1933. 1934. 

£P. £P. 
1,559,496 1,750,000 
60,613 89,000 
9,801 24,000 
37,485 50,000 
21,922 30,000 
373,749 664,000 
53,853 $0,000 
14,312 19,000 
16,284 26,000 
15,122 25,000 
40,620 61,000 
25,265 30,000 
71,962 75,000 
212,982 216,000 
21,415 33,000 
56,736 65,000 


£P.3,250,000 


Percentage 1934. 


— 


_— 
DD ree tO PH IDOWWNCO 09 OO 
COC eo at a ae 


OO 
J) 


Percentage 1934. 


204 


31. The following articles were exempted from import duty in 
the course of the year for the benefit of local industries :— 

Paper for packing oranges, pig iron, brass ingots, copper 
ingots, tarpaulins, alpaca, gold in grain, platinum, beeswax, 
pyrodine, glass stoppers for fruit jars, charcoal, clay, feathers, 
firewood, hair (other than animal), hops, lantern slides, malt, 
wooden nails, straw and grass, phosphor bronze and titanium, 
crates and packages for fruit packing, crépe paper, artificial 
horn, machinery, apparatus and basic materials of any factory 
for the manufacture of flavouring material and essences for ° 
export exclusively, motor vehicles and tyres and tubes for such 
vehicles imported direct to Palestine by approved enterprises 
operating regular trans-desert motor transport services between 
Palestine and ‘Iraq, and petrol for the use of the motor vehicles 
of such enterprises. 

382. The Customs tariff was increased on the following articles 
for the protection of local agricultural produce and manufactures :— 

Barley, potatoes, mother-of-pearl buttons, natural and 
artificial silk cloths and other silk manufactures, bust bodices, 
girdles, suspender belts, corsets, leather and artificial leather 
goods such as wallets, purses, ladies’ handbags, portfolios, belts 
and brief cases, envelopes of paper or of a combination of 
paper, cotton, linen, etc. 

The tariff on wheat and flour was adjusted by means of a sliding 
scale based upon the price and subject to a periodical determination 
of values by the Director of Customs. 

33. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of living 
are shown below :— 

Cost of Living 
Wholesale Prices (Basis January, 


(Basis 1933 = 1922 = 
1934. 100 per cent.). 100 per. cent.). 

January es eas we 96:2 03°6 
February... aes as 98°7 50°9 
March Ss sche .. 103-1 54:2 
April ... ce Kes ..  102°0 54:5 
May ... 2s. o .. 103-1 53°4 
June ... oo a .. 102] ; 53°7 
July ... - bebe bes 99°6 54°7 
August sie bee ss 99:2 55°2 
September... ies ... 103-1 56°9 
October 8 3 .. 1052 557 
November _... de .. 105-9 571 
December _... sms .. 1068 56°4 

Average ae 1021 55:1 








34, The favourable harvest reduced the average price of wheat 
and barley by 10 per cent. 

Prices of lepumes were, however, higher by nearly 15 per cent. 

Prices of seasonal vegetables and fruits were normal throughout 
the year. 


205 





c0e'sre's | ESOT | LILLIE | 1z8‘T FLE'IT £0€ 9I1‘°ZZ 9g 8260'S | O89T | 100°S60°E | LEST | °° mas 


ChPELO'T | FOOL | FSI‘LOO'T | B86 9¢8°¢ O91 666Il | F6G | GO9‘L99T| FFB | GEL’cesT | 8E9 | ~" pereeaD 
Lgs‘s99'T | 6246 | €96'609°I | 688 sgo‘e EFI LIL‘OL | OL@ | 6Ig‘E99°T | 9e8 | OFeCERT | GIO | ** porozUg 
‘SU0.T, "879889 4 "SUuOT, "879889 A "suo.T "979889 A "8U0.T, "879889 4 "SUO.T, "879883 4 *SUuOT, "879889 4 
PE6I S61 PEGI ‘E861 "FEL $861 
‘PHOT, ‘Buypog “mney 


‘PEGT PUL EET sivak oy] 
IO} OUT}SATVT JO apei} BUTYSBOD OY} UL paiva[o pue paiojUe s[assaA SUI[IeS pue Wea}s Jo aseuUo, pus JoquINN 


‘GdVU], DNLLSVOD 


6FE'S | coa'ene' | 16S'S | °°" 1707, 











| 
SFO‘LES'S | £08°9 | s00'e00"9 0L9°9 | BES'COL | FSFE | SHE'SET | 6LOF | 90F'CH'S 
19L‘oes'r | sse‘e | oxe'soz's | sez'e | gze'zs | exu't | Lo9‘e9 610°S | SES*LLI'F | G99'T | SOSIFI'E | G6LST |“ Pereep 
PSS'OlE'F | GIF'E | FEO"EEs'e | TLE'E | Ele'ce | I€L'T | SL9'69 ae LE'FOG'F | FONT | 696'ESS'E | SIET |“ Poo 
8Uu0. J, 819889 A "SUO.T, | "$7989 4 SUO, J, sassa4 , “suo, | 819889 4 suo], "979889 4 "SUuO.T, "879889 4 
FEGL EE61 FE6T | E6L FE6T | E861 














PO] ‘Buying >= 
eee el SS a ae eee ET Pe CPST Seek ers 
MOF CUlZSETVg Jo Opi} UBIOI10J oy} UL perva[D PUB Pete} BlOSSoA Surjies pue wieejs Jo odeuUo} pus JaqUINNE “GE 

‘aava,L Nomuo,, 
*Burddrus 





Digitized by Google 


206 
XXIV. POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


The year 1934 witnessed a record expansion in the business of 
the Post Office. 


Revenue amounted to £P.333,512, as compared with £P.269 342 
in 1933, an increase of £P.64,170. The principal increases were as 
follows: sale of stamps £P.37,401 (31 per cent.); telephones 
£P.18,167 (17 per cent.); parcel post £P.2,503 (22 per cent.) ; and 
telegrams £P.27,970 (8 per cent.). 


Expenditure amounted to £P.206,082, as compared _ with 
£P.165,569 in 1938, an increase of £P.40,513. The increase was 
due mainly to the cost of additional staff and to the necessity for 
effecting settlement for the conveyance of mails outside Palestine 
on a much higher basis than previously. 


The actual surplus of revenue over expenditure was £P.127,430, 
as compared with £P.103,773 in 1933, but if the value of the free 
services rendered to, and by, other Government Departments be 
taken into consideration, the surplus is increased to £P.188,171. 


2. Mail services, with a few exceptions, due chiefly to bad 
weather, operated with regularity throughout the year. 


An important acceleration in conveyance of inland mails between 
the larger towns was effected in December by the extended use of 
public motor-bus services and of departmental transport. The full 
benefit of this improvement was to some extent discounted by the 
fact that, owing to insufficiency of postmen, it had been found 
necessary to reduce the daily number of town deliveries from three 
to two. The difficulty regarding postmen arose from the large in- 
crease in the volume of matter for delivery and the rapid extension 
of each of the delivery areas. 


As regards foreign mails, the most noteworthy feature was the 
opening of a new desert mail route to Baghdad via Haifa and 
Amman. The new route is supplementary to the original Jaffa- 
Amman route to ‘Iraq. 


The popularity of the air mail was again evinced by an increase 
of 139 per cent. over the quantity dealt with in the previous year. 
The total weight of air mail despatched in 1934 was 14,100 hilo 
grammes, as compared with 5,900 kilogrammes in 1933. 


8. The value of postage stamps sold amounted to £P.156,2%8, 
an increase of over 31 per cent., compared with the sales for 
1933. 


At the end of the year, there were 147 licensed vendors of 
postage stamps. 


4. The Returned Letter Office dealt with 487,708 items, of 
which 290,277 were letters and cards and 197,431 other articles. 
Of these, 11,935 and 962 respectively were registered. 


207 


The value of articles, exclusive of cheques, found in undelivered 
correspondence was £P.340, of which £P.100 could not be returned 
to the senders in consequence of their failure to furnish an adequate 
address. 


5. During the year, new post offices were opened at Hertsliya, 
Mount Carmel (Haifa), Nathanya, Pardess Hanna, Ra‘anana 
Ramat Gan, Tel Nordau, and Mahne Yehuda (Jerusalem), and 
postal agencies were established at Kinneret, Tel Mond, and Yajur 
Nesher. 

Liydda Junction post office and Beth Hakerem postal agency 
were closed down. 


6. The upward trend in telegraphic traffic shown in 1933 con- 
tinued, the total number of telegrams dealt with in the year under 
review being 399,000, representing an increase of 30 per cent. 

The increase in telegraph revenue amounted to £P.2,069. 


7. The demand for telephone services persisted with increased 
intensity throughout 1934 and proved to be much in excess of that 
for which budgetary provision had been allowed. The result was 
that, in the majority of cases, applicants had to wait for several 
months before their telephones could be installed. Authority was 
rereived in the course of the year for supplementary expenditure 
ou lines and apparatus, but, owing to the time necessarily taken 
before the additional plant could be obtained from the manufac- 
tnrers, the situation at the end of the year was still unsatisfactory. 


8. During the year, 949 exchange lines and 1,68€ additional 
telephones were installed, but there were still 1,053 outstanding 
applications on 3lst December. New central (automatic) ex- 
changes for Jerusalem and Tel] Aviv are on order, but it is unlikely 
that they will be available before 1936. 


9. Telephone revenue increased by £P.18,167 to £P.119,359, 
local calls from 24,760,000 to 27,800,000, and trunk calls from 
969,700 to 1,153,700. Of the trunk calls, 1,106,000 were internal 
and 47,700 international. 


0. Steps were taken to combat the abnormally high calling rate 
gy which the “‘ unlimited ’’ local call service hitherto in force 
Yaa been largely responsible. In the Haifa and Jaffa-Tel Aviv 
exchange areas a measured rate was introduced, which provided 
for 2,000 free local calls per annum, any excess being charged for 
zat the rate of 3 mils a call. As a temporary concession, subscribers 
‘were permitted to purchase blocks of 4,000 calls at the rate of 
=£P8 a block. At the same time, the standard rental charges 
were considerably reduced and the radius prescribed for the mini- 
rum rental charge was extended in all exchange areas. 
Consequent upon the introduction of the ‘‘ measured ’’ rate the 
daily average calling rate per line fell from 34-2 to 11:5 at the 
J ali-Tel Aviv exchange and from 245 to 17-2 at Haifa. 


208 


11. An “ urgent ’’ trunk call service with Egypt, Syria, and — 
Trans-Jordan was introduced in June. : 


12. The overseas radiotelephone service, previously restricted to ~ 
a few exchange areas, was extended to all exchanges in Palestine — 


in the same month. ‘The lst of countries to which the service - 


was already available was extended to include Brazil in June, ~ 
certain parts of India and Italy in July, and South Africa in 
August. 


Radiotelephone charges to the United Kingdom, the Irish Free _ 
State (Dublin only), North America, Australia, India, South - 
Africa, and to certain ships on the North Atlantic route were sub- . 
stantially reduced with effect from 1st December. 


13. During the year, new telephone exchanges were established - 
at Hertsliya, Kinneret, Nathanya, Pardess-Hanna, Ra‘anana, _ 
Ramat Gan, and Tel Mond. 


The Iydda exchange, which constituted the principal testing- - 
point of main trunk-lines of the country and which for a number | 
of years had been unsuitably accommodated in a small hut on the © 
platform of Lydda railway station, was closed down in March . 
and all local and trunk lines transferred to the Ramle exchange. 


14. A Government broadcasting service is to be established 
under the technical control of the Post Office. A suitable site, a 
few miles north of Jerusalem, has been selected for the trans- 
mitting station, and contracts have been placed for the necessary 
plant and equipment. It is anticipated that the service will begin 
in the autumn of 1935. 


15. There was a very large increase in the number of wireless 
receiving licences, the total on 31st December being 5,900 as com- 
pared with 2,500 on the same date in 1933. 


Wireless dealers’ licences increased from 96 to 180. 


16. The telegraph and telephone lines were maintained in 42 
efficient condition throughout the year and there were no serious 
interruptions to the service. : 


The increase in the rate of development of all branches of the 
telephone service has been such as to render it no longer possible 
to continue adding normal extensions to the existing exchanges 
and trunk-line system. In addition to the orders which have DOW 
been placed for two automatic exchanges, three satellite exchang®: 
and one combined trunk and subscribers’ exchange, the reco? 
struction of the main trunk routes and of the cable distribution 
system of the three main exchange centres have been put hand. 
In view of the magnitude of the work, it has been found necessary 


209 


to spread the programme over two years, and the first portion 18 
proceeding according to plan. It has, however, been exceedingly 
dificult to provide adequate skilled staff to carry out major works 
of this nature, whilst, at the same time, dealing with the un- 
precedented growth in subscribers’ service. 


17. The work of diverting existing lines, and of laying additional 
cables in Jerusalem in readiness for transfer to the new exchange, 
is well advanced, but the actual installation of the exchange 
cannot take place until the construction of the new building 1s 
near completion. 

Accommodation on the Central Exchange at Jaffa-Tel Aviv has 
been increased by an alteration to the design of the exchange. 

It is probable that this accommodation will be exhausted before 
the new Tel Aviv automatic exchange is ready for service. De- 
velopment in Tel Aviv has been retarded by insufficient cable plant 
between Jaffa and Tel Aviv, but material is now on its way which 
will provide the necessary spare lines. 


18. In Haifa it has not been possible to obtain additional ex- 
change plant sufficiently rapidly to cope with the demand, but 
urangements have been made to overtake the arrears during next 
year. The accommodation on the central exchange in Haifa will 
reach its ultimate capacity towards the end of 1936. 


19. The rapid growth of the township of Ramat Gan necessi- 
tated the opening at short notice of an exchange, which has 
served to relieve the congested routes between Jaffa and Ramat 
(an, and also, in a small measure, the accommodation on the main 
Jaffa exchange. The industrial areas of Ramat Gan and Haifa 
Bay will be served in 1935 by automatic satellite exchanges. 


20. Several routes were overhauled or partly reconstructed during 
the year. The reconstruction of the Sinai trunk route between 
afa and Kantara was completed in August and has effected a 
‘ery marked improvement in the quality of the telephone service 
with Egypt. The co-operation of the Egyptian authorities has 
fen sought with a view to similar improvement between Kantara 
ind Cairo. It is of interest to mention that excellent results 
ave been obtained from the use of oil insulators. Their use is 
being extended not only in Sinai but in those sections of the 
unk routes in Palestine which are particularly lable to transmis- 
‘on loss through humidity. 


21. The international telegraph and telephone services were 
proved by the extension of the Beyrouth-Haifa telegraph circuit 
' Jaffa and by the construction of a trunk telephone circuit from 
erias to the Syrian frontier, eventually to provide a direct 
“cuit between Tiberias and Damascus. The Haifa-Baghdad trunk 
“Teult is under construction. 


210 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND FISHERIES. 


The droughts of the three preceding years were happily not 
repeated in 1934, and although the harvest results were not uni- 
formly good the yields of cereals in total were not much below 
normal. One of the best agricultural seasons known for some 
time was experienced in the south, but yields were mediocre to 
poor in the north. Failures, however, were few and were restricted 
to the Jordan valley and eastern slopes of the Judaean hills. The 
summer crops of the Northern District, excluding parts of the 
Jordan valley and eastern slopes of the Nablus hills were, perhaps, 
the best seen for some years, while, with few exceptions, similar 
conditions obtained in the south. 


2. Owing to a fall in prices and, in places, crop failures, tithes 
were again remitted to an extent of nearly £P.130,000, divided 
as follows :— 


£P. 
Northern District seed aus ae sa. 29,351 
Southern District ane see ad ... 838,552 
Jerusalem District  ... ee oe ... 28,823 


To enable cultivators to purchase seed, loans amounting to 
£P.7,000 were granted by Government and were distributed mainly 
in the eastern areas of the Nablus and Hebron Sub-Districts, 
thus :— 


£P. 
Jerusalem District... ss a ue 2,500 
Southern District sue eee ae Sa 1,000 
Northern District ate She sass Side 3,500 


The olive crop was again poor, but the oil content of the fruit 
high. 

Summer grazing was normal, and little or no losses occurred 
among stock through starvation. 


8. Serious losses from field mice were happily absent, but during 
the summer a mild plague of grasshoppers did some damage to 
dura and vegetable crops. 

Principally on account of a poor system of rotation followed by 
local farmers, there was a widespread attack of Scythris temperatella 
(El Doodeh) which did considerable damage to the wheat crop. 
Methods of control are being demonstrated in those areas where the 
pest occurs annually. 

To control smut (Tilletia tritici) in the wheat crop, the Depart- 
ment issued suitable fungicides, gratis, to farmers in the northern 
hill districts affected, in order to demonstrate the value of this 
method of dealing with the pest. 


211 


4. Official Agricultural Stations.—The supply of selected seed 
grain raised at agricultural stations is still short of the demand, 
though larger than in previous years. From the four stations at 
Acre, Farradiyeh, Beisan, and Majdal, 88 tons of selected seed 
grain were issued and 40 tons of maize are on hand for distribution 
in the coming spring. 

The main work at the Jericho station was of an experimental 
nature to determine the earliest and latest dates for planting of 
vegetables, to introduce types of crops not usually or extensively 
grown in the country, and to make trials with forage crops under 
irigation. 

Some 54,000 vegetable seedlings were distributed from the Jericho 
station. 411,000 vegetable seedlings were issued to farmers from 
all stations. 


). Village Demonstration Work.—There was considerable expan- 
sion in village demonstration work during the year, particularly 
with regard to the conservation of green fodder as silage, the making 
of oat and vetch hay, and the introduction of several varieties of 
maize both for grain, feeding green, and for making silage. 

To meet the growing desire of market gardeners to employ British 
seed potatoes, the Department imported 46 tons of seed potatoes 
and sold them to farmers at cost price. 

Small quantities of seed potatoes were also distributed to farmers, 
gratis, to stimulate the cultivation of this crop under irrigation in 
late summer, 

In order to demonstrate a good rotation, demonstration plots 
were established at villages where there are schoolmasters trained 
at the Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm. The seed and 
fertilizers were issued gratis from agricultural stations, whence 
implements were also lent. 

The following table shows the progress made in the village 
demonstration work :— 


Kind of Plot. Number of Plots. 


1938. 1934. 
Cereal demonstrations ia 288 26 53 
Vegetables as wat se se 68 87 
Potatoes ae si fe big 53 42, 
Seed improvement __... _ .. 209 314 
Forage... ste sh cis ae: “ad 410 
Plots and pits for silage oe 36 429 
Plots to demonstrate rotational 
methods to check the pest of 
Scythris temperatella one .. Nil. 30 
Demonstration plots in co-operatio 
with Department of Education ... Nil. 20 


Some plots to demonstrate the beneficial effects of phosphatic, 


sa and nitrogenous fertilizers were also established in several 
ages 
.o) 


212 


Extended activity to improve natural pastures has resulted in 
village grazing lands being apportioned into belts for rotational — 
srazing. Areas in forest reserves have been sown with drought- 
resistant grasses, and extensive areas for the raising of grass seed 
have been sown at agricultural stations. 


6. General Agricultural Council.—During the year the Council 
held seven meetings under the chairmanship of the Director of - 
Agriculture and Forests. Most of the members attended regularly. 
The membership of the Council ts seventeen, four members being > 
official and the remaining members being representatives of institu- | 
tions and rural communities. In addition, there are nine com- | 
mittees of the Council, for agronomy, agricultural economics and > 
marketing, animal husbandry, horticulture, plant protection, irriga- 
tion, citrus fruits, agricultural education, and analytical chemistry, — 
with a total membership of one hundred and twenty-four. It is | 
the usual procedure for the minutes of the meetings of all com- | 
mittees to be examined by the Council, who amend or endorse the - 
committees’ recommendations, or, if necessary, refer the proposals — 
back to the committees for further consideration. In all cases | 
the minutes of the meetings of the committees and the Council - 
are submitted in their original form to Government for informa- 
tion and for any action considered desirable. 


The Citrus Fruit Committee and the Committee on Agricultural 
Economics and Marketing are by far the most active of these com- 
mittees. The former held ten meetings and the latter eight. 


The Citrus Fruit Committee dealt mainly with urgent current 
problems concerning the export of the yearly expanding citrus — 
crop, and advised Government as to the most practical arrange- | 
ments to be adopted to facilitate the transport, loading, and shipping | 
of the crop, and inspection thereof prior to export. This Committee | 
also nominated representatives on the Advertising Committee which — 
advises the Director of Agriculture and Forests regarding the admin- 
istration of the fund contributed by the citrus industry for adver- 
tising citrus fruits abroad and locally. 


The Committee on Agricultural Economics and Marketing 
devoted considerable attention to the inquiry into the future of 
the Nablus soap industry and into trade relations with foreign 
countries. The Committee examined various proposals for in- 
creasing or decreasing customs duties on imported foodstuffs with 
a view to encouraging local agriculture. Its main recommenda- 
tion was given effect to by Government, viz., the customs duty 
on potatoes was increased from £P.1 to £P.3 per ton during April 
to August. A system of licensing imports of potatoes on a quota 
basis during the months January to March was also recommended 
to Government, with a view to preventing the accumulation of 
stocks and thus nullifying, in part, the advantage of the higher 
duty during April to August. This Committee has also examined 


213 


the possibility of developing the bee-keeping industry and has 
submitted proposals which are receiving consideration. 

On the recommendation of the Horticultural Committee, Gov- 

ernment introduced regulations to ensure that all trees raised in 
nurseries and sold to the public are free from disease and pests, 
that the fruit trees are true to name, and that the methods of 
cultivation employed in nurseries are such as will not impair the 
vitality of the fruit trees after transplantation. : 
- The Committee on Agronomy discussed proposals to encourage 
the cultivation of potatoes, particularly under irrigation; the 
grading, cleaning, and improvement of grain; the conservation of 
fodder; and measures to prevent the spread of fungoid diseases of 
cereals, 

On the recommendations of the Animal Husbandry Committee, 
“Government proposes to provide for the employment of two poultry 
disease specialists to diagnose diseases and prescribe methods of 
treatment in an effort to reduce the heavy mortality in poultry 
which seriously reduces the profits of poultry farming. Govern- 
ment has also provided larger sums in the Department’s estimates 
for the erection of dipping-tanks to demonstrate the advantages 
of dipping cattle and sheep to minimize the spread of tick fevers. 
The proposals of this Committee for the control of tuberculosis, 
involving a somewhat large expenditure, are still under considera- 
tion. 

In connection with the enquiry into the future of the Nablus 
soap industry, the Secretary of the Council, while on leave in 
England, made an enquiry into the possibilities of marketing olive- 
oil soap and olive oil in that country and elsewhere, in consultation 
and in collaboration with the Imperial Institute. 

The High Commissioner appointed towards the end of the year 
a new committee to examine and review the whole situation in 
regard to oils, oil-seeds, and fats and to recommend :— 


(a) measures for the improvement of the olive and olive- 
oil industry and the local growing and crushing of oil-seeds ; 

(b) what customs duties should be imposed on imported 
oils, oil-seeds, and fats, having regard to the interchangeability 
of oils and fats; 

(c) what steps should be taken to improve the marketing 
of local oils and oil-seeds locally and abroad; and 

(d) what steps should be taken to prevent the adulteration 
of oils. 


A second Committee has been appointed :— | 
(i) to study and report on the local dairy industry, 
particularly as to the type of cow to be kept, the fodder crops 
to be produced, the rations to be fed, the manufacture of butter 
and cheese, and the system of sale and distribution of milk 
and milk products ; 
(ii) to recommend to what extent protection is necessary ; 
28784 H 


214 
(iii) to indicate the effects of increased tariffs on the cost 
of milk, butter, and cheese in urban and rural areas; and 
(iv) to estimate the extent to which local demands could 
be met by local production and for what term a protective 
duty should be imposed. 

Froposals of the Education Committee with regard to practical 
training both of students and farmers were examined, and the 
General Agricultural Council submitted recommendations to 
Government on this subject. 

A sub-committee of the Council is studying a proposal that 
Government should introduce legislation to compel all farmers to 
grow fruit and forest trees, taking into account the different con- 
ditions in the hills, valleys, plains, and desert areas of the country. 

A committee is about to be appointed to make recommendations 
for improving the transport and marketing of the citrus crop. 

7. Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm.—The school has com- 
pleted its fourth year of instruction. 

The classes at present consist of :— 


Number of 

Students. 
(1) Extension class for comns, village schoolmasters 10 
(2) 2nd year students ... Y be wee .. 18 
(3) Ist year students... aa St buh ... 380 
Total... .. 68 


All the above students are in residence, and their number will 
be increased to seventy next scholastic year, as the new wing has 
now been completed. In addition to these three classes, there is 
one for seventeen teachers who reside outside the school, in a 
hostel, and undergo a year’s elementary course in theoretical and 
practical agriculture. These teachers are selected by the Depart- 
ment of Education, the expenses of their training being met out of 
@ special grant from the Near East Foundation. When these 
teachers return to their schools they will be capable of teaching 
elementary agriculture, both theoretical and practical, in the 
villages, thus giving a desired rural bias to education. 

The first Diploma Day was held in March, the High Commis- 
sioner distributing diplomas to the twenty-eight students who 
passed their final examinations in July, 1933. Government pro- 
poses to extend the school to accommodate a further thirty 
students, bringing the total number to seventy, thus :— 


Ist year students... be bs Sans ... 380 
2nd year students... sae a a . 30 
Extension Class... 7 bia ee a 10 


Total ... ... 0 


215 


The greater part of the cost is being provided from the private 
purse of the High Commissioner. The new wing includes a sick 
bay, matron’s quarters, a recreation room, and a museum and 
library. Specimens are being collected for the museum, and in 
time a good collection of seeds, manures, feeding stuffs, plants, 
canned and preserved products, etc., will be available. 

Appropriate text-books are being gradually added to the library, 
which is put to good use by the students. Two hundred dunums 
of adjoining land are being acquired, making 605 dunums in all, 
which will enable the students to devote a little more than half 
their time to practical work. 

Excellent wheat and barley yields were obtained, the average 
being 157 kilos and 163 kilos per dunum respectively. The winter 
crop yields were by far the best in the district. 

Other crops were also good, especially the gilbaneh, which cut 
at 412 kilos per dunum for hay. 

A small plot of soya beans was put down as a test crop, and on 
account of the luxurious growth @ larger area is to be sown next 
year, both for silage and seed. 

Students who knew the school lands in 1930, and have now seen 
the high yields obtained, appreciate the advantages of proper 
cultivation and management. 


Vegetables.—Considerable advance has been made in this 
section, especially with tomatoes, and various varieties are being 
tned out for their canning qualities. 


Afforestation.—The area of the nursery has been extended and 
local demands for seedlings can now be met. Various varieties of 
ornamental timber trees and carobs were raised from seed and 
planted on the school lands. 

Part of a forest reserve at Ras Amer was planted by the students 
on an area of 40 dunums with carobs, pines, fruit trees, and vege- 
tables in order to demonstrate the making of terraces and to teach 
the students how to derive some revenue from hilly land. 


Orchard.—The trees are now bearing and giving good results, 
particularly the apricots. The orchard is being extended year by 
year so that the students may have practical experience in this 
important branch. 

A fruit-canning section was introduced to teach students how to 
can vegetables and fruit, including cucumbers and cauliflowers, 
tomatoes and beans. 


Livestock.—The livestock at the school comprises two herds, 
viz., Damascus-Beirut cows, headed by a pure South Devon bull, 
and a Baladi (native) herd with a Syrian bull. 

It is too early definitely to report on the Damascus-Devon cross, 
but the young stock are promising. 

Sheep and goats are doing well. 

28784 H 2 


216 


The Baladi (native) poultry pen gave a good laying record, and 
there is every hope of producing a good improved local breed. 

Students were taught how to milk the cows and how to make 
cream, butter, and cheese. 

Percentages of butter-fat from each cow are determined by the 
students, who keep the records of each individual cow. 

Bees.—The introduced Italian queens were very successful, and 
the hives gave good yields of honey. An observation hive was 
acquired to enable students to watch the working of the bees. 

Hatching and rearing of silkworms form part of the second-year 
syllabus, and every encouragement is given to the students to con- 
tinue this work as a subsidiary domestic industry in their villages. 

There is a good esprit de corps among the students, and it is 
gratifying to record that past students have re-visited the school 
and intend to form an ex-students’ union. 


8. Kadoorte Agricultural School, Mount Tabor.—The Kadoorie 
Agricultural School at Mount Tabor was officially opened by the 
High Commissioner on 20th June, 1934, when the tablet erected 
to the memory of the founder, Sir Ellis Kadoorie, was unveiled. 

The preparation of the fields began in August, 1933, and by the 
end of 1934 an area of 600 dunums had been cleared of shrubs and 
stones and is now cultivated with wheat, barley, vetch, and oats 
for hay, and maize for grain and for silage. 

The vegetable garden of 16 dunums under irrigation is cultivated 
with potatoes, cucumbers, tomatoes, egg-plants, garlic, onions, 
lettuce, Jerusalem artichokes, and strawberries. Part of the 
vegetables is supplied to the school kitchen, another part to the 
cannery, but the greatest part is sent to the market for sale. 

An area of 16 dunums is devoted to the cultivation of forage 
crops under irrigation, viz., Egyptian clover, stock-beets, green 
maize, and lucerne. In future, a much larger area will be devoted 
to the cultivation of vegetables and forage crops under irrigation, 
for which purpose irrigation pipes have already been laid over an 
area of 120 dunums. 

The hill on the top of which the main school building is situated 
has been afforested, mainly with Pinus halepensis, Eucalyptus 
rostrata and carobs, and six alleys were also planted with trees. 

Some 6,065 fruit trees and 10,265 timber trees were raised in the 
school nursery. 

A vineyard of 20 dunums was planted with table grapes, a fruit 
orchard of 16 dunums with apples, Japanese plums, persimmons 
and olives, and a citrus grove has been laid out over an area of 10 
dunums. 

The farm was well equipped during the year with machinery, 
including a tractor for ploughing, drills and planters for sowing, & 
mower, binder, and threshing machine for harvesting, and all 
necessary hand-tools for gardening, as well as apparatus for com- 
bating pests and diseases. 


217 


The dairy has been completed with 38 head of dairy animals, 
composed of 22 milking cows of Dutch-Syrian cross-breeds, two 
bulls (one Friesian-breed for stud purposes and a pure Dutch-breed 
raised at the school), five heifers and nine large calves raised 
locally. The average milk yield per head was 4,168 litres, with 
an average butter-fat content of 3°8 per cent. 

The students are taught to make cream, butter, cheese, lebn, 
and kefir. The greatest part of the milk is sent to Haifa for sale 
through the Tnuvah Co-operative Society. 

A herd of sheep has been started. 

Incubators, brooders, and minor poultry equipment have been 
acquired, and the incubator-room, cellar, and laying-houses are 
nearly completed. 

Good results were obtained from the cannery, and the following 
products were prepared :—tomato juice, sauce, and ketchup, solid- 
packed tomatoes, pickled cucumbers, olives pickled by the Spanish, 
Californian and Greek processes, apple sauce, apple and pear jam, 
plum jam, grape-butter and grape-syrup. 

Preparations are now being made for canning on a large scale 
for sale of produce on the market, including preserved cabbage, 
cauliflowers, and grape-fruit. 

An all-weather road has been completed which connects the 
school with the main Affula-Haifa road, and there is telephone 
communication with Nazareth. 

The following staff was appointed in January, 1934, for 
preparatory work :— 

Farm Manager, Stockman, Instructor in Horticulture and 
Canning, Instructor for Poultry and Bee-Keeping, Vegetable 
Instructor and Science Master. 

The number of students now in residence is 26, and im 
September, 1935, a new class will bring the total to 50 students. 

The students devote five hours in the morning to work on the 
fam and four hours to instruction in the class-rooms and 
laboratories in the afternoon. The students are keen on their 
studies, both on the farm and in the class-room, and their 
discipline and conduct are satisfactory. 

In November, a course for shepherds was instituted, and 45 
shepherds who attended from 25 surrounding settlements expressed 
great appreciation of the benefits derived. 

Vegetable seedlings were distributed to school-gardens at Mes‘ha 
and Nahalal, and the Principal of the school and staff are in touch 
with surrounding settlements and afford advice, when required, on 
agricultural matters generally. 


9. Veterinary Service.—The general condition of stock is much 
better than last year. Rainfall to date has been exceptionally 
good, and it is anticipated that 1935 will be a good year for live- 
stock 


2Bis4 H 3 


218 


10. No outbreak of serious epizootic cattle diseases, such as 
cattle plague or contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia, occurred. A 
single outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, reported in April, was 
immediately suppressed. 


11. According to the animal census conducted in July, 1934, 
there are in Palestine 131,000 cattle, 188,000 sheep, 380,000 goats, 
4,500 buffaloes, 15,600 horses, 7,000 mules, 75,000 donkeys, 32,000 
camels, and 1,500,000 poultry. 


12. There was a large increase in the number of animals 
imported for slaughter, especially through the Haifa animal 
quarantine station. 327,194 animals (25,028 cattle and 302,171 
sheep and goats) were imported, as compared with 248,270 (19,603 
cattle and 223,667 sheep and goats) during 1933—an increase of 
34 per cent. In addition, 3,511 horses, mules and donkeys, 
26,770 camels (mainly in transit), and 732,000 head of poultry 
were imported. Quarantine receipts consequently increased to 
£P.13,721 as compared with £P.7,940 last year—an increase of 
73 per cent. 


13. Rules were published prescribing the conditions under which — 
different classes of animals from Denmark, Hungary, Bulgaria, 
Roumania, and Lithuania may be imported. 

14. Good progress was made throughout the country in the 
control and eradication of bovine contagious abortion in dairy 
herds. Fifty-seven herds are now regularly tested under the 
supervision of Veterinary Officers. Of these, 38 are entirely free 
of bovine contagious abortion, while in the remaining 19 the 
incidence of the disease is gradually being reduced. 

15. Considerable losses—through mortality, disturbance of milk 
yields, emaciation and debility—are caused by tick-borne diseases. 
For instance, in 274 cases of tick fever confirmed by laboratory 
examination, 77 animals, or over 28 per cent., died. 

16. Dipping demonstrations were conducted in 14 centres where 
about 15,000 sheep and goats were dipped at intervals during the 
tick season. The results were very satisfactory. 

To encourage livestock owners to dip their stock regularly and 
in a proper manner, Government granted loans to three groups of 
villages to enable them to construct concrete sheep-dipping baths. 
Another group of villages provided funds among themselves for the 
same purpose. It is anticipated that next year 10 additional 
dipping baths will be constructed. 

Six cattle-dipping baths are in operation in Jewish settlements 
and have considerably reduced mortality and cases of fever. 

17. During the year, 2,770 horses in the sub-districts of Beisan, 
Haifa, Hebron, Nablus, and Jenin were tested for possible infec- 
tion by dourine and four stallions and 67 mares were found to be 
affected. The stallions were castrated and the mares branded and 
prohibited from use for breeding. 


219 


18. Kighty-one outbreaks of anthrax were reported, involving 
over 18,000 animals, of which 560 died and the remainder were 
protected by vaccination. A larger number of animals, especially 
dairy cattle in settlements, is now being protected each year by 
vaccination against anthrax. 


19. Several sporadic outbreaks of sheep and goat pox were 
suppressed by suitable segregation measures. 


20. No case of glanders was detected or reported. Four animals 
Were destroyed on account of infection with epizootic lymphangitis. 


21. Rabies in animals continues to be prevalent. One hundred 
and thirty-four cases were reported, of which 39 were confirmed by 
the Government laboratories. With the assistdnce of the police 
and local authorities, 17,000 dogs and cats were destroyed in towns 
and villages. Six hundred and nine suspected biting animals were 
placed under observation, and 11 of these developed rabies. 

A Rabies Ordinance, which provides powers for the control of 
rabies in animals and the destruction of surplus dogs and other 
animals, has now been promulgated (see Chapter VII, 
paragraph 7). 

22. There were no outbreaks of fowl plague, but a few outbreaks 
of fowl cholera and typhoid, and several of the acute form of cell 
inclusion disease were reported. 

Severe losses due to spirochaetosis (a disease transmitted by 
licks) are sustained by poultry farmers. It is intended next year 
fo carry out a series of experiments with the object of ascertaining 
the possibility of immunizing poultry against this pest. 

owl pox is widespread, but good results were obtained by 
vaccination, a pigeon pox virus vaccine prepared locally being 
used. Most of the large poultry establishments practise regular 
Protective vaccination against this disease. ; 
_ 23. The ‘Veterinary Laboratory was mainly engaged in conduct- 
ing tests for bovine contagious abortion and dourine in connection 
with Government’s efforts to control and suppress these diseases. 
In this connection, 20,778 agglutination tests and 6,417 complement 

‘ation tests were conducted. 4,373 other specimens were re- 
celved for microscopical and other examinations. 99,871 doses 
of various vaccines and anti-sera were prepared. 

24. Animal Husbandry.—The establishment of breeding stock 
at Acre stockk farm was increased by two Highland pony stallions, 
our Karakul rams, one Karakul ewe, four Dorset horned rams, 
eight Kerry cows, three Kerry bulls, twenty-one Lebanese bulls, 
ra five heifers, six Boaz (Turkish) bulls, and three cows, twenty- 
— Damascus female and ten male goats. The total strength of 

Teeding animals at the farm is now 717. 
re The cereal and hay crops of Acre stock farm were good. 
© ew rigation scheme was completed and it is now possible 


° oo larger quantities of green fodder for the farm stock. 
- H4 


220 


26. Six cows, two bulls, four calves, fourteen rams, five male 
goats, and seventy young pigs bred on the Farm were sold, 
realizing a revenue of £P.400. 


27. Eleven stud jackasses were distributed in various areas and 
325 local donkeys and mares were covered by them during the 
breeding season. Sixty-four local mares were covered by the two 
Government Arab stallions. 


28. Thirty selected villages were supplied on loan with Govern- 
ment kEulls. These bulls were allowed to run with the cows of 
the villages, and approximately 1,000 cows were so served. In 
addition, 37 village bulls were selected for covering all cows of 
the respective villages, and all scrub bulls of those villages were 
castrated. 

29. The number of village male stock castrated has considerably 
increased ; 1,116 bulls and calves, 453 rams and male goats, and 
247 equines, making a total of 1,816 animals, being treated. 

30. Poultry and bee-keeping developed considerably. Most of 
the existing poultry farms and apiaries were extended, and many 
new farms and apiaries were established. Mammoth electric 
incubators were installed on several poultry farms and a large 
fattening plant is being established. 

The demand for poultry produce (eggs and meat) exceeds by 
far the local supply. Over 730,000 live table-birds and 50,000 ,00U 
eggs were, as a result, imported during the year. 

31. The help rendered by Government poultry stations and 
apiaries to the poultry and bee-keeping industry is appreciated by 
the public. The main Government poultry station and apiary at 
Acre stock farm and district poultry stations were extended, a 
breeding apiary was established at Sarafand, and a poultry station 
and apiary was established at Beisan. 

32. During the period under review, 45,000 hatching eggs, 2,500 
pure-bred birds, and 500 swarms were sold from these stations to 
farmers, which met only a part of the farmers’ demands. 

33. Short courses in bee-keeping, attended by beginners, were 
held during the year, and beginners in poultry-keeping are receiv- 
ing practical training at Acre poultry station. Two poultry and 
bee-keeping instructors were appointed, who pay frequent visits 
to newly-established poultry farms and apiaries and instruct 
beginners. 

34. Bee-hives to the number of 320 were distributed on the 
‘‘ hire purchase ’’ system to bee-keepers in possession of the native 
type of hive, to encourage them to adopt the movable frame hive 
system of bee-keeping, which 1s more remunerative. . 

35. Forest Service.—Approximately 14 million seedlings were 
raised at thirteen official nurseries, including forest and ornamental 
species. About one million were planted in Government planta- 
tions at thirty-one localities in different parts of the country. 


221 


160,000 plants were issued gratis to villages, settlements, institu- 
tions, and individuals. In a number of forest reserves, seed of 
Pinus pinea was sown in situ, 3,000 kilos of seed being used. 
Expenditure on afforestation by the Government amounted to 
aid 020, including the propagation of plants and the purchase of 
see 

The total area of state plantations at the end of the 1933-34 
rainy season was 3,877 acres. In a few instances these have 
reached the production stage; thinnings yielded poles, fencing posts, 
tree guards and supports, firewood, and charcoal. Afforestation by 
private agency has also made progress, particularly in Jewish 
settlements, 88 small plantations and wood-lots, covering 414 acres, 
having been planted during the year. 


36. Fourteen new forest reserves were proclaimed, bringing the 
total number to 234 with an aggregate area of 173,442 acres; 161 of 
these reserves have been demarcated and mapped. The effects of 
reservation and protection are becoming increasingly conspicuous 
as regards growth of natural forest in the reserves. 


37. The reclamation of sand dunes was continued at Gaza and 
Acre with promising results. 

Seeds of 91 exotic species of timber and ornamental plants were 
obtained for trial from abroad by purchase or exchange. 


38. Forest revenues totalled £P.4,808, while the estimated value 
of forest produce extracted from forest reserves by right-holders for 
their domestic needs was £P.2,640, and the value of forest produce 
extracted from reserves under trade licences for sale was £P.2,650. 
The estimated value of produce sold from privately-owned planta- 
tions and woods was £P.32,592. 

39. 19,956 forest licences were issued by District Officers, includ- 
ing 3,109 to right-holders, and 1,568 persons were convicted for 
forest contraventions. 

47,419 animals were licensed to graze in forest reserves. Of 
these 46,318 belonged to right-holders. Estimating the value of 
grazing at 100 mils per head per annum, the value of forest grazing 
may be put at £P.4,742. 

Imports of forest produce, including manufactures, amounted in 
value to £P.732,199 and exports to £P. 15,185. 

40. Olives planted by private enterprise numbered 153,966, of 
which 10,086 were wild olive suckers extracted from forest reserves 
under licences, and 131,180 were obtained from privately-owned 
groves or nurseries. In order further to encourage olive planting, 
funds were allotted to cover the cost of extraction and transport of 
wild suckers from forest reserves for free issue to cultivators in 
districts where wild olives are not available, the number distributed 
being 12,700; in addition, 11,500 were planted out at Government 
horticultural stations for subsequent budding. 


41. A new activity undertaken during the year was the grafting 
and propagation of carobs. Some 7,000 wild trees in forest reserves 


222 


were budded with good varieties obtained from Cyprus, 19,000 
carob seedlings were planted in forest reserves, and 45,000 were 
grown at forest nurseries for subsequent budding and distribution. 


42. The growing need for the adoption of a more rigorous policy 
of forest protection and planting has been closely examined during 
the year. As a result, it has been decided in principle to provide, 
over a period of years, for additional trained personnel, increased 
plant propagation, and for an expanded programme of afforestation. 
As a first step, two Palestinian officers have been deputed to 
undergo specialized training in forestry at Oxford. 

43. Sericulture.—20,000 mulberry seedlings were distributed free 
of charge to farmers, institutions, and Government and private 
schools. Silkworms of a selected variety were reared in various 
parts of the country in order to compare the dimensions and rich- 
ness in silk of the cocoons obtained under different climatic con- 
ditions. Cash prizes to the value of £P.20 were awarded to six 
Government and private schools and to two private rearers who 
produced the best cocoons. Practical and theoretical courses of 
instruction were continued at the Kadoorie Agricultural School, 
Tulkarm, and the sericultural instructor visited many villages to 
encourage and teach the raising of mulberry trees, silkworms and 
cocoons by villagers, settlers, and schools. 

44. Horticultural Service.—The fruit inspection staff was again 
increased to cope with the yearly increase in the export of the 
citrus crop. The Regulations under the Fruit Export Ordinance 
amended the date of first shipments of oranges to the 15th 
November, and standardized three sizes of boxes for oranges and 
grapefruit. The work of the fruit inspection service was greatly 
increased, partly because of the larger export of citrus fruit and 
partly because more rigid inspection was exercised. 

45. An advertising fund was inaugurated early in the year and 
a campaign was carried out in the United Kingdom and on the 
continent of Europe. The campaign was conducted most satis- 
factorily, with the result that the trade has voluntarily provided 
larger funds for increased advertising. 

46. Instruction and advice to growers were afforded by horticul- 
tural instructors, who also continued to supervise various demonstra- 
tion fruit plots in co-operation with growers. 

47. Kixperimental and demonstration operations at the horticul- 
tural stations progressed satisfactorily. 60,000 citrus stocks, 55,000 
vines grafted on American stock, and 20,000 grafted fruit trees 
were raised for distribution at cost prices to growers. Arrange- 
ments have been made to raise a much larger number of trees in 
subsequent seasons. 

48. A part of the citrus demonstration station at Sarafand was 
planted in the summer. Sufficient trees were raised from seed at 
Government stations, and budded there, for planting at Sarafand 
in the spring of 1935. 


Nn 


223 


49. A new horticultural station was established at Farwaneh 
in the Beisan area, with a view to raising fruit trees suitable for 
that part of the country, and stimulating horticultural development 
in the district. 

50. Plans were also approved for the establishment of a new 
horticultural station near Hebron to stimulate the growing of fruit 
trees and vines in the hilly areas of the Hebron district. 

51. Experimental and demonstration plots were continued in 
various districts, in co-operation with owners of citrus and olive 
groves and vineyards, in order to demonstrate improved methods 
of fertilising, pruning, rejuvenation, spraying, and general cultiva- 
tion. 

52. Experiments in the keeping quality of oranges and control 
of orange rot diseases are being continued, and there is close liaison 
with the citrus research ‘station of the Jewish Agency at Rehovoth 
in all matters affecting citrus research. 

d3. Government contributes the sum of £P.3,000 per annum 
to the Rehovoth Research Station, on condition that the Jewish 
Agency spends not less than £P.5,000 on such research. Periodic 
meetings of the Citrus Research Advisory Committee are held at 
Rehovoth, under the chairmanship of the Director of Agriculture 
and Forests, to examine work in progress in the laboratories and 
fields, to examine and discuss progress reports and to apply in 
practice any concrete results of research for the benefit of the citrus 
industry in general. 

54. Entomological Service.—The greater part of the time of the 
staff was again devoted to a fumigation campaign against black 
scale (Chrysomphalus ficus L.) which attacks citrus trees. About 
175,000 trees were fumigated—a decrease of 25,000 trees compared 
with the number fumigated last year. This is due to a marked 
improvement of the Jaffa groves necessitating less fumigation than 
last year. In the northern areas, also, there is improvement in 
this respect. Some 53,000 trees were fumigated by growers them- 
selves or by contractors employed by them. It is felt that it is now 
no longer necessary for Government to continue to employ con- 
actors or its own fumigation gangs, as the making of direct 
private contracts for fumigation is now established and will be 
further encouraged. 

55. Considerable propaganda was undertaken to induce growers 
to fumigate in the areas infected with red scale (Aeontdiella 
(Chrysomphalus) aurantii. Mask), but there was an extremely poor 
response to the efforts made, as growers prefer to rely on spraying. 

56. A beginning was made to compile data and to conduct ex- 
periments to control insect pests of deciduous fruit trees. The 
greatest success attended the use of bottle traps for catching Med)- 
terranean fruit fly (Ceratitis capitata Wted.). This insect causes 
serious damage and the successful growing of late maturing oranges 
will be determined largely by the ability to control its spread. 


224 


57. A survey of red scale is being made in the Southern District, 
and the vicinity of the Jaffa black scale infected area is being 
subjected to a tree to tree inspection to enable the spread of 
scale to be noted. 


58. Preliminary trials in the control of codlin moth on pears and 
apples were undertaken, as this insect is a dangerous obstacle to 
apple-growing in the hill country. 

59. Work in the bionomics of the beetle borers of stone fruit 
trees (Capnodis spp.) was begun early in the year, an investigation 
of great importance for the future of fruit growing in Palestine. 


60. Work at the two field stations at Acre and Migdal (Tiberias), 
on the bionomics of the black scale was continued. At the Acre 
station data are being collected of the incidence of pests of garden 
and vegetable crops throughout the year, and various insecticides 
are being tested. The work at Migdal is coming to an end, and 
a move to Beisan will be made next year where there is an im- 
portant vegetable growing area. 

61. Some 8,641 certificates were issued under the Plant Protec- 
tion Ordinance in connection with import and internal quarantine, 
1,380 consignments were confiscated and 15 consignments were 
re-exported. 

62. Fisheries Service.—The Fisheries Service which was estab- 
lished in 1927 was abolished five years later on the recommenda- 
tion of the Financial Commission of 1931, mainly for reasons of 
economy. Since then, various problems have arisen, the solution 
of which was not possible in the absence of technical advice and 
data. Consequently, a fishery expert, Mr. J. Hornell, F.L.5., 
F.R.I., was appointed to undertake a survey of fisheries in Pales- 
tine. This survey was carried out between the months of July 
and November, 1934, and a report has been submitted. Mr. 
Hornell’s recommendations, which are at present under considera- 
tion by Government, are to build up the fishing industry gradually 
step by step, rather than to embark at the outset on an elaborate 
and expensive programme. The report lays stress on the fact 
that the problems of the Palestine fishing industry are mainly 
economic rather than scientific, and that there is no evidence of 
a dearth of fish off the Mediterranean coast, but that fishery 
resources are inadequately exploited by the fishermen. The 
report also emphasizes the considerable damage done through the 
use of dynamite. It is intended that the Fisheries Service, when 
re-established, shall devote itself to the enforcement of fishery 
laws and regulations and the improvement and development of the 
existing industry through demonstration and better economic 
organization rather than through biological research. 

The estimated catch of fish in 1934 was 1,294 tons, with an 
estimated value of £P.46,346, as compared with 1,130 tons, with 
a value of £P.44,611 in 1933. In spite of the slightly higher 


225 


catches, imports of fresh fish from Egypt, ‘Iraq, and Syria were 
continued owing to the increase in demand. 

Italian trawlers continued to visit Palestine waters during the 
summer. ‘T'hey increased their catches in Jaffa waters to 397 tons 
as compared with 208 tons in 1933. 

The use of the lampara net (with artificial light) has resulted in 
larger catches of sardines, and the use of this net will consequently 
be much extended in the future. 


63. Meteorological Service.—Ten official meteorological stations 
are maintained, where readings of air pressure, temperature, 
humidity, vapour pressure, wind velocity, and rainfall are recorded 
by observers. 

The records are scrutinized by the Meteorological Service, Cairo, 
and meteorological summaries are published by the Department 
annually. In addition, rainfall records are obtained from 48 non- 
oficial stations, and monthly statements of rainfall are compiled 
in the headquarters of the Department of Agriculture and Forests, 
showing comparisons with the averages of previous years for periods 
ranging from one year up to 87 years. These statements, together 
with the monthly weather reports, are published and distributed to 
institutions and individuals interested. 

Towards the end of the year, the Meteorological Service in 
Palestine was inspected by the Director of the Egyptian Meteor- 
ological Service. Provision has been made to _ purchase 
meteorological instruments to replace those now defective and a 
recommendation to establish a meteorological service under a com- 
petent meteorologist is under consideration. 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS AND GEOLOGY. 


Public Works. 


The total expenditure by the Public Works Department was 
about £P.808,000 compared with £P.435,000 in 1933. This con- 
siderable increase is attributable chiefly to work put in hand on 
several services which form part of the programme of works pro- 
vided for in the new £P.2 million loan, and partly to the increased 
departmental activities reflecting the general prosperity of Palestine. 


2. Recurrent and maintenance services were carried out satis- 
factorily throughout the year. The expenditure on maintaining 
roads and bridges was £F.101,000; this does not include mainten- 
ance of sections of arterial roads situated within municipal areas, 
of which the cost is borne jointly by Government and _ the 
municipalities. 

3. Port and customs offices in Haifa harbour, begun in 1933, 
were completed, and a disinfecting station was also constructed in 
the port area. 


226 


Additional accommodation for pupil nurses and an infectious 
diseases ward were built at the Nablus Hospital, and dormitories 
for eighty boys, a gymnasium and class-rooms at the Reformatory 
School, Tulkarm. A new wing was added to the Agricultural 
School, Tulkarm ; superintendent’ s quarters, implement sheds and 
accessory works were provided at the new Citrus Demonstration 
Station, Sarafand, and at the Agricultural Station, Majdal; and 
the Agricultural School, Mount Tabor, was finished. 

The Palestine Archaeological Museum, Jerusalem, under con- 
struction since 1931, is virtually ready, and work began on the 
new General Post Office, the new Government Arab College, and 
the Government Printing Press at Jerusalem. 

Seven police posts of standard pattern were completed and the 
construction of six others was put in hand. 

At Jaffa six large steel sheds were erected near the port and a 
new customs store is being built. 

Other works carried out by the Government Department comprise 
additions to police buildings, structural alterations and additions to 
schools to provide additional accommodation for pupils, additions 
and improvements to Government offices, hospitals, quarantine 
stations, agricultural stations, animal quarantine stations, addi- 
tions to customs buildings, fencing of Government buildings, special 
repairs to state domains, improvements to irrigation works, water 
and electric light installations, improvements ‘to law courts, con- 
struction of buildings for rural automatic exchanges, and quarters 
for telegraph linesmen and for married men of the British section 
of the police force. 


4. The following work has been done on the construction of new 
and the improvement of existing roads, viz.::— 


Continuation of Jaffa—Gaza road. 

By-pass giving direct access from Tel-Aviv to the Jafla— 
Jerusalem road. 

Latrun—Beit Sira—Ramallah road. 

Improvements to Hebron—Beit Jibrin—Bab el Wad road. 

Improvements to Nablus—Jisr Damiya (Jordan) road. 

Tulkarm—Qalqilya road. 

Continuation of Jenin—Megiddo—Haifa road. 

Continuation of Humeéeima—Tarshiha road. 

Continuation of road from Shefr Amr to the Haifa—Acre 
road. 

Branch eaad from Affula—Kinnereth road to the Mount 
Tabor Agricultural School. 

Improvements to Gaza—Beersheba road. 

Petah Tiqva to Ras el Ain Railway Station. 

Tulkarm—Nathania road. 

Hadera Railway Station to Karkur and Pardess Hanna. 


A bridge constructed by the Falestine Electric Corporation at 
Degania on the Jordan, in combination with the dam and sluice 


227 


structure for the control of the level of Lake Tiberias, was taken 
over by Government for traffic, and the Samakh—Tiberias road was 
deviated to serve it. 


5. The Public Works Department was active at Tiberias after 
the floods of May, in the clearance of debris and demolition of 
dangerous structures, and later undertook the construction of the 
works, including several roads and a sea-wall, necessitated by the 
damage caused then and by a further flood in November. 


6. Work was completed during the early months of the year on 
the emergency village water-supplies started in 1933 ; of 100 schemes 
dealt with, supplies were improved in 72 cases. In most cases the 
villagers are called upon to refund part of the expenditure, the share 
varying with the circumstances of each case, but never exceeding 
one-half. 


In the third quarter of the year, work began on the provision or 
improvement of permanent water-supplies for villages. The ex- 
penditure is to be met from an allocation of £P.45,000 in the 
proposed new loan and is authorized exclusively for the develop- 
ment of known sources and in connection with water for domestic 
purposes. By the end of the year, 68 such schemes were in pro- 
gress or had been completed. 


The water-supply schemes for the towns of Nablus and Shefr Amr 
were completed, and a scheme for Hebron was put in hand. Steady 
progress is being made on the Jerusalem scheme which consists of 
an 1 inch diameter pipe-line of a total length of 62 kilometres 
conveying the water from the source at Ras el Ain to the Romema 
reservoir at Jerusalem—the difference in level between these two 
points being over 800 metres—and of four pumping-stations, each 
equipped with three Diesel engines of 360 h.p. and three pumps. 
All piping and accessories were delivered and various sections laid. 
Contracts were placed for the construction of reservoirs, engine- 
houses, and staff quarters at the four pumping-stations, and all 
the pumping machinery was ordered. The complete installation 
should be in operation in the second half of 1935. 


7. Further investigations and tests were made to find a suitable 
source of supply for Haifa; and projects prepared or investigations 
made for schemes for Tulkarm, Beisan, and Safad. 


Drilling with the two Government deep well-boring plants was 
carried out satisfactorily throughout the year, and a further drill 
was ordered. Six bores were sunk, and all resulted in plentiful 
yields. 


Government is sharing the cost of a bore sunk at Rosh Pinna by 
the Palestine Jewish Colonization Association which, if successful, 
will provide water for the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Camp. 


228 


8. Plans are ready for the extension of the Jerusalem drainage to 
be carried out by the municipality from the provision of £P.150,000 
under the new loan; and preparation of the detailed scheme for 
the Haifa drainage is far advanced. 

The construction was completed of an earth dam in the Beersheba 
area to store rainwater for irrigation purposes; this reservoir will 
be of considerable experimental value. 


Minor drainage works were carried out in Qalqilya; a dam, 
irrigation channels, and other accessory works were constructed 
as part of the irrigation scheme of the Government estate for the 
settlement of landless Arabs at Beisan; and a marsh in the Wadi 
Hawareth was drained, also to allow of resettlement. 


9. There has been an exceptional development of motor trans- 
port; the number of vehicles at the end of 1933 was 6,126, 
whereas at the end of the year under review it was 10,174, and a 
census of the traffic on all main roads, taken over a continuous 
period of seven days at the end of October, shows that, generally, 
traffic has more than doubled since 1930. In the surroundings 
of Haifa, Jaffa and Tel Aviv the increase is about 300 per cent. 


In consequence, at the end of the year an additional outlay of 
£P.15,000 was required on the upkeep of roads. 


10. The steel bridge erected by the holders of the Huleh Con- 
cession, which is to replace an existing stone shelter, was taken 
over by Government at the beginning of the year, and the main 
road to Syria crossing the Jordan at this point was diverted 
correspondingly. 

The electric generating station of the Falestine Electric Cor- 
poration at Jisr el Majami’ has been maintained satisfactorily and 
operated throughout the year in conjunction with the Diesel engine 
and transformer stations at Haifa and Tel Aviv. The Corporation 
has put in hand the construction of an 1,800 kw. steam-driven 
station in Haifa—Acre Bay to act as a stand-by, and an extension 
equivalent to an extra load capacity of 7,500 k.v.a. has been made to 
the existing transformer sub-station at Tel Aviv. 

Supply has been extended by the Corporation to Nazareth, for 
power and lighting. 

The power-house of the Jerusalem Electric Corporation was en- 
larged by the addition of a 500 kw. oil-driven generating set. 
bringing the total capacity up to 2,100 kw. 

Government approved 379 plans for new extensions on the 
Palestine Electric Corporation’s system and 35 on the system of 
the Jerusalem Electric Corporation. 


11. Sixty-four boilers and four prime movers were examined 
and licensed. 


229 


District Engineers, acting as inspectors under the Fencing of 
Machinery Ordinance, 1929, examined a number of factories in 
which mechanical plants are installed. 


12. The large increase in the activities of the Public Works 
Department has necessitated the acquisition of additional road and 
building plant, and the new equipment obtained during the year 
includes eight road-rollers. 


13. The following matters were dealt with by the Road Board :— 
Consideration of various proposals in connection with the 
provision of communications in the citrus belt between Jaffa 
and Haifa. 
Protection of level crossings. 
Construction of the Jaffa—Tel Aviv by-pass road. 
Maintenance of the Haifa arterial and harbour roads. 
Legislation in connection with the construction of rural roads. 


Programme of road construction for the 1935-1936 financial 
year. 


Geology. 


14. The southern high plateau of Trans-Jordan and south-eastern 
desert section were examined by the Geological Adviser and a 
report was rendered on the geology and hydrology of the district, 
together with a cross-section. 


15. The Adviser prepared the Palestine and Trans-Jordan section 
of the geological map of 1:1,000,000 published in ‘‘ Revue de 
Géographie Physique et de Géologie Dynamique ’’; and he will 
shortly publish a report on the stratigraphy and building stones 
of Palestine and a geological map of the section of Palestine from 
the northern frontier southwards to the Carmel and Plain of Jezreel. 


The Museum collections have been further enriched with fossils 
and additional specimens of marbles and building stones. 


' The number of licences issued during the year is :— 


Stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) ... vee 201 
Sand (including zifzif) and clay ... a dae 347 
Gypsum on whe os a ae os 2 


Some further prospecting was done, but no progress has been 
made in the development of manganese or copper ores. 


The Palestine Sulphur Company has now erected its concentrat- 
ing plant, and a section of the ore body has been uncovered ; the 
sulphur ore will be worked by open cast. 255 tons have already 
been raised and treated by the flotation method in the new plant 
and the result is satisfactory. 


230 


The Palestine Mining Company has continued to carry out 
laboratory experiments on the concentrating of phosphates, but the 
report has not yet been received. The mining of rock salt continues. 


The geologists of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company completed a 
survey of south-west Palestine and submitted a geological map. 
The torsion balance survey showed that the large structure in- 
dicated from the surface dips was continuous into the older strata. 


16. The area of the evaporating pans of Palestine Potash Limited 
at the north end of the Dead Sea remained as in 1933. The pro- 
duction of potash has increased beyond anticipations and that of 
bromine has been doubled. An additional area of 62 sq. kms. 
has been leased by Government to the Company at the south end 
of the Dead Sea, where large carnallite pans with service basins 
were constructed. 


Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate. 

17. By the harbour construction at Haifa a considerable area 
of land was reclaimed from the sea. This land, together with 
adjacent Government-owned property, was formed into the Haifa 
Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate and placed, for development 
purposes, under a Committee consisting of the Director of Public 
Works as Chairman, the Directors of Customs and Lands, the Dis- 
trict Commissioner of Haifa, and the Deputy Treasurer. An 
Executive Officer and Agent for the estate was appointed. 


18. The estate includes the harbour, customs enclosure, and 
the adjacent land to the south of the railway which is or may be 
available for private development. The whole extends to some 
600 dunums (150 acres). ) 


A town-planning scheme was drawn up to provide for the general 
layout of the roads in such part of the area as was available for 


development. 

The main thoroughfare known as Kingsway, and the approach 
roads to the harbour, known as Palmersgate and Kastgate, have 
been completed, and the construction of a main square, to be 
known as Plumer Square, was begun. 


Sites were set aside in the estate for a new railway passenger 
station, post office and police station. 


The scheme for drains and sewers has been drawn up and water- 
supply and lighting are being arranged. 


19. A parcellation town planning scheme was prepared and 
approved for the warehouse zone which provided 27 plots with 4 
total area of 31,858 square metres, twenty of which could be served 
by broad-gauge railway sidings and seven to which rail facilities 
could not be given. 


231 


Twenty-three plots with a total area of 21,425 square metres 
were leased by auction and in certain cases for a term of 75 years, 
the buildings to revert to Government on the determination of 
the lease. Only warehouses with requisite office accommodation 
will be permitted. 


The bids totalled £P.7,410 per annum, or an average rent of 
350 mils per square metre per annum. 


The remaining plots in the warehouse zone, which extend to 
about 10,067 square metres, will be offered for lease when the 
demand arises. 


20. To obtain a uniform facade for the shop and office buildings 
fronting the north side of Kingsway, lessees are required to adhere 
to an approved design for the elevation. 


21. The major harbour work now in progress at Haifa is the 
construction in reinforced concrete of an oil dock capable of accom- 
modating four oil-tankers, two of about 10,000 tons and two of 
about 18,000 tons capacity. 


The dock will have an entrance 300 feet wide, with a floating 
boom to allow for the passage of vessels. 


By the end of the year the decking to the west jetty of the dock 
had advanced to a point 600 feet from the shore. 


An area of over 20 acres to the east and outside the harbour was 
reclaimed with material dredged from within the harbour. This 
area is bounded on the sea side by a stone rubble dyke, which acts as 
a retainer and will ultimately provideroad access to and from the 
harbour. 


Jaffa Port Improvements. 


22. During the first three months of the year, a general survey 
of the site of the works was completed and preliminary work, such 
as borings, prickings and soundings, carried out; a general layout 
of permanent and temporary works was prepared, working drawings 
were put in hand, and estimates of cost formulated. 


Temporary works, blockyard, temporary buildings, beach railway 
for provision and transport of filling to reclaimed areas, were soon 
in readiness, as well as access gantries from foreshore to reef. 


Breakwater construction began in July and a transit shed, with 
the adjoining quay, was in part use by January, 1935. 


232 


XXVIT.—_RAILWAYS. 


The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated 
Lines is divided as follows :— 


(a) In Palestine. 


Standard Gauge. 105 c.m. Gauge. 
(4 ft. 8h in.) (Hejaz Railway) 


Kilometres 

(excluding sidings). 

Rafa—Haifa ... ise a 226 — 

J affa—J erusalem poe ae 87 — 

Haifa—Samakh ee : — 88 
Haifa Meee at Kilo. 2)— 

Acre ... 7 ae — 18 

Nablus—Tulkarm* on St — 38 

313 144 





Note.—The difference between the 226 kilometres shown above 
and the 238 kilometres shown in the last report as the distance 
between Rafa and Haifa is due to the transfer of the Petah Tigqva, 
Beit Nabala, and Sarafand lines to the list of sidings. 


(b) In Stnat. 


Standard Gauge. 105 c.m. Gauge. 
(4 ft. 8$in.) (Hejaz Railway) 
(excluding sidings). 


El Kantara os Canal)— 
Rafa ... 203 — 


(c) a PeaneToraa 
Nassib—Amman—Ma’anf ... — 323 


Total length of systems 
(exclusive of sidings) ... 516 467 


* The section of the Hejaz Railway from Affula, on the Haifa-Samakh line, 
to El Mas udiya near Nablus, a length of 60 kilometres, was closed in 1932 as 
a measure of economy and owing to the lack of traffic, but the line has not yet 
been removed. 

+ The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib on the 
Trans-Jordan frontier runs through Syria as part of the line from Haifa to 
Damascus and from Damascus to the Hejaz, and is administered and operated 
by the Syrian Authorities. The line formerly continued southwards from 
Ma‘an to Mudawara (113 kilometres beyond Ma‘an) on the border of Trans- 
Jordan and the Hejaz and thence to Medina, but this section of the line has 
not been reconditioned since the damage done during the War, and in 
disturbances and by thefts afterwards, and is not in use. 


233 


2. The railway system which serves Palestine comprises three 
lines of separate and distinct origin :— 


(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jaffa—Jerusalem Railway. 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder-line from the port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed principally to 
carry pilgrim traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its 
origin was a length of standard gauge line starting from Haifa 
which an English company had built, but not completed, under an 
Ottoman concession. The original concessionaires were bought out 
by the Hejaz Railway Administration, and the 105 centimetre 
gauge Hejaz Railway system was laid out of Haifa on the forma- 
tion completed or partly completed by the English company. 


(6) The Jaffa—Jerusalem Railway was laid originally as a metre- 
gauge line by a French company, also under an Ottoman con- 
cession. At the outbreak of war it was taken over by the Turkish 
army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to serve as part of the 
projected extension southwards of the Hejaz Railway as a military 
track. Subsequently the line was converted by the British army to 
standard gauge and incorporated in the line built during the War 
from the Suez Canal to Palestine. 


(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard-gauge system 
in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British army in 
1918 as the northern extension of the line which fed the troops 
during the advance from Egypt. 


_At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre gauge 
lines come together, and at Haifa, in order to use the space avail- 
able for shunting to the best advantage, it is necessary to make use 
of many dual gauge tracks. 


3. A summary of the principal operating and statistical results 
as compared with 1933 is given below :— 


Gross Revenue. Working Expenses. 

1934. 1933. 1934. 1933. 

£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Palestine Railway... 516,489 391 874 424,277* 410,997 
Sinai Railway ... 111,826 104,352 90 ,840 90 ,939 
Hejaz Railway... 98 ,791 J5 653 98 ,505 83 ,587 


Oe SP ae 


* Includes £P.157,143 for interest and amortization charges on the capital 
value of the line. 


234 


Passengers carried ... 
Freight handled including stone 
traffic for the construction of 


Haifa harbour ... ...(Tons) 

Freight handled—ordinary mer- 
chandise... see ...(Tons) 
Trains run 


Engine mileage, including Sentinel 

Cammell car ‘mileage - 
*Total staff at 31st Decerber 
(Number) 


12 months ended 


3lst December: 

1934. 1933. 
1,929 ,107 1,275 ,308 
942,731 795 ,084 
915 ,699 722 624 
25,171 20,465 
1,544,470 1,402 ,639 
3,511 3,820 


4. Passenger traffic receipts in 1984 showed an increase of 
£P.50,500 as compared with the corresponding period in 1933. 
The increase has resulted partly from the general prosperity and 
largely from the reduction in 8rd class fares during 1933. 

Contractual road services in conjunction with the Railway are 
operated between Ras El Ein-Jaffa and Lydda-Jerusalem. 


5. There was an increase of £P.72,229 in goods traffic receipts 
as compared with the previous twelve months. 
The principal commodities carried were as follows :— 


Stone ... 

Sand 

Lime 

Cement . 

Other building ‘materials 
Barley ; 

Other cereals ... 

Coal 

Groceries and provisions 
Flour ... 

Kerosene 

Manure 

Melons 

Oranges 

Petrol ... 

Salt 

Soap - 
Miscéllancous: 


Total 


Tons. 
84,757 
12,102 
7,786 
163 ,892 
78,845 
12 416 
46,808 
34,246 
49 804 
26,148 
70,458 
66,193 
17 ,766 
92,164 
12,018 
7,970 
1,198 
158,165 





942,731 





ae 


6. The requirements of Trans-Jordan are met by three mixed 
trains each way weekly between Nassib and Amman and one train 


between Amman and Maan. 





* These figures include men temporarily engaged on renewals and extra- 


ordinary works. 


235 


XXVITI.—CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES. 


The Registrar of Co-operative Societies undertook a tour in 
Ceylon and India at the beginning of the year, visiting the principal 
centres of the co-operative movements in Ceylon, the Punjab, and 
the North-West Frontier Province of India. 


2. The credit and thrift societies formed in fourteen Arab villages 
in the autumn of 1933 have made satisfactory progress, the member- 
ship has increased from 264 to 651, and the societies’ own funds 
from £P.266 to £P.780. Members have been regular in the re- 
payment of loans, and the societies have thus been able to refund 
their borrowing from the bank in advance of due date. The 
Registrar and his staff have continued to encourage these societies, 
and their objects have been enlarged so as to promote improved 
farming, prevent extravagance, arrange amicable settlement of 
disputes, and provide for better education. Every endeavour is 
also being made to assist societies to accumulate savings during 
good seasons as provision for bad years. 


3. Awake to the dangers of a too rapid expansion unaccompanied 
by patient education and constant supervision, the Registrar pro- 
ceeded cautiously in the formation of new societies among Arab 
cultivators. Thus, out of 60 villages in which propaganda was 
conducted during the year, only eighteen were selected for imme- 
diate co-operative work, and after a full course of preparation new 
credit and thrift societies were formed in these villages in the 
autumn. ‘These additional eighteen societies are spread over all 
the country and comprise 260 members, who subscribed to a 
share capital of £P.933, one-tenth being paid up at the date of 
formation. 

This brings the total membership of Arab rural credit and thrift 
societies to 911, with a subscribed capital of £P.3,658 and accumu- 
lated (own) funds of £P.944. 


4. Following the practice of the previous year, Barclays Bank 
supplied all Arab rural societies with their requirements in addi- 
tional funds in the form of short-term loans, bearing interest at the 
rate of 7 per cent. The sum so obtained this year by old and new 
societies amounted to £P.13,736 as compared with £P.3,369 in 
1933. The major portion of this amount was used by the members 
for cultivation purposes, while a fraction was utilized to pay off 
old debts contracted at exorbitant rates of interest. 


\. It has been found that the sections of the Co-operative 
Societies Ordinance, 1933 (see 1933 Report, page 12, para. 31), 
Which are concerned with the creation and registration of charges 
given by members of societies provide inadequate security for institu- 
ions making advances through societies to cultivators. These 
advances are essential in particular to citrus growers and in the 
aggregate amount to a very large sum annually. An amendment 
Bill was accordingly published as a draft in December. 


236 


6. In the towns six new Arab transport societies were registered 
and one was liquidated. (There are therefore now thirteen such 
societies, for the most part carrying on their business with fair 
success. 


7. Other Arab societies formed, or about to be formed, include 
societies for general agricultural purposes, tractor ploughing, irriga- 
tion, fishing, arbitration, urban credit and thrift, and railway 
workers’ building. 


8. The experience of two years of co-operative activity among 
the Arab population has proved that as long as societies can obtain 
loans at more advantageous terms than are available to individuals 
or groups of individuals, given proper guidance, there is an almost 
unlimited field for the expansion of the movement. 


9. The Jewish co-operative movement fas been greatly affected 
by the economic changes which have taken place in Palestine in 
recent years. 

10. Most of the societies established in 1934 have been for the 
provision of better and cheaper housing for members, in view of 
the abnormal rise in rents. 

Thirty-four societies of this type were registered, mainly by 
working men. ‘The dwellings, which are built on the most modern 
lines, vary in size, and at Tel Aviv, with its fast-growing popula- 
tion, several of these dwellings contain over 30 flats each and 
maintain their own schools, recreation grounds, laundries, and 
shops. 

The plan of providing housing facilities for the working classes 
originated in 1928 with the formation of a central housing organi- 
zation by the Jewish Labour Federation. Up to the end of 1934 
this organization has, through co-operative societies affiliated to 
it, acquired building land in the neighbourhood of all the large 
towns sufficient for 8,000 apartments; and 1,600 apartments are 
in actual occupation. The apartments are normally of two rooms 
with all modern conveniences. Each apartment has attached to 
it a plot of land for vegetable growing. 

The total expenditure amounts to £P.620,000, of which 
£P.250,000 has been spent in 1934. 


11. In the sphere of agriculture, irrigation societies have been 
an outstanding feature of the Jewish movement. At the same 
time there has been no abatement in the formation of new co- 
operative settlements and of general agricultural societies which 
also supply credit facilities. The forty irrigation societies, of which 
sixteen have been formed this year, testify to the more intensive 
forms of cultivation which are penetrating the Jewish settlements. 


12. No new societies for marketing of agricultural products 
(except one for wine) were registered during the year, but all 
existing societies have expanded considerably and the turnover of 
the Tnuva society (which undertakes the marketing of vegetables, 


237 


milk, and fruit of many agricultural co-operative groups and units) 
has risen from £P.209,000 in 1933 to £P.284,000 in 1934. The 
citrus marketing societies handled 1,770,541 cases of fruit out of 
the general total of 5,479,886 cases marketed by Palestine during 
the year. ‘I'wo modern and well-equipped co-operative citrus pack- 
ing houses were registered in the course of the year. Only one 
such enterprise had existed previously. 


13. Thirty-one industrial producers’ and service societies were 
registered and, as in former years, there has been a marked in- 
crease in the number of motor transport societies owing to the 
opening up of new areas. One such society within the municipal 
area of Tel Aviv carried 24,000,000 passengers in 1934 as compared 
with 13,500,000 in 1933 and 8,000,000 in 1932. Yet no progress 
has been made in the centralization of purchases by these societies 
which would result in large savings. 


14. This rapid development was not without its adverse effect on 
the morale of the members of some of the transport societies and 
speculative and unco-operative practices made their appearance. 
The Registrar was obliged, with the full support of the Producers’ 
Audit Union, to intervene in several serious cases. 


15. Ten new consumers’ societies were added this year, making 
a total of 31. The progress of this type of society is still hampered 
by the free credit system which is prevalent everywhere in 
Palestine. 


16. There has been no considerable increase in the number of 
urban credit and thrift societies, as the registration of new credit 
societies in towns, where a sufficient number of such societies is 
thought to exist already, has been refused. This policy of the 
Registrar which had the full endorsement of Jewish co-operators, 
may be regarded as an initial step towards the elimination of 
multiplicity of membership which is one of the heresies of the 
Jewish co-operative credit movement. 


17. At the same time, the volume of business of existing urban 
credit societies has increased enormously owing to the large influx 
of capital. 


18. The most noteworthy feature of the Jewish co-operative 
movement is the formation of four audit unions (for producers, 
consumers, agricultural and labour credit societies). ‘These unions 
are a landmark in the Jewish movement and augur well for its 
future. Out of a total of 541 Jewish societies, 181 are already 
affliated to these unions and with the Union of Credit Societies, 
which has been informally in existence since 1924 and gained 
oficial recognition in 1934. 


238 
Classification of societies, number of members and capital 
(approximate figures) as at 31st December, 1934 :— 


Total number of functioning societies, 598*—Jewish, 541; 
Arab, 50; German, 5; Others, 2. 


Classification. 
I. Credit and Thrift Societies :— 
(a) Urban os ace ae ae ee se 38 
(b) Rural sei sed shes ca ay cal 92 
II. Agricultural Soctettes :-— 
(a) Settlement ... bu cat bats = .. 121 
(b) Marketing ... se = Ae see ae 38 
(c) Irrigation... bes ve sa pea sak 40 
(d) Cattle insurance ... ee St ves nee 3 
(e) Miscellaneous Son Sas ee sh sak 10 
III. Diverse Socteties :— 
(a) Industrial producers’ and service societies ... 112 
(b) Garden cities and communal housing societies $96 
(c) Consumers’ societies igs oe — we 31 
(d) Mutual insurance societies a “ad ee 2 
(e) Audit unions ise se sn ee se 5 
(f) Miscellaneous ee _— ls as it 10 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


I.—_INTRODUCTORY. 


His Highness the Amir paid a short visit to ‘Iraq. In the 
summer he paid a visit to Great Britain when he was the guest of 
His Majesty’s Government. On both occasions the Amir Talal, 
his eldest son, acted as Regent. In November, the marriage took 
place of the Amir Talal to the daughter of his maternal uncle the 
Sherif Jamil Ibn Nasser. 

The Amir Shaker died suddenly of heart failure in December ; he 
had been a prominent figure in the Great War and was for many 
years President of the Beduin Control] Board. 


2. An Agreement between His Britannic Majesty and the Amir 
of Trans-Jordan, supplementary to the Agreement signed on the 
20th of February, 1928 (see page 99 of the 1928 Annual Reportt) 
was signed by plenipotentiaries at Jerusalem on the 2nd June, 1934, 
and awaits ratification. The text of the supplementary Agreement 
is printed in Appendix VI to this report. 





* In the course of the year, 65 societies were struck off the register and 
the number of societies in course of liquidation reached 43. 
ft Non-Parliamentary Publication, Colonial No. 40, 1929. 


The supplementary Agreement modifies Article 1 and the first 
paragraph of Article 7 of the Agreement of 1928 and for purposes of 
comparison the original and revised texts of those articles are set 


out hereunder :— 


Article 1. 


Original. 

“His Highness the Amir 
agrees that His _ Britannic 
Majesty shall be represented in 
Trans-Jordan by a British 
Resident acting on behalf of 
the High Commissioner for 
Trans-Jordan, and that com- 
munications between His 
Britannic Majesty and all other 
Powers on the one hand and 
the Trans-Jordan Government 
on the other shall be made 
through the British Resident 
and the High Commissioner 
aforesaid. 

“ His Highness the Amir 
agrees that the ordinary ex- 
penses of civil government 
and administration and the 
silaries and expenses of the 
British Resident and his staff 
will be borne entirely by Trans- 
Jordan. His Highness the 
Amir will provide quarters for 
the accommodation of British 
members of the staff of the 
British Resident.’’ 


Revised. 

‘* His Highness the Amir 
agrees that His Britannic 
Majesty shall be represented in 
Trans-Jordan by a_ British 
Resident acting on behalf of 
the High Commissioner for 
Trans-Jordan, and that com- 
munications between Huis 
Britannic Majesty and all other 
Powers on the one hand and 
the Trans-Jordan Government 
on the other, shall be made 
through the British Resident 
and the High Commissioner 
aforesaid. 

‘“His Britannic Majesty 
agrees that His Highness the 
Amir may appoint consular 
representatives in such neigh- 
bouring Arab States as may be 
considered necessary. 

‘“ His Highness the Amir 
agrees that the ordinary ex- 
penses of civil Government 
and administration will be 


First paragraph of Article 7. 


Original. 

“Except by agreement 
between the two countries 
there shall be no customs 
barrier between Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan, and the Customs 
tariff in Trans-Jordan shall be 
approved by His Britannic 
Majesty.” 


borne entirely by ‘Trans- 
Jordan.”’ 

Revised. 
‘Except by agreement 


between the two _ countries 
there shall be no Customs 
barrier between Palestine and 
Trans-J ordan.”’ 


3. During the time that it sat, the newly elected Legislative 
Council dealt with an appreciable amount of business. 
Among the Laws and Regulations brought into force during the 


year were the following :— 


240 


The Law Regarding the Lease of Immovable Property Trans- 
ferred to the Agricultural Bank in Satisfaction of a Debt.—This law 
provides that a debtor who wishes to recover possession of his 
property may have it leased to him for a period proportionate to 
the revenue-earning capacity of the property at an annual rent not 
exceeding the interest on his debt, which shall be paid at the end © 
of each year together with an instalment of the debt proportionate 
to the number of years of the lease. 

The Powers of Attorney (Sale and Transfer) Amendment Law.—__ 
This law forbids Notaries Public to draw up or certify powers of — 
attorney for sale and transfer to any third person of immovable — 
property (in which the rights of any other person are concerned) — 
in places where land settlement has been completed and registration © 
certificates have been delivered. 

The Addendum to the Registration of Companies Law.—This law 
provides that companies, etc., carrying on insurance business in | 
Trans-Jordan shall deposit £P.1,000 with the Registrar of — 
Companies. 

The Forced Labour (Prohibition) Law.—This law prohibits the 
exaction of all forms of forced labour which are subject to the — 
stipulations of the Forced Labour Convention. Such Jabour is 
defined as meaning work or service exacted under the menace of 
material or moral injury, but excluding labour exacted as a 
consequence of a conviction in a Court of Law, or in cases of 
emergency or calamity or threatened calamity, or under the Locust — 
Destruction Law or the Road Tax Law. 

The Attachment and Sale of Unregistered Immovable Property 
Law.—This law provides that the unregistered immovable — 
property of a judgment debtor may be attached and sold after the — 
property has been registered on application made therefor by the — 
judgment creditor. 

Addendum to Land Settlement Law.—This law provides that: 

(a) Actions shall not be heard by any Court in respect of 
contracts of plantation or lease concerning land in respect of 
which title deeds have been issued after settlement unless 
such contracts have been registered. 

(b) The Executive Council may issue Regulations govern- 
ing temporary settlement of disputes in areas in respect of 
which a settlement order has been published. This has 
enabled many disputes to be settled by Assistant Settlement 
Officers and Surveyors and thus, by relieving the Settlement 
Officer, has expedited settlement. 

Land Tax Law (Amendment) Law.—This law provides that: 

(a) a reasonable cash deposit shall be paid in respect of a0 
appeal against the land tax assessment on any land; 

(b) a mistake in land valuation brought out in Jand settle- 
ment may be corrected provided the increase or decrease does 
not exceed 10 per cent. of the tax assessed on the villages an 
provided the total tax on the Qadha is not varied ; 


2A1 


(c) where land settlement has been completed the distribu- 
tion of the tax previously assessed on the village shall be made 
by the Department of Lands in accordance with the final 
schedule of rights. 

4. Desert control remains satisfactory and Trans-Jordan’'s 
relations with her neighbours are good. 

5. Land settlement is proceeding satisfactorily and is gradually 
gathering momentum. By the end of the year settlement in ten 
villages had been completed and no appeals were outstanding. 
This settlement, and the partitioning of land held on a communal 
basis which is proceeding concurrently, is very popular and it 1s 
hoped that it may be found practicable to accelerate the process. 
In settled villages the land is being cleared of stones, manure is 
being spread, and walls are being built; in due season there should 
also be considerable activity in tree planting. As settlement 
proceeds in each village, the land tax assessed for payment is 
divided among the owners of the various parcels of land in pro- 
portion to the capital value of their holdings. 

This year’s experience has further justified the reduction made 
in the land registration fees since the sum collected was slightly 
larger than that collected last year. 

6. The Economic Committee (see paragraph 16, on page 249 of 
the Report for 1933*) presented a useful and exhaustive report 
which will form the basis for certain measures of development 
which it is hoped to take in the near future. | 

7. A series of dry years, followed by the unsatisfactory rain of 
lass winter, has caused much hardship and various relief measures 
have been called for. A relief fund started by the Officer Com- 
Manding the Arab Legion has contributed towards the alleviation 
of distress. 

8. The Municipal Advisory Board (see paragraph 17, on 
page 249 of the 1933 Report) has enabled the Chief Minister to 
bring about improvements in many directions in municipal finance 
and administration, and the situation in this respect has greatly 
improved. The advice of an expert, resident in Jerusalem, was 
sought in preparing the Amman Town Planning Scheme. 

9. At their twenty-fifth session the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission asked whether there were any regulations in Trans-Jordan 
governing the employment of children in factories. There are no 
such regulations in Trans-Jordan. There are only 13 children 
under the age of fourteen years who work in factories and these are 
employed in the two tobacco factories in Amman. 

10. In their report to the Council in regard to the Annual Report 
for 1933, the Commission said that they would welcome in the 
next Report a statement concerning the frontier between Trans- 
Jordan and Saudi-Arabia, and also information as to the line of 
demarcation between the vilayet of the Hejaz and that of Syria in 
the time of the Ottoman Administration. 


* Non-Parliamentary Publication, Colonial No. 94, 1934. 


242 


The frontier between Trans-Jordan and Nejd is laid down in the 
Hadda Agreement of the 2nd of November, 1925 (Command 
Paper 2566), and the ‘position regarding the frontier between 
Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz is indicated in the notes of the 19th 
and 21st of May, 1927, exchanged between Sir Gilbert Clayton and 
Ibn Saud, which form annexures to the Treaty of Jedda (Com- 
mand Paper 2951). The position has remained unchanged since 
those dates and the frontier has not been delimited on the ground. 
An extract from the Hadda Agreement and copies of the notes 
exchanged are given for convenience of reference in Appendix VII. 

Researches have been proceeding regarding the line of demarca- 
tion between the vilayet of the Hejaz and that of Syria in the time 
of the Ottoman Administration, but these researches are not yet 
completed. 

11. With reference to paragraph 8 on page 245 of the Report for 
1933, the English translation of the ‘Arabic texts of the Treaty of 
Friendship and Bon Voisinage between the Amara of Trans- 
Jordan and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and of the Protocol on 
Arbitration and the Schedule appended to the Treaty are printed 
in Appendix VIII to this Report. 


II.—FINANCE. 


1. Public Debt. 
The public debt of Trans-Jordan at the 3lst of December, 1934, 
stood at £P.33,009, comprising :— 


£P. 
(a) Balance of the Earthquake Relief Loan of 
£P.20,000 obtained from His’ Majesty’s Govern- 
ment in 1927-28 ... . 9,184 


(b) Balance of the Agricultural Loan of £P.30,000 
obtained from the Palestine Government in 
1933. This loan was reduced very soon after its 
receipt by repayment of £P.9,000 _... .. 15,750 

(c) Loan obtained from the Palestine Government in 
September, 1934, for issue of seed loans to 
needy cultivators ... sie ve si .. 8,075 


£P.33,009 








2. Comments on principal variations in Expenditure. 


(1) The forecast of the actual expenditure of the Trans-Jordan 
Government for 1934-35, prepared on the data available at the 
31st of December, 1934, indicates that there will be an increase of 
approximately £P.12,500 in the ordinary expenditure and an 
increase of approximately £P.14,500 in extraordinary expenditure 
compared with the actual expenditure in 1933-34. 

(2) The following table of variations of expenditure under certain 
heads shows how the increase in the ordinary expenditure is made 
up :— 


243 





Head of Expenditure. Increase. Decrease. 
| EP. £F. 
Head III, Legislature ae eo 1,700 

Head IV, Pensions and Gratuities ie ... 2,550 — 
Head XI, Fublic Health _... sek ... 880 — 
Head XII, Education Department . ... 950 — 
Head XIII, Agriculture, Forests, ete. ... 1,320 — 
Head XV- A, Public Works Recurrent ae 520 — 
Head XVI, Posts, Telegraphs and Tele- 
phones ; 1,160 — 
Head XVII, Lands Department = ... 1,950 — 
Head XVII- A, Police ae Aa ... 2,360 — 
Head XVIIL-B. Prisons oe oe ... 1,070 — 
Head XIX, Miscellaneous ... os ... 2,870 — 
Other Heads... si as ak he 410 1,370 
£P.15 640 3,070 
Net Increase 12,570 


£P.15 ,640 15 ,640 





(3) The increase of approximately £P.14,500 in the extraordinary 
expenditure is due principally to the allocation of £P.15,000 to 
relief measures in 1934-35 as against £P.4,480 allocated in 1933-34 
and to an extraordinary allotment of £P.3,000 to the Amir to meet 
the travelling expenses of his visit to the United Kingdom (see 
first paragraph of Section I), and expenditure arising out of the 
marriages of his son, the Amir Talal, and his nephew, the present 
King of ‘Iraq. 


3. Comments on the principal variations in Revenue. 

(1) The forecast of local revenue for 1934-35 prepared from the 
data available at the 3lst of December, 1934, shows that en in- 
crease of approximately £P.10,000 is anticipated over the actual 
receipts in 1933-34. This increase is made up as follows :— 








Head of Revenue. Increase. Decrease. 

£P. £P. 

_ Head I, Customs and Excise... os — 6,530 

Head II, Licences and Taxes ... ... 9,920 — 

Head UI, Fees of Court or Office .. 1,610 — 
Head IV, Posts, Telegraphs and Tele- 

phones she - — 1,120 

Head VII, Miscellaneous Receipts ... 4,160 — 

— Other Heads . a — ... 2,030 — 

17,720 7,650 

Net Increase ... 10,070 








£P.17,720 £P.17,720 








244 


(2) Tlhe decrease under Customs and Excise is due to the fact 
that receipts in 1933-34 were abnormally inflated by the adjust- 
ment made as a result of revision of the basis on which a share of 
the Import Duty collected in Palestine is paid annually to Trans- 
Jordan. 


(3) The increase under Licences and Taxes is due partly to 
increase in tax assessments and partly to the more energetic steps 
taken by District Governors to enforce collection. 


(4) The decrease under Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones results 
from the fact that receipts from the sale of stamps in 1933-34 were 
abnormal owing to sales to collectors of a special pictorial] issue 
which has since been withdrawn. 


(5) The increase under Miscellaneous is principally due to a re- 
vision of the basis on which Trans-Jordan’s ex-gratia share in the 
Palestine Currency profit is calculated, which resulted in an 
increase of approximately £P.3,000. 


4. Financial Position of the Trans-Jordan Government at 
31st March, 1934. 


Liabilities. Assets. 
£P. Muils. £P. Mils. 
Deposits 10 ,640°617 Advances 12 979-349 
Loans 30,184:337 Imprests ... 1 767-362 
Remittances 231:216 Loans... ... 21,000°009 
Excess of Assets Joint Colonial 
over Liabilities 26,047-669 Fund ... 3 4000-000 
Cash and Bank 
Balances 27 ,3857°125 


ED REN 


£P.67 ,103'839 





— 


£P.67,103-839 


SY 





5. Arrears of Taxes. 
The uncollectable arrears of taxation in respect of the year 
1932-33 have been remitted, and a survey of the arrears of taxes 
for the year 1933-34 is nearing completion. 


6. Revenue Reform.* 


The new Land Tax Law and the House and Land Tax Law 
will be applied within municipal areas in the Liwa of Ajlun on the 
Ist of April, 1935, and the Tithe, House and Land Tax and the 
Road Tax will be abolished. This means that after the Ist of 
April, 1935, the reformed system of taxation will be in force 


throughout the territory. 


Revised Financial Regulations were passed by the Executive 


Council in December. 


* (See 7 on page 252 of the Report for 1933). 











FISILE | ZIFTSE | S8B'FGE | SCT‘9FO'SEs] OIO‘LZ9E | LEI‘OTE | See‘LOE | E20‘%8S | OZS‘*ZOE | GSF‘SLZ dF  “"' ‘ SIYLOL 
008‘e 900'FZ a — — ‘ees —— = =— se pee coe pee one pung 
qguowdojeaeq [etuojog wo syuUBIyH 
oa we i = oog"¢ ae = = — Ree. Aue eUI}sSaVg Wolf yUBIN) 
000‘09 | ooo‘s9 | 000‘%L | 000°002'48 | 000‘F8 | COO'OR | 000‘OR | OO00‘SR | 00099 | Lee‘EoT |" OU qUaUIULIA0%) 
uBvplOf-sUBIy, JO ply - Ul - 4uBIY 
Czs‘re | 668°0E | 6E1‘6z | O89'Etr‘OS | ZcFGE | SLE'IE | FFO'LZ — — = vee nee nee eo10g Jar 
-UOLY UBPIOL-SUBIT, JO pry-Ul-quBIy 
68CS‘OLZ | LOS‘I9S | BFL‘ESS | SLF'ZO6‘'SZZ| ¥90‘OST | SLI‘6ES | 116‘6Es | ELO‘LES | OsS‘9ES | ZOe FLT 
000‘T LE0‘'T 128 GEE LLST | SIFT OSL OFF GSE 863 ‘EI — aoe: «lee SUTBUIO(T 93249 Jo aTeG 
PISS 906‘8 TOL‘ ESl'S1Z‘e | SOIT CZ6'T G18 £6 €G8 LISS + ses gadrasayy snoauyylaosyy 
OLF'T 609 £98 9F6' FES 196 IIO‘T 691 GL8‘T Z1F'T ch i aoe « qsa1aquy 
000‘F CLOG COF‘E I88'91E°E | 9LZ°E OZL‘F StS‘ rEl FP 920‘F 9S Aqsodorg yUeMUIBAOY) WOT] anuUsAOY 
cce‘el | ozo‘st | O1FFT | GOG'OZO'TI | LLL‘ST | STO‘EI | ¥02°6 00F'S £90'F gcg‘G “* quounjsedog sydvagajay, puv ys0g 
osz‘te | 02z'0e | FO8‘62 | G6T'80S‘bs | B8I‘9Z | 966.ES | ZOT‘FS | SeEe'ss | LeS‘eT | Soe‘eT | °°  sidia00q ooWJO put sa0q 4an0+y 
QOO‘OSI | TI9‘TOT | GST‘ZTI | 1Ze'H<E‘TIT] I8E‘EEl | LSS‘6SZI | |Ese‘SII | LET‘8ElT | sgo‘sel | SOeTOT | °° 9 tt SaxBy, pus seousoryT 
000.08 | ogs‘eor | Lee‘es | Tet6go‘so | oc6‘FO =| sotto | o6e‘ss | Lec‘IO | EsIte | OE'RR | ott) ttt asfoxg pus smojeng 
‘dS ‘d3 ‘dF "SIT “dF ‘d3 "d3 “dF 'd3 "d3 "dS 
‘ee/FE6I 
soyoutney "peleger | eeleeer | “ee/re6l | ‘re/oeer | ‘og/éezer | 62/8z6r | ‘8e/Ze6r | *2%/9¢61 | -96/¢c6I ‘yunooop fo 972.7, 
poroudd y 
ee er ca ae a aa a 
‘HONAADY 


28784 


PaT'SI 
O&L‘ZOI 


SIL‘ST 
18FFI 


009°8T 
829'F 
SIL‘S 
689°. 
SLEFS 
060°E1 
860°8 
696IT 
296° 
oo"9l 
BESO 
820°F 
OOL‘L 


"6¢/FE6I 
FaqDULs je 7 
paid 





"pe/ESEL 


069 
"dd 


"ee/BE6I 


LOD OTST 
990°Z0L‘OI 
O8L'IL8'T8 


810'F08 ‘ZI 


920°SI ‘SI 


G9S'EL8‘91 
FOP GEE 'F 


0L0'019°% 
O£S"0cI9 
GOD'EFLIZ 


3E9 1601 
168'660'L 
LOT'S19'FI 
OIF ZLO'E 
LOS PoE ‘eI 
oL0°988°9 
862°S89'E 
6LI'SELF 
Igo°0EL"é 
660'069 
oLL'966'E1 


Sh W dS 


ene | ee 
Ce * 
SS | eS | oS |S | SY | eS 
ES 


ee/TE6L 


"Te/O€6I 


_— 


1&6 
L26'II 
G08‘F8 


10L ‘OI 
940°0I 


£0L‘61 
166°€ 


Ses‘I 
SIF‘g 
E9F'1Z 
6 
¥28'01 
200°L 
9oL‘GT 
6E9"E 
8h0'ET 
008°L 
689'F 
GOL‘E 
ZHP'E 
699 
LEg‘eT 
‘dS 


‘0&/686I 


096‘0I 
Z0L‘L8 


QEL‘¢ 
LIT‘6 


6800 
129° 
806° 
ve6'l 
060‘8 
F60'1Z 
€1 
L96‘0I 
€13'9 
£96 SI 
160° 
GF6'ST 
O6L°L 
¥00°9 
609°S 
Lae | 
069 
GIF‘9l 
"dS 


"62/8861 


996°Z0I 
GLe'l 


PrE'S 
£08 
L69‘LI 
gce‘é 
099'Z 
Sze‘ 
ges‘ 
SEL‘6l 
g0e 
60¢ ‘0 
919‘¢ 
LOZ ‘LI 
¥C0'E 
61191 
CGE‘L 
¢6c‘G 
10¢‘F 


9€8'9I 
"dS 


"9t/Lé61 


"*CAOLIGNAIX 


"dd 


"0/9261 


"92/9861 


“e° [OIQUgd qoseqg (a) 


__Paung) ssoouqaiy StH (Pp) 


eoussiyequy (2) 

suosiig (@) 

"** good (2) 
—"4doq suosiig pus so10g 
vee ‘+ quounsedeg spuvy 
DON4BIYSIUIMApY [Vquiy, 
_ “sdoq sydeazojoy, paw 9480q 
ssolg Sulqurig 
“*  qUeLINOSY SxYIOAA OGNG 
"* quourredaq SHIOM OTTGNG 
A148 Hoy puv'y 
quou4sededy semmbyuy 
Ayeuiia}0 | puve SysoloW ‘OLY 
: Kcahnasidar uoOIyROnpy 
one ‘* ouIguelEen?) UB LY 
** quourredoq Yyeoy oqng 
e " ostOXy PUB SUIOZHNA 
nee tee AAQSTUTA, cOUBULT 
ees eee “MOD BIBS 
oa °* guouyledag peavy 
UOMNVIYSIUIUPY 4OL4WIG 
*** JONIJUL PUB Jo SIUTPY Joryy) 
801}1NF8If) pus suoIsuog 
= "'  OINZBHI ATT 
808.0) aeel pus yqoq oqng 
a q8V'] LAI) 


"yunowp fo aft 


eee ee ee 
— ee 
ae 


247 





OFG‘98E | LZI‘8LE | S8s‘Ore | S60'EREHFE] ZES*OSE | 19F‘*SEE | OSE‘SIE | O9Z‘8TE | OZO'GLS | SZLS‘FLZ |'dF * aanpipuadxg 1007, puns ~ 








—— 








¥86°9 = = = pS == =< _ — — “  pung quouidojaaeqy [RTM0]0D 
000°ST ==2 = == = = a = _ — aS a sansveyy Joey 
000°E __ i _ _ == - = = os eee dies muy 64} ‘HH 
069 FIs 186 ee = — = — = — {wats0}04 pus sysaloy ‘amynousy 
= LSE = eo = = = — = ape o1qulYy 


ul ame] jO UOIPOITIOH pus Zunquig 


— : **sAQUOy] OQNG JO YO-ox1I MA 
a G96 —_ FOF LF — —~ -— — — — si “*  uoIssTUMIOg Arepunog 
uvpior-suviy-oldg sosuedxq 


as a = oa £06'T = — “* -uoIpBrqIqay plony 
OsI’é PEGS 861°C 616 F8E'S | OLS'L = — ree eee SUOSTIg PUB ooTOg 


= == = a IZ1‘'TZ 6r9'ST =F Pas = 


| 
_ _ _ ane _ 2, __ _ oe | _ Guemdoekog puvy) rary 949 “AH 
ane vee ae unredueg 4ysndo'y-4yUuy 


$12 = -— — — | e2z 882 — | — — jee Geo py onqng 
erg | exis | gee osteort | zec‘e | ezz's | «166% — — | = | eorogy sonquoag epsop-sueay, 
00g 269'T L98 G09°8C6'T | £€8 01'S CLL‘S €68°€ gc0'T = =n _ syderdojay, pues sjs0g 
00S 9E6 ae — o nas ¢eg a4; a oe ae sas eouvuly 
S168 0696 IFO CEL'CSI‘SI | F68°F L80°8 09¢‘S 626'TT SLE'€el aa ae a a SYIOM OTGQUT 

— — — | ooo'sTe — | 6g west «=| 960°6 =| :«€12 — “yt auapisay ysig 

= = = = 69 GLES L80°E ae = — se ‘“sargmbyuy jo woyBvalesu0g 


*KUVNIGHOVULXY 


LES‘GFE | OIGO'TES | IFL'FZE | L6T'689°O%E] FES‘OIE | GLE‘OTE | OZS*TOE | LOS'E6S | 9LE‘09S | SLO‘FLS [AF aenppuadeg havurpsc: 10407, 


ree eee | ee | ES | RY | CS | ES | AS | cE | ‘SSS | ee 


L8e'6Z OZL‘°83 F868 O€S"8E0'6S | 006°6S 1936 $29°CS — (= = 7 OOF JOQUOlLY USpIOL-suely, 
90TT 060‘T 896 ILO°S6IT SOF] OFI = a = == ae ni pivog J[O12UO0-_) [VqILL 
GE9°E oe‘ 266 99C IZF‘E ILZ‘E 861‘ £29'S 9136 mak aes _ see “ guawyiedeg ypry 

as 919°9 oLP‘O €LU'L09°9 =| §00°L L68°9 089°9 CSP*L 0z2°6 G86°6 ex oe a quopisey FHT 


006°6 66S°8 199°s G9T'SO0E*6 LO3‘OI 800°C I 696°IT BFS ‘TE 6L1°9 i S98‘L seas fae mare sNOeUB [GOST 


28784 


248 


III.—_CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


Hitherto Trans-Jordan had received an annual payment (latterly 
£P.33,000) from the Palestine Government as its share of the 
receipts from Customs Duties on foreign goods imported into 
Palestine and afterwards exported to Trans-Jordan. 


With effect from October, 1933, the principle upon which this 
payment was calculated was revised, so that Palestine makes an 
annual payment of £P.17,000 on account of those foreign goods 
which are re-exported to Trans-Jordan, and Trans-Jordan collects 
and retains the duty collected on all foreign goods entering the 
country in transit through Palestine by rail to Amman. In the 
year under review, this arrangement has been further modified 
so that benzine, kerosene, rice, flour and sugar, and such foreign 
goods as may be decided on in agreement between the two Directors 
of Customs, may be consigned in transit by rail to Mafrak. The 
duties collected at Mafrak amount at present to about £P.450 
a month. 


2. The revenue from Customs and Excise for the years from 1927 
to 1934 has been as follows :— 


£P. 
Wet seas — wae eis as a 57 ,739 
1928" sisi = 22 a, 2 cies 75 443 
L929" cas = sie ee ae sb 69 ,455 
1930 - ... sa, ie at ssa ae 65 ,634 
1931... Se ae bia see hag 66 ,466 
1932... sis oe a sa ang 78,179 
1933... oie see _ ae a 98 ,588 
1934... bi a ee ae ee 99 ,255 


The considerable increase in 1933 and 1984 is due largely to the 
operations of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 


Imports from Syria have fallen from a value of £P.231,000 local 
and £P.99,500 foreign goods in 1927 to £P.79,507 local goods 
and £P.14,495 foreign goods in 1934; the latter figure includes 
goods to the value of £P.7,365 imported for the ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company free of duty. 


8. Great use is being made by merchants of the provision that 
‘Traqi goods may pass through Trans-Jordan in transit free of duty. 


Customs relations with Saudi Arabia remain unchanged and are 
working smoothly. 


249 


IV.—_LEGAL AND JUDICIAL. 


It has been found necessary to increase the judicial establish- 
ment by an additional member of the Court of First Instance in 
Amman, to act as relieving Judge, and by a Civil Magistrate in 
Ma’an, where the duties of Civil Magistrate and Kadi Sharia can 
no longer be discharged by one person. 


2. Members of the Arab Legion who attended the law lectures 
of the Judicial Adviser and the President of the Court of Appeal 
last year have been able themselves to give courses of legal instruc- 
ton to nearly 150 non-commissioned officers and men. 


3. On the occasion of the marriage of the heir apparent, the 
Amir ordered the release from confinement of all prisoners except 
those serving sentences for brutal murder, for highway robbery, 
and for rape. 

4. The extradition agreement with Palestine came into force on 
the 16th July and is working satisfactorily. An agreement was 
also concluded with Palestine to regulate the service of judicial 
documents. 

5. A useful compendium of the Laws of Trans-Jordan up to 
and including 1931, prepared by the President of the Court of 
Appeal, has been printed and distributed. 


6. The statistics of the work done by the Courts are given 
below :— 


CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION MADE BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTORS. 





Particulars of cases decided. 









































Cases sent 
‘ for trial. Cases filed. 
‘> 3 ; © 

s |e) | 2 Fs | § 
N 3 32 : E . § 
& : 3 Rel : § + BR [os 
2] ] PEELE | 2) a Peesaleayey 
S38] & S |Ss] s s | 8 |§S/23/$3/88 
1931... | 185 | 1,868 | 1,969 |102 (a)| 208 | 406 | 174 | 664 | 233 | 90 | 142 
oe es Sea, a peaks (eae (pte cael eat (cine 
1982 102 | 2,098 | 2,051 |144 (b)| 179 | 421 | 192 | 728 | 242 | 156 | 94 
1933 144 | 2,687 | 2,502 |229 (c)} 158 | 612 | 516 | 816 | 257 | 216 | 107 
ees aioe eee ren epee eee Ns, 
1934... | 299 | 2,962 | 2,425 | 66 a 156 | 597 | 286 | 852 | 264 | 190| 51 


\ 


Se te Ne i ee ee ah 
(a) 53 cases amalgamated. 


28784 13 


PARTICULARS OF APPEALS ENTERED IN THE FOUR YEARS 1931, 





Year. 


as | eeepc eee | gp eee ciate Sameer RS ey PR ESR TE 





1931 
1932 
1933 


250 


COURTS OF FIRST INSTANOE. 


PARTICULARS OF CASES ENTERED IN THE FOUR YEARS 193], 
1932, 1933 AND 1934. 
1932. 


Civil 
Criminal... 


Total ... 


Ci a. 
Criminal... 


Total 


Pending, 
Ist January, 1934. 


702 


229 
742 


971 


1933. 
164 
890 


1,054 


MAGISTRATES COURTS. 
PARTICULARS OF CASES ENTERED IN THE FOUR YEARS 1931, 
1932, 1933, AND 1934. 


1932. 
14,508 
8,645 


1931. 
- 14,022 


7,641 





- 21,663 








23, 


153 





1933. 
11,919 
9,352 





21,271 





Courr oF APPEAL. 


1932, 1933, AND 1934. 


Civil Appeals. 
From 

From 

Courts | Magistrates’ 
of First Cire 

Instance 

61 579 
33 667 
45 682 
44 653 


1934. 
11,737 
13,000 





24,737 





SS ET SN SRE ES | dS A REED |] ET PAL a A 


Criminal Appeals. 
From 
From 
Courts Magistrates’ 
of First Court 
Instance ; 
189 667 
209 735 
217 680 
217 934 


Civin AcTIoNS, 1934. 


New cases 


entered. 


12,43-+4 


Cases 


decided. 


12,630 


Pending, 


31st December, 1934. 
506 


TotTaL NUMBER OF ACTIONS IN CIVIL COURTS INCLUDING 
CourT OF APPEAL. 


Year. 


1934... 


Pending at 
beginning New Actions 
of year. entered. 
510 24,007 
615 25,768 
971 23,949 
1,555 26,585 


Actions 


decided. 


23,902 
25,412 
23,365 
26,947 


Pending at 
end of year. 


615 
971 
1,555 
1,193 





251 


CRIMINAL CASES, 1934. 


Pending, New cases Cases Pending, 
Ist January, 1934. entered. decided. 31st December, 1934. 
853 14,151 14,317 687 


REVENUE OF Civit Courts, 1934. 








Criminal. Cred. Notary 
eae ee eee eee Public 
Costs. Fines. Fees on Actions. |Fees on Execution. Fees. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
1,673.921 2,463.251 3,212.160 668.455 1,031.835 





TotaL REVENUE OF CIVIL COURTS FOR THE FOUR YEARS 1931, 1932, 
19383 AND 1934. 





| Criminal. Civil. None 








ee vo Wissen ie. Public Total 
Year Fines. Costs Fees. 


ccc ecm cm ec ee ee fee ee 


£P. Mils.| £P. Mils.| £P. Mils.| £P. Mils.| £P. Mils.| £P. Mils. 





| ere ee | es | ee ee | ee 


1931 | 1.428.149 777.909 | 4,496.741 | 813.920 | 1,312.257 | 8,828.976 
1932 | 1,188.196 774.559 | 4,590.623 | 916.535 1,216.423 | 8,686.336 
1933 1,255.609 | 1,557.566 | 3,583.094 | 727.359 972.319 | 8,095.947 
1934 | 2.463.251 1,673.921 | 3,354.950 | 668.455 | 1,031.835 | 9,189.277 


nr 





28784 [14 


Carried forward. 


PusBLic PROSECUTOR EXEOUTIONS. 
Cases disposed of. 


New cases. 


Brought forward. 


252 
“spuaUunoog 
‘dN 


"quaubpn f° 
VEOUS 


"yuaubpn 
hgidv@) 
“4aptcE 
USD APSIULUD FP 
“quaubpn f° 


out’) 


“SyUaULNIOGT 
‘dN 
‘quauBpn ¢ 

DLUDY 


‘quaubpn 
Rat) 


“4aptLQ) 
anipDssrUrUp Py 
‘quauipn (° 


Gusts) 
“SqUaUNI0gT 
‘d'N 
"guaubpn () 
MLDYS 
"quaubpn pr 
1h 
“sOpsL() 
OAITDASLULULD P 
‘quaubpn ¢ 
OULD 
“SquaUnI0c(y 
‘d'N 
"quaubpn 
Diy 
"yuaubpn 
Vigo @, 
“4Opl4Q) 


DUDLIULULP P 


‘quawbpn 


guts) 


447 





219 551 110 





518 





81 





4,491 | 63 





214 





163 | 4,445 





5,100 | 106 





365 4.250 335 





67 





98 | 4,842 





613 


253 


V.—EDUCATION. 


The following schools are maintained by the Government :— 








Type of School. Number. Teachers. Pupils. 

: 224 boys. 
Kindergarten oe a oe 1 6 { 93 sift. 
Beduin .., a Sse se 2 2 44 
Girls os oe rs .. 10 26 949 
Elementary -_ ae ..  =—89 4] 2,103 
Pnmary ... oe ie we Ag 55 2,371 
Arts and Crafts ... on i 1 7 65 

65 137 5,779 
Secondary Classes ae ev 16 138 
153 5,917 





The two Beduin schools are attached to the desert forts at Azraq 
ind Mudawara. Apart from the Government schools, two others, 
at Rum and Bair, are maintained by the Officer Commanding 
the Desert Patrol at his own expense. 


. Weaving, iron work, carpentry and cane chair making are taught 
in the Arts and Craft School; the school gained three medals for 
its exhibits at the Arab Fair in Jerusalem. 


2. The Government maintain the following students who, on 
the completion of their courses, will take up teaching appointments 
return to their position as teachers :— 


School. Boys. Girls. Teachers. 
American University, Beirut leis oe she 3 — — 
Women’s Training College, Jerusalem ... «0 — 2 — 
English School, Jerusalem ... y. oe. ee 1S 1 — 
Talabaya Agricultural School, Syria... 2 — 13 
Corie Agricultural School, Tulkarm ... ... 9 — 2 


( 3. The following table shows schools maintained from non- 
‘overnment sources :— 


254 


003 gq OFT 692'9 oEE‘l SII'T 1% LE6‘E 960'S o88'T OIE | °° S930 


ree see | oer | pee eee | gee eee eS | GE ee iE | ee | Snes | Ee | ES Es | er ee 
ae eS 


cass § sieyeg 
z I I 6E 0Z —_ 03 61 — 6I I sre see peTeG 
rd Zz — 7g LZ LZ — LZ L — I “ UBTuOULy 
Zz _ Zz 02 — — — 02 — 0Z z “Jo1yeg Jose] 
ssomor | 
P Zz Zz 86 €F Q LI gg 91 6E Zz suOg Jo1yU0IT 
e rs g 09 — — — 09 1d 9¢ Zz "7 UBLIBZBqGeG 
Il g ¢ FEI *9 cg 6 OL ge Ze € uvol[suy 
1Z ? LI IIL OF IFI g G9G Z1g €9 oT XOpOY}O YIasx) 
0Z Zz 81 699 OF OF — 61g 06F 4G LI ooze =Ysaly) 
69 LZ LP 6EL‘T I9L 6ZL Ze £16 £68 08 LI nnn (O18 | 
69 L ZS Ggo‘r €Z1 — €Z1 299'T — Z99'T Gg oe W19[ SOP] 
"10,7, "U9ULO M "ua "7010.7, | ‘eumyswy) “suaysopr | ‘tO, | ‘suDiustsyp| “#UL9]90 AT "s/00Y99 
Rea tee ee ee (arena eee eae 1030} oe eae | ee ———_—____|—_____—_|"4aquin yy fo 











"8494002 J, pune) “9st ‘shog muon. 


evi 8 oh ch ee eS ee 


255 


VI.—HEALTH. . 
The establishment of the Department of Health was increased 


' by appointments of a storekeeper, an anti-malaria inspector, and 
_ &nurse for the Government hospital at Amman. 


The expenditure of the Department in 1934-35 was £P.13,365. 


2. Vital Statistics.—No census of the inhabitants of Trans-Jordan 
has yet been taken, but the population is roughly estimated at 
805,000. 

During the year 10,742 births were notified giving a birth-rate 


- of 85°8 per thousand as compared with 10,900 in 1933, or 36°3 


\ 


per thousand. 
7,925 deaths were notified, giving a death-rate of 26:4 per 
thousand, as compared with 7,354 in 1933 representing 24-5 per 


thousand. 


\ 


The infantile mortality rate was 242 per thousand live births 
(150 in towns and 258 in districts), compared with 203 in 19383. 
The principal cause of the higher death-rate is believed to be 


. the reduced resistance to disease among people in the areas most 
. affected by the economic depression. 


3. Infectious and Communicable Diseases.—The total number of 
cases notified was 2,387, and the total deaths were 226, as com- 


- pared with 4,369 and 315 in 1933. The classification is as 


- follows :— 

‘ Disease. Cases. Deaths. 
Anthrax... oo vr a a 7 1 
Chicken-pox ee on er ae 42 — 
Diphtheria ... a a! Seis be 9 1 
Dysentery ... ae - ae .. 221 5 
Erysipelas ... ee es vies 47 2 
Influenza... oe ies ih .. 746 77 
Measles... a ae a aa ED (7 
Mumps __... ve au 28 — 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis oe < 25 13 
Pneumonia .. ss ae .. 129 28 
Puerperal Fever... sie aie ccs 9 2 
Relapsing Fever ... #5 a re 1 — 
Scarlet Fever Sa a a sia 2 — 
Smallpox... se - a 4 — 
Typhoid _... Ans sie oe ... 120 5 
Para-typhoid a we a we 26 2 
Typhus siti he ios a a 60 6 
Whooping-cough ... es ai ... 3192 7 


Influenza and measles occurred in epidemic form. Typhoid fever 
cases were reported chiefly from Amman and Es Salt. The 
Majority of cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis occurred in Amman 
town, A small outbreak of typhus fever. spread to Trans-Jordan 
ftom Nejd. 


256 


Four cases of smallpox were notified, all of Syrian origin; the 
population of Trans-Jordan is, however, well protected by vaccina- 
tion and the outbreak did not spread. 82,973 vaccinations and re- 
vaccinations were carried out. 


4, Malaria and Anti-Malaria Measures.—2,736 cases of malaria 
were notified as compared with 1,876 cases last year. The increase 
occurred principally among labourers employed in the Jordan Valley 
by the Public Works Department, the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company 
and the Palestine Fotash Company. 

The Medical Officers of Health examined 9,180 children below ten 
years of age during the autumn, and 417 were found with enlarged 
spleen, giving a rate of 4:5 per cent. as compared with 3°8 last 
year. 

The Government Department continued routine anti-malaria 
work, by the use of larvicides, mosquito-proofing of possible breed- 
ing places, canalizing of streams and water courses and the free 
treatment of malaria cases. The number of cases of malaria 
originating from the area of the Zerka-Ma’yim baths is very much 
less than in previous years, thanks to the work done by the 
Department. 


5. Government Hospitals and Clinics.—The Government main- 
tains epidemic posts with eight beds at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and 
Ma’an, and posts with four beds at Jerash, Tafileh and Aqaba. 
They also maintain mobile epidemic equipment which was used 
on several occasions in the field. Three Bactrol disinfecting 
machines have been acquired. 

There is a Government Hospital at Amman with twenty beds and 
a detention hospital at the Central Prison, Amman, with six beds. 
The epidemic posts were also used as detention hospitals for a 
certain number of cases. 

Another hospital will be opened at Irbid early in 1935 with a 
capacity of 12 beds. 

Admissions to these hospitals and posts during 1934 numbered 
563 and the deaths numbered 56, compared with 545 admissions 
and 34 deaths in 1938. 

The number of attendances at departmental clinics increased 
greatly and the total came to 154,545 (exclusive of school clinics) as 
compared with 132,160 in 1933. 

Government clinic work is almost wholly for poor patients, eye 
diseases, infectious and contagious diseases, and the extent of non- 
Government work in these directions is limited. 


6. Voluntary Hospitals and Clinics.—The Church Missionary 
Society Hospital in Es Salt, which was closed for a few months for 
lack of funds, opened again in 1934 with the assistance of a monthly 
Government grant of £P.33. The building of the Italian National 
Association Hospital at Kerak is almost ready. 


257 


Admissions to voluntary hospitals were :— 


Number of Deaths in 
Admissions. Hospital. 


Church Missionary Society Hospital, 


Es Salt... as ve 381 16 
Italian Hospital, Amman as: . OO 39 
English Hospital, Amman et ve 68 2 
‘lraq Petroleum Company Detention 

Hospital, Mafrak oT a oe: 45 9 


Total = as os ... 1,081 66 





The number of attendances at voluntary clinics was 25,331, com- 
pared with 21,143 in 1933. 


7. Licensing of medical practitioners, pharmacists, dentists and 
midwives.—Six doctors, two dentists, two midwives and a 
pharmacist were licensed to practise their profession. 


8. Government Laboratory.—In the Government laboratory 
),491 specimens were examined, as compared with 4,323 last year. 


9. School Medical Services.—The Medical Officers of Health 
examined 6,862 school children, and found 1,521 to be suffering 
from trachoma and 243 from enlarged spleen ; 872 were vaccinated 
against smallpox. Last year 3,870 children were examined of whom 
898 were suffering from trachoma and 108 from enlarged spleens. 
The number vaccinated was 2,317. 

There were 243,612 attendances at the school ophthalmic clinics, 
compared with 283,364 in 1933. 


10. Infant Welfare.—The Infant Welfare Centre at Es Salt, run 
by the Church Missionary Society Hospital, closed down owing to 
lack of staff. 

The voluntary Centre at Amman, for which the Government 
provides a nurse, continued its work. 

During the year 148 cases were registered in the centres ; attend- 
ances numbered 11,831, and nurses made 2,485 home visits. 


ll. Licensing of Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments.— 
The Government Department licenses and controls all un- 
healthy trades and public establishments. The number of licences 
Issued or renewed during the year was as follows :— 


In municipal areas ... 4 er Be os 1,241 
In other areas — ae _ ‘a6 vie 739 


12. Water Supplics.—The Irbid water supply which cost about 
£P.4,600 was opened in January; piping has now been extended to 
many quarters of the town. 


258 


The main supply at Busaira, a pool exposed to contamination, 
was put in order at the expense of the village. 


Engine and pumps have been ordered for the Zerka supply. 


Many parts of the country were afflicted by water shortage on 
account of the drought, and the use of dirty water from neglected 
cisterns for drinking caused an epidemic of infantile diarrhoea in 
many villages 


13. Municipal Services.—The Municipal Advisory Board was 
reconstituted in January, the members being, the Director of Public 
Health, the Director of Public Works, the Administrative Inspector, 
and the Assistant Treasurer. 


Towards the end of the year the Government handed over the 
administration of all municipal scavenging services to the Depart- 
ment of Health. 


The Government has granted a loan of £P.1,200 to Es Salt 
towards the cost of drainage works. 


Amman is about to build a slaughter house and a second incinera- 
tor, and the Town Planning Committee is making progress in the 
planning of the town. 


There is a sanitary sub-inspector in each of the Municipalities of 
Amman, Irbid, Jerash, Ajlun, Es Salt, Madeba, Kerak, and 
Tafileh, and there are two anti-malaria sub-inspectors in Amman. 


14. Pilgrimage to Mecca.—Nine Trans-Jordanians performed the 
pilgrimage to Mecca, under Government arrangements, via Pales- 
tine and Suez; 356 travelled via the southern land routes in the 
desert, either on foot or on camel, and 404 returned by those 
routes. 


VII.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


‘here has been a decrease in business, compared with 1938, 
largely due to traffic falling to normal after the completion of the 
pipe-line and the dismissal of the labour gangs. 


2. Posts.—The mail services were maintained with regularity 
and the following improvements were carried out : 
(a) Services from Amman to Tafileh were increased to twice 
weekly. 
(b) Trans-Jordan postal orders were introduced. This 
service is very popular, the more so because orders may be 
encashed in Palestine also. 


The sale of the pictorial issue of postage stamps (see Section VU 
on page 271 of the report for 1933) ceased at the end of January, 
but its use for posting letters is permitted for a further year. 

A minimum commission of 30 mils has been fixed on foreign 
money orders. 


259 


The International Transit Statistics carried out from October- 
November, 1933, fixed the annual payment of this Administration 
for 1982, 1933, and 1934 as follows :— 


Gold francs. 





To Palestine ... a ... 1,089 (including Maritime fees) 
To Italy ... .. .. 187 
To ‘Iraq sa Ss ae 20 
To Syria-Lebanon ... ne 5 
1,301 





The annual sum paid for each of the years 1929, 1930 and 1931 
was 3,145 gold francs; the decrease in the new figures is due to 
the fact that mails below two kilograms in weight were exempt 
from transit fees during the later statistical period. 


A marked increase in the use of the Air Mail is evident. 


3. Telegraphs.—Telegraph traffic continues to decline by reason 
of the greater popularity of the inland telephone service and be- 
cause of the greater use made of the recently accelerated air service. 


A Wireless Telegraphy Law was passed in December, 1934, and 
Regulations are being prepared to govern the licensing of all re- 
celving wireless sets. ? 


4, Telephones.—There is a marked increase in the number of 
private telephone subscribers; trunk calls, inland and foreign, are 
also more numerous. 


5. Engineering.—Maintenance and other normal engineering 
work, such as connecting up new subscribers’ circuits and im- 
proving old circuits, was carried out satisfactorily in addition to 
the following major works :— 


(1) A second direct trunk circuit between Amman and 
Jerusalem was laid on the present poles, to relieve the Amman- 
Es Salt-Allenby Bridge circuit which had been used for calls 
to Jerusalem when pressure of traffic was felt on the first 
circuit. This second circuit was used as well to *’ phantom ’’ 
a circuit connecting Jerash directly with Amman instead of 
through Suweilih. 


(2) A new metallic circuit, 36 kilometres long, was built 
to connect Jisr E] Mejamie with Irbid and the old earth 
circuit which had connected Jisr E] Mejamie with Melka was 
replaced. The circuit between Jisr E] Mejamie and the police 
post at Adasiyah, a distance of 9 kilometres, was also renewed. 
The farmers of Adasiyah village have subscribed for 10 tele- 
phone extensions. 


(3) A metallic circuit, 51 kilometres long, was built along 
the Jordan Valley to connect the police posts at Jisr Sheikh 
Hussein and Kurimeh with the police post at Jisr E] Mejamie. 


(4) Another circuit, 80 kilometres long, was built in the 
valley to connect the police post at Damiyeh with that al 


Shunet Nimreen. 


TRAFFIC STATISTICS, 1934. 


Item. 


Ordinary Mails—Correspondence 
Postcards, Printed Papers, etc.). 


Parcels, Inland ... 


Parcels, Foreign— 
Despatched 
Received ‘ 

Telegrams, Inland 


Telegrams, Foreign— 
Despatched 
Received 


Telephone Subscribers— 

Number i. 
Telephone Call Offices, swaibee 
Telephone Trunk Lines, kilometres 
Telephone Trunk Calls, Inland 
Telephone Trunk Calls, aaa 

Originated 

Received ies 
Money Orders, Inland— 

Number Hs sah 

Value A 
Money Orders, Foreign, iadasd=: 

Number F oe 

Value ate 
Money Orders, Foreign, received— 

Number 

Value of or 
Postal Orders, Trans-J epee 

Number aoe a 

Value es ee 
Postal Orders, British, no 

Number eas 

Value or 
Postal Orders, British cepaised=: 

Number 

Value 


Postal Orders, Pe lestiatan: received— 


Number 
Value 
Air Mails :— 
Number of Items 
Weight in Kilogrammes 


1933. 
427,197 
2,990 


276 
2,535 
7,814 


3,898 
3,665 


403 

41 
1,300 
71,519 


11,093 
7,948 


5,613 


-. £P.21,813 


4,148 


".. £P.16,808 


257 


_. £P.1,603 


.. $e. — 


1,948 


. £P.1,226 


215 
£P.151 


2,089 


vee £P.1,829 


895 
10 


1934. 
385,091 
3,415 


175 
2,155 
7,184 


3,761 
3,325 


472 

44 
1,430 
77,848 


11,542 
9,357 


4,292 
23,001 


2,425 
8,165 


203 
1,566 


882 
706 


2,126 
1,381 


280 
206 


2,531 
2,301 


1,596 
22 


Increase or 


Decrease per 
cent 


t+ +44 
S 


| 
on B 


te tt +t 2 a 
oe 
oe 


123 


261 


VITI.— AGRICULTURE. 


Again last winter the rainfall was good in the two southern 
districts and inadequate in Ajlun and the Belga districts; it was 
so scanty in some villages in the north-east that winter crops failed 
altogether. In the desert areas the rainfall was disappointingly 
small, 


2. Rain gauges are now adequately distributed over the country. 

The dry season is from the beginning of June till the end of 
September. The rainfall from October, 1933, till May, 1934, was 
a3 follows :— 


Millimetres. 
Amman ie oe ds ne sabe ... 168 
Irbid ... sone see se os < . 47 
Salt ... ues ax ee fa is ... 44 
Ramtha ~~ = an te “2 ... 188 
Deir Abu Said a se ae ee 1. 009 
Kufrinji Las a hae se on ... 625 
Mota ... _ we ‘i ot se ... B05 
Shobek av = she a ee ... 806 
Wadi Musa ... : ak ded re .. 17 
Madeba eae 219 


3. Except in the grazing areas to the east of the Railway the 
rainfall this autumn was satisfactory so that, with the help given 
by the Government and with the money earned by working on the 
pipe-line and elsewhere, the farmers have been able to plough and 
sow most of their land and the prospects are hopeful. 

Seed in kind to the value of £P.7,000 and goats to the value of 
£P.3,000 were distributed to farmers in distressed areas and 
£P.1,000 has been spent in assisting the Howeitat tribe to start 
cultivation between Ma’an and Shobek. In addition, £P.11,100 
was voted for road works as a relief measure, and £P.6,900 is also 
available in the Agricultural Bank for issue in loans in the dis- 
tressed areas. 


4. In general the area under summer crops was greater than last 
year and the harvest was good; the yield from vines, olives and 
fruit trees, except in isolated cases, was also good. But shortage 
of grazing has been the cause of considerable losses in live stock. 
The area cultivated with vegetables shows a considerable 
Increase : 


Dunums. 

Sop cane { unirrigated ... 15,646 
irrigated ... 15,782 

Winter vegetables... se) 4,230 





30,658 





262 


The total area under cultivation last year was about 22,000 — 
dunums. 

Two tons of potato seed of good varieties were imported by 
Government and distributed to farmers in different areas but owing 
to lack of water the crop was not successful. 

Likewise, 13,640 kilograms of selected wheat seed, 7,153 of 
barley, and 1,040 of linseed were imported and distributed under 
an arrangement whereby cultivators return, after the harvest, the 
quantity received. 


5. Sixteen hundred date palm suckers from Muscat were planted 
in the Government’s new garden at Bagura in the Jordan Valley, 
and 600 in the oasis at Azraq, for the instruction of the Beduin. 
The Bagura garden is to be used also as a citrus tree distribution 
station and 17,500 citrus seedlings are already planted. 

The Roseifa garden is about to be increased in size; here all 
kinds of upland fruit trees are grown and grafted for distribution. 
There are also small Government gardens at Madeba, Jerash and 
Amman; at Amman, forest trees and, in the other gardens, grafted 
fruit trees are grown for distribution. In the course of the year 
26,700 grafted fruit trees and 64,000 forest and ornamental trees 
were distributed. 


6. There are now 30 school gardens with a total area of 292 
dunums. The general plan is to set aside one-quarter of the area 
for forest and fruit trees and to divide the remainder into three 
equal plots sown in accordance with a three year rotation, the plot 
containing wheat and barley in the first year being sown with 
leguminous crops in the second and being left fallow in the third. 
Each plot is of reasonably large size and the land can be properly 
ploughed and harrowed by normal methods, so that modern ploughs 
which plough reasonably deep and which turn the furrow have 
been taken into use. | 

Only good varieties of seed are sown in the gardens, with a view 
to eventual distribution to the local farmers. 

In three gardens poultry runs have been introduced and one 
garden is devoted entirely to trees and poultry. 

The improvement of the school gardens has been rendered 
possible by a second gift of £P.300 from the High Commissioner. 

During the year, 13 village schoolmasters took a six weeks’ 
course at Talabaya in Syria; two others have joined the school 
and two the Kadoorie School in Palestine for a year’s course. 


7. An outbreak of haemmorhagic septicaemia occurred amongst 
the goats in the forest areas of Jerash and Ajlun, and in 21,445 
observed cases there were 1,216 deaths. Apart from this and some 
cases of mange the country has been free from animal diseases. 

As @ preventive measure against rabies, 1,157 dogs and 22 foxes 
were destroyed. 


263 


_ §. The import of sheep from Nejd has recommenced on a small 

sale, and a considerable traffic in sheep, chickens and eggs from 
traq to Palestine is passing through Trans-Jordan by motor-car 
mm transit. 

9. As land settlement proceeds, forest areas are demarcated as 
State property and so far 22,000 dunums have been so demarcated. 
A Chief Forest Ranger has been appointed. 

Although there have been a few cases of minor encroachments 
by ignorant ploughmen, it is evident that the cutting of trees in 
ihe forest areas has ceased and landowners are satisfied with the 
process of settlement which allows them to clear the scattered 
trees situated within their properties. 


IX. LANDS. 


Land Settlement. (See paragraph 3 on page 277 of the 
Report for 1933)—Settlement operations were completed in ten 
villages during the year. In ‘‘ mushaa’’ villages (i.e. where land 
is held on a communal basis) the method of physical 
fartition by the villagers themselves, under close supervision of 
settlement Officers, is proving satisfactory, and good progress is 
beng made. To expedite the work further, Schedules of Rights 
toshares are completed more or less simultaneously for two or more 
adjacent villages under the direction of one Settlement Officer; 
partition schemes are then submitted by the respective village com- 
mittees, the most satisfactory receiving priority in the inception of 
survey operations for the Schedule of Partition. The scheme has 
done much to suppress village intrigue which frequently causes 
unnecessary delay in partition. In the ‘' mushaa ’’ villages where 
work has been completed the average family holding was found 
to be 140 dunums. 

In ‘‘ mafruz ’’ villages (i.e. where land is individually owned) 
the work has been accelerated by authorizing surveyors to settle 
minor boundary disputes. 

Both in ‘‘ mushaa ’’ and ‘‘ mafruz ’’ villages it has been possible 
to reduce the number of appeals by authorizing Settlement Officers 
‘0 approve sale and mortgages during settlement operations; the 
transfer of part, or the mortgage, of a property in favour of a 
prospective plaintiff often enables parties to come to agreement. 

The following is # comparative statement of the area (in dunums) 
completed to date :— 

Final Schedule of Rights and of 
Partition passed to Land Registry. 
Mafruz Mushad 


. laud dando 
August to December, 1933 18,363 17,540 35,903 
During 1934 on --. 39,139 155,070 194,209 











Total... .. 57,502 172,610 230,112 


ee 








264 


The cost per dunum is 30 mils, and comprises survey, iron marks, 
and map reproduction. 
The following data have been compiled from records of completed 
work in 1934 :— 
Mushaaw’ Mafru Total. 


Villages ‘ae on 8 2 10 
Claims recorded ... 2,307 2,289 4,596 
Number of Appeals ... 4] 29 70 
Appeals allowed... 17 12 29 


There are no appeals outstanding. 


2. Survey.—The survey in connexion with Land Settlement is 
carried out on the 1/2500 scale. 
During the vear 207 cadastral plans were completed :— 
Number Number Average area M 
arks 


of of of parcel. 
blocks. parcels. Dunums. erected. 
Mafruz __... Sei 17 1,144 38 1,021 
Mushaa’ ... xx 226 2,974 40 6,372 
Total ... 243 4,118 78 7,393 


3. Land Tax.—From a total of 2,580 fiscal blocks appeals were 
lodged in respect of 1,002 and 207 were allowed, resulting in a re- 
duction by £P.1,098 of the total figure of £P.53,406. 


As from 1st April, 1938, the land tax was applied to approxi- 
mately two-thirds of the country thereby replacing the tithe estima- 
tion and the inequitable tax of Kerak which was in effect a poll tas. 


The consequent increase in taxation amounts to £P.7,360; the 
balance of £P.2,640, to make up the total increase permissible by 
law (see paragraph 12 on page 248 of the Report for 1933), will be 
derived from Ajlun in 1935. 


An addendum to the Land Tax Law provides for a re-assessment 
of taxation in villages where settlement is complete; the survey 
and valuation of individual properties carried out during settle- 
ment will form the basis of a more accurate levy on the parcel 
instead of the fiscal block. 


The addendum also provides for distribution of the tax in accord- 
ance with the Land Registry records. Tax registers have been 
compiled during settlement and will be maintained up to date by 
the Registry Offices as mutations are recorded in the Land 
Registers ; the loose leaf system has been adopted to facilitate the 
compilation of the annual distribution lists. 


4. Transactions passing through the Land Registry numbered 
4,642 and £P.4,176 was collected in fees. In the village of 
Mkheibe approximately 7,000 dunums were purchased by the 
lessees of the Hammeh Baths to afforest and improve the adjoining 
lend. 


265 


There were 422 transactions recorded in the new registers as 
result of settlement and £P.242 was collected in fees. Original 
entries based on the Schedule of Rights, are not recorded in the land 
Tegisters until application is made and fees are paid by the land- 
owners; the Schedule of Rights is in itself a complete register of 
titles recorded during settlement and a transfer need not be 
registered until a transaction affecting the property is presented 
to the Land Registry or a land-owner applies for a title deed. 


0. State Domain.—Various holdings of State Domain, amount- 
ing in the aggregate to 56,890 dunums, were sold to encourage 
cultivation and facilitate building. The proceeds of the sale were 
£P.2,579 whereas the average annual revenue from the properties 
from 1926 to 1933 was £P.131. 

Following the disposal of Government land in the Jordan Valley 
to the Ghazzawieh tribe the revenue from tithe in 1934 was 
£P.962, which is £P.273 more than the previous average annual 
revenue for the years 1930 to 1933. In the case of a few cultivators 
who have neglected to adhere to the partition, the sale will be 
cancelled. 


6. Maps.—The progress of publication of the 1/50,000 scale 
series of maps is maintained; but lack of topographical detail in 
the south-east area has necessitated the reduction of the issue to 14 
sheets. Four new sheets were published during 1934. 


X. PUBLIC WORKS. 


Roads.— During the year, 983 kilometres of road have been 
continuously maintained, and 192 kilometres overhauled at the 
conclusion of the rains. 

The construction and re-alignment of the metalled main road 
between Amman and Es Salt were completed, and expenditure of 
£P.44,000 has been authorized on the section between Es Salt 
and the Allenby Bridge, half to be provided by the Trans-Jordan 
Government and half from the Colonial Development Fund. The 
work and expenditure will be spread over a period of six years. 
Work on the first six kilometres has begun and considerable pro- 
gress has been made. The heavy rains of this winter blocked the 
road on several occasions but it was reopened again to traffic after 
very short intervals. 

The dry weather road which joins Ma’an to Aqaba was washed 
away at one part but it was quickly made passable. 

A further 5,000 metres of dry weather roads have been soled and 
covered thinly with earth to make them more passable after rain. 


2. The reconstruction of the Zerka bridge on the Amman-Jerash 
Toad was completed early in the year. The work consisted of 
Taising the level of the bridge another metre, making a rein- 
forced concrete deck 7 metres wide, and railing both sides. 


266 


The road from Muadeba to the thermal baths at Zerka Ma’yin 
is being re-aligned within the Wadi Zerka Ma’yin, and a much 
more direct road from Falestine to the baths is being opened. 

About four kilometres of road have been opened through the vine- 
yards of Es Salt at the expense of the townsfolk and in the same 
way roads have been opened from Wadi Sir village to the antiquity 
site of ‘Iraq el Amir, from the same village to Naour, and through 
E1 Hosn village to join the main Irbid-Jerash road with the main 
Irbid-Ajlun road via Eidun. 

It is now possible to drive by car from Wadi Musa (on the out- 
skirts of Petra) via Shobek (the ancient Montreal) along the old 
Roman road to Tafileh; thence to Kerak only 9 kilometres of road 
remain to be opened. It will then be possible to continue to Kerak 
and, via Katrani, to Amman. The direct road from Amman to 
Kerak is open as far south as Diban and from Kerak as far north 
as Qasr: thus it is complete except for the crossing of the Arnon. 


3. Work has commenced on that section of the trans-desert 
road to Baghdad which runs from Jisr Mejamie via Irbid and Hosn 
to Mafrak. The section between Hosn and Mafrak is to be re- 
aligned in part and that between Hosn and Jisr Mejamie, which 
is already well aligned, will be soled and metalled. 


4. Buildings.—Minor new works, maintenance and repairs of 
buildings have been carried out to the extent of the funds avail- 
able; the desert fort at Rum is finished, a Customs post at Jisr 
Sheikh Hussein is nearing completion, and a barrack for 20 mounted 
policemen at Irbid is under construction. Three rooms in the 
Governorate at Irbid are being converted into a women’s prison, 
and a ten-room canteen is being built in the Arab Legion Head- 
quarters in Amman. 

Repairs have been carried out in 13 village schools. 


5. Water.—With funds provided from the Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund the Government acquired a boring rig and has found 
a satisfactory supply of water at a depth of 507 feet at Meshetta 
and by the end of December had sunk a bore to a depth of 107 
feet at Remtha. 

The reconnaissance of water horizons has continued, with the 
assistance of the Geologist of the Palestine Government, and points 
have been selected in the area east of the Railway for sinking bore 
holes. 


XI. ANTIQUITIES. 


A survey of antiquities has been proceeding methodically 
since the Department of Antiquities began to operate. 

Two years ago the Department found certain prehistoric rock 
engravings at Kilwa in the south-eastern desert, in proximity to the 
Saudi Arabian frontier. These have proved of scientific value and 


267 


a fully equipped expedition has been sent by the Dr. Frobenius 
Institute of Pre-History, Frankfort-on-Maine, Germany, to ex- 
amine them and make further researches. 


2. The expedition of the American School of Oriental Research 
discovered at Jerash a long and valuable historical inscription from 
the Triumphal Arch, in Greek, recording the visit of the Emperor 
Hadrian, in his passage from Syria to Egypt in 129-130 A.D. 

Tell El Ghassul grows in importance, having given # name to a 
pre-history cultural phase, the Ghassulian, and having achieved a 
definite place in pre-history. 

At Jebel Rum a small temple of the Nabataean period has been 
excavated, in conjunction with the Dominican Bible School, 
Jerusalem, and many Nabataean and Minaean inscriptions were 
found. 

An expedition of the Petra~-Melchett Exploration Fund, assisted. 
by the Department, worked at Petra on a site in the north-west 
corner of the city; a high place belonging to the pre-Greek period, 
of an unknown type, has been found. 

The Department at the same time cleared three of the largest 
tombs, the tomb of the Urn, the Khazneh, and one unnamed in 
the Farasa Wadi. 


3. Many more tourists visited Jerash in 1934, and two camps are 
now established at Fetra to accommodate visitors. 


4. The Department is not equipped with either a museum or 
staff therefor. It has therefore been arranged for Trans-Jordan 
antiquities to be housed in the Palestine Archaeological Museum 
at Jerusalem. 


XII—THE ARAB LEGION. 


The Arab Legion is a force of 40 officers, 3 cadet officers and 
1,002 non-commissioned officers and men; it is commanded by a 
British Officer and is responsible for public security, for the main- 
tenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, and for immi- 
gration and passport control. 


2. A new wireless station has been established at Headquarters 
in Amman, and there are now in all six permanent wireless stations 
operated by the Legion and a mobile set mounted in a Ford tender. 


3. A canteen was opened at Irbid for men of the Legion; the 
sale of alcohol is forbidden. 


4. No difficulty has been experienced in obtaining suitable and 
literate recruits. During the year, 89 men were enlisted to replace 
various casualties. 


2. Personnel of the Legion attended various courses in car main- 
tenance and repair at the General Motor Depot, Alexandria; in 


; 268 


first aid with the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force at Zerka and with 
the Medical Officer in Ammian; in equitation with the Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force; in telegraphy with the Department of Posts and 
Telegraphs ; and in law with the President of the Court of Appeal 
and Judicial Adviser. 


6. Criminal Investigation Department.—In spite of the poor rain- 
fall last season and the consequent impoverishment of the fellahin, 
no great increase in crime occurred and the roads have remained 
free from brigandage. 

The Criminal Investigation Department dealt with 1,998 en- 
quiries from Courts as to the antecedents of accused persons; took 
finger prints of 852 suspects; opened 5,207 files in respect of crimes 
and 154 files in cases of extradition. 

Of the 5,207 crime files, 47 were cases of murder, 444 of wound- 
ing, 45 of abduction, 1,646 of theft, 118 of car accidents, 37 of 
smuggling and 70 of drunkenness. 


7. The work of the Passport Department was as follows :— 


Application for Nationality Certificates... et 596 
Nationality Certificates issued a ee 530 
Naturalisation Certificates issued... ai ou 17 
New passports issued ... sat ee — os 515 
Emergency visas issued bee Se a a 208 
Ordinary visas issued ... _ ass ay oe 17 
Return visas issued ... - aa i _ 59 
Registrations of foreign passports ... i se 12009 
Endorsements a beet a6 ce Sat 121 
Passport contraventions passed to Law Courts... 807 


8. Licensing of vehicles —The Legion is responsible for the 
licensing of all private and public vehicles and the following details 
show progress in this respect since 1926 :— 

Trucksand Motor 


Cars. Buses. Loire: Cycles Totals. 
Vehicles licensed in 
1926 ce nue 110 4 16 5 135 
Vehicles licensed in 
1934 = or 269 19 169 7 464 


9. Protection of pipe-line.-—Police duties along the pipe-line of 
the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company continue to be carried out by extra 
personnel specially enlisted for this purpose and paid, clothed and 
equipped at the expense of the Company. To ensure liaison with 
the Company’s senior officials and the superintendents in charge of 
depots an additional British officer has been appointed to the Legion 
to command the section responsible for security along the pipe-line. 


XTT.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS 


Country. 


Syria and 
Lebanon. 
Palestine ... 


Great Britain 
Nejd 


Syria and 
Lebanon. 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Palestine 


Syria and 
Jebel Druze 


‘Traq ae 
Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


Syria and the 
Lebanon. 
Saudi Arabia 


Palestine 


Great Britain 
Palestine 


Palestine 


269 


, CONVENTIONS, 


AND TREATIES. 
(A) Agreements concluded in the name of Trans-Jordan. 


(1) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Title of Instrument. 


Customs Agreement 
Transit Agreement 


Date. Place of 


signature. 
10.5.1923 Amman. 
26.9.1928 Jerusalem. Amended: 
18.12.1928, Jerusalem. 
27.12.1928, Amman. 


(11) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Agreement 


Hadda Agreement 

Provisional Agreement in regard 
to the Transmission of Judicial 
Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Agreement for the Taking of 
Evidence on Commission for 
the purpose of any Commercial 
or Civil Matter. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Con- 
veyance of Corpses from Pales- 
tine for Burial in Trans-Jordan 
and from Trans-Jordan for 
Burial in Palestine. 

Agreement as to the Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement concerning the settle- 
ment of Disputes between 
Beduins of Trans-Jordan and 
Beduins of Syria or the Jebel 
Druze as well as between 
Beduins and non-Beduins of 
the same States. 

Treaty of Friendship ... a 

Agreement establishing Tele- 
graphic Communication. 

Agreement for the reciprocal 
Grant of gratis Visas. 

Treaty of Friendship and Bon 
Voisinage. 


20.2.1928 Jerusalem. Ratified 
31.10.1929, Amman. 
Bahra Camp. 


Amman. 


2.11.1925 
15.2. 1928 


25.2.1929 
6.3.1929 


Jerusalem. 
Amman. 


6.3.1929 Amman. 


1.10.1929 


14.10.1929 Jerusalem. 


2.2.1930 
29.12.1929 


Amman. 
Beirut 


26.3.1931 Amman. 
Effect from Ist April, 1932. 


20.8.1932 
5.9.1932 
27.7.1933 


Jerusalem. 

Beirut. 

Jerusalem. Ratified 
21.12.1933 at Cairo. 


Agreements concluded In 1934. 


Extradition Agreement 


Supplementary Agreement 

Amendment to Transit Agree- 
ment of 26.9.28. 

Agreement to Regulate the Ser- 
vice of Judicial Documents 
between Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


16.7.1934 
11.3.1934 
2.6.1934 
9.7.1934 
23.7.1934 
28.11.1934 
13.12.1934 


Jerusalem. 
Amman. 
Jerusalem. 
Jerusalem. 
Ammen. 
Amman. 


Jerusalem. 


270 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. 


Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 
having no Sea Coast. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Régime of Navigable 
Waterways of International Concern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Régime 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. 
International Convention relative to the Protection of 

Literary and Artistic Works. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.1908. 

International Opium Convention and subsequent 
relative papers. 

International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol 
of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Régime 
of Railways, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Régime 
of Maritime Ports, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electrical Power, and Protocol of Signature. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 
International Agreement as to Contagious Diseases of 

Animals. 

International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. (Law.) 

International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Sanitary Convention 
International Radio-telegraph Convention 


Universal Postal Convention. (Law.)... 


Agreement concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 


Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial Navigation 


International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 

International Convention for the Unification of certain 
Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Conditions of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Field. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
20.4.1921, 9.10.1922 

Barcelona. (Ratification ) 
20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 

Barcelona. 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 

Barcelona. 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 

Barcelona. 

13.11.1908, 21.3.1924. 
Berlin. 
20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Berne. 
23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 
The Hague. 
3.11.1923, 29.8.1924 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 
9.12.1923, 22.99.1925. 
Geneva. 
9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 
9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 
24.9.1923, 12.3.1926. 
Geneva. 
12.9.1923, 23.65.1927. 
Geneva. 
25.1.1924, 13.7.1927. 
Paris. 
25.9.1926, 18.6.1927 
Geneva. 
19.2.1925, 25.9.1928 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
21.6.1926, 9.10.1928. 
Paris. 
25.11.1927, 15.8.1930. 
Washington. 
28.6.1929, 3.12.1930. 
London. 
28.6.1929, 3.12.1930. 
London. 
13.10.1919, = 11.7.1922. 
Paris. (Effective 
date). 
22.11.1928, 17.12.1930. 
Paris. 
25.8.1924, 2.6.1931 
Brussels (Effective 
date). 
27.7.1929, 23.6.1931 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
(Effective 
date 


23.12.1931). 


271 
Title of Instrument 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 
relating to International Carriage by Air. 


Date of 
Signature. 
2.6.1928, 
Rome. 
30.9.1921- 
31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 
18.5.1904, 
Paris. 
4.5.1910, 


Paris. 


12.10.1929, 
Warsaw. 


Date of 
Accession. 
1.10.1931. 


2.11.1931. 


6.5.1932 
(Effective 
date ) 
6.5.1932 
(Effective 
date). 
14.4.1932. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Date of Application. 


11.7.27. 
5.12.30. 
12.12.31. 
15.7.27. 


10.3.27. 
25.11.26. 
7.6.26. 
11.6.27. 


5.7.31. 
18.3.32. 


1.4.32. 


3.3.32. 


18.3.32. 
29.3.32. 
22.4.32. 
30.3.32. 
24.2.32. 
30.6.32 
20:32. 
29.1.32. 
§.4.32. 
6.4.32. 
20.9.32. 
4.6.32. 
2.3.32. 
3.3.32. 
18.10.32. 
7.4.32. 
23.3.32. 
9.5.32. 


Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United Kingdom 
and : 
Albania 22. 1.26. iss i 
Colombia ... 27.10.88/2.12. 29 
Cuba 3.10.04/17.4.30 . 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24, F 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Estonia 18.11.25 
Finland 30.5.24 
Latvia 16.7.24 
Lithuania ... 18.5.26 
Moakeo 17.12.91 
27.11.30 he 
Austria 3.12.73/26.6.01 .. 
Belgium ... 29.10.01 ... 
: ( 5.3.07 
Belgian Congo “133.11 
: { 28.6.28 
Ruanda Urundi sed i 2.7.98 
Bolivia . 22.2.92 
Chile 26.1.97 
Denmark 31.3.73 
Greece 24.9.10 
Guatemala 4.7.85 /30. 6 14 
Hayti 7.12.74 ~ 
Hungary 3.12.73/26.6.01 ... 
‘J aan 2532.. ses 
Luxemburg 24.11.80 ... 
Netherlands 26.9.98 
Nicaragua ... 19.4.05 ... as 
Norway 26.6.73/18.2.07 ... 
Panama 25.8.06 
Peru ies 26.1.04 ... 
Roumania. ... 9/21.3.93... 
Salvador 23.6.81 
Siam 4.3.11... 
Spain. 4.6.78/19.2.89 ... 
Switzerland — . 26.11.80/29.6.04.. 
13.10.1842 (Articlo - 
: ; 11.3.1890... 
United States of America. 294.1901. 
21.12. 1906 


Yugoslavia... 23.11.00/6.12.00... 


3.12.25. 


30.8.32. 


272 
Treaties applied in 1934. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of Application. 
Poland ase oie we = 11.1.1932 12.3.1934 
Portugal... or, .-- 17.10.1892 23.6.1934 
San Marino wee .-- 16.10.1899 19.7.1934 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list the Trans- 
Jordan Extradition Juaw has been applied to the following 
countries :— 


Argentine. *Germany. Paraguay. 
Ecuador. Italy. Tunis. 
France. Liberia. Uruguay. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which have been applied to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
A pplication. 
Between Great Britain 
and: 
Lithuania _.... ... Agreement respecting Commercial Relations, 24.4.1923. 
6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 
Latvia aa ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 
Poland 3 ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 _ ... .-- 5.6.1926. 
Finland wes ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 
Austria oe ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.1926. 
22.5.1924, London. 
Germany... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926. 
2.12.1924, London. 
Greece ous ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3.1927. 
16.7.1926. 
Hungary Sis ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 26.7.1927. 
23.7.1926, London. | 
Austria sie ... Notes on Trade Marks bee sie -.- 212.1927- 
13.4.1928. 
Yugoslavia ... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.1928. 
12.5.1927. 
Spain tae ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.1928. 
31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 31.5.1928. 
Bulgaria Bee ... Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
12.11.1925. 
Greece... 2 ... Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 21.6.1929. 
Origin, 21.6.1929. (5.7.1929 
Effective 
date). 
Lithuania... ... Notes modifying the Agreement of 6.5.1922. 10.12.1929. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition 
between Trans-Jordan and Germany on a basis of reciprocity. The arrangement 
came into force on 28th February, 1933. 


273 


Date of 
A pplication. 
1.6.1930. 


Title of Instrument. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
and Supplementary Convention of, 
30.7.1925. 


Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.1930, 
Cairo. Prolongation until 16.2.1934 by 
Notes of 16/19.2.1933. 


Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.1924, Madrid. 


Treaty of Commerce and _ Navigation, 
25.9.1928. 


21.8.30. 


Spain 6.8.1931. 


Panama 2.9.1932. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
Application. 
France Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 21.3.1923. 
Commercial Matters, 2.2.1922. 
Belgium Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 13.3.1925. 
Commercial Matters, 21.6.1922. 
Cechoslovakia Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 17.2.1927. 
Commercial Matters, 11.11.1924, London. 
Germany Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 25.11.1929. 
Commercial Matters, 20.3.1928. 
Estonia Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 11.11.1932 
Commercial Matters, 22.12.1931. (Effective 
date). 
Spain ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 23.2.1931. 
Commercial Matters, 27.6.1929. 
Portugal Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 30.4.1933. 
Commercial Matters, 9.7.1931. 
Poland Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in Civiland 17.10.1932. 
Commercial Matters, 26.8.1931. 
Netherlands ... Extension to Overseas Territories of the Agreement 11.12.1929. 
for the Abolition of Visas, 1.12.1929. (Applicable 
to British 
Subjects 
only). 
Italy... Notes respecting documents of Identity for Aircraft 13.4.1931. 
Personnel, 13.4.1931. 
Conventions applied in 1934. 
Denmark Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial Matters, 25.7.1934. 
; 29.11.1932. 
Netherlands ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial Matters, 22.9.1934. 


31.5.1932. 


274 











000'°9SH‘ TET 

















CaereTert ae is oie San Suis ae ne . ; ee wie ale Sigg es wee 
rOTe"S an —:‘Sojuvduiog Aauipleang nore hee “DNDIAUT aay 12,5 942 fo woszmosudeg, 10f BALE 
232°696‘'6 9809 BU ‘atap 707 pun n ORT UU} puwy ; baie 
369°960°928 _ ; : 
899'S9L‘toE ._.. 099 ‘U9)848 TOMNGLAQSTp ‘muvid DUpywIsU9s 000'S36'°08 ogt) & Sao ee “28 ae Uolss20U0D UDPLO Ls 
‘ssulpiing “pur, (Soul, UOTSsTuTEUTEg AQI[VA Gra sUuDpIODIP U2 uorzowescdaq s40f esaso8oH 
UOIUYS suppnypour) > 9809 9u UOH{VT] Vasu AIAW IAL ae 
692°09T'g “a er. eee ee« e*. e«* ‘PYT SSF ‘OLO' FIL aaa ee 
"OD 911091] Bee oyZ Jo sosuodxo Arwupunyyorgy 668‘986'6T ane as “es < °° s20UBTe 3{PeID 
200°263‘§ 8}efold 4yueUIdoToANp SHOPIVA UO oINngspusdxay 092‘900°F SIIWINGUOD JO szIvodaql 
893°080'F eee cy eee . ene ee ** uoys 2632268 wale cay 8103}P315 Axpung 
“S80U0)) 94} UO sasuedxe JoyI0 puL [exoy ‘so0,7 —! ssuDID_ NpesD pun esON IIL) 
000°T eon ne ""* HO[SS0U0D 94} JO UONISTNboy : : 
— OFBP OF oI pusdxy puyrdep S68" LFF ‘Sz “"* song suopeng Pessafo 
¥F3°S9L‘0LZ2'T —; uorssaqU0g viny 
¥26'SSI‘SE **"UO[SB90T0D 944 YZIAA UOTQD0UUON ul sested 000‘000°262 _—_—_—_— 
“x9 [Vi9U0d Dulpnyour sesuedxe Arvuruyyarg 000°000‘ sida san cw powlsepeay—: sea7 
809°REL'L ai * 95 w "098 “SATA 000°000‘u0s | ** a e pense] puv pesoyyny 
“[T¥i JO UOPwOYTI{De]9 ‘uote I0; s,09foO1g : (830888 8,AUedurIO 9} UO aBIBYyO B Aq pamdes) 
Ov SFI'TT sus a ot ee SUOT}EIS JOULIOS PAS sainqusgaq burns sbvtuop puoss %9 
“Ssuvl} puv oul] UOIsSsluIsaBly AOT[BVA uvplor 
620°608's8T | ——_—. . 000‘0S$'62z 
849°68F 91 ae . _. SBHOQLT 000°0¢9'0z is Po ace : peulsspey—seo7 
TOP'69S 69T **° ea: VytH 000°000"0ss ss < a penss] pus pasoq ny 
‘ —: 48090 48 “390 ‘104848 uoy} —(S}a8S8 8,UOs,VIOdJ0y eq} wo 
“NGHIsP “HuUvd 8ujje19u03 ‘stuypang ‘puey es1eyo & Aq peinoos) sainwuaqed peozuvsony %y% 
—— —! SeqEL pue eyeq 
£03866 SE0'T| °°" "** _ (Spoog 07 onp BS Aes uvpior site, 
0} sujedarl jo 4809 JO YUVd) 000°9l'aF 000 SZ9'L88 
BO Udz}1IM ssa] ‘69038 | o;¥oOTTvUN pus 000°062‘0T ie Yyova [F JO salvyg souelajorg 062 ‘01 
040 “sosdedxa [vloties pue U0}7B138/UTUIpS 000°SEE‘2Zz8 “Yous TF Jo saivyg Aivuypig cee £18 
‘SoUlf UOpss]WISUTIy ‘sU0;E48 Jao Jsuvs, —: ponssy 
‘ATOULYOUUL ‘syIOM O[MBIpAY ‘eBuypyng ‘puvT 000°000‘000‘T 
sono JaM0g 911393/7-O1pAH usplor qT 
000°T me, Sy *** WOFss9dT0Q O17} JO ponisn boy 000°000‘09 Gove 1F JO salvyg souarajaig 000‘0G 
—' Up 07 o:nyipusdxg peqydep 000°000‘0¢6 “Yow TZ JO Salvyg AvUIpPIQ 000'DSE 
—: wolssaU0n unpior —: posjJouNy 
:jondvg esvys 
"syd “oy “dF "SLESSY | ‘UL “gz ‘NU “gz “SHLLITIVIT 


ne epee Muga taage es a 
‘SEGT “toque0 48TE 049 48 SB yo0q9 soue[eg 


‘GaLIWTT ‘NOLLVEOdaON oraLoriy QNILSHTVG HY, (1) 
“FEI Ul pajoaq[oo senp : uoIss-ou0D esnoyYysry] (A) 


“JUNODDY UOIsseou0D Yorn sy} jo 4UeU19}%99 (Ar) pus ooo; woesnsar ayy Jo J9948 ooueyeg pues yrodoy (m) 
peyuy “ysej0g ounseyeg jo 790YS souvleg pue y1odoy (mm) “poHury ‘uorr10d109 ON}09] SUIWSeTvg oy} Jo 199q4G souvpeg (1) 


I XIGNAddv 
‘UNLLSHTVd—Sao0lanaddy¥ 


‘Peary “orneiodioy sorasag oqng 


275 


“ssonpnp ‘stunjUNoIP pasosvyD ">S6L ‘Ane YIGe ‘UfvH 


“OO F TIgSssny 
“Ausduiog oy} JO sHoog ey? Aq UAOUs 
se pus sn 0} UdAS sUO;ZvUTIdxe oy} PUB UOMVULIOJU; MO jo 489q OY} 07 Baypioooe sayeye s,Auedu0y) oy} JO 03498 9Y} JO AMOJA 99231100 PUY ONT) VB MOYES 0} SB OF 
dn uamvip Ajiedoid 8] yooyg soUBTeg eADQY oY} IVY} UOTUTdO 9Y3 JO G18 OM O40U ,B10JOIIIGE OY} OF PUB YIvUIGI BujoZa10} ayy 07 yd90efqng ‘“amnjz{puadxe Jo sBuypvey snojrva 
Jepun pauojodds sjun0908 sa0qe oY} Ul pepnyoUy medq GABY BIdJAI9B O8044 JO Yoadso1 Ul Z1oquenyY “gd ‘IP 0} PIUVAPs SJUNOMIB UjezIIO YANOYIV ‘QZ “19qQ0}90 4ISZS 
O} Jou palopuel sedjares JO] poulmszep 9q 0} 490A Bloquoyny “g “IY 0} AI[JQvy] Suypuvysyno ue sujemol ogy ‘peljnbar eavy oA. YOYM SUO;VUBIdxs pus UO;}VULIOJU] 
04} TB Paujezqo eABY PUY YO 498 oaoqe se “EEGT ‘JaqUIZDI” 4SIE 4 Poyep “Py T ‘WOPQVIOdIOD 9j1709/q OUTQSAIB_ OY} JO JoaYS soUE[VG 94} PoYpNE oavy OM 


“SUHCTOHHAVHS HHL OL LAOdaY ,SAXOLIGAV 


"S}UMO000Y 8943 U] 
poyeiodioou} useq eavy sopueduro; Areppyeqng Jo sesso Jo HYorg OU ‘EZ6I ‘oULUTPIO soJTUdUIOD eq} JO LOT ‘09g 04 JUBNEMG—‘'sundu0D Asmmsegns 0} eS 
qaé you sey YOPYA Jo JUNIE of} ‘2761 ‘ACV UOJ; SY XVI, SUIODUT Ys 0} Joofqns s] CACGY MACYS SB JUNOOOY sO] PUL IBOIg 04} Jo cOULIeE CYL —'HON ,ssopIHT 


—ssopesiT fo pavog oy} fo froyeq uO 


¥OF'SS0°L98'L “dF ¥99°390'298'T “d3 
OO SPL'TS settee puny ut pun syuDT J Ys 
$39°669‘99 —— 

000°000‘L ne te see ese ggueuIyseAUy 10730 

$39°669 6F .° : °° WBO'T WOISI0A 


-U0Q JUSUIUIEAOH YsNIg SFE :8a;ypN0e8 UT 
—! 4809 w spugwzsoaUs 


£83°869'8S SIOHIOA 8, ATEdUIO) 943 JO} Sasnoy UO PooUBA 
: “PY O82 PLES dF Buypnpuy syanooy Arpung 
Leo'pLu'6e «=f OU saODOY ,sleuNsUOD 600°0FL'S0T a 
— ~ - —. SULT Need pup #10}907 913°288'08 oe os oe *** TWOA Of} 1OJ FYOIT PPV 
88S°6L2'S ; a *** geofo[duie 0} soouBApE : 
S8r'ez0'61 G19'668'8'd3 SuIPNPU ‘sounapy wi sanpspuadzg eee: Voie 
IO 4800 9@ ‘ap far pun ofv m puny so wane ; vee ees" SOTBTIG GDMOIEJ 
BROT ‘9800 4U ‘aly ja D of — a sv 7uNODIPp s80T puv 
069°868'T Jeptn 10 4800 4% ‘Mould Indy PUD osnzisny 97WO peer 


P86 20P‘SL 





276 


(11) JERUSALEM ELECTRIC AND PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION, 
LIMITED. 


(a) Report or THE Directors 


to be submitted to the Members at the Ordinary General Meeting to be 
held at the Registered Office of the Company, St. Julian’s Way, 
Jerusalem, on Wednesday, 25th July, 1934, at 12 o’clock noon. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
31st March, 1934. 

The profit for the year, including the balance (£P.4,318.658) brought 
forward from the previous year, is £P.31,792.531, out of which the follow- 
ing payments and appropriations have been made:— 


£P. £P. 
Reserve for Income Tax ... ys ae 3,750.000 
Transfer to General Reserve ... ... 5,000.000 
Amount applied in wore down Issue 
Expenses ... ad 3,562.500 


Dividend, on 217, 000 Bexreccnes Shares 
for year to 31st March, 1934, less tax 11,392.500 





23,705.000 

leaving a balance of ue ass es ae , 8,087.531 
which the Directors propose to deal with as follows : — 
In payment of Dividend on 153,000 Ordinary 

Shares, of 3 per cent. less tax, amounting to... 3,907 .250 


leaving to be carried forward to next year’s Account £P.4,530.281 


The Company’s plant has operated efficiently during the year, and the 
increase in the number of consumers continues to be satisfactory. 

Further extensions of the Generating Plant and Transmission System are 
in hand. 

During the year 8,000 Preference Shares and 17,000 Ordinary Shares were 
issued, and the proceeds applied in providing funds for the development of 
the business. 

It is with great regret that the Directors have to report the death of 
Mr. J. G. B. Stone, which took place on the 28rd January, 1934. Mr. Stone 
joined the Board in 1928, and rendered most valuable service to the 
Company. 

In accordance with the Articles of Association Sir John H. B. Noble, 
Bart. retires, but being eligible offers himself for re-election. 

The Auditors, Messrs, Russell & Co., Jerusalem, retire and offer them- 
selves for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 


§. O. Ricwarpson, 
Secretary. 


16th July, 1934. 


‘BIT 





T89°36L‘I8'd3 


$L8°SLF'L3 
8S0'SI8'F 





806'°608‘CT 


“SOL “dF “STOR “dF 





FEP'0S8'08' dF 





PEP'098'08 
“ST "dF 


“aD 


093'166'2 








189°26L'18'd3 
""* UMOP 348N0Ig COULTEg “* 189°480'8 
—— ee 009°368'TT 
000°962'S $8/s/TR 009°399°S 
xeL e801 puopiat AIBVUIPIO 000°000‘9 
Ooz'oe0'9 «= 88/E/TE IBOA-FIUY XBL, : 
880} pucpfAi[d sUsIIJaI_ ponped 000°092'8 
"** JX WB] WI GoUBleg AG ‘UI "ZF 
“STTUL “dF 
¥SP'0S8 08 dF 
8L8°SLP'LS 
000°006 
sydjeooy Arpung pus Supze1edo uo snjding Aq T99°926'T 
TT “dF 
(‘Bayjze3g 13 stenbe T°qF) 


qoayg souvfug 0} coTETy “ 
(xe, #807) 180A JO} pUapfAiq souslejag “‘ 
aoe see ene om ece sosu0dxgy onssy yo SuyyIA ee 
es eAlosey yerousp “ 

*** OAIOBOY XBY, uIOOUT OF 


“* MOP PopLtHo souveg 
‘ so0g Ope “ 


a qUSY SOO PUY UO}wNsTUTUT 
PY uopuoy ‘203 nofmaord 


“1d 


“FEGT ‘GOGAT 981 0} JWOK 10} FUNODY SOT pu yYOIT (9) 


“GHULIWI'] ‘NOLLVUOdUHOD MOIAUAG OTIANG FY olaLorIg, WAIvsoaAs 


28784 


278 


S}UDJLNOIIY Pes9}s0Y : ‘ 
Auvdwog ey} jo sHoog 9} UMOYS SY PUB SN USAPS SUOHAVUYTAXe OY} PUY UOPBULIO}JU MO jo 480q OT} 03 Buyp10008 
SIJVYV S,AUVAUIOD 94} JO 93876 O42 JO MOJA 9001100 PUY ONT} B IqTyxXe 07 se os dn UMLIp AjJadold ors 4UNODOY SPOT PUY 4YOIq PUY 400q4g SCOULTeG YONS UOTUJdO mo 
Ul ‘“pesnbal oAvq OM SUOPVUYIdXY PUY UOPVULIOJZU, OY} [TB PCUTY}IQO CAVY PUY GYRO] 408 CAG SU ZUNOODW SIO] PU BYOIG pus Jooyg coUTTYg 947 PoIpNY oAvY OM 


“CELINTT ‘NOLLVEOdEOD MOIAGNS OFIGAd FP OFSLOTTY RWIVEOUNS 40 SURNAME FHL OL SHOLIGAY HHL 40 LAOUNY 


“somo { MELMEAUVO-ALOR “A ar reimey, 





























9096'S 10‘S89d3 9906'S 10'98' dF 
CIP OPT GS ese ees oce eee eve sIaqueg 48 qk) Te0*z80'8 ve =: = ese ose een quno00y #0] pus Old 
000°009‘ST : S8T'SOL'S s se eee ece eee eee GAINGCT SUIT 
009°S94 8 ~ as ar “oe FO WOH 8897 000°000 ST : 
009°S90 OT 000°000 3 reoA Supmp peppy 
000°000 OT il ia * FUNOOOY 3B Jag 
009°390'T hs “9 *** (4300) Iv04 Of9 BuLMp poppy —dalosey ferouor) 
000°000‘ST eos one one eee **-aNnoDYy q8¥] ied SSS TSS PT eee “me ‘seBruyo pons008 “s10}| perp Aripang 
—SaIBYG JO ONSs] UO TOTSSIMIMIOD 000°000‘S68 
ver'oss‘’o ‘es = °949 ‘QOMIVAPL Ul SJUCUTARd ‘sI0zQoqq AIpuNng ooo°o00‘0Zzt °* ar hie as °° pred Army 
922°L28'8 eve ore eee eee +e qIsuel} ul pue yove l'dF yo sarwug AIVUTPIO 000‘02ZT 
‘reBeusyy oy} Aq popryieo se puey uo 80107¢g 000°000‘S%3 °°’ ee *** pred Amy yous T° gz Jo 
638° 100 “3° = ye ""* Worwieidoep saz ‘4s00 PAIVYH eousejalg eaywnuNy) %/ 000'9ZS 
qe HO «6C‘amgumyg «=«(‘sapITyeA OJOPY ‘SpPOOY, “SUI “dF > ponssy 
896°Z0T‘0sS —__—__—. 
s0v'0v0'SS — nes *** seak 0G} Supp suonppy 000°000 009° dZ 
099°S0P 483 eee soe ees eee qUNOOO VY lg eae : 
j = Vi 000°000 002 ae a _ yous I'd Jo soreyg AIvUpIO 000‘00Z 
“Suey AlouqouyY pus 7zUvid eurptng 000°000'008 qovs [dF JO savyg eouoiwjag oapjemumy %1 000008 
: ‘sp MpIUy “4800 48 eINypucdxY feyden : pessoyny 
000°000'00 ese ees eee ees Wofseo0Un;) jo 9609 —: ondvp esDys 
“TA *dF “SAE “dS “BLHUSSV “Sy “ds *SELLITITAVIT 
(“Baying 15 spenbe [°d3) 


“FSET “QOIVAY WSIS 3 se yooUR COUWIYG (2) 


279 


(iii) PALESTINE POTASH, LIMITED. 


(a) Report or THE DIRECTORS 


to be presented to the Fourth Ordinary General Meeting of the Members 
on the 17th day of July, 1934. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report, together with the duly 
audited Balance Sheet of the Company, dated 3lst December, 1933, and the 
Profit and Loss Account for the year 1933. 


The Directors are pleased to be able to show the first profits made by the 
Company since it started operations. Though small, they are all the more 
satisfactory seeing that the period under review represents only the second 
year in the Company’s production of Potash, and that there was a general 
fall in prices over the year. 

The whole of the Company’s output of Potash during the year was sold 
at satisfactory prices. 

Although the Company’s production is several years in advance of the 
quantities stipulated in the Concession, the Board are proceeding in 1934, in 
accordance with their policy of developing the Concession by stages, to 
raise the production figure still further by extensions in the north and new 
operations at the south of the Dead Sea. The cost of production will 
thereby be lowered still further. 

Sales of Bromine have been proceeding satisfactorily in all markets in 
which the Company has secured a foothold. 

_As the Company is still in the development stage of production, no pro- 
vision has been made this year for amortisation and depreciation. 

The action against the Company, arising out of an alleged pre-War 
Turkish Concession, to which reference was made in last year’s Report, has 
been set down for hearing on 10th July, 1934. 


Mrectorate.—In accordance with Article 108 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Colonel David Lyell, Mr. Edward Friedman and Mr. Felix 
M. Warburg retire, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election, as 
does also Abdel Rahman N. Bey El Taji, who was appointed a Director of 
the Company by the Board during the period under review. 


Auditors.—The Auditors, Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co., retire, 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election, 


Lytton (Chairman). 


E. W. D. Tennant (Director). 
June, 1934. 


28784 K 2 


et SS Sg st 
Scena namie comme oer ee 
ene 


T 6T S¥o‘cors T 61 Sbo°oors 











9 OL sti's = ——————— 
T 6 63. OUP OF VO GY} 10} 4BOIT ION : gon 
9 6f cers =? ais JooUR souveY y#ey rod sy 
—JUNODY 8807 puv nog “ 
TL OT POPS is ““* PUD Us pun syung wyspp “ 
a oe ore ered ee : 
BoyBeusy_ 073 £q poyyseo Be ‘puny uo sy0Ig “ ‘suopoay { “UNVNMEL “Cf “aA ool 
¢ 9 096° vi ee “PO -80L Lie OF UOpesyUr T 
“MoD Suyjjimiopuy Burpnpour ‘gget uy 
penssy [v31d80 YA UoMOeuUOCO Ul sosuedasy * 
8 9 86.'TR ——————— 
1rd S6FT oe .“ tee 1vo£ oy} Bupmp 
. sA0AINg UO siNnzpuedxy Jey > PPV 
6 0 L63‘0r - **°900U8 COULTEG 98] 10d sv ‘TeI07, 
Il S oor‘e ene eee eee SE6L qeok ra 
: Sajinp efeammg uo amarpued x5 [PPV 
OT FI 168 98 Wace és. ei “einipuadse sc Sonera 
pezsooyvun ot Bujeq ‘zunosop guotudopaag “ 11 gT gosier a ita = si syfpspsoag yung “ 
L 2 369°9¢3 ——————__ oa eee 
9 3 SIt'ga oo 4800 98 ‘suOTpPY See a Gee ee eign ee 
3 eae eee *°"390 (+4) d i 
@ 9 seo gsr US oouveg balsas —:ssonpesg fapung 
0} naunse sosuedxe preyI0A0 jo ot I os6e'968 —————- _ —_. : 
wofpyiodoid Buypnypouy ‘9800 4u ‘yusmdendsy oS #O6F ; IVOLIY Ul] SBD : ssn7 
Aspungy pun snyninddy ‘fusmyoup ‘jung “ 0 0 000°268 
¥¥0' —_—_——- a ey 
‘6g a mee ‘“4a0YS souvleg ysv] Jed sy 0 0 000° ial Pe 
oe Ose ct tepabae 0} ponayeee — 4D pero) pun penss] rondvo 
fasuodxe pvetJeAo Jo worodoid Zurpnyo 
Uy ‘4800 48 shurpng puy puyT proysesq “ 0 0 000‘00%% 
$¥9'S8 5 one “Joo VoULTvg 4S] Jed sy , 
ae ue : —sa1tyg pred pine J0 iverson 0 0 000‘ one re .” _Yowo TF JO sarvys 000 § 
oq} Aq poysyus ‘siopue, 943 Aq opem 0 0 000'23 ps Yoea “ST Jo salvyg Areaipio 000 OFS 
WOM AlvuyUTeId oy [Te Jo yYeueq oy 0 0 oo0‘ozs 7°" Gove [TF Jo sarwyg eouslajalg 000‘0L8 
pay veg Pvaq O49 Ul s}[eg puY sTeIoUTTY — Dindoa 
JO UWOTOVI}X9 Of} IO} worss—2U0D fo 7809 Aq ——: ORADD OF 
‘p *g 3 "p 8 & 3 ‘p "9 3 ‘p 8 4 
sg eS he en rene 
“aD “S61 ‘Iequieced 481 “e04ug soULEg (2) ‘ud 


"CQLINIT HSVLOG ANSTIVG 


281 


: squDIUNODY pas9V40YD "FSET ‘YI oun 
ssonpny | “OO Y IVAlINUTd ‘BXNEE HOTHOVA fropuot 


Jo syoog oy} Aq TAOS Sv PUL ‘sn 07 T2A]Z suo, BUB[Ax9 OY} PUY TO}JEULIOJU] MO JO 489q 943 0} Burpi090e siyeye s,Ausdu10) sy} JO 94798 93 JO MOA 4OALTIOD PUT ONT} 8 

41aryxe 07 ev os dn uavrp Aj1odoid sg] yooys oouvfeg Yyons ‘aoyusdo mo UY ‘ojZaI9Y3 Yafqng ‘aoyywpoatdap AO WO;WVS}JIOWIV JO OpvU Ud0q BBY TOjsJAoId ON ‘poijNbo1 oaAvy oA 

SUO}JVULIAXS PUB UOFZBULIO;U] OY} [TB Pouje7zqo savy Pus ‘OAOgE YRIOJ Y08 SB ‘EEET ‘I9qQUIsIEq 4STE Paep “MT YstIOg ou} SI]¥q JO JadYH DOUYle_ OY} PozPNY SAY OM 
‘SUHGNAA AHL OL SHOLIGOY FHL 40 Luoday 








0 8 619‘°08F 0 8 619083 
lL 6 ¥63 + #9 ggg eotETER 07 paLLIvo Ives OG} I0J ds ae 
L Fl peas pat ER ORE qeoh ay} SUlINP PaLmMouy eiea ” 
Z T 2098'S ere eee eee eee eee spususoniday pun esodouy ee 
I SI $96'T aoe coe ace ene ove s98s0up yung pun geOL97UT aM 

0 0 L : eee eee ees ene oes ean eee $90 safsuv“ Ty 6 , SI Oly? ore one Rode! oe © 22° °°" UOLFDLIUNUIY stOPOLHT 

: - os 0s oe qunos0y buipysy pun Owinpv[nunyy uo nfosd s204p Ag * 9 LOPLI 9uI2~IVT PUD uopuoT ui sosuodzTY OL 
‘Dp 8 ¢F 











S86] ‘IequIeCeg 38[g PpopuS IUGA CY} 1OJ QUNOODYW 890T PUY IBOIY, (Pp) 


K 3 


282 


(6) Report spy THE Manacine Director. 
Submitted to the Fourth Annual General Meeting on 17th July, 1934. 


This Report covers the calendar year 1933. 


Extension of Plant.—The extension of plant in the northern Concession 
area which was approved by the Board at the beginning of the year and 
aimed at doubling the capacity of the initial plant in the year 1934 was, with 
the exception of some minor works, completed by the end of the year 
under review. 


Potash.—The harvesting season (collection of crude potash salts) started 
on 17th June. Over 130,000 tons of crude potash salts were collected. 


The potash refinery worked the whole year in three shifts. The total 
output of Muriate of Potash of grades from 64 per cent. to 98 per cent. 
purity was disposed of in various world markets. 


Bromine.—The Bromine Factory worked satisfactory but with interrup- 
tions, owing to the fact that the capacity of the plant exceeded orders 
received. 


Bromine sales have increased by 18 per cent. over those made in 1932, and 
the greater part of the output was dispatched to Great Britain. Orders 
placed at the end of the year for the coming year show a considerable 
increase in prospective sales over the previous two years. 


Southern Extension Scheme.—The topographical survey of the area of 
62 square kilometres abutting the Southern end of the Dead Sea for the 
further extension of the pan area was started in November and completed in 
March, 1934. 


Labour.—469 workmen, Jews and Arabs, engaged in construction work as 
well as in production were on the Company’s books by the end of the year. 


Health.—The health conditions were generally satisfactory and no serious 
cases of illness were reported. 


The main difficulty experienced by the Company, particularly during the 
second half of the year, which caused considerable delay in the erection of 
the additional plant, also in production, was the insufficiency of labour 
the country, particularly skilled and semi-skilled. The rapid development 
of the country has resulted in the absorption of all the available labour 
in the market, and a considerable rise in wages occurred in the building 
trade and some new industries. This induced many workmen already 
trained in our undertaking whom the Company could not afford to pay 
inflated wages, to leave. 


M. A. NovomMEysky. 


May, 1934. 


283 


(iv) STATEMENT OF THE HULEH OONCESSION ACCOUNT. 
As at 3lst DeceMsBeEr, 1934. 


As shown in the books of the Palestine Land Development Co., Ltd. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
Price of Concession an a ..»  191,795.000 


Add 6 per cent. interest from the Ist 
October, 1934, to the lst October, 1939 24 643.290 


216,438.290 
Payment to previous Concessionaires on 
account of Drainage Works ... a 9,000.000 
Survey and Experts’ Investigation, 
Commission, Advocates’ Fees, Ad- 
ministration, etc. er ses iad 9,316.272 
Technical Apparatus and Car ... So 412.380 
Total... re re et wie £P.235,166.942 


Of the purchase price the previous Concessionaires have _ received 
£P.60,000.000 in cash, and the balance (including interest at 6 per cent.) 
in promissory notes maturing in the years 1935 to 1939, amounting to 
£P.156,438.290. Certain of these promissory notes to the amount of 
£P.31 287. 658 mils, maturing on the lst October, 1939, have been deposited 
with the Company as security for the amount due to Government by the 
Previous Concessionaires, and until final settlement has been made with 
them in respect of the exact extent of the area acquired. 


Note.—A sum of £P.24,500 has been received by the Company from pros- 
pective partners in the development of the Concession. 


The Palestine Land Development Co., Ltd., 


Joshua Hankin, Dr. Jacob Thon, Managing Directors. 


We have examined the above Statement with the Books of the Palestine 


Land Development Co., Ltd., and certify the same to be in accordance 
therewith. 


Russet, & Co., 


Chartered Accountants. 
3rd March, 1936. 


28784 


284 


(v) LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION: DUES COLLECTED IN 1934.. 


Administration Générale des Phares, 


12, Rue Gaillon, Paris. 


TABLEAU DES RECETTES MENSULLES PALESTINIENNES DES PHARES. 
January—December, 1934. 


Month. 


January 


February .. 


March 
April 
May... 
June 
July 


August 


September ... 


October 


November ... 
December ... 


Dues collected 
Haifa. Jaffa. . outside Total. 
Palestine. 
£P. Mils. P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
1,219.714 915.855 194 2,135.763 
1,368.684 858.184 — 2, 226.868 
1,993.415 1,297.204 .360 3,290.979 
1,658.508 1,310.919 428 2,969.855 
1,397.362 1,110.113 1.976 2,509.451 
1,155.734 1,058.988 131 2,214.853 
1,269,402 1,202.049 2.577 2,474.028 
1,386.374 1,179.833 5.494 2,571.701 
1,526.835 995.475 2.714 2,525.024 
1,561.844 1,278.183 1.341 2,841.368 
1,605.846 1,078.581 2.467 2,686°894 
1,913.603 878.429 232 2,792.204 
18,057.321 13, 163.813 17.914 31,239.048 
ToNNAGE MENSUEL. 
January—December, 1934. — 
Haifa. 
247,649 
280,400 
422,768 
332,137 243,438 
268,180 205,374 
211,232 192,060 . 
‘ 239,575 219,599 
254,174 214,001 
287,871 176,847 
278,059 228,497 
288,854 192,510 
343,864 155,180 
3,454,763 2,398,341 








rg 


5,853,104 


285 


APPENDIX II. 


LANDLORDS AND TENANTS (EJECTION AND RENT RESTRICTION) 
ORDINANCE, No. 11 OF 1934, 


AN ORDINANCE TO MAKE CERTAIN PROVISIONS AS TO THE RELATIONSHIP OF 
LANDLORDS AND TENANTS. 


Be it enacted by the High Commissioner for Palestine, with the advice 
of the Advisory Council thereof :— 


Short title. 


1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Landlords and Tenants (Ejection 
and Rent Restriction) Ordinance, 1934. 


Interpretation. 
2. In this Ordinance— 

‘< Dwelling-house ’’ means a dwelling-house situated within any muni-. 
cipal area to which any part of this Ordinance has been applied and 
includes any flat or part of a building which forms a complete residence 
in itself so situated, but does not include an hotel or boarding-house. 
or any part of a building used for the purpose of a dwelling-house let 
together with any part of a building which is used for any professional 
or commercial purpose so situated. 

‘‘ Municipal council ’’ means the council of the municipal corporation 
within the area of which any dwelling-house is situated. 

‘¢ Sub-tenant ’’? means any person who resides in a room or rooms.or 
part of a room in any dwelling-house of which some other person is the 
tenant. 

‘““Tenant ’’ means a tenant of a dwelling-house. 


Application and duration of Ordinance, 


3.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21 of this Ordinance the High 
Commissioner-in-Council may from time to time by Order-in-Council provide 
that the whole or any part of this Ordinance shall apply to a municipal 
area, and may in like manner vary or revoke such Order. U:pon the revoca- 
tion of any such Order this Ordinance shall no longer apply to the 
municipal area in respect of which such Order was made. Save as pro- 
vided herein this Ordinance shall not apply to any municipal area or 
otherwise. 

(2) This Ordinance shall remain in force until the thirty-first day of 
March, 1935. 


PART I. 
EJECTION OF TENANTS. 


Restriction on ejectment. 


4.—({1) No court or judge or execution officer shall give any judgment 
or make any order for the eviction of a tenant from a dwelling-house, 
notwithstanding that such tenant’s contract of tenancy has expired, unless 

(a) such tenant has failed to pay any rent lawfully due in respect of 
such dwelling-house, or 

(b) such tenant has failed to comply with any term of any agree- 
ment of tenancy in respect of such dwelling-house, or 

(c) such tenant has wilfully damaged or allowed to be damaged such 
dwelling-house, or 

(zd) such tenant has used or allowed to be used such dwelling-house 
for any illegal purpose or in such a way as to constitute a nuisance to 
the neighbours, or 


286 


(e) the landlord of such dwelling-house desires to occupy it as his own 
residence, and the court, judge or execution officer is satisfied that 
other reasonable dwelling accommodation is available for the tenant, or 

(f) the landlord of such dwelling-house desires to alter or reconstruct 
such dwelling-house or the building of which euch dwelling-house forms 
a part in such a way as to affect such dwelling-house, provided that such 
landlord shall after having obtained the necessary permit for such 
alteration or reconstruction have given to the tenaht not less than three 
months’ notice in writing to vacate the dwelling-house, or 

(g) such tenant is the owner of some other dwelling-house which is 
available for his occupation. 


(2) Where by reason of the provisions of this section any tenant continues 
in occupation of any dwelling-house after the expiration of any contract of 
tenancy the terms and conditions of such contract of tenancy shall, in so far 
as they may be applicable, be deemed to apply to such occupation: 

Provided that subject to the provisions of parts II and III of this 
Ordinance in so far as they may apply to such dwelling-house, the rent of 
such dwelling-house may be increased. 


Certain agreements to be void. 


5. Where prior to the commencement of this Ordinance any agreement 
for a tenancy of any dwelling-house was made between the landlord of such 
dwelling-house and any person not in occupation of such dwelling-house, 
and by reason of the provisions of section 4 of this Ordinance such person 
is unable to obtain ipossession of such dwelling-house such agreement shall 
be deemed to be void and no action for damages or otherwise shall be brought 
thereon in any court: 

Provided that any consideration by way of rent, premium or otherwise 
already paid by such person to the landlord by virtue of such agreement 
shall be repaid by the landlord to such person and shall be recoverable as 
a civil debt. 


PART IIT. 
Maxruum Rent. 


Mazimum rent of dwelling-house. 


6. From and after the end of Zilhidge 1352 A.H. the rent payable by a 
tenant for a dwelling-house notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary 
shall :— 

(a) if such rent is in respect of the Hejera year not exceed two pounds 
and five hundred mils for each room in such dwelling-house per month 
of the Hejera year, and 

(b) if such rent is in respect of the Gregorian year, not exceed two 
pounds and five hundred and seventy mils for each room in such 
dwelling-house per month of the Gregorian year. 


Power of municipal council to fix maximum rents. 


7.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 6 of this Ordinance it shall 
be lawful for a municipal council, with. the approval of the High Com- 
missioner, to fix by by-laws the maximum rents which may be paid from 
and after the end of Zilhidge 1352 A.H. in respect of dwelling-houses in aby 
zone or zones within the municipal area: 

Provided that any such by-laws shall provide that the landlord of any 
dwelling-house within any such zone may apply to a Rent Commissioner 
to fix a maximum rent, not exceeding the maximum rent provided for 11 
section 6 of this Ordinance in respect of any such dwelling-house, and such 
Rent Commissioner shall fix such maximum rent. 


287 


(2) If any municipal council has not by the thirtieth day of April, 1934, 
made any by-laws in respect of the municipal area as provided in sub- 
section (1) hereof, and the District Commissioner is of opinion that it is 
necessary so to do, he may, with the approval of the High Commissioner 
and subject to the provisions of section 6 of this Ordinance, in such area 
fix the maximum rent which may be paid from and after the end of Zilhidge 
1352 A.H. in respect of dwelling-houses in any zone or zones within such 
area : 

Provided that the landlord of any dwelling-house within any such zone 
may apply to a Rent Commissioner to fix the maximum rent not exceeding 
the maximum rent provided for in section 6 of this Ordinance in respect 
of any such dwelling-house, and such Rent Commissioner shall fix such 
maximum rent. 

(3) Where the maximum rent of any dwelling-house has been fixed under 
the provisions hereof notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary no rent 


in excess of such maximum rent shall be paid in respect of such dwelling- 
house. 


Mazimum rent payable by sub-tenant. 


8. From and after the end of Zilhidge 1352 A.H. notwithstanding any 
agreement to the contrary the rent payable by a sub-tenant in respect of 
rooms occupied by euch sub-tenant 

(a) where euch sub-tenant does not pay municipal rates, shall not 
exceed an amount which bears the same proportion to the rent payable 
in respect of the dwelling-house as the number of rooms occupied by 
such sub-tenant bears to the number of rooms in the dwelling-house plus 
twenty per centum of such amount, or 

(b) where such sub-tenant pays municipal rates, shall not exceed the 
amount payable under paragraph (a) hereof less the amount payable 
by the sub-tenant in respect of municipal rates. 


Variation of certain agreements. 


9. Any agreement whereunder any rent in excess of the maximum rent 
provided for under the provisions of this part of this Ordinance is payable 
in respect of any dwelling-house or part thereof to which this part of this 
Ordinance applies shall be construed as though it were an agreement to 
pay such maximum rent, 


Repayment of excess rent etc. paid in advance, 


10. Where prior to the commencement of this Ordinance any rent or 
premium or other consideration has been paid in advance in respect of any 
dwelling-house or part thereof to which this part of this Ordinance applies 
or in respect of any tenancy of such dwelling-house or part thereof in 
respect of any period after the commencement of this Ordinance any amount 
by which euch rent and premium or other consideration so paid exceeds 
the rent payable under the provisions of this Ordinance, shall be repaid by 
the person to whom it was paid to the person by whom it was paid and shall 
be recoverable as a civil debt. 


PART III. 


INOREASE OF RENT. 
Restriction on increase of rent payable by a tenant. 


li. Subject to the provisions of part II of this Ordinance if those pro- 
Visions apply thereto notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, no 
Tent payable in respect of any dwelling-house shall after the commencement 
of this Ordinance be increased to an amount exceeding the rent payable in 
respect of such dwelling-house at the commencement of this Ordinance plus 
twenty per centum of the amount of such rent payable at the commence- 
ment of this Ordinance: 


288 


Provided that in any Order applying the provisions of this part of this 
Ordinance to any municipal area the High Commissioner may provide for 
the addition of a percentage being less than twenty per centum. 


Restriction on increase payable by sub-tenant. 


12. Subject to the provisions of part II of this Ordinance if those pro- 
visions apply thereto notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, no 
rent payable by a sub-tenant after the commencement of this Ordinance 
in respect of a part of a dwelling-house shall be increased to an amount 
exceeding the rent payable by the sub-tenant (if any) of such part of a 
dwelling-house at the commencement of this Ordinance plus twenty per 
centum of the amount of such rent payable at the commencement of this 
Ordinance : 

Provided that in any Order applying the provisions of this part of this 
Ordinance to any municipal area the High Commissioner may provide for 
the addition of a percentage being less than twenty per centum: 

Provided also that where after the commencement of this Ordinance 
municipal rates are payable by a sub-tenant of any part of a dwelling- 
house which prior to the commencement of this Ordinance were not paid by 
the sub-tenant of such part of a dwelling-house, the rent of such part of 
a dwelling-house shall not be increased beyond the amount provided for 
herein less the amount of the municipal rates paid by the sub-tenant. 


Variation of certain agreements, 


13. Any agreement whereunder any rent in excess of the increased rent 
provided for under the provisions of this part of this Ordinance is payable 
in respect of any dwelling-house or part thereof to which this part of this 
Ordinance applies shall be construed as though it were an agreement to 
pay such increased rent. 


GENERAL. 


Duties of Rent Commissioners. 


14. Where by reason of any part of this Ordinance having been applied 
to any area any question shall arise as to 


(a) the rent payable in respect of any dwelling-house, or 
(b) the rent payable by any sub-tenant in respect of any dwelling- 
house, or 
(c) the maximum rent payable in respect of any dwelling-house in 8 
zone within which maximum rents have been fixed, or _ . 
(d) the terms or conditions of the tenancy of any dwelling-house, or 
(e) the variation of any agreement under the provisiong of sections 9 
or 13 of this Ordinance, 
such question shall be referred. to a Rent Commissioner appointed under 
the provisions of this Ordinance who shall, after hearing the parties 
interested therein, decide such question. 


Appeals from Rent Commissioner. 


15. Any person aggrieved by the decision of a Rent Commissioner may 
within fourteen days of such decision appeal therefrom to a Rents Tribunal 
appointed under the provisions of this Ordinance, which shall after hearing 
the parties interested therein decide any question referred to it. 


Appeals from Rents Tribunals, 
16. Any person aggrieved by a decision of a Rents Tribunal may within 
fourteen days of such decision appeal to the District Court on a point of 
law by leave of the President thereof. 


289 


Appointment of Rent Commissioners. 


17.—(1) Where any part of this Ordinance has been applied to a municipal 
area the municipal council thereof shall appoint a number of Rent Com- 
missioners not exceeding twenty-four at such remuneration as may be 
approved by the District Commissioner which shall be paid from the 
municipal fund. 


(2) If any such council fails to appoint any or sufficient Rent Commis- 
sioners within fourteen days of the date when any part of this Ordinance 
is 80 applied the District Commissioner may appoint such number of Rent 
Commissioners as may appear to him to be necessary but so that the total 
number appointed does not exceed twenty-four. The Rent Commissioners 
so appointed shall be paid such remuneration as the District Commissioner 
may direct from the municipal fund. 


Appointment of Rents Tribunal. 


18.—(1) The Rents Tribunal shall consist of three persons appointed by 
the District Commissioner from a list of not less than six persons nominated 
by the municipal council, one of whom sball be appointed by the District 
Commissioner as chairman: 

Provided that if within fourteen days of the date when any part of this 
Ordinance is applied to a municipal area the municipal council shall not 
prepare euch a list the District Commissioner may appoint three fit persons 
as a Rents Tribunal. 

(2) The members of a Rents Tribunal shall be paid such remuneration 
as may be fixed by the municipal council with the approval of the District 
Commissioner, or if the municipal council shall not fix such remuneration, 
such remuneration as the District Commissioner may fix which shall be 
payable from the municipal fund. 


Power to make rules, 


19. The High Commissioner may make rules governing the practice and 
procedure in applications to Rent Commissioners and in appeals from Rent 
Commissioners to Rents Tribunals. 


Power to make rules of court. 


20. The Chief Justice may, with the concurrence of the High Commis- 
sioner, make rules of court regulating the practice and procedure in appeals 
from Rents Tribunals to the ‘District Court. 


Saving. 
21. The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply 


(a) to the tenancy of any dwelling-house the construction of which 
was not completed prior to the commencement of this Ordinance. For 
the purpose of this section the construction shall be completed when 
the dwelling-house is first occupied, or 

(b) to any dwelling-house or the tenancy of any dwelling-house in 
respect of which ar agreement of tenancy for a term of not less than 
three years was made prior to the commencement of this Ordinance. 


A. G. WaucHorg, 
High Commiesioner. 
4th April, 1934. 


290 


APPENDIX III. 
STATEMENT OF RESULTS OF MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS. 


JERUSALEM Di1stTRIOCT. 
Members of Council. 


Name of Municipality. Christian. Moslem. Jew. 
Jerusalem ... ae re 2 4 6 
Hebron er oo a — 6 — 
Ramallah ... ites weal 6 — — 
Bethlehem ... axe Seg 6 — — 
Beit Jala... oe ses 6 — = 


NogTHERN District. 
Members of Council. 


Name of Municipality. Christian. Moslem. ew. 
Haifa 4 4 4 
Beisan 6 _ — 
Jenin 6 —_ — 
Nablus 8 — _ 
Acre 6 ] — 
Nazareth 8 4 — 
Safad 4 — 3 
Tiberias 2 1 4 
Tulkarm 6 — a 


SouTHERN District. 
Members of Council. 


Name of Municipality. Christian. Moslem. Jew. 
Beersheba ... —_— 6 — 
Gaza... 1 11 — 
Jaffa 2 7 2 
Lydda 1 5 —- 
Majdal — 6 — 
Ramle : ase ia 2 4 — 
Tel-Aviv... see was No elections held in 1934. 


APPENDIX IV. 


CONCESSION FOR THE DRAINAGE OF LAKE HULEH AND THE 
ADJACENT MARSHES. 


AGREEMENT 


Concluded between Javip Bry, Minister of Finance, acting on behalf of the 
Imperial Ottoman Government, on the one part, and MuHamMMmap OMAR 
BeyHum and Mricnet Sursock, merchants, of Beirut, on the other. 


Article 1—A concession is granted to MusamMap Omar Beyxum and 
MicueL Sursock, by the Imperial Ottoman Government, for the drainag® 
and reclamation of the Huleh marshes, consisting of Government land, 32d 
situated within the Kazas of Safad and Merj’Ayun attached to the Beirut 
Villayet, in order that the marsh land aforesaid may be rendered fit for 
cultivation. The concession is granted subject to the following conditions, 
which have been agreed to by the Concessionaires. 

Articla 2.—The Huleh marshes shall be handed over to the Concessionalres 
within a period of forty days as from the date upon which copies of this 
agreement are exchanged by the parties, in accordance with the conteuts 
of the map preserved in the Office of the Land Department, Beirut. 


291 


The Concessionaires shall, within one year as from the period above men- 
tioned, draw up the necessary schemes of work and submit them to the 
Imperial Ministry of Public Works. The aforesaid schemes shall be examined 
within a period of three months as from the date at which they are sub- 
mitted. Should they be approved, they will be adopted as they stand. In 
the contrary case, they will be adopted after the necessary modifications and 
corrections have been made. In the event of the formalities connected with 
the adoption of the schemes of work not being completed within a period of — 
three months, such schemes shall be considered to have been adopted. 


Article 3.—The Concessionaires undertake to commence operations within 
a@ period of six months as from the date upon which the schemes of work 
drawn up by them are approved by the Imperial Ministry of Public Works, 
and to complete the work of reclamation within a period of six years. In 
the event of circumstances arising which amount to force majeure, however, 
of which timely notice shall be given in writing to the local authorities and 
the Imperial Ministries of Finance and Public Works, an additional period 
will be allowed within which to complete such reclamation, corresponding to 
the period during which operations have been interrupted owing to such 
circumstances. The work of reclamation shall be carried out on scientific 
lines, and in accordance with the approved schemes. 


Article 4.—Detailed maps and statements required in connexion with the 
reclamation operations shall be drawn up by the Concessionaires and sub- 
mitted to the Imperial Ministry of Public Works for examination, as 
follows :— 


(1) A detailed topographical map shall be drawn up, to a scale of 
roé6co showing the position of the marshes and water channels. This 
map shall show at proper distance all elevations and contour lines, 
together with figures, and shall contain all signs usual in topography. 
It shall also show the lower and upper levels of the marshes and the 
areas which are surrounded by water during flood time, whether 
ordinary or extraordinary, and the boundaries of areas which are under 
water either permanently or temporarily. In addition, a general map 
of the same nature shall be drawn up to the scale ,,,555. ‘Ten 
copies of each of the detailed map and of the general map shall be sent 
to the Ministry of Public Works. All registers and records likely to 
prove the accuracy of the detailed map and that it reproduces the actual 
position of the land, and all figures and records showing in what 
manner the reclamation operations are being carried out, may at any 
time be examined by technical officials to be appointed by the Ministry 
of Public Works. All level indicators to be set up on the land, whether 
made of stone, or of wrought iron, or consisting of wooden pegs and 
used for the preparation of the map or thereafter for putting the 
schemes of work into execution on the land, or for determining the site 
for technical operations, shall be affixed in a solid manner. In order 
that the position of such indicators may easily be identified in the 
future, and in order that new ones may be erected in the event of any 
being lost, a list thereof, together with a map, shall be drawn up. 

(2) The places into which the water coming from the marshes to be- 
reclaimed, and from elevated regions in the neighbourhood thereof, and 
from mountains and hills, is to be conducted by channels to be con- 
structed for such purpose, shall be shown on the maps, and the volume. 
thereof calculated. A record shall be kept by means of special instru- 
ments showing the amount of rainfall, the degree of heat, humidity, 
and evaporation of the air during the various seasons over the whole: 
comcession area. The results shall be sent regularly each year to the 
Imperial Ministry of Public Works. 

(3) The Concessionaires shall show in red, on a copy of both the 
detailed and general maps, the operations they propose to carry out. 
After approval or modification, such operations shall be entered on the 


292 


other copies. Plans of the water courses shall be drawn up longitudin- 
ally and submitted, to the scale of ;,45, in length and ,}, in height. 
Plans of the technical operations and of the water courses showing cross 
sections shall be drawn up as may be necessary to a scale of 4, or 34. 
The places where the trial operations are carried out with a view to 
determining the foundations of the technical operations, and the results 
thereof, shall also be shown on these maps. 

(4) The area of the marshes to be reclaimed and the area of any land 
lying within the boundaries thereof which is owned by a private owner 
shall be shown on a map to the scale of ,;4;;, The Concessionaires shall 
submit a memorandum together with the map and plans which shall con- 
tain detailed technical explanations of any scheme or work adopted or 
arrangements made. 


The necessary hydrographic calculations shall be furnished in order that 
the cross sections of the water channels may be determined. Figures shall 
also be furnished showing resistance in order that the distance separating 
the various technical undertakings may be established. 


Article 5.—All work, the execution of which is deemed necessary, such as 
the opening of canals and construction of bunds with a view to the reclama- 
tion and improvement of land within the concession area, the boundaries of 
which are to be defined, and which are either permanently or temporarily 
under water; the cleansing of existing water courses; and the filling up of 
any particular area; shall be shown on the plans, 


Article 6.—The Concessionaires, in order to ensure the carrying out and 
successful termination of the work of reclamation, shall have the right of 
demanding the alteration, destruction, or removal of the canals, dams or 
intakes which belong to private persons and are situated on the land to be 
reclaimed, on condition that they compensate the owners thereof. Any 
obstacles found in the said water courses, such as the pillars of old bridges, 
stakes, or debris, may be removed. 


Article 7.—The Concessionaires are bound to maintain at their own 
expense any roads and paths, whether great or small, which are crossed by 
new canals or water courses. Should it be found necessary to change the 
direction of any of such roads or paths adjoining the area where work is 
being carried on, the gradient of such alterations, wherever they occur, 
should not exceed the maximum gradient already existing elsewhere. The 
breadth of the bridges to be built over canals and creeks may vary between 
three and ten metres. The actual width of such bridges and the type of 
construction shall be determined by the Government. The Imperial] Govern- 
ment shall have the right of constructing bridges and roads over canals, 
water courses and creeks of such a breadth as to ensure the easy flow of 
water therein. 


Article 8.—Building material shall be of the best quality and all work 
shall be carried out on scientific lines. 


Article 9.—Should any farmers or land owners, who have hitherto benefited 
by the waters of the Huleh marshes, suffer any loss in consequence of the 
reclamation operations, the Concessionaires are responsible for ensuring 
their supply of water as formerly. Should this be impossible, the Con- 
cessionaires shall indemnify them for any loss which may result. Similarly, 
should any land which is now protected from being submerged be flooded, 
in whole or in part, by reason of the _ reclamation operations, 
the Concessionaires shall drain such land at their own expense and com- 
pensate such persons for any loss or damage they may suffer. 


Article 10.—Should the Concessionaires and the land owners fail to come 
to an agreement regarding the expropriation of land, buildings, etc., in the 
possession of private persons, the expropriation of which is essential, in the 
public interest, to the carrying out of the reclamation operations, action 


293 


shall be taken in accordance with the Law of Expropriation. Should it be 
necessary to occupy any land temporarily, while operations are being carried 
on, such land may be used for the time being, provided that the owners shall 
be compensated by the Concessionaires, through the Imperial Government. 
If -aumoccupied Government land happens to fall within the areas required 
for the operations, and any work dependent thereon, such land shall be 
given free of charge to the Concessionaires. Should any part of such land 
be required for temporary use during the course of the operations, such land 
may be utilized free of charge. 

Maps prepared with a view to expropriation and occupation of land shall 
be to a scale of ;,'1;5, In cases, however, where this scale proves to be 
insufficient, the Concessionaires may have maps drawn up to a larger scale, 
aS may be necessary. 


Article 11.—Any modification which may be made during the course of 
the operations to schemes of work already approved, and, similarly, any 
schemes drawn up with regard to new and additional works, the execution 
of which is considered to be necessary, shall be submitted for approval to 
the Ministry of Public Works, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 
hereof. 


Article 12.—Upon the Concessionaires stating that they have completed 
the undertaking, a report shall be drawn up by a technical Commission 
appointed by the Imperial Ministries of Finance and Public Works, contain- 
ing the results of an examination made by them and thereupon a provisional 
acceptance shall be granted. After the expiration of a period of two years 
from the date of the provisional acceptance, a further examination of the 
undertaking shall be carried out by a technical Commission. If it appears 
that the work has been carried out in accordance with the terms of this 
Agreement and with due observance of technical principles, and that the 
Concessionaires have fulfilled all the undertakings contained in this Agree- 
ment, final acceptance shall be granted. Travelling and any other expenses 
properly incurred by the Commission shall be borne by the Concessionaires. 


Article 13.—With a view to ensuring the due performance of their under- 
takings, the Concessionaires shall, within one month from the date of the 
confirmation of this Agreement, deposit at the Ottoman Bank a guarantee to 
the amount of one thousand Turkish pounds either in cash or in Turkish 
Treasury Bonds at market value. If bonds are deposited and depreciate in 
value, the Bank undertakes to make good any loss. This guarantee shall be 
refunded after the provisional acceptance has been granted. If within the 
said month the Concessionaires fail to deposit the necessary guarantee, they 
shall lose all rights under the concession, there being no need for any legal 
steps to be taken, nor any protests served. 


Article 14.—The Concessionaires shall, within a period of twelve months 
as from the date of the exchange of copies of this Agreement, form an 
Ottoman Limited Liability Company in accordance with the relevant 
Regulations. The shares shall bear the name of their holders, who must 
be Ottoman subjects, born of Ottoman parents and grandparents. The 
«Articles of Association must be confirmed by the Ministry of Commerce 
and Agriculture in the usual way, and the concession shall be transferred 
to the Company, failing which, the concession shall be rescinded, without 
taking any legal steps in the matter. 


Article 15.—The Imperial Government reserves the right of setting up 
such trenches and fortifications as may be deemed necessary within the 
concession area, and the Concessionaires shall have no right of claiming 
damages in respect thereof. 


Article 16.—Upon the completion of the undertaking and after final 
acceptance has been given, a Committee of six shall be set up with a view 
to ensuring the permanent working of the undertaking. Three members 


294 


shall be elected by the Ottoman Limited Company on behalf of the Con- 
cessionaires, and all land owners concerned. The other three shall be 
appointed by the Government. The duty of this body shall be to supervise 
the proper working of the improvements made, in order that each person 
concerned may be guaranteed the enjoyment of his portion of the property 
and the proportional benefit accruing thereto. The members elected by 
the land owners must be agreed to and confirmed in their posts by the 
Government. All Regulations regarding general procedure, moneys to be 
collected, and the expenditure thereof shall be submitted to the Imperial 
Government for approval. 

Article 17.—Apart from the tithe payable to the Treasury in respect to 
land situated within the marshes and now under cultivation, the Con- 
cessionaires shall pay annually into the Imperial Treasury a sum equivalent 
to the whole of what is due in respect to such land, calculated on the 
average of the preceding five years. These sums shall be paid until such 
time as a title deed has been delivered in respect to the land, after 
reclamation, conferring the ownership thereof upon the Concessionaires. 

Article 18.—As soon as the reclamation and cultivation of the land has 
been commenced, the Concessionaires shall pay to the Government a total 
sum of £T.20,000, this being at the rate of £T.2 per dunum in reference 
to an area of approximately 10,000 dunums reclaimed by the cultivator, 
whereupon a title deed shall be issued to the Concessionaires conferring the 
ownership of the land upon them. The Concessionaires shall then sell the 
land to the former cultivators concerned, upon payment of reasonable 
instalments, after adding the approximate expenses occasioned by the 
reclamation of the ten thousand dunums in question, together with the 
legal rate of interest. 

Article 19.—After the marshes have been reclaimed, the land shal] be 
surveyed and registered at the Land Registry in the name of the Company, 
on behalf of the Concessionaires, at the rate of two Turkish pounds per 
dunum. The price shall be paid to the Government without interest, and 
in equal instalments, within a period of fifteen years as from the termins- 
tion of the period of six years allowed for reclamation. The fixed instal- 
ments shall be payable in the month of November of each year. Should 
payment not be effected by that date, the land shall be attached and legal 
action taken accordingly. The Concessionaires, or the Company on theif 
behalf, shall pay a rent in respect to the produce obtained from tha parts 
reclaimed during the period of six years allowed for reclamation, equal to 
the rent payable in the case of similar land. 

Article 20.—The hotel and the inn and the shops belonging to the 
Treasury and situated in the neighbourhood of Jisr-Banat Ya’qub shall be 
sold to the Concessionaires at prices to be estimated in the ordinary way. 
These buildings shall be delivered immediately, together with the land, to 
the Concessionaires. Upon the expiration of the period allowed for 
reclamation, the ownership of the buildings, together with the land, shall 
be conferred upon the Concessionaires, the value thereof being paid fortt- 
with to the Treasury. The Concessionaires shall pay the rent due each 
year in respect to the period intervening between the date of this Agree 
ment and the date of the transfer of ownership, on the basis of the rent at 
present payable. 

Article 21.—The dues payable in respect of halfa, papyrus, and fishing 
obtained from the marshes and the lake have been put up to auction by 
the Imperial Government on behalf of the Treasury for a period of five 
years as from the year 1329, and the amount produced in shells for 4 
period of three years. In the event of the Concessionaires being unable to 
come to any understanding with the persons to whom the collection of the 
dues has been auctioned, the matter shall be settled by arbitrators to be 
appointed by the parties. Should this be impossible, the question shall be 
settled by a second arbitrator to be elected by the Administrative Council. 


+ 


295 


Article 22.—Special commissioners shall carry out an inspection of the 
work and all other operations and undertakings relating to this Concession 
until the date of final acceptance, in order to ascertain whether such work 
is being properly done. A monthly inspection fee of LT, 15 shall be payable 
by the Company on behalf of the Concessionaires as from the date of 
delivery of the land until provisional acceptance is granted. 


Article 23.—The Concessionaires, or the Company on their behalf, shall be 
subject to all present and future laws and regulations of the State. All 
technical officials, workmen, and other employees who may be required for 
these operations, shall be Ottoman subjects, with the exception of a chief 
engineer, who may be a foreigner. 


Article 24.—Antiquities and the like which may be discovered during the 
operations shall be dealt with according to the special regulations relating 
thereto. 


Article 25.—If during the operations the Government shall deem it neces- 
sary to install technical officers or gendarmes, the buildings necessary for 
their accommodation shall be set up by the Concessionaires. 


Article 26.—As from the date of the exchange of copies of this Agreement 
until final acceptance the Company, on behalf of the Concessionaires, shall 
establish its registered office at Beirut, or shall have in that town a duly 
authorized representative empowered to serve and receive service of docu- 
ments, to institute and to defend actions and to perform all acts necessary 
in connection with a power of attorney, failing which, service on the 
Municipality shall be considered to be service on the Company on behalf 
of the Concessionaires., 


Article 27.—Any dispute arising: between the Imperial Government and 
the Concessionaires regarding the application of the terms of this Agree- 
ment shall be settled by the Imperial Council of State. Any other actions 
between the Concessionaires and private individuals shall be settled in the 
Ottoman Courts concerned. 


Article 28.—Should it become necessary to pull down the Banat-Ya’qub 
Bridge, the Company, on behalf of the Concessionaires, shall put up another, 
the site, design and type of which shall be approved by the Ministry of 
Public Works. 


Article 29.—If the Company, on behalf of the Concessionaires, fails to pre- 
pare the plans according to the terms of this Agreement and within the 
period fixed therein, or in the event of its failing to complete the operations 
specified in the approved scheme of work without any justification such as 
force majeure, or in the event of failure to fulfil its obligations after being 
granted a reasonable period in which to do so and after due notification by 
the Ministries of Finance and Public Works, the guarantee shall be 
confiscated and the concession cancelled, 

In the event of the concession being rescinded, the whole undertaking, 
including building machinery and implements, shall be valued and put up 
for public auction, after the Concessionaires have been heard, with a view 
to ensuring the continuation and completion of the undertaking and all the 
commitments of the Concessionaires, 

Neither the Company nor any person considered unsuitable or who has 
failed to pay the guarantee referred to in this Agreement may bid at the 
auction. The person acquiring the undertaking by virtue of this auction will, 
subject to the terms of this Agreement, and all rights and liabilities of the 
Concessionaires will be transferred to him. After deducting expenses 
occasioned by the auction as well as all other expenses, the amount realized 
will be payable to the Concessionaires. 

Should no bid be made at the auction a second auction shall be held after 


the expiration of three months without estimating the value of the 
undertaking. | 


296 

Should no bids be made at this second auction, the Concessionaires shalf 
lose all their rights in the undertaking, which shall be transferred to the 
Ministry of Finance free of all cost and any charges whatsoever, together 
with all tools, implements and equipment. Should the Concessionaires desire 
to bid at the auction they should deposit a fresh guarantee of twice the 
amount of the guarantee which has been attached. 

This contract has been drawn up in two copies and signed and exchanged 
in Constantinople, dated June, 1330. 


APPENDIX V 


STATEMENT MADE BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE IN THE HovUSE OF COMMONS ON 
28TH JANUARY, 1935, REGARDING LAKE TIBERIAS. 


I can best answer by giving the following information contained in a 
recent despatch from the High Commissioner :— 


1. It appears from a graph, prepared by the Department of Surveys, 
of variations in level of Lake Tiberias, that the level fell to —2039 
metres from natural causes in the winter of 1929; and again to 
—203-95 metres in December, 1933, from a combination of natural 
causes and the preliminary operations of the Palestine Electric Cor- 
poration. The graph also reveals a comparative correspondence between 
the levels of Lake Tiberias and the fluctuations in the level of the 
Dead Sea. This would suggest that the present subsidence of the waters 
of Lake Tiberias is due to some appreciable extent to natural causes, 
namely a succession of droughts, and that it cannot, therefore, be 
ascribed entirely to the operations of the Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion. At the end of December, 1934, the level of the lake had fallen 
as low as —204-68 metres but in the last few days it rose again by 
-75 metres, and is at present approximately —203-:9 metres. This is 
appreciably lower than the minimum which it is proposed to offer to 
the Palestine Electric Corporation, namely, —203-5 metres. 


2. The following description of the effects of the lowering of the level 
of the Lake has reference to a level of —203-9 metres or thereabouts. 

The recession of the waters has resulted in stretches of new fore- 
shore becoming exposed, but, if regard is had to the two reasons set out 
below, it cannot be said to be established either that this result is of 
such a character as to give offence at all points of its occurrence on 
aesthetic grounds or that it seriously impairs the natural beauty of 
sites on the margin of the Lake possessing traditional religious 
associations. 

(1) The exposure is not continuous along the line of the shore, 
but has taken place at a few points only and at those points to a 
relatively small extent; 

(11) A minimum level of —203-5 metres will not normally be 
maintained throughout the year, and in fact it may be anticipated 
that the exposure as described will be considerably reduced, if not 
eliminated, and its effects mitigated, except in the three or four 
summer months. 

3. The eastern foreshore is now extended by between eight to ten 
metres for a great part of its length but the shingly beach which has 
thus been exposed is not unsightly and so far as is known there have 
been no complaints in respect of this section. The eastern shores sre, 
In any case, very seldom visited by tourists. 

At and near Capernaum, on the north-western end of the Lake, the 
foreshore slopes steeply, and accordingly no detriment has been caused 
by the lowering of the level. At Tabgha a shingly beach has been 
exposed of 10 metres in extent. 

It is at Buteiha, at the northern end, and at Migdal, some five 
kilometres north of Tiberias, that expanses of mud-flats have been 
created. At Buteiha, about 80 dunums of land formerly under water 





297 


have been exposed, and a somewhat larger area at Migdal. But at both 
places local Arab cultivators have planted maize and it is doubtful 
whether there can be any reasonable complaint of the appearance of 
these reclaimed areas under crops. 

At Samakh, at the southern extremity of the Lake, an unsightly 
beach, varying in width from 10 to 40 metres, has been created; and 
facing and near Tiberias itself much of the town debris and refuse. 
which was formerly under water is at the moment visible, As regards. 
the actual frontage of Tiberias, the situation is temporary and will 
be completely remedied by the construction, now in progress, of a. 
sea-wall which will accomplish the reclamation of the area now exposed 
and the disappearance of any foreshore. 

As regards the foreshore near Tiberias, in the neighbourhood of the 
Hot Baths, the difficulty will recur at every lowering of the Lake unless 
special measures are taken to clear the debris exposed on those occasions; 
and the District Commissioner will be requested to inquire into the 
possibility of effective and permanent steps in this direction. It is. 
true that at these two points the natural charm of the Lake has been 
diminished and, although the same criticism could hardly be sustained 
elsewhere, it is realised that in the case of Lake Tiberias aesthetic and 
religious considerations are inseparable. Nevertheless, the complaints. 
that have been made are, in the High Commissioner’s opinion, very 
much exaggerated. 

4, The High Commissioner will take all steps in his power to mitigate. 
s0 far as possible any effects of the lowering of the Lake level which 
give rise to justifiable complaint, and will endeavour to obtain the 
co-operation of the Palestine Electric Corporation in this object; but he 
is not aware of any other objectionable consequences which are likely 
to ensue from the operations of the company on the basis of a mini- 
mum level of —203-5 metres, inasmuch as the present situation has 
been brought about by a fall in level to —203-9 metres. 

5. Although considerable material damage may follow the raising of 
the level of the lake, there is no present indication that this damage. 
will be of a character likely either to affect the appearance of the 
lake and its shores, or to detract from its religious associations, pro- 
vided that the necessary protective works which are contemplated aro. 
carried out. 

6. It is undeniable that the lowering of the level of the lake, whether 
from artificial or natural causes, creates conditions favourable to the 
breeding of anopheles mosquitoes, and thus to malarial infection; and 
in fact the incidence of malaria was rather above normal this year. On 
the High Commissioner’s instructions the Department of Health has 
instituted special measures for the extermination of mosquitoes along 
the western shore from Tabgha to Samakh; and these measures are 
extended as the needs demand. In the nature of things, the conditions. 
in question cannot be entirely eradicated, but nothing will be left. 
undone that can be done to minimise the malarious consequences of a 
low level of —203-5 metres. 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


APPENDIX: VI 


AGREEMENT BETWEEN His BritaNNic Masesty AND His HIGHNESS THE AMIB. 
OF TRANS-JORDAN SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE AGREEMENT SIGNED ON THE 
20TH Fesruary, 1928.* 


His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions 


oe the Seas, Emperor of India, and His Highness the Amir of Trans-- 
ordan. 


es eh a et 


* Cmd. 3488 ( ‘‘ Treaty Series No. 7, 1930’ ). 


298 


Being desirous of amending in certain respects the Agreement signed on 
their behalf at Jerusalem on the 20th February, 1928. 
Have resolved to conclude a supplementary Agreement for that purpose, 
and to that end have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries: 
His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions 
beyond the Seas, Emperor of India. 
For Great Britain and Northern Ireland: 
His Excellency Lieutenant-General Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, 
G.C.M.G., K.C.B., C.I.E., D.8.0. 
His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan: 
His Excellency Ibrahim Pasha Hashem; 


who, having communicated their full powers, found in good and due 
form, have agreed as follows : — 


Article I, 


Article 1 of the Agreement signed on the 20th February, 1928, is hereby 
cancelled and the following provisions are substituted in lieu thereof :— 

‘‘ His Highness the Amir agrees that His Britannic Majesty shall 
be represented in Trans-Jordan by a British Resident acting on behalf 
of the High Commissioner for Trans-Jordan, and that communications 
between His Britannic Majesty and all other Powers on the one hand 
and the Trans-Jordan Government on the other, shall be made through 
the British Resident and the High Commissioner aforesaid. 

‘‘ His Britannic Majesty agrees that His Highness the Amir may 
appoint consular representatives in such neighbouring Arab States as 
may be considered necessary. 

‘‘ His Highness the Amir agrees that the ordinary expenses of civil 
government and administration will be borne entirely by Trans-Jordan.”’ 


Article II, 


' The first paragraph of Article 7 of the Agreement signed on the 20th 
February, 1928, is hereby cancelled; and the following provision is sub- 
stituted in lieu thereof :— 
‘‘ Except by agreement between the two countries there shal, be 
no Customs barrier between Palestine and Trans-Jordan.”’ ‘ 


\ 
Article III. ; 
The present Agreement shall be ratified and the ratifications shall | 
exchanged as soon as possible. It shall come into force immediately upd q 
ratification. 


Article IV. 


The present Agreement has been drawn up in two languages, English anc| 
Arabic, and the Plenipotentiaries of each of the High Contracting Partie: 
have signed two English copies and two Arabic copies. Both texts shal: 
have the same validity, but in case of divergenge between the two in the} 
interpretation of one or other of the Articles of the present Agreement, , 
the English text shall prevail. 

In faith whereof the above-mentioned Plenipotentiaries have signed the 
present Agreement. 

Done at Jerusalem on this second day of June, one thousand nine hundred 
and thirty-four. | 


(Sgd.) (Sgd.) 
IspranIM PasHa HASHEM. ARTHUR WAUOHOPE. 
(Signature in Arabic.) 


299 


APPENDIX VII 


ARTICLE 1 or THE Happa AGREEMENT. 


The frontier between Nejd and Trans-Jordan starts in the north-east 
from the point of intersection of meridian 39° E. and parallel 32° N., which 
marks the termination of the frontier between Nejd and ‘Iraq, and proceeds 
in a straight line to the point of intersection of meridian 37° E. and 
parallel 31° 30’ N., and thence along meridian 37° E. to the point of its 
intersection with parallel 31°25’ N. From this point, it proceeds in a 
straight line to the point of intersection of meridian 38° E. and parallel 
30° N.., leaving all projecting edges of the Wadi Sirhan in Nejd territory ; 
and thence proceeds along meridian 38° E. to the point of its intersection 
with parallel 29°35’ N. | 

The Map referred to in this Agreement is that known as the ‘ Inter- 
national’’ Asia Map, 1:1,000,000. 


NorTreEs BXCHANGED BETWEEN Sire GILBERT CLAYTON AND IBN SAUD REGARDING. 
THE FRONTIER BETWEEN TRANS-JORDAN AND THE HBEJAZ. 


() 
Sir G. Clayton to His Majesty the King of the Hejaz and of Nejd and its 


Dependencies. 
Your Majesty, 


I have the honour to remind your Majesty that, in the course of our 
negotiations, which have happily resulted in the conclusion of a treaty 
of friendship and good understanding between His Britannic Majesty and 
your Majesty, the question of the frontier between the Hejaz and Trans- 
Jordan was discussed, and I explained to your Majesty the position, as 
defined in a draft protocol submitted by me to you, which His Majesty’s 
Government have taken up on this question and to which they must adhere. 

His Majesty’s Government regard the above-mentioned frontier as being 
defined as follows :— 


‘“The frontier between the Hejaz and Trans-Jordan starts from the 
intersection of meridian 38° E. and parallel 29° 35’ N. which marks the 
termination of the frontier between Nejd and Trans-Jordan, and proceeds 
in a straight line to a point on the Hejaz Railway 2 miles south of 
Mudawwara. From this point it proceeds in a straight line to a point 
on the Gulf of Aqaba 2 miles south of the town of Aqaba.’’ 


Respects, 


GiLBERT CLAYTON, 


His Britannic Majesty’s 
Commissioner and Plenipotentiary. 


Jeddah, May 19th, 1927 (18th Zul Qa’da, 1345). 


(2) 


Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdul-Rahman al Faisal al Saud to His Britannic Majesty's 
Commissioner and Plenipotentiary, 
(Translation.) 


In reply to your letter dated the 18th Zul Qa’da, 1345, on the subject of 
the Hejaz-Trans-Jordan frontier, we note that His Majesty’s Government. 
adhere to their position, but we find it impossible, in the present circum- 
stances, to effect a final settlement of this question. Nevertheless, in view 


300 


of our true desire to maintain cordial relations based on solid ties of friend- 
ship, we desire to express to your Excellency our willingness to maintain 
the status quo in the Ma’an-Aqaba district, and we promise not to interfere 
in its administration until favourable circumstances will permit a final 
settlement of this question. 


Respects. 
(Sealed) AspuL-Az1z 1BN ABDUL-RaHMAN AL Savp. 
19th Zul Qa’da, 1345 (May 21st, 1927). 


APPENDIX VII 


TREATY OF FRIENDSHIP AND BON VOISINAGE BETWEEN TRANS-JORDAN AND 
Saup1 ARABIA. ; 


In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. 


His Highness the Amir Abdullah Ibn Hussein, Amir of Trans-Jordan, of 
the one part, 
and 


His Majesty King Abdul-Aziz Ibn Abder-Rahman Al Feisal Al Saud, King 
of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, of the other part, being desirous of con- 
solidating their mutual relations by the conclusion of a Treaty of Friendship 
and Bon Voisinage, have appointed as their plenipotentiaries for this 
purpose : 

His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan, 

His Excellency Taufiq Bey Abul Huda, Acting Chief Minister of the 
Amara of Trans-Jordan ; 


His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 


His Excellency Fuad Bey Hamza, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs 
in the Government of His Majesty ; 


who, having communicated to each other their powers, found in good and 
due order, have agreed as follows: 


Article 1. 


‘Permanent peace and firm and inviolable friendship shall prevail between 
the Amara of Trans-Jordan and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 

The two High Contracting Parties undertake to use their utmost 
endeavours to preserve these relations and to settle in a spirit of peace and 
friendship all disputes and differences which may arise between them. 


Article 2, 


Each of the two High Contracting Parties undertakes to preserve good 
relations with the other Party and to endeavour by every means in his 
power to prevent the use of his territory as a base for unlawful acts or pre 
parations therefor, including raiding, which may be directed against the 
peace and traquillity of the territory of the other Party. 

If it should appear to either of the two High Contracting Parties that the 
steps which he has taken may be insufficient to prevent the persons engaged 
in the unlawful activities mentioned in the first paragraph from giving 
effect to them in the territory of the other Party, he shall notify the other 
Party of them and of the measures which he has taken to put a stop to 
their being carried on. 

Article 3. 
The two High Contracting Parties shall appoint special officials in the 


zones in the neighbourhood of the frontier who shall be responsible for the 
organization of general co-operation and for carrying out the measures 


301 


necessary to ensure the application of the provisions of this Treaty and the 
two Governments shall notify each other of the names of the persons 
appointed for this purpose. 


These officials or such persons as may be acting on their behalf shall have 
the right to communicate with each other for the purpose of co-operation 
and with a view to the settlement of questions arising from time to time 
on the frontier or between the tribes. They shall exchange information 
immediately regarding any incidents occurring on the side of either which 
may affect the maintenance of security on the other side. 


Article 4. 


Whenever the competent authorities specified in Article 3 learn of pre- 
parations being made in their territory by an armed person or by armed 
persons with the object of committing acts of robbery or plunder or raiding 
or any other unlawful act of such a nature as to disturb the peace on the 
frontier between the two countries, each competent authority shall be 
obliged. to warn the other thereof. 


If it should appear that the warning sent to the competent authority will 
not arrive in time to admit of warning being given to those liable to be 
injured by the aggression, warning must be given in addition to the nearest 
official and, in case of its being impossible to reach him, to the tribes 
threatened. 


In circumstances of urgent necessity warning may be given by any official 
acting on behalf of the competent authority of the Party in whose territory 
the preparations are taking place. 


Article 5. 


If the competent authority of either of the two High Contracting Parties, 
or any person acting on behalf of such authority, should learn of the com- 
mission in his territory of any act of robbery or plunder or raiding or any 
other unlawful act of such a nature as to disturb the peace on the frontier 
between the two countries, he shall have the right to notify the competent 
authority of the other Party and in circumstances of urgent necessity he 
shall inform the nearest official of such other Party. The person so notified 
shall thereupon take the necessary steps with a view to the immediate 
restoration in their entirety of all stolen and plundered objects out of what 
is seized in the possession of the aggressors, in the event of their entering 
the territory in which he is employed. 


If the aggressors be Beduin subjects of the country which they have 
entered the necessary measures shall be taken‘to put them on trial in that 
country. If they be Beduin subjects of a third party, they shall be called 
upon to leave the country which they have entered under threat of being 
put on trial if they do not leave it. If they be Beduin subjects of the other 
Party, in whose territory the raiding has taken place then, after the 
restoration of the plunder found in their possession, as stated in the first 
paragraph, their arms shall be confiscated and handed over to their Govern- 
Ment and a quantity of their property sufficient to make good the losses 
and damage which they have caused as a result of their raiding shall likewise 
be confiscated and handed over to their Government. They shall then be 
warned that they must return to their country of origin and, if they do not 
do 80, they shall be prevented from remaining on the frontier and shall be 
put on trial for the crimes which they have committed. If it be assured 
that they will maintain peace and tranquillity subsequently they shall be 
allowed to remain remote from the frontier; otherwise they shall be expelled 
from the country in which they have taken refuge. 


302 


Article 6. 


In order to give effect to the provisions of this Treaty and with a view to 
the maintenance of good relations generally on the frontier between the two 
countries, the officials appointed in pursuance of Article 3 of this Treaty 
shall meet at least once every six months, and at more frequent intervals in 
case of necessity, to settle questions relating to the frontier zones and to the 
tribes settled therein. 


Article 7. 


The special officials appointed in pursuance of Article 8 shall, when con- 
sidering matters within their competence in accordance with the usage and 
customs prevailing in the frontier zone, observe the general rules set forth 
in the schedule to this Treaty and shall apply the said rules as far as 
possible for a period of one year from the entry into force of this Treaty. 
After the expiration of this period, it shall be permissible for the said 
officials to submit at any time to the High Contracting Parties any sugges- 
tions for the amendment of these rules. The High Contracting Parties shall, 
on receipt of such suggestions, exchange views as to whether the matter 
requires amendment. The rules shall remain in force until the two Parties 
agree upon the discontinuance of their application or upon their being 
amended. 


Article 8. 


All decisions taken in mutual agreement between the officials appointed 
in accordance with Article 3, in regard to questions arising on the frontier 
or between the tribes, shall be recorded in writing and signed by both 
officials at the time of the agreement and shall forthwith become operative 
and executory. 

Matters on which the officials are unable to agree shall be referred to the 
Governments of the High Contracting Parties with a view to settlement by 
agreement between them. Effect shall be given by the competent authorities 
of the two High Contracting Parties to all decisions taken as a result of 
such agreement within three months from the date on which the final 
decision is taken. 

The operation of Article 6 of the Hadda Agreement shall be annulled 
during the period of validity of this Treaty. 


Article 9. 


The tribes of the two Parties which habitually frequent both sides of the 
frontier for purposes of grazing or ‘‘ musabala ’’ shall be free to move about 
from place to place in the two countries, unless either of the two Govern- 
ments should find it necessary to restrict this freedom of movement in the 
interests of public order or fpr reasons of economic necessity. 

Nothing in this Article shall affect the maintenance of the established 
rights defined in Article 4 of the Hadda Agreement. Similarly, nothing in 
this Article shall disturb the enjoyment of the rights specified in Article 13 
of the Hadda Agreement in any respect whatsoever or for any reason 
whatsoever. 


Article 10. 


It shall not be lawful for either of the High Contracting Parties to 
compel subjects of the other Party to enlist in any of his armed forces, 
whether regular or irregular. 

It shall not be lawful for either of the High Contracting Parties to permit 
the subjects of the other Party to be employed in his armed forces as from 
the date of the entry into force of this Treaty unless they have previously 
acquired the nationality of the Party under whom they wish to serve and 
have notified their readiness to renounce their original nationality if th's 


803 


be prescribed in the Nationality Regulations of their country of origin, it 
being understood that their Government of origin shall be free, when they 


enter their territory, to take any measures against them which may be laid 
down in their laws. 


The names of persons naturalized and enlisted after the entry into force 
of this Treaty shall be notified through the diplomatic channel to the 
Government of their country of origin. 


Article 11. 


Each of the two High Contracting Parties undertakes to prevent any of 
his officials from crossing the frontier between the two countries without 
the permission of the other Party for any reason whatsoever and by any 
means whatsoever, with the exception of crossing by frontier officials and 
messengers with a view to maintaining the co-operation defined in Articles 
3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this Treaty. 


Article 12. 


Subject to the observance of the provisions contained in the Hadda 
Agreement regarding the movement of tribes, pilgrims and merchants, the 
two High Contracting Parties mutually undertake to refrain from authoriz- 
ing foreigners resident in their countries or setting out therefrom, or sub- 
jects of the two High Contracting Parties, to cross the frontier of the 
country of the other Party for the purpose of travel, exploration, hunting 
or any: other purpose, without having obtained previous permission from the 
competent authority of the Party concerned, and to discourage their inten- 
tion of doing so. They shall not be responsible for the safety of such persons 
if their entry was effected without previous permission, 


Article 18. 


All differences which may arise between the two High Contracting Parties 
regarding the interpretation or execution of the provisions of this Treaty 
or other provisions contained in the agreements determining the relations 
hetween the two Parties shall be settled in agreement between them by 
reference to arbitration, which shall be conducted in accordance with the 
Protocol appended to this Treaty. 


Article 14. 


This Treaty has been drawn up in duplicate in the Arabic language. The 
two High Contracting Parties shall ratify it and shall exchange instruments 
of ratification as soon as possible. It shall come into force as from the date 
of the exchange of the instruments of ratification and shall be valid for a 
period of five years beginning with that date. 


If neither of the two High Contracting Parties gives notice to the other 
Party six months before the expiration of the period of five years that he 
wishes to terminate the Treaty, it shall remain in force and shall not be held 
to have terminated until after six months from the day on which one of 
the two Parties shall have given notice of its termination to the other 
Party. 


IN FAITH WHEREOF the two Plenipotentiaries aforesaid have signed this 
Treaty at Jerusalem on the fifth day of the month of Rabi-ath-Thani in the 
year 1352 of the Hijra, corresponding to the 27th day of the month of July 
of the year 1933 A.D. 


TauF1iq Anu, Hupa, 
Delegate of the Amara of Trans-Jordan. 


Fuap Hamza, 
Delegate of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 


304 


PrRoTocoL ON ARBITRATION. 


In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. 


In pursuance of Article 18 of the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Votsinage, 
which we have signed this day in our capacity as plenipotentiaries of His 
Highness the Amir Abdullah Ibn Hussein, Amir of Trans-Jordan, and His 
Majesty King Abdul-Aziz Ibn Abdur-Rahman Al Feisal Al Saud, King of 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we have in virtue of the powers conferred 
upon us, agreed that, in any case referred to arbitration in conformity with 
the said Treaty, the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the 
following Articles. 


Article 1. 


The arbitration shall be conducted by two arbitrators, of whom each of 
the High Contracting Parties shall select one, under the presidency of a 
third person appointed in the manner set forth in Article 3 of this Protocol. 


Article 2. 


If the two High Contracting Parties shall have agreed to refer any 
difference whatsoever to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 13 of the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Voisinage signed this day, 
they shall draw up a joint memorandum on the matters which it is desired 
to settle by arbitration. A President of the Board of Arbitration shall then 
be appointed in accordance with Article 3 of this Protocol and a copy of 
the joint memorandum on the matters which it is desired to settle by 
arbitration shall be forwarded to him. Each Party shall forward to him 
within a period not exceeding one month from the date of his nomination 
a memorandum of the arguments in support of his case. Each of the two 
High Contracting Parties shall be entitled to forward to the President any 
other memorandum relative to his contention at afy time within a period 
of three months of his nomination. Each Party shall be bound to forward 
to the other Party all documents which he may forward to the President. 


Article 3. 


The President of the Board of Arbitration shall be appointed by agreement 
between the two Parties within two months of the date of the agreement 
to refer the matter to arbitration. 


Article 4. 


The President of the Board of Arbitration shall invite the Board to meet 
at a place which he shall select after consultation with the two High 
Contracting Parties and on a date which he shall appoint after similar 
consultation, provided that the period intervening between his nomination 
and this date shall not be less than three months and shall not exceed six 
months. The Board of Arbitration shall give its decision within three months 
of the above-mentioned date. 


Article 5. 


The Board of Arbitration shall be free to determine the procedure to be 
followed. The two High Contracting Parties undertake to afford it all 
possible facilities and assistance for which it may apply with a view to the 
performance of its task. 


305 


Article 6. 


Each of the two High Contracting Parties may appoint one or more 
persons to expound his point of view in regard to the questions in dispute 
| before the Board of Arbitration. 


Article 7. 


The two High Contracting Parties definitely undertake to accept as 
binding and to. give effect to the decisions rendered by the arbitrators on 
the questions referred to them. The arbitrators may, in case of necessity, 
adopt their decision by a majority. 


Article 8. 


Each of the two Governments shall pay the salary and expenses of the 
arbitrator appointed by it and one-half of the salaries and expenses of the 
President, clerks and other persons of whose assistance the arbitrators may 
have need. 


Article 9. 


This Protocol shall come into force as from the date of the exchange of 
copies thereof ratified by the two High Contracting Parties. It shall remain 
in force for the duration of the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Voisinage 
concluded between them on this date. The two High Contracting Parties 
shall prolong its operation until the decision has been rendered in any case 
referred to arbitration in accordance with it before the termination of the 
operation of that Treaty. 

IN FAITH WHEREOF, we have signed this Protocol at Jerusalem on the 
ifth day of the month of Rabi-ath-Thani, in the year 1852 of the Hijra, 
corresponding to the 27th day of the month of July of the year 1933 A.D. 


TauFiq ABUL Hvpa, 
Delegate of the Amara of Trans-Jordan. 


Fuap Hamza, 
Delegate of the Kingdom of Saudi-Arabia. 


SCHEDULE 


referred to in Article 7 of the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Voisinage. 


1. Certificates for the Return of Loot. 


On each occasion on which loot is returned in conformity with the pro- 
visions of the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Voisinage, with a view to its 
being delivered to the owners thereof, the special official appointed in 
accordance with Article 3 of the said Treaty shall give the person taking 
ety of the loot an official certificate in the following form signed by 
m:— 


I, the undersigned, certify as follows :— 
(i) That the property and animals now returned constitute to the 


BG axis Sok onc sn cvieeeeecre sek. 76) 0 aa 1: Re ee ee between members 


ee eee ee ee ee 


306 


(ii) That the property and animals now returned comprise all that 
we have recovered from the aggressors up to this date, in its 
entirety, and, by way of compensation for objects certified ta be 
impossible of recovery in kind and to be missing, namely, 
the following, which are forwarded,.................c:::cccccseccesseseesesecees 
and I certify that these are of the same equivalent value as the 
missing objects which it has not been possible to recover and, 
further, that all possible measures are being taken for the recovery 
of any other loot which has not been recovered from the aggressors 
and that, when recovered, it will be returned to you accompanied 
by a further certificate. 


(Signature) oestsirctin cca hewn oresetiatineeies 


2. Wisagqa. 


It shall not be permissible to detain livestock or property on either side 
of the frontier in order to enforce the return of other looted livestock or 
property believed to be unlawfully held on the other side of the frontier. 
This shall not affect the right of the authorities on each side of the frontier 
to make use of this means to enforce the restoration of livestock or pro- 
perty unlawfully held in their own territory only. 


3. Araif, 


Animals found in the possession of the subjects of one of the Parties may 
not be impounded by an official of the other Party on the ground that they 
are claimed as Araif, except in the case of such animals forming part 
of the loot taken in a raid, in respect of which the responsible official on 
the other side has not certified that complete restitution has been made. 
In any such case, animals may be detained, subject to ultimate agreement 
being arrived at regarding them between the two Parties. 


No claim shall be entertained for the return of animals alleged to be Araif 
taken in raids which have been the subject of final settlement between the 


two Parties. 
4. Blood Money. 


Each of the parties shall collect from a homicide, being his subject, blood 
money in respect of a slain person belonging to the other side, provided 
that the person slain was not guilty of premeditated aggression. The blood 
money shall be calculated at the rate of ten she-camels between two snd 
four years of age, unless the relatives of the homicide and the slain person 
agree that there is an established custom between them for the payment 
of the blood money on some other basis. 


5. Compensation for Losses. 


Persons guilty of premeditated criminal acts of aggression, such as raiding 
or robbery, shall be obliged to make good all losses suffered by the victims 
as a result of the aggression, as for example animals which have been killed 
in fighting or have been looted and died or have been lost while in theif 
possession. The special officer appointed in conformity with Article 3 of 
the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Voisinage, who is responsible for the 
collection and return of the loot, shall likewise collect from the aggressors 
out of their property objects equivalent in value to those losses and shall 
deliver them together with the loot, as required by paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. The official of the country whose subjects were the victims may 
collect any evidence which he considers appropriate regarding the losses and 
forward it to the official of the other Party engaged in collecting the loot. 


oe eae eee 


307 


6. Khidma. 


On the return of the looted property or animals nothing shall be de- 
ducted therefrom by way of Khidma, recompense, wages of herdsmen, or 
expenses. If the Party collecting the loot has incurred such expenditure, 
he is free to recover it out of the property of the aggressors. The recom- 
pense, however, of a person who has found stray camels and taken charge 
of them until application is made by their owner shall be calculated at the 
rate of one gold pound for every five camels, provided that the finder 
has given notice of his having found them at the time of its occurrence 
and has not attempted to conceal it. 


7. Definition of Beduin. 


For the purpose of applying the provisions of the Treaty of Friendship 
and Bon Voisinage, every person arrested while taking part in a raid 
committed by nomadic tribes shall be deemed to be Beduin, unless he proves 
the contrary in a competent quarter. 


The 5th Rabi-ath-Thani 1352, corresponding to the 27th July, 1933. 


TavuFiq AsuL Hupa, 
Delegate of the Amara of Trans-Jordan. 


Fuap Hamza, 
Delegate of the Kingdom of Saudi-Arabia. 


(2:784—49) Wt, 3813—34C09 1250 5/35 P.St. @377/8 










35° 


Vj, ze Metulla 
tS: 


TyreQ é Sttsp. 





PALESTINE gp seata ye 


{iy Ca * } 
(Ras an Nagura — Nea Se \ pet 

5 - \, . 
Se . d 


O Kafr Bir'im 








Scale 1: 1,000,000 


339 Kilometres 0 5 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometres 
Hu wee PO (Ee ee ee) ee | 






Ar Rama ) Sa 


7 


Majd al Kurum 






First class roads 






‘Second class roads SS2s2s2s2S=>===>2 
RT ep ee EES oY 
Railways es 


International Boundaries —..—.—.—~ 


District Boundaries .......... 








=e. rS | Nessa 9b Reaen 
ae fi 3 Irbid, 





gssa¢ 


eae 





/ v0 
V a 


fv “ 
Ash Sh. Muwannis Ar Rumman}) 
( " 4 


TEL AVIV6 | 
JAFFA 
NS 


Bayit Vegan Ww ; 
\ i 
B 


Sina 







> 






Rishon le Siyon 







a i 


ob iuns 
81S Quvaeatiad AS 


ee 


/ éZ, Isdu d ee 
v4 / SOstion 
i, f ae ee a 
Al Maj - 
4 


/ 











geste 


° 


j Ses : : 

3 4 tees Suave “” 
: f 

Pt “QAI Faluja - 

; rea ie. (pptettes 


. . - ee 
one ay Beit Jibrin \. 


ae" Eas 
o-+- OBureir 


A! Qubeiba 








* 
* 
se 
s, 
Steg 
~ 
s., Sop, 
a ‘~ - “y 
P wa-2en.-e-077-->---- Beersheba 
ahs 
a3 “se, 
ne Tn oe 
“ won --. 
“ 
" aes 
" - 
" 
e n 
of i 
= 77 
yee i 
ye " 
v i" 
te 
, ! 
i " 
‘ 1 
QKhalasa 4 
"13 ” 
oo! s i 
’ . a 
, 
Nese ‘? 
‘ " 
7) 
4 
1 OC Asluj 
° < 
a cre. 
\ 7 14 
’ 7 
* ” ak 
47 t 
\ ’ wet 
. ' 
’ oye 4 
‘ ¢ 7 
\ ¢ 4 - 
. , oes ? 
\ ; ae we is 
ese seat =25. 47 Semele 
‘ a, i <7 = ae 
\ 4s7 s 
. : 7 ‘. 
\ OA! ‘Auja 
' 
‘ 
' 
4,4 . 
. 
‘i ee. 
ae , ae 
- . . 
+s ws 
. ‘ “ 
. 
. 
>. 
‘ ¢ \ 
. t 
. 
. uf » 
’ 
. ‘ 
. i \ 
‘ ’ % a ‘ 
ay ’ \ ~ ‘ 
. . 
.. Ss ‘ ‘ ~! 
N ‘ . Say ‘ . ' 
, ' ‘ ' / Nj “4 ' 
ce ’ % t ‘ ‘ ' 
%e H .. . 2 ‘ 
Sa ,, . — 1 . 2 ’ 
Se , ; sy r 
el of * ! ¥ 3. n : 
QAI Quscima . / fax , 
’ . / 1% / 
Oe ‘ . 
, x . ' cies - 
‘ * U a 
‘ . “S , f 
Z ; “ey, / 
- ‘ . 
ro ; fas ( 
- ‘ * ¥ ‘ 1 
Re r a ? ‘ : ff 
i‘. 
- " ’ ~ ‘ 
Po ’ ~. ’ ‘ 
nd , ! . ‘ 
- ’ . ’ . ' > 
. : . 
’ ‘ ee y i] 
- ' te Hi ' 
’ ‘ 1 1 bas 
’ ' . e . ‘ 
, ’ ‘ z *. ‘ 
’ + . ‘ 
’ *) 1 . ; - ’ 
re 
a ’ ‘ t S 4 one” 
5 \ ' , 
pe ? 


- 
A 
roewe 
as 
P * fg 
te Oe 
F 
> 
° 
x 
— > 


~~ S 
- 
omens Beez, 


. / * 
‘, . “y > 
\ , ‘ 
. [ , ‘ 
. ‘ , 
’ 
t ‘ ‘ ’ 
, 
v4 “ > rc MY J ! } 
’ - >< 1 ? / ‘ 
‘ = 4 ' / F 
‘ * 
N eae H yj | 
‘ . t ; 4 ' 
‘ ‘ ‘ . $ 
\- \ ' ‘ . ' 
. ‘ ’ ‘ s 
. , ’ t 7 | 
/ ! * ‘ 
‘ 
. . a. ‘ 


‘ 
. . 
‘ J 
--- ‘ 
. » ' a ‘ aE, . 
“ ’ ie 5 ES 
~ ; ws ‘ f 
y ‘ TI) GPa +d - Y 
. + 4 -—_-= f Salah } 
\ i ee ; Ne 
s - ‘ 
* 2 ' me 
a ’ bh s 
. - . 
‘ aoe i “SN 
‘ . Denes ore 
. oy , ‘ Ma > 
. ead - ¢ ; . \ 
ee es ‘ f a 
- ‘ 
\ . oa 4 ' : at 
’ - * , , oe AQ 
-- ' , - ; 
fe = ‘ 
‘ - H : See ; 
\ fi; , ee eee AS Q 
, , -" 
- e 7 -" z 
a ‘S ? fy ' o “ 
7 
‘ \ rd i ‘ 
‘ 
‘ . ¢ eit . 
3 . 
‘ etew enter nen esn F / ’ 
7 -- i. Ps Ne , 
. ‘ =... , ¥ ‘ 
‘ . ‘ a ae ea x , 
‘ -o! en ee a he ee as 74 
\ 7 ee SSS er Ace eaey - / 
, os Lore a od . 
‘ --- Ne 








-_ 
= 


*. 
‘ 


oe. 
sane 3 


: 
‘ 
‘ 
‘ 
' a 
fe ' m = 
me 4 ! ' 
/ > , ' - 
‘ ‘ . 
e © . \ | , i ~~. 
‘ 
° % . ’ ? 
oe \ . ‘ 
- ‘ 
aoe ‘ , ' 
* ’ 
2 / 
ere - H ; ‘ ; 
oe ‘ 
. "6, ’ f ' 
— @ @” Meme &: ‘ aa ‘ ; 
‘ . . . 30 i 
“s , Pes ‘ Py ' 
“ , =~ ‘ i ‘ 
iT og , “ese, ‘ / ; 
-, t eee . 
Pes ' qo ta ‘“ t ay é 
sens. oe s, \ ‘ 
>OTamad Be Ns H a f 
ms . ‘ ‘ ‘0 if 
, 
“. “ \ ba Y , . 
we xs . f! / 
ee \ ‘ 7 ’ 
~s. ~ er “ 
pe , 
a . - 4 te cs 
~. ee) ‘ hi c 
- . ' 
nee ca Se *; -* wo 
— i ' a 
-- ¢ 
Peo ' 
Seeesrce ‘ . é ‘ 
« 
o ~, 
\ 
——— reer . 
ay 
> | 








Survey of Palestine Jaffa 1935. ) . ee MAP. NY P/1/35 


{> T 
Digitized by Google 


Th eee 


Digitized by Google 


e 
l = 
‘ 
a 
1 
i \ 
( 
' 
’ 
. 
e ‘ 
ger 
1 
t 
1 
1 
| 
1 
° 
. 
. 
s 
+ 





VERSITY 


ALIMONY 
3 1951 DOO 636 013 S 





