This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 





: 


Issued by the Colonial Office. 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United 

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 

reland to the Council of the League of 
Nations on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN 


FOR THE YEAR 


1930 


(For Reports for 1928 and 1929 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 40, 1929, and Colonial No. 47, 1930, 
price 4s. 9d. and 7s. 6d. respectively.) 





LONDON: 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE. 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses: 
Adastral House, Kingsway. London, W.C.2; 120, George Street, Edinburgh; 
York Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff; 

15, Donegall Square West, Belfast; 
or through any Bookseller. 


1931. 3 
Price 10s. 0d. Net. 
[COLONIAL No. 59.] 


58-59. 





THE LIBRARY 





Digitized by Google 


Digitized by Google 


G 4, (or \ 5 : 
Issued by the; Colonial Office. 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United 

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 

Ireland to the Council of the League of 
Nations on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN 


FOR THE YEAR 


1930 


(For Reports for 1928 and 1929 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 40, 1929, and Colonial No. 47, 1930, 
price 4s. 9d. and 7s. 6d. respectively.) 





LONDON : 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFPICE. 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses : 
Adastral House, Kingsway. London, W.C.2; 120, George Street, Edinburgh ; 
York Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardif; 

15, Donegall Square West, Belfast; 
or through any Bookseller. 


1931. 


Price 10s. 0d. Net. 
[CoLomiaL No. 59.] 


58-59. 


4 


Index of Replies in the Report to General and Special Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Seventeenth Session 


CONTENTS. 


June, 1930 


Note regarding arrangement o' of the ‘Report 


PALESTINE. 


Introductory 


IV. Immigration and Emigration 
V. Land Regime ian 
Vi. Nationality ... 
Vil. Judicial System 
Vill. Economic Equality 
IX. Holy Places 2 
X. Freedom of Conscience 
Xi. Military Clauses 
Xil. International Conventions. 
Xili. Antiquities ee 
XIV. Official Languages ... . 
XV. Holy Days ... = ine 
XVI. Trans-Jordan : 
XVil. Labour Sak 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs 
XIX. Education nas 2 vas 
XX. Public Health 
XX. Public Finance 
XXIl. Demographic Statistics 
XX. Customs, Excise, and Trade 4 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones 
XXV. Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries 
XXVI. Public Works, Geology, and eee 
XXVIII. Railways ve 
TRANS-JORDAN. 
i. Introductory 
ii. Finance P 
111. Customs, Excise, and Trade 
IV. Legal and Judicial 
V. Education 
Vi. Health. sy 
Vil. Posts and Telegraphs 
Vill. Agriculture ia 
IX. Lands ... 
X. Public Works . 
XI. Antiquities 
Xl. The Arab Legion 


Jewish National Home 
Autonomous Administration 
Jewish Agency 


fore 
, t 


Page 


an & 


Vill. 


a costa I 


dea 


—“& 


RPE LO 


Vil. 


APPENDIOES 





Page 
Regulation defining the Constitution of and System of Election 
to the Elected Assembly of the Jewish Community... .. 222 
Concessions :— | 
(i) Dead Sea Concession ile eo: eee one ... 226 
(ii) Huleh Concession.. aoe aes re se ... 226 
(iii) Mavrommatis esncaaslon sae 227 
(iv) Concession for the Transit of Mineral Oils tnaoiah 
Palestine wie es doe biste .. 227 
(v) Rutenberg Concessions ... on as aah ... 228 
(vi) Tiberias Baths Concession aie ade we ° «age> 229 
(vii) Lighthouse Concession ... ne a wee ©6230 
Convention regulating the Transit of Mineral Oils of ‘Iraq 
Petroleum ga ak Limited ee the eeneyy ® of 
Palestine ... oe 230 
Revised Lighthouse Concession _... eae eae ae .. 240 
Observations upon an article entitled ‘‘ The Absentee Landlord’’ 244 
Statement of Registered State Domain... uae ae ... 249 
Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation ... aut Sus 1. 251 
(ii) Jaffa Electric Company . ae - ... 252 
(iii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Eompcration ... 253 
(iv) Lighthouse Concession ... ea be — ... 254 
Ottoman Law of Strikes of 22nd Rajab, 1327 A.H. ae .. 254 
Holy Days safe de aa oe ae ne des .. 256 
Map showing the Progress of the Haifa Harbour Works (facing 
page 256). 
Protection of Cultivators Ordinance, 1929 ie ou .. 257 
DIAGRAMS. 
Advance of the Survey and the Peogreer of Land 
Settlement a ; ; wee ae 
Variations of Sea-level, 1930 et ron sag 
Variations of Lake Levels ei fi ., [Facing page 56 
Cadastral Survey: Progress of Registration 
Hebron: Part of Urban Area 





10035 A2 


1377165 


4 


index of Replies in the Report to General and Special 
Observations of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its- 
Seventeenth Session in June, 1930. 


A. GENERAL OBSERVATION. 
Form of Report 


B. SpeoraL OBSERVATIONS. 


1. International Relations 

2. Land Tenure ose 

3. Nationality .. 

4. Economic Equality (a) Concessions 
5. Judicial 

6. Trans-Jordan. (a) and (b)... 

7. Labour Jes eee 

8. Public Health 


C. Orxer OBSERVATIONS. 


Page 91. 
Page 91. 


Page 98. 
Page 99. 
Page 100. 


Page 101. 


Page 104. 
Page 105. 
Page 108. 
Page 111. 
Page 111. 


Page 111. 


Page 115. 


Page 116. 


Collection of Trans-Jordan Laws... 

Inclusion of Appendices to Report 
in Table of Contents. 

Details of wages paid to penal 
labour. 

Copy of Protection of Cultivators 
Ordinance, 1929. 

Reference to allegations in docu- 
ment entitled “The Absentee 
Landlord.” 

Copies of medium sized map of 
territory for use of the Com- 
mission. 


Revision of form of Table of Imports 
and Exports. 


Information as to agrarian credits 
Information as to teaching of 
Arabic in Jewish Schools. 

Enquiry in regard to Matriculation 
Examination. 

Inclusion in draft Education Ordin- 
ance of a provision contained in 
the ‘Iraq Education Ordinance. 

Consideration of steps in schools to 
promote racial co-operation and a 
mutual understanding. 

Table showing amount spent on 
Health Services for a period of 
years. 

Drug Traffic figures 


See note on page 5. 


See pages 36 and 37. 

See map (Diagram I) facing 
page 56, and statistics 
in Section V through- 
out. 

See pages 58 and 59. 

See pages 226 to 230. 

See pages 69 to 71. 

See pages 196 and 197. 

See pages 102 to 108. 

See pages 136 to 138. 


See page 196. 
See Table of Contents. 


See page 80. 

See Appendix XI, page 257. 

See Appendix V, page 244. 

Fifteen copies have been 
furnished separately to 
the Permanent Mandates 
Commission. 

See Tables at the end of 
Section X XITI, pages 173 
to 178. 

See page 149. 

See page 123 (para. 40). 

See page 128. 


See page 132. 


See page 132 


See page 139. 


See page 114. 


NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Commission 
of the League of Nations specially requested that the Sections of this 
Report might be arranged in the order of subjects adopted by the 
Commission for its annual examination, that is, in the order of the 
questions in its Questionnaire on the Palestine Mandate, namely :— 
. Jewish National Home. 

. Autonomous Administration. 
. Jewish Agency. 

. Immigration and Emigration. 
. Land Regime. 

. Nationality. 

. Judicial System. 

. Economic Equality. 

. Holy Places. 

. Freedom of Conscience. 

. Miltary Clauses. 

XII. International Conventions. 

XIII. Antiquities. 

XIV. Official Languages. 

XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 


yids ed8u, 


2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been re- 
moved from its order according to the Questionnaire and placed at 
the end of the Report. 


An Introductory Section and brief Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, and 
Railways are also included in the Palestine portion of the Report. 
There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


10085 A 3 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Council of the 
League of Nations on the Administration of Palestme 

and Trans-Jordan for the year 1930. 


PALESTINE. 
INTRODUCTORY. 


1. During the year 1930 there was no disturbance of the general 
peace in Palestine. 


2. The strength of the garrison in Palestine and Trans-Jordan in 
1930 consisted of the following units :— 
Army :— : 
Ist Battalion, King’s Own Royal Regiment. 
Ist Battalion, The Northamptonshire Regiment. 
Royal Air Force :— 
One Squadron No. 14 (Day Bomber) Aircraft. 
One Flight No. 6 Squadron (General Purpose) Aircraft. 
(The remaining 2 Flights of No. 6 Squadron, which 
form part of the garrison of Palestine and Trans-Jordan, 
are stationed in Egypt.) 
One Company Armoured Cars (4 Sections). 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force :— 


Three squadrons of horse, a camel company, a 
mechanized company, and 4 troops of reservists. 


The British Section of the Palestine Police, which had an estab- 
lishment of 365 at the end of 1929, was raised to a strength of 631 
by the 3lst December, 1930, with the arrival of new recruits. 


3. Sir Herbert (then Mr. H. L.) Dowbiggin, C.M.G., Inspector- 
General of Police in Ceylon, visited Palestine in the early part of 
the year, having been appointed by the Secretary of State to carry 
out the inquiry into the organization of the Department of Police 
which was recommended by the Commission on the 1929 Dis- 
turbances. (See Command Paper No. 3530, page 147.) On his 
advice, the British and Palestine Sections of the Police have been 
reinforced, and the dispositions of the Force rearranged in such 
a way that no important Jewish settlement or group of Jewish 
farms is without a constabulary detachment. Defence schemes to 
be applied in case of emergency have been prepared in consultation 


7 


with the Military Authorities, sealed armouries, furnished with 
Greener guns, have been provided, a telephone has been placed in 
every colony, and a network of all-weather roads constructed, coh- 
necting with colonies to which hitherto access in winter was 
precarious. 


Effect has also been given to certain other of the recommenda- 
tions made by Sir H. Dowbiggin for improving the efficiency and 
organization of the Palestine Police Force. 


4. The comparative tranquility which characterized the past 
year in Palestine was not due solely to the presence of strong forces 
for the maintenance of public security. While feeling between 
Jew and Arab still ran high, the temper of the populace became 
perceptibly less violent and interracial antagonism somewhat less 
bitter. 


5. The announcement that a Commission had been appointed 
by His Majesty’s Government, with the approval of the League 
of Nations, to study, define, and determine the rights and claims of 
Moslems and Jews connected with the Wailing Wall, and the 
arrival of the Commission in Palestine in June, also contributed 
to ease the dangerous tension which followed the outbreak of 1929. 
(See paragraph 5 on page 5 of the Report for 1929.) 


6. The provisional regulations issued by the High Commissioner 
in regard to the use of the Wall continued to be strictly enforced 
and no incidents of note occurred at the Wall during 1930. With 
the arrival of the Commission, this conflict of religious claims, 
likely at any moment to afford an occasion for further disorder, 
was at once translated to the judicial sphere. 


7. At the suggestion of the Chairman, an earnest attempt was 
made by the Government to bring Arabs and Jews to an agree- 
ment as to their rights and claims at the Wailing Wall. A 
voluntary agreement arrived at by mutual concessions might, it 
was hoped, do more to prepare the way for an understanding 
between the two communities in other matters than a verdict by an 
International Commission. After months of patient negotiations, 
however, the attempt failed. The Report of the Commission had 
not been published at. the end of the year. 


8. A factor in the restoration and maintenance of peaceful con- 
ditions was the gradual disappearance of the Arab boycott of 
Jewish products, for the revival of economic intercourse served to 
promote the establishment of personal relations and toleration if 
not of friendship. Not a few bankruptcies of Arab firms in 1930 
are believed to be attributable in part to extensive forward buying 
in anticipation of a continuance of the boycott. 


10035 | Ad 


8 


9. The prosecution of crimes arising out of the disturbances 
continued to occupy much of the time of the Courts. The follow- 
ing is the list of such cases dealt with during 1930 :— 


Arabs. Jews. Total. 


(a) Tried summarily by British Magistrates 100 8 108 
(b) Sentenced by District Courts... — 76 4 80 
(c) Sentenced by the Court of Criminal 

Assize.. sate ete 17 2 19 
(d) Capital sentences passed... 10 1 11 


(e) Death sentences confirmed by Court of 
Appeal, oe sentences Peace 
in 1929. oe 19 1 20 


10. Eighteen of the persons sentenced to death in 1929 and 
1930 applied for special leave to appeal to the Judicial Committee 
of the Privy Council, but in no instance was this leave granted by 
the Privy Council. 

After very careful consideration of the capital cases in which 
sentence of death was confirmed by the Court of Appeal (namely 
7 in 1929 and 20 in 19380), the High Commissioner decided, in 
exercise of the prerogative of mercy vested in him by Article 16 
of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, to commute the sentences 
of death, in all but three cases, to penal servitude for life or a 
term of years. The three Arabs whose sentences of death were 
carried out had committed particularly brutal murders at Safad 
and Hebron. 


11. The Special District Commissioner heard charges under the 
Collective Punishments Ordinance against three Arab villages con- 
cerned in the attack on Motza, near Jerusalem. He acquitted 
two, and imposed a fine of £P.1,500 on the third village. 

The case against Safad was heard by the District Commissioner, 
Northern District, who decided that there were no grounds for 
imposing a collective fine upon all the Arab inhabitants, the persons 
responsible for the attack upon the Jewish quarter having already 
been punished by the Courts. 

Altogether, charges were heard against 53 villages and urban 
quarters, of which 22 were found guilty, and fines amounting to 
£P.19,140 were inflicted on them. 


12. The examination of claims and the assessment of damage 
caused during the riots was completed in March. £P.100,000 had 
been set aside by the Palestine Government as ex-gratia compensa- 
tion. Payment was made in full, on the basis of approved scales, 
in respect of loss of life and permanent incapacity, and pro- 
portionately up to the limits of the sum available in respect of 
damage to property. In certain cases compensation (amounting to 
£P.2,596) was granted from a separate fund for loss due to the 
action of the Civil or Military Forces. Compensation was not 
paid for damage to buildings, for loss of money, jewellery, or 
articles of luxury, or for indirect loss. 


9 


Altogether, 4,143 claims were lodged, aggregating £P.1,184,184. 
The following is a summary of the amounts assessed and payments 
approved :— 










10,036 3,550 


Total 181,011 36,125 63,698 36,125 99,823 
Damage by Civil or 
Military Forces 
Arabs 2,494 102 2,494 2,596 


13. The following are the principal items of expenditure in 1930 
from the special Jewish Fund for relief and reconstruction purposes 
to repair the losses suffered by the disturbances of 1929 :— 


<P. 
Rehabilitation, general relief, care of widows 
and orphans, legal aid . a oi ... 287,400 
Industrial loans... See 10,500 
Reconstruction of Jewish quarter of Safad... 8,100 


Reconstruction of destroyed agricultural villages 39 800 
Construction of buildings in Jerusalem, Haifa, 


and villages ihe — ae aoa oe 47 ,600 
Purchase of land ... 5,600 
Roads, buildings, and fencing ii in villages for 

security purposes eh = ie “a 34,100 

£P.433,100 


Part of the land required for the reconstruction at Safad was 
expropriated under a Certificate of the High Commissioner that 
the work was of public utility. 


14. Political Development.—The Commission on the 1929 Dis- 
turbances recommended that His Majesty’s Government should 
consider the advisability of issuing with the least possible delay a 
clear statement of the policy which they intend to pursue in 
Palestine ; and expressed the view that the value of that statement 
would be greatly enhanced :— 


(i) if it contained a definition in clear and positive terms 

of the meaning which His Majesty’s Government attach to the 

es in the Mandate providing for the safeguarding of the 
rights of the non-Jewish communities in that country, and 


10 


(ii) if it laid down, for the guidance of the Government of 
Palestine, directions more explicit than any that had vet been 
given as to the conduct of policy on such vital issues as land 
and immigration. 


15. It was evident that before such a statement of policy could 
be framed, an expert inquiry would have to be made into the 
questions of immigration, land settlement, and development. To 
undertake this inquiry, the Secretary of State selected Sir John 
Hope Simpson, C.I.E., an acknowledged specialist in these matters, 
who was then employed under the League of Nations as Vice- 
Chairman of the Refugee Settlement Commission in Greece. He 
arrived in Palestine at the beginning of June. 


16. The Palestine Arab Executive decided to press the Arab 
case directly on His Majesty’s Government and an elected Dele- 


gation of the President and five members proceeded to London at 
the end of March. 


The following statement was issued by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment at the end of the conversations with the Delegation :— 


‘‘The conversations which have taken place in London between 
Members of the Government and the Palestine Arab Delegation are 
now at an end. The Delegation have expressed their views on a num- 
ber of subjects particularly land, immigration, and the grant of a 
constitution. His Majesty’s Government have taken note of their 
views on these subjects. It was pointed out to the Delegation that 
the sweeping constitutional changes demanded by them were wholly 
unacceptable since they would have rendered it impossible for His 
Majesty’s Government to carry out their obligations under the Mandate. 
It was made clear that no proposals could be considered which were 
incompatible with the requirements of the Mandate. 

“Since the effect of meeting the wishes of the Arab Delegation 
as regards democratic government would have been to render it im- 
possible for His Majesty’s Government to carry out their full responsi- 
bilities as Mandatory for Palestine and since despite the explanations 
and assurances given by His Majesty’s Ministers the Delegation could 
not see their way to modify their attitude, it became evident that 
this matter could not usefully be pursued further. The conversations, 
which throughout were frank and friendly, accordingly ended, with, 
however, the intimation that having taken note of the Arab views, 
His Majesty’s Government would apply themeelves, in the light of the 
first hand information obtained from these conversations, to the problem 
of safeguarding in every way compatible with their mandatory obli- 
gations the interests of the non-Jewish communities of Palestine. 
They are determined not to allow the policy to be pursued in 
Palestine to imperil the future of those communities, and it was on 
this account and in view of the recommendations made by the Shaw 
Commission that Sir John Hope Simpson has been sent to Palestine 
to examine and report upon the problems of land and immigation. 
In order that non-Jewish. interests may not be prejudiced by the 
delay which must necessarily occur before a definite decision can be 
taken in the light of Sir John Hope Simpson’s report, special measures 
are now under examination with a view to early action for the pro- 
tection of the interests of the agricultural population, and temporary 


ll 


measures have already been taken with a view to ensure that immi- 
gration in the intervening period shall not be such as to endanger the 
economic future of the country. 


‘‘ The fears which have been expressed in some quarters that the 
policy of His Majesty’s Government is likely to endanger the exist- 
ence of the Arab Community in Palestine are not justified, and it is 
important that it should be widely known in the general interests 
of the people of Palestine, that attempts on the part of misguided 
persons of whatever race or community to disseminate misleading 
information regarding the intention of His Majesty’s Government 
to the prejudice of law and order in Palestine will he severely punished 
and that it is the intention of His Majesty’s Government, as 
announced by the Prime Minister of Great Britain in the House of 
Commons on the 3rd April, to apply all the resources at their com- 
mand te carrying out the duties imposed upon them by the Mandate.’’ 


17. The suspension, in May, 1930, of 2,350 Immigration 
Certificates for working men formed the subject of protests, 
but His Majesty’s Government made it clear that the suspension of 
the Immigration Certificates was solely an act of ordinary pru- 
dence, dictated by the knowledge that a special investigation was 
about to be carried out into the question of immigration into 
Palestine, and by the view that it would be economically advisable 
to hold the issue of these Certificates in suspense until that investi- 
gation had been completed. The question of the immigration of 
working men was further considered in the latter part of the year, 
and 1,480 Immigration Certificates were authorized in October, 
1930. 


18. A conference of the Executive Committee of the Jewish 
Agency was held in Berlin in August. A new Executive of the 
Jewish Agency was then appointed, on which Zionists and non- 
Zionists were represented in equal numbers. The members of the 
Palestine Executive of the Agency are similarly representative of 
Zionists and non-Zionists. 


19. Towards the end of the year preparations were made for the 
election of the first Elected Assembly of the Jewish Community, 
under the Regulations of 1927 (see Annual Report for 1929, Sec- 
tion I, page 16) which will constitute that Assembly the governing 
body of an autonomous religious and lay organization, with powers 
of internal taxation. The text of the electoral rules is given in 
Appendix I to this Report. An account of the organization, con- 
duct, and results of the elections, which were held at the beginning 
of January, 1931, will be found in Section I of this Report. 


20. ‘The inclusion among the members of the Arab delegation 
to London. of the protagonists of the two rival factions revealed a 
significant political reconciliation. Relations between Moslem and 
Christian Arabs were, however, temporarily estranged as a result 
of a dispute over the ownership of a cemetery at Haifa, ending In 
a fracas in which a Christian sustained fatal injuries. 


12 


21. The radical elements of the vernacular Press in Palestine 
maintained a virulence of partisanship and propaganda which some-.- 
times degenerated into excitement or sedition. Happily, the public 
was not responsive. Four Arab newspapers and one Jewish news- 
paper were suspended for periods ranging from seven to thirty-two 
days. One of the Arab newspapers was suspended on three different 
occasions; and another on two different occasions. The Jewish 
newspaper was suspended twice. 


22. A new Press Law has been drafted to take wider powers for 
the control of the Press, on the lines recommended in the Report 
of the Commission on the Disturbances of 1929 (Command Paper 
No. 3530, pages 91 and 167); and the Government proposes to set 
up an efficient Press Bureau. 


23. The Report of Sir John Hope Simpson was presented by His 
Majesty’s Command to Parliament in October (Command Paper 
No. 3686). It is in the hands of the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission and the Council of the League of Nations. At the same 
time, His Majesty’s Government published a Statement of Policy 
(Command Paper No. 3692), which is also in the hands of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission and the Council of the League. 
Both publications were received by the Arabs in Palestine with 
qualified satisfaction. ‘They professed to see in them the solution 
of economic distress, the removal of the danger of Zionist domina- 
tion, and the beginnings of self-government. Criticism was con- 
fined to intransigents who were dissatisfied with the measure of 
self-government proposed. 


24. The Jews protested strongly against the Statement of Policy, 
but the Report of Sir John Hope Simpson, while it did not escape 
criticism, was acknowledged to be a valuable contribution towards 
the solution of economic difficulties in Palestine, for Arab and 
Jew alike. 


His Majesty’s Government sought to dispel the misapprehensions 
entertained by Jews with regard to the meaning and intention 
of the Statement; and the situation was clarified in a debate on 
Palestine which took place in the House of Commons on the 17th 
November. 


Dr. Chaim Weizmann and Mr. Felix Warburg, the Zionist and 
non-Zionist leaders of the Jewish Agency, resigned from office as a 
protest against the Statement, but it was understood that they 
would continue to discharge their duties until the Congress of 1931. 


25. Meanwhile, discussions took place in London between the 
Jewish Agency and His Majesty’s Government with a view to 
removing certain misconceptions and misunderstandings which had 
arisen as to the policy of His Majesty’s Government with regard to 
Palestine, as set out in the Statement, and which were the subject 


13 


of the parliamentary debate on the 17th November, and also to 
meet certain criticisms put forward by the Jewish Agency. These 
discussions had not concluded at the end of the year. 

The following is the text of the official communiqué issued on 
the 14th November from the office of the Prime Minister in 
London, with regard to the inception of these discussions. 

‘Doubts having been expressed as to the compatibility of some 
passages of the White Paper of 2]st October, 1930, with certain articles 
of the Palestine Mandate, and other passages having proved liable 
to misunderstanding, His Majesty’s Government have invited repre- 
sentatives of the Jewish Agency to confer with them on these matters. 

‘* As the other parties to the Mandate are strongly desirous of secur- 
ing its correct interpretation and impartial administration, it is 
hoped that agreement will be reached on any points of difference when 
a further statement concerning these isssues will be made.’’ 


26. Public Revenue.—The optimistic view expressed in the 
Annual Report for 1929 as to the recovery of Palestine from the set- 
back of that year was not misplaced. Nothing testifies more highly 
to the country’s powers of sustained financial endurance and re- 
cuperation than the fact that the revenue from Customs in 1930 
approached £P.1,000,000. This result is all the more remarkable 
in a year of reduced Jewish contributions and capital investments. 


27. Further evidence of the restoration of economic equilibrium 
in Palestine may be seen in the activity in the building industry 
in the principal towns—in Jerusalem alone, the value of new 
premises built in 1930 was £P.1,850,000—and in the continued 
expansion of citriculture. 


28. The year 1930 opened with 2a surplus balance of 
£P.773,069.674 mils. Revenue during the year amounted to 
£P.2,389,545.568 mils and expenditure to £P.2,536,504.657 mils. 
The surplus balance on 31st December was £P.626,110.585 mils. 


29. Land Taxation.—Sir KE. Dowson paid a return visit to 
Palestine in 1930 and presented a report on the progress made in 
Land Settlement and Urban Taxation. 


30. In connection with the proposals for a land tax, lands in 
73 villages were divided into fiscal blocks and the land in each 
block was valued. 


31. A map* is printed in this Report which illustrates the ad- 
vance of the Survey and the progress of Land Settlement. Steps 
are being taken, by simplification of procedure in congested village 
areas and by increasing the staff, to accelerate the work of settle- 
ment. 


392. As a result of further extension in 1930, the Commuted 
Tithes Ordinance, 1927, is now in force throughout the country, 


* Facing page 56, 


14 


except for two Bedu areas in Beersheba. The Urban Property 
Tax was applied to the towns of Safad, Nazareth, Beersheba, and 
Jenin. 


33. Public Expenditure.—The foundation stone of the Palestine 
Archaeological Museum was laid by the High Commissioner on 
the 19th June; it is expected that the building will be ready for 
use by the end of 19382. The period during which the funds are 
to be available for this work was extended by the donor, Mr. J. 
Rockefeller Jur., to the lst January, 1933. 


The new Government House was nearing completion at the end 
of the year. 


An order of priority in the execution of approved public works 
has been fixed, with a view to regulating the commitments upon 
the Government Department of Public Works and preventing the 
dislocation of technical arrangements by the interpolation of new 
projects. 


34. The building of the Government Kadoorie Agricultural 
School at Tulkarem out of the funds provided by the Kadoorie 
bequest and that of the new Headquarter Offices of the Depart- 
ment of Surveys at Jaffa were completed. Considerable headway 
was made on the new Post Office at Jaffa; and the new Railway 
Workshops near Haifa were begun. 


35. Hatfa Harbour.—In 1930, the main breakwater was extended 
to a point 1,049 metres from the shore. The reclamation of the 
foreshore is proceeding. 988 Arab and 183 Jewish workers are 
engaged on the Harbour Works. About one half of the Jewish 
workers at the quarries are paid at piece-work rates and earn, on an 
average, 600 mils a day, including overtime and night shifts, on 
the basis of 125 mils per cubic metre of stone measured in the solid. 
The minimum daily wage for unskilled labour remains 150 mils, but 
with overtime as much as 173 mils is earned by many men. The 
output of the Jewish piece-workers at the quarries is not less en 
one-third of the whole. 


Consideration is being given to the possibility of applying the 
piece-work system to selected Arabs. The figures of earnings 
and output given in this paragraph are approximate : precise 
statistics are now being worked out. 


36. For a few weeks towards the end of the year it became 
necessary on account of administrative and economic difficulties to 
discontinue Sunday working at the Athlit quarries by the Jewish 
labourers. Sunday working was, however, resumed at the 
beginning of January, 1931, means having been devised to over- 
come the difficulties in question by altering the timing of the 
trains conveying the stone from the quarry to the harbour and by 
working night shifts on the breakwater crane. 


15 


37. His Majesty’s Government sent a party of engineers to 
Palestine in October and November to survey the proposed align- 
ment of the Haifa-Baghdad Railway. 


38. Agriculture.—Low prices of agricultural produce, resulting 
from the worldwide depression, continued to rule. Climatic con- 
ditions for the winter crop were unfavourable; a plague of field 
mice visited the Northern District, and the year opened with a 
fresh invasion of locusts in Southern Palestine. This is the third 
year in succession in which locusts have appeared. 

By skilful organization, unremitting effort of the personnel in the 
field, village labour—paid, fed, and transported—a complete 
victory over the locusts was won by the use of poisoned grain, 
flame-guns, and sheet zinc barriers. The cost of the campaign was 
approximately £P.27,000. ‘ 


39. The plight of the fellahin, however, demanded relief at once. 
The High Commissioner accordingly appointed a Committee con- 
sisting of the Deputy Treasurer, an Assistant District Com- 
missioner, and Area Officers to examine the economic con- 
diticn of the agriculturists and the fiscal measures of Government 
in relation thereto; and to make recommendations. Mr. C. F. 
Strickland, C.I.E. (Indian Civil Service, Retd.), lately Registrar 
of Co-operative Societies, Punjab, was also appointed on a 
temporary mission to proceed to Palestine and report on the 
possibility of extending the system of Agricultural Co-operation in 
Palestine. His report and the report of the Committee referred to 
above have been communicated to the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission. The proposals made in these Reports will be carefully 
considered. 


40. Without seed for his summer crops, or funds for the winter 
ploughing, the fellah could only turn to the money-lender and 
sink further into debt. As a first step to weakening the hold of 
the usurer on him, an Ordinance was drafted to reduce imprison- 
ment for debt from 91 to 20 days. Secondly, effect was given 
to certain recommendations in the Deputy Treasurer’s Report, 
calculated to afford immediate benefit to distressed agriculturists : 
the importation of wheat, flour, and semolina, and of unrefined 
olive oil except under licence was prohibited; sesame seed, 
latterly exempt from Import Duty, was rendered dutiable; 30 
per cent. of the commuted tithe (representing one-half of the tithe 
on the winter crops) was remitted; and £P.35,000 was distributed 
to farmers in short term agricultural loans (in sums not exceeding 
£P.15 in any case and repayable in a single instalment after the 
year) for buying seed and preparing the winter cultivation. 


41. The 1929-1930 orange season was only moderately successful. 
Co-operation among shippers is still imperfect; and the standard 
and methods of grading and packing must yet be improved. Iil- 
timed shipments cause periodic overstocking of the British market, 


16 


and consignment of inferior fruit results in the lowering of the price 
of Palestine oranges. On the other hand, fresh European markets 
are constantly being explored. 

Black scale appeared in the Jaffa groves for the first time, but 
the area attacked was limited and the pest yielded rapidly to 
intensive spraying. 


42. Experimental plots were arranged in eighteen Arab villages : 
the plots were utilized as fruit nurseries, seed farms, vegetable 
gardens, and for demonstrating crop rotation. The Government 
Department of Agriculture distributed ploughs, harrows, cultivators, 
winnowing-machines, and hand-tools to the villages to work the 
plots. 


43. The export of Palestinian fruit to Egypt, a natural and 
hitherto profitable and expanding market for melons, bananas, 
almonds, grapes, and oranges, has suffered a reverse. On the 16th 
February, the Egyptian Government denounced its Commercial 
Agreement of 1928 with Palestine (see Annual Report for 1928, 
page 5). A new Customs Tariff was brought into force. The 
benefits of the minimum scale in that Tariff were, indeed, extended 
to Palestine under the Modus Vivendi arranged by His Majesty’s 
Government (Command Paper No. 3662), but the rates of duty on 
fruits, even on the minimum scale, were still so high as to be 
prohibitive. In effect, therefore, the Egyptian market is now closed 
to Palestine, which means an annual loss of exports valued at 
about £P.120 ,000. 

The Palestine Government made representations to the Govern- 
ment of Egypt pointing out the hardship imposed on the Pales- 
tinian exporter by the new tariff, but the Egyptian Government was 
unable to reverse in favour of Palestine a policy dictated by the 
prevailing agricultural depression in Egypt, for which a remedy 
was sought by planting fruits in irrigable lands withdrawn by 
decree from cotton cultivation. 


44, At the end of June, a Trade Mission visited Palestine on 
behalf of the Government of Cyprus with the object of stimulating 
trade in agricultural produce between the two countries; an ex- 
change of Palestinian bananas for Cypriot potatoes may be found 
possible. 


45. The restrictions on the entry of livestock into Palestine, 
owing to the appearance of foot and mouth disease in Syria, were 
abolished in August, by which time the disease had been stamped 
out in Palestine. The spread of contagious bovine abortion is caus- 
ing concern to the dairy industry; and the Veterinary Service is 
engaged in a comprehensive scheme for the segregation and vaccina- 
tion of infected herds with a view to eradicating it. 


46. Preparations were advanced for the establishment of a 


General Agricultural Council for Palestine, to formulate a com- 
prehensive programme of agricultural research and education, 


17 


designed to secure the fullest co-ordination of effort and resources 
on the part of official and non-official interests. Membership has 
been accepted by representatives of the Arab, Jewish, and German 
farming communities, the Salesian Fathers who conduct an 
aericultural school near Jerusalem, the Hebrew University, the 
Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association, and the Executive of the 
Jewish Agency. 

Sub-Committees of the Council, set up in advance of it, have 
continued their investigations into agricultural economics, horti- 
culture, plant protection, and soil chemistry; and a Marketing 
Committee has dealt with questions of fruit export. Committees 
on agronomy, livestock husbandry, and agricultural education are 
soon to be formed. 


47. The Government Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarem 
was opened to pupils on the 1st January, 1931. A class of Govern- 
ment teachers is receiving instruction in agriculture there, so that 
this knowledge may be imparted to children in Government Schools. 
The cost of this course is being met by a grant from the Rural Life 


Institute of the Near East Foundation of the United States of 
America. 


48. Commerce and Industry.—The revenue from Import Duties, 
previously mentioned, is a sufficient index of the satisfactory con- 
dition of commerce and industry during the year. 42 companies 
were incorporated, and 42 co-operative societies and 114 partner- 
ships formed. 33 partnerships were dissolved. 


49. Eleven companies were in process of voluntary liquidation 
in 1930; but only a single company was wound up by Order of the 
Court. In one case a liquidator was removed from his office by 
the Court for failure to comply with the law. 


50. The principal factories are slowly consolidating their position ; 
efforts are being made, with some success, to improve the quality of 
local products and to extend foreign custom. The Nesher Cement 
Factory, with a paid up capital of £P.300,000, distributed a 6 per 
cent. dividend in 1930. Its profits in 1929 were £P.18,000. The 
revival of building activity has enabled the Silicate Brick Factory 
at Tel-Aviv to resume production. Several industries have been 
assisted or protected by additional exemptions of raw materials. 
Attention is being given to the wine and spirit industry; and pro- 
posals for reducing the taxation upon it are at present being con- 
sidered by the Government. 


51. An outstanding event of the year was the opening of the 
bulk oil installation of the Shell Company at Haifa. In view of 
the possible construction of a railway from Haifa to Baghdad, in- 
quiries have been made by the Governments of Persia and ‘Iraq 
for the provision of free zones and other facilities in the Haifa 
Harbour Area for transit trade between those countries and the 
Mediterranean littoral. 


18 


52. The Mandatory announced the accession of Palestine to the 
Commercial Treaty between the United Kingdom and Japan and 
the Modus Vivend: with Egypt. 


53. Labour.—It is proposed to apply to Palestine, without 
modification, the Convention on Forced Labour which was adopted 
by the International Labour Conference at its Fourteenth Session. 

The revision of labour legislation in Palestine, with particular 
reference to workmen’s compensation, will shortly be undertaken 
by an official committee. 


54. The Palestine Government authorized the entry of 2,430 
Jewish working men and women, for whom the Jewish Agency 
guaranteed employment, mostly on the land. It has been made 
the general rule to include in the Labour Schedule young female 
dependants who are likely to enter the labour market on arrival. 


dd. Jewish immigration in 1930 exceeded emigration by 2,236. 


56. Government Concessions.—Appendix II to this Report re- 
capitulates the details of all concessions in force ; and describes the 
work done or the present stage of negotiations in each case. 


57. At the end of the year, a convention was signed by the 
Palestine Government with the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, whereby 
in return for special facilities and concessions in respect of the 
operation of its undertaking, the Company bound itself, subject 
to given contingencies, to construct a pipeline from the ‘Iraq oil- 
fields to Acre Bay on the Palestine Coast. The text of this Con- 
vention is printed in Appendix III to this Report. 


58. The revision of the Lighthouse Concession was brought to a 
conclusion in 19380: the text of the new agreement is printed in 
Appendix IV to this Report. 


59. The lessees of the Tiberias Baths were prevented by prevail- 


ing financial depression from raising the capital required to carry . 


out the enterprise within the period of eighteen months from the 
grant of the lease which was originally prescribed : an extension of 
twelve months, to October, 1931, was therefore granted to them. 


60. Health.—The Director, Department of Health, was ap- 
pointed by His Majesty’s Government to represent the British 
Colonies at the Meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Inter- 
national Office of Public Health which was held at Paris in October. 


—— a ee ie 


It has been agreed to conclude a Convention with Egypt for | 


mutual protection against dengue fever. 


61. Personnel.—Air-Commodore P. H. L. Playfair, M.C., Officer 
Commanding the Royal Air Force in Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
was appointed to be Second-in-Command in India towards the end 
of the year; and his place was taken by Air-Commodore W. R. 


Freeman, D.S.0O., M.C. 


1 
| 
| 
| 


19 


Mr. H. C. Luke, C.M.G., Chief Secretary to the Government of 
Palestine, was appointed Lieutenant-Governor of Malta and was 
succeeded by Mr. M. A. Young, formerly Colonial Secretary in 
Sierra Leone. 

Mr. C. R. Webb, O.B.E., M.C., was appointed General Manager 
of the Palestine Railways, on transfer from Sierra Leone. 


62. Mtscellaneous.—During the year, British men-of-war belong- 
ing to the Mediterranean Fleet visited Haifa, on two occasions, and 
Jaffa; and calls were made at one or other port by French, Italian, 
Spanish, Greek, Yugoslavian, and Argentine naval vessels. 


I.—JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


Question 1.—What measures have been taken to place the 
country under such political, administrative, and economic con- 
ditions as will secure the establishment of the National Home of 
the Jewish people? What are the effects of these measures? 


1. The general lines of policy, economic and political, which the 
Mandatory intends to follow with a view to the discharge of all the 
obligations inherent in the Mandate have been laid down in the 
White Paper of 19830 (Command Paper No. 3692) which also 
endorsed the statement of policy contained in the White Paper of 
1922 (Command Paper No. 1700). Certain misunderstandings 
and misconceptions which had arisen as to this policy were removed, 
and certain criticisms of the Jewish Agency were met, by the terms 
of a letter addressed by the Prime Minister to Dr. Ch. Weizmann 
on the 13th February, 1931. The text of this letter has been 
communicated to the League of Nations. 


2. The Reports of the Mandatory to the League of Nations since 
1923 have successively described in detail the political, admini- 
strative, and economic measures taken and maintained to create 
conditions favourable to the establishment of a Jewish National 
Home. 


3. It is perhaps unnecessary to mention the principal contribution 
ot the Mandatory in this sphere, namely, the setting up of an 
Administration under a British High Commissioner, assisted by a 
staff of British officials whose task it is to govern Palestine in 
accordance with the provisions of the Palestine Mandate. 


4. The first step was to raise the ban on the entry of non-Moslems 
into Palestine which the Sublime Porte enforced in law, if not in 
practice; and a system of Jewish immigration was legalized, 
governed by the principle that it should not be so great in volume 
as to exceed whatever may be the economic capacity of the country 
at the time to absorb new arrivals. Thus, in the last decade, the 
Jewish community was enabled by the Palestine Government, in 


20 


fulfilment of the policy enunciated in the White Paper of 1922, to 
increase its numbers by immigration to the extent of approximately 
100,000. The Turkish embargo on the purchase of land was with- 
drawn ; and facilities were given to regularize in the Land Registers 
a large number of the unofficial transactions to which Jews had 
formerly been constrained to resort. Approximately 800,000 
dunums have passed into Jewish hands since 1920. Long leases — 
of State Domain have been granted to the colony of Petach-Tikvah, 
to the Township of Tel-Aviv and the Palestine Jewish Colonisation . 
Association. (See also Section IV of this Report.) The status — 
and jurisdiction of the Jewish Religious Courts were recognized 
and a Rabbinical Council was established. Regulations were 
passed by the High Commissioner to empower the Jewish Com- © 
munity to organize itself, in religious and lay divisions, for the 
management of all its internal affairs, and to tax its members for 
the purpose. 


5. The measures taken by the Government to promote the well- 
being of the country as a whole have also benefited the Jewish Com- 
munity. 


6. In its fiscal policy the Government has consistently encouraged 
urban industry by exempting raw or partly-prepared materials for . 
various manufactures, and by imposing protective Import Duties 
in proper cases. There is also a wide range of exemptions for 
machinery, agricultural equipment, chemicals and fertilizers, and 
pipes and fittings for drainage and irrigation. 


7. The Mandatory has arranged for the extension to Palestine 
of the Commercial Treaties existing between Great Britain and 
various Foreign States; and an Agreement, ensuring free trade in 
local produce and manufactures, has been concluded with Syria. 


8. Ordinances have been enacted to ensure a due standard of 
sanitary and hygienic conditions in industrial establishments, and 
for the payment of compensation to injured workmen. ‘The 
Nationality Law contains special provisions which facilitate the 
acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews: 8,500 heads of 
families, representing 20,000 souls, benefited under Article 5, 
having opted for Palestinian citizenship in connection with the 
proposal to hold elections for a Legislative Council in 1922. Two 
years’ continuous residence {and a knowledge of Arabic, English, 
or Hebrew) are sufficient to qualify for naturalization. 


9. Land Settlement and Cadastral Survey are in progress, for 
the assurance of title and tenure, without which agricultural 
development must be retarded. The tithe has been reduced to 
10 per cent. of the crop and commuted to a fixed payment on the 
basis of the average value of the harvest during a period of four 
years. The Turkish House and Land Tax in towns has been 
replaced by an Urban Property Tax based on rental value and the 


21 


obsolete Turkish valuations have been superseded by new assess- 
ments. Measures are being taken with a view ‘to the early intro- 
duction of a tax on land, based on productivity in terms of wheat, 
which, replacing the tithe, shall be more even and equitable in its 
incidence. The formation of agricultural co-operation is encouraged 
by Ordinance. A network of modern road communications, 
securing access to the remotest Jewish colonies, has been con- 
structed by the Government. There is an excellent State Railway, 
and @ first-class system of telegraphs and telephones. A modern 
harbour is being built at Haifa. Concessions have been granted, in 
which Jewish capital has participated, for hydro-electric and 
irrigation projects, for exploiting the mineral resources of the Dead 
Sea, and for developing the Hot Springs at Tiberias. An annual 
subvention of £P.20,000 is granted by the Government to the 
Zionist schools, and per capita grants are made to private Jewish 
schools. The Government contributes to the maintenance of the 
Tel-Aviv hospital. In time of distress the Government has 
advanced public works so as to afford employment. 


10. The Jewish settlements enjoy the benefits of all services 
rendered by the Department of Agriculture, more especially in the 
suppression of diseases of plants and animals, and the fight against 
- locusts and field mice. And the existence of an admirable Jewish 
health organization has not meant that the Jewish population 
derived no advantage from the work carried out during the past ten 
years by the Department of Health, particularly in combating 
malaria. : 


11. The foregoing are some of the acts and activities of the 
Palestine Government which may fairly be claimed to create such 
administrative and economic conditions as to secure the establish- 
ment of a Jewish National Home. This enumeration may fittingly 
be concluded by a reference to public security, which is maintained 
by a Police Force of 692 British and 2,028 Palestinians (including 
21 Jewish officers and 306 Jewish men), a Frontier Force of 980 
men (including 28 Jews), and a garrison consisting of two battalions 
of the British Army, two squadrons of the Royal Air Force, and 
a company of armoured cars. There are sealed armouries, for use 
by the colonists themselves in case of sudden attack, in every 
isolated Jewish colony. 


12. It will be remembered that in the opinion of the Mandatory, 
the actual building of the Jewish National Home in Palestine is a 
task which devolves upon the Jews themselves; and this opinion 
is clearly expressed in the following terms in the White Paper of 
1922 :— 


‘¢ When it is asked what is meant by the development of the Jewish 
National Home in Palestine, it may be answered that it is not the 
imposition of a Jewish nationality upon the inhabitants of Palestine 
as a whole, but the further development of the existing Jewish com- 
munity, with the assistance of Jews in other parts of the world, in 


22 


order that it may become a centre in which the Jewish people as a . 
whole may take, on grounds of religion and race, an interest and a — 
pride.”’ 


It is by the policy laid down in the White Paper of 1922 that the 
High Commissioner is to be guided, in accordance with Article 27 © 
of the Royal Instructions issued under His Majesty’s Sign Manual ~ 
in 1922. That Article reads :— | 

‘¢ The High Commissioner shall be guided by the statement of British — 
policy in Palestine presented to Parliament by Our Command on the 
Ist day of July, 1922. ‘While ensuring that the rights and position of - 
other sections of the population are not prejudiced, he shall facilitate . 
Jewish immigration under suitable conditions and shall encourage close — 
settlement by Jews on the land, including State lands and waste lands 
not required for public purposes.’’ : 


13. The Statement of Policy issued by His Majesty’s Govern- | 
ment in October, 1930, reaffirms that view as to the incidence of - 
responsibility for the positive effort, in immigration, urban and rural | 
settlement, and cultural and social services, which must be con- - 
tinuously exerted to establish the Jewish National Home. | 


14. The memoranda which have been submitted year by year to | 
the League of Nations by the Jewish Agency contain a detailed | 
account of the remarkable achievements of the Zionist Organization - 
and the Jewish Community of Palestine towards the attainment of | 
this goal, and no further mention in this Report would appear to 
be necessary. The progress made in 1930 is described in the 
Agency’s memorandum to the League relating to the year 1930, — 
and a summary of the most important activities is given in 
Section III of this Report. 


15. On the political side, it may be said that due representation 
of Jewish interests was provided in the Advisory Council which 
was in existence from October, 1920, to February, 1923; and was 
to be secured in the Legislative Council proposed in 1922. In every 
appropriate municipal centre, Jews were among the Municipal 
Councillors nominated before the Municipal Franchise Ordinance 
came into force in 1926; and the elected Councils contain a due 
proportion of Jewish members. The power to set up local 
authorities under the Local Councils Ordinance has been liberally 
exercised in the case of Jewish colonies ; and wide powers of taxation 
have been granted to the Jewish Township of Tel-Aviv. There are 
Jewish representatives on the Archaeological Board, the Central . 
Town Planning Commission, and the General Agricultural Council. 


16. The representatives of the Jewish Agency in Palestine are 
granted ready access to the High Commissioner, the Chief Secretary 
and Heads of Departments for the discussion of matters which con- 
cern the establishment of the Jewish National Home, and the 
Agency’s views are invited on legislative or other measures of that 
character which are proposed by the Government. 


23 


17. The following 1s an account of the organization, conduct, and 
results of the elections held at the beginning of 1931 for the Elected 
Assembly and General Council of the Jewish Community. 


18. The elections for the Elected Assembly of the Jewish Com- 
munity, under the Electoral Regulation of which the text 1s given 
in Appendix I to this Report, took place on the 5th January, 1931. 
The preceding year had been largely devoted to revision of the 
Registers of the Community, to ensure the elimination of all 
dissentients, and the recording of all changes of residence, 
departures, migrations, and deaths. The arrangements Were in the 
hands of a Central Electoral Committee of twenty-eight members, 
reflecting the composition of the various political groups and 
religious divisions on the General Council. Local Committees were 
set up in each of the 111 voting centres. 

The expenditure of the General Council on the organization and 
conduct of the elections was approximately £P.1 200. 


19. The Central Agudath Israel, organ of the dissentients, 
appealed to orthodox Jewry to boycott the elections, on the ground, 
mainly, of the heresy of the female franchise and the alleged short- 
comings of the recognized Jewish Community in matters of religious 
education and ritual slaughter. There was, however, little response 
to this appeal. 


20. Eighteen party lists of candidates were offered, as follows 
(the votes obtained are also shown) :— 


Votes. 
1. Labour... ag 21,497 
2. Sephardic *‘ Bloc ’’ 2,301 
3. Revisionists es ae ... 8,069 
4. Mizrahi and Hapoel “Hamizrahi (Mizrahi 
Workers) oh re .. 4,107 
5. General Zionists 2,841 
6. Women’s Association 1,861 
7. Farmers’ Association — 
8. Yemenites 1,515 
9. Poale Zion (Left ‘Wing Labour) 902 
10. Sephardic Workers i - 1,653 
11. Boruchov Workers (Extreme Left Wing 
Labour) - 891 
12. Hashomer Hatzair (Young Guards) (Left 
Wing Labour) a 812 
13. Sephardic Poale Zion (Lett Wing Labour).. 28 
14. Sephardic Boruchov Workers beach Left 
Wing Labour) 1 
15. Middle Class Association — 
16. Sephardic Revisionists ... 2.121 
17. Merkaz Baale Melakha (Artisans Group) 352 
18. Proletarian Jiist (Communists) ; 524 


24 


75,046 voters’ cards were delivered and 50,436 votes (repre- 
senting 65 per cent. of the number entitled to vote) were cast. 
Lhe holder of a voter’s card was entitled to vote at any of the 
polling booths which he chose; but Ashkenazim (Western Jews) 
could only vote for an Ashkenazi list, Sephardim (Eastern Jews) 
for a Sephardi list and Yemenites for a Yemenite list. 


21. The distribution of the 71 seats in the Elected Assembly 
is, therefore, as follows :— 


Labour ... oe a Sig sie ve ee 27 
Revisionists - bie ous ae Pa be 10 


Boruchov Workers 
Hashomer Hatzair 


Sephardic ‘‘ Bloc”. 6 
Mizrahi and Hapoel Hamizrahi 5) 
Sephardic Revisionists . 5 
General Zionists 5 
Sephardic Workers 4 
Women’s Association ... 3 
Yemenites 3 
Poale Zion 1 

1 

1 


22. The state of the principal parties in the previous Elected 
Assembly, which consisted of 221 members, was the following :— 


Number 
Party. of Seats 
Ahduth Haavoda aetias Union) ... Sa ass 54 
Hapoel Htazair .. e She as as 30 
Sephardim 19 
Revisionists _ 15 
Women’s Association ... 9 
Democrats 8 
‘Mizrahi 7 
Proletariat - ve 6 
Torah Veavoda (Orthodox Labour) a 6 
Gush Merkazi (Centre Party) Bie 6 
Ezrahim Leumiyim (Palestine National Party) . 6 


23. A General Council (Va’ad Leumi) was elected by the 
Assembly, consisting of 23 members, of whom 11 were Labour, 
four Sephardim, three Mizrahi, three General Zionists, and two 
were members representing the smaller factions. The Revisionist 
party declined to accept representation on the Council, owing to 
the refusal of the Assembly to adopt the following resolutions 
which the party moved :— 

(1) not to take part in any Legislative Council of Palestine ; 


(2) to repudiate any decision of the Jewish Agency to take 
part in a Round Table Conference ; 


25 


(3) not to send any representatives to the Political Com- 
mittee of the Jewish “Agency for the conduct of negotiations 
with His Majesty’s Government. 


24. The General Council will, in due course, form from amongst 
its members an Executive Committee, of about seven members. 


Question 2.—What measures have been taken to place the 
country under such political, administrative, and economic con- 
ditions as will secure the development of self-governing institu- 
tions? What are the effects of these measures? 


1. In regard to the development of self-governing institutions, 
reference is invited to the following paragraphs from the State- 
ment of Policy (Command Paper No. 3692) :— 


“* Constitutional Development. 


‘* 11. Reference has already been made to the demands of Arab leaders 
for a form of constitution which would be incompatible with the man- 
datory obligations of His Majesty’s Government. It is, however, the 
considered opinion of His Majesty’s Government that the time has now 
come when the important question of the establishment of a measure 
of self-government in Palestine must, in the interests of the community 
as a whole, be taken in hand without further delay. 

‘It may be convenient, in the first instance, to give a brief résumé 
of the history of this question since the establishment of the civil 
administration. 


‘* In October, 1920, there was set up in Palestine an Advisory Council 
composed in equal parts of official and nominated unofficial members. 
Of the 10 unofficial members, four were Moslems, three were Christians, 
and three were Jews. 


‘‘QOn the lst September, 1922, the Palestine Order in Council was 
issued, setting up a Government in Palestine under the Foreign Juris- 
diction Act. Part 3 of the Order in Council directed the establishment 
of a Legislative Council to be composed of the High Commigsioner as 
President, with 10 other official members, and 12 elected non-official 
members. The procedure for the selection of the non-official members 
was laid down in the Legislative Council Order in Council, 1922, and 
in February and March, 1923, an attempt was made to hold elections 
in accordance with that procedure. 

‘‘ The attempt failed owing to the refusal of the Arab population as 
a whole to co-operate (a detailed report of these elections is contained 
‘in the papers relating to the elections for the Palestine Pecieatite 
Council, 1923, published as Command Paper 1889). 

‘* The High Commissioner thereupon suspended the astablisiinent of 
the proposed Legislative Council, and continued to act in consultation 
with an Advisory Council as before. 

‘‘Two further opportunities were given to representative Arab leaders 
in Palestine to co-operate with the Administration in the government 
of the country, first, by the reconstitution of a nominated Advisory 
Council, but with membership conforming to that proposed for the 
Legislative Council, and, secondly, by a proposal for the formation of 
an Arab Agency. It was intended that this Agency should have func- 
tions analogous to those entrusted to the Jewish Agency by Article 4 
of the Palestine Mandate. 


26 


‘‘ Neither of these opportunities was accepted and, accordingly, in - 
December, 1923, an Advisory Council was set up consisting only of 
official members. This position still continues; the only change being . 
that the Advisory Council has been enlarged by the addition of more - 
official members as the Administration developed. | 


“‘ It will be recalled that, under the terms of Article 2 of the Man- | 
date, His Majesty’s Government are responsible for placing the country © 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as will 
secure the establishment of the Jewish National Home and the develop- © 
ment of self-governing institutions, and for safeguarding the civil and 
religious rights of the inhabitants. The action taken with regard to - 
constitutional development in the early years of the Civil Administra- 
tion is briefly described above. 


‘‘ With the object of enabling the people of Palestine to obtain prac- 
tical experience of administrative methods and the business of govern-— 
ment and to learn discrimination in the selection of their representa- 
tives, Lord Plumer, who was High Commissioner for Palestine from 
1925 to 1928, introduced a wider measure of local self-government than 
had previously obtained under the British régime. 


‘‘ Sir John Chancellor considered the question of constitutional de- 
velopment on his assumption of the office of High Commissioner in 
December, 1928. He consulted representatives of various local interests 
and, after a careful examination of the position, put forward certain 
proposals in June, 1929. Discussion of the question was, however, sus- 
pended in consequence of the disturbances in August, 1929. 


‘12. His Majesty’s Government have now carefully considered this 
question in the light of the present stage of progress and development 
and with special regard to their obligation to place the country under 
such political, administrative, and economic conditions as will secure 
the development of self-governing institutions. They have decided that 
the time has arrived for a further step in the direction of the grant 
to the people of Palestine, of a measure of self-government compatible 
with the terme of the Mandate. 


‘* His Majesty’s Government accordingly intend to set up a Legisla- 
tive Council generally on the lines indicated in the statement of British 
policy in Palestine issued by Mr. Churchill in June, 1922, which is 
reproduced as Appendix 5 to the Report of the Commission on the 
Palestine disturbances in August, 1929. 


*‘ His Majesty’s Government trust that on this occasion they will 
secure the co-operation of all sections of the population of Palestine. 
His Majesty’s Government desire to make it quite clear that while they 
would deeply regret an attempt on the part of any section of the 
population to prevent them from giving effect to their decision, all 
possible steps will be taken to circumvent such an attempt, if made, 
since they consider it in the interests of the population of the country 


as a whole that the further step now proposed should no longer be 
deferred. 


‘* His Majesty’s Government would point out that had this Legisla- 
ture been set up at the time when it was first contemplated the people 
of Palestine would by now have gained more exprience of the working 
of constitutional machinery. Such experience is indispensable for any 
progress in constitutional development. The sooner all sections of the 
population show a desire to co-operate with His Majesty’s Government 
in this respect, the sooner will it be possible for such cunstitutional! 


development to take place as His Majesty’s Government hope to see in 
Palestine. 


27 


‘‘ There are obvious advantages to be gained by all sections of the 
population from the establishment of such a Council. It should be of 
special benefit to the Arab section of the population, who do not at 
present possess any constitutional means for putting their views on 
social and economic matters before the Government. Their representa- 
tives on the Council which is to be set up will, of course, be in the 
position, not only to present the views of the Arab eection of the 
population on these and other matters, but also to participate in dis- 
cussions thereon. A further advantage may accrue to the country as 
a whole from the establishment of the Legislative Council, viz., that 
the participation of representatives of both sections of the community 
as members of the Legislative Council, will tend to improve the rela- 
tions between the Jews and the Arabs. 

‘13. As stated above, the new Legislative Council will be on the 
lines indicated in the statement of policy issued in 1922. It will con- 
sist of the High Commissioner and 22 members, of whom 10 will be 

. Official members and 12 unofficial members. Unofficial members of the 
Council will normally be elected by primary and secondary elections. 
It is, however, in the view of His Majesty’s Government, so important 
to avoid the repetition of the deadlock which occurred in 1923 that 
steps will be devised to ensure the appointment of the requisite number 
of unofficial members to the Council in the event of one or more mem- 
bers failing to be elected on account of the non-co-operation of any 
section of the population, or for any other reason. The High Com- 
missioner will continue to have the necessary power to ensure that the 
Mandatory shall be enabled to carry out ite obligatione to the League 
of Nations, including any legislation urgently required, as well as the 
maintenance of order. 

‘* When difference arises as to the fulfilment by the Government of 
Palestine of the terms of the Mandate, a petition to the League of 
Nations is admissible under Article 85 of the Order in Council of 1922.’’ 


See also Introductory Section: Political Development, para- 
graphs 14 to 25. 


Question 3.—What measures have been taken to bring the 
country under such political, administrative, and economic con- 
ditions as will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the 
inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? What 
are the effects of these measures? 


1. Complementary to the obligation to create conditions favour- 
able to the establishment of a Jewish National Home, the Mandate 
enjoins the safeguarding of the civil and religious rights of all 
the inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion. 
This protective provision applies equally to Jews, Arabs, and all 
sections of the population. | 


2. Enough has been said in the first part of this Section to 
show that the civil and religious rights of the Jewish inhabitants 
are safeguarded. The Arab and other non-Jewish inhabitants find 
similar safeguards in the legislation of the Palestine Government 
which has been steadily directed towards the genera! aims of 
removing disabilities on particular classes or communities inherent 
in the Ottoman Code, of providing equal opportunities for all the 
inhabitants, without distinction of race or creed, and of encourag- 
ing enterprise. | 


28 


3. The religious rights of the Christian Communities are pre- 
served by the Articles of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, 
which establish the jurisdiction of Religious Courts, by the Suc- 
cession Ordinance, 1923, by freedom to maintain schools for the 
education of their own members, and by the provisions of the 
Religious Communities Organisation Ordinance, 1926. 


4, The Moslem Religious Courts are part of the general judicial 
system of the Palestine Government, and all the expenditure 
thereon is met from public funds. 


5. The Moslem Community is autonomous in the management 
of its religious affairs; and the control of its pious foundations 


(Waqfs) is in the hands of the Supreme Moslem Council. <A 
Committee was appointed by the High Commissioner in 1926 to 
consider the existing constitution of this Council and to make | 


recommendations for its revision. ‘The report of this Committee 
is now under consideration. Information in regard to the existing 
constitution and functions of the Supreme Moslem Council is 
given on page 100 of the Annual Report for 1926. 


6. Moslem rights and claims at the Wailing Wall await definition 


| 


and determination in the Report of the Commission, under the : 


Chairmanship of Mr. Lofgren, which was appointed for the purpose 
by His Majesty’s Government with the approval of the League 
of Nations. 


7. It will be recollected that the Commission on the 1929 dis- 


turbances laid stress on the importance of any future statement of 
policy of His Majesty’s Government containing a definition in 
clear and positive terms of the meaning which that Government 
attach to the passages in the Mandate providing for the safeguard- 
ing of the rights of the non-Jewish communities. That definition 
has been given in Command Paper No. 3692. Its economic aspect 


affecting the vital questions of immigration, land settlement and - 


development, has been dealt with in the Report of Sir John Hope 
Simpson (Command Paper No. 3686), the expert whom His 


Majesty’s Government sent to Palestine to carry out an inquiry 


into these questions. Some further explanation as to the meaning 
to be attached to the words ‘* safeguarding the civil and religious 
rights of all inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and 
religion ’’ occurring in Article 2 of the Mandate, and the words 
“ensuring that the rights and position of other sections of the 
population are not prejudiced,’’ occurring in Article 6, was given 
in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Prime Minister’s letter to Dr 
Weizmann. 


8. In the Introductory Section of this Report reference will 
be found to the measures taken by the Palestine Government in 
1980 to safeguard the economic interests of the Arab population, 
viz., the appointment of a Committee to investigate the condition 
of the fellahin, the appointment of an expert on co-operation with 


29 


a view to the introduction of that system in Arab villages, the 
grant of agricultural loans, and the restrictions on imports of 
wheat, flour, oil, and sesame. 


9. The Arab Executive Committee, no less‘than the Executive 
of the Jewish Agency, is granted ready access to the High Com- 
missioner and Chief Secretary; and a delegation of its members 
was received by His Majesty’s Ministers in London for political 
discussions. The following passage may be quoted from Command 
Paper, No. 3692 :— 

‘* Similarly (that is, to the case of the Jewish Agency), machirery 
must be provided to ensure that the essential interests of the non- 
Jewish sections of the community should at the same time be fully 
safeguarded, and that adequate opportunity should be afforded for 


consultations with the Palestine Administration on matters affecting 
those interests.’’ 


Il.—_AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy? What are the effects of such measures? 


1. Local Councils were abolished in six Arab villages in 1930. 
In each case the District Commissioner was of the opinion that 
the Council had failed to discharge their duties satisfactorily ; and 
the administration of the internal affairs of these villages was re- 
sumed by the Mukhtars and Elders. 

New Local Councils were elected in 1930 in Rishon-le-Zion and 
Petach-Tikvah on the basis of electoral regulations revised in 
accordance with the principle of proportional representation. 

The Government guaranteed a loan of £P.10,500 made to the 
Township of Tel-Aviv by a local bank to provide funds for the 
construction of a slaughter-house. 

Towards the end of the year, the first steps were taken for the. 
eradual transfer of the Hadassah Hospital at Tel-Aviv to the Town- 
ship. It is contemplated that there shall eventually be an arrange- 
ment similar to that obtaining in Jaffa, Acre, Gaza, Nablus, and 
Beersheba, where the municipal authority shares with the 
Government the financial and administrative responsibility for the 
municipal hospital. 


2. In January, 1930, it was necessary to suspend from office 
the Municipal Council of Safad, owing to the fact that, after the 
disturbances of 1929, the Jewish members declined to attend 
meetings of the Council, and also to the fact that one of the Arab 
members was continuously ill. In the circumstances a quorum 
could not be formed. The District Officer, the Mayor, one Arab 
and two Jewish residents were therefore appointed as Com- 
missioners to carry on the work of the Council under the Local 
Authorities (Replacement) Ordinance, 1929. The term of office of 


30 


the Commissioners was for a year. Normal conditions having 
been restored, a new Council was elected to take their place in 
February, 1931. 


3. Existing Municipal Councils were appointed for a period of 
three years in 1927, and new Councils should therefore have been 
elected in 1930. Having regard to the state of the country, it 
was thought inadvisable to provide a possible occasion for public 
excitement by holding elections. The Municipal Councils 
Ordinance, 1930, was therefore passed to prolong the period of 
office of existing Councils until such time as the High Commis- 
sioner should issue an order prescribing new elections. 


4. Further consideration was given during the year to the Local 
Government Bill. The views of the various Departments of the 
Government which are concerned have been recorded. Those 
views are now being studied by an Interdepartmental Committee, 
which is also engaged in considering the provisions in the Bill 
that are concerned with the elementary forms of. village organiza- 
tion. In due course, steps will be taken to circulate the Bill to 
Municipal Councils and other non-official bodies for expression 
of opinions upon its clauses before it is enacted. 


Il. JEWISH AGENCY. 


Question 1.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency 
been officially recognized? 


1. Article 4 of the Palestine Mandate recognizes the Jewish 
Agency for the purposes therein set out. As regards the relations 
between the Palestine Administration and the Agency the follow- 
ing passages may be quoted from the White Paper of 1922 and 
from Command Paper No. 3692, respectively :— 


‘Tt is also necessary to point out that the Zionist Commission in 
Palestine, now termed the Palestine Zionist Executive, has not desired 
to possess, and does not possess, any share in the general administration 
of the country. Nor does the special position assigned to the Zionist 
Organization in Article IV of the draft Mandate for Palestine imply 
any such functions. That special position relates to the measures 
affecting the Jewish population, and contemplates that the Organisa- 
tion may assist in the general developmert of the country, but does 
not entitle it to share in any degree in its Government.”’ (‘White 
Paper of 1922.) 


‘In particular, it is recognized as of the greatest importance that 
the efforte of the High Commissioner towards some closer and more 
harmonious form of co-operation ard means of consultation between 
the Palestine Administration and the Jewish Agency should be further 
developed, always consistently, however, with the principle which must 
be regarded as basic, that the special position of the Agency, in afford- 
ing advice and co-operation, does not ertitle the Agency, as such, to 
share in the government of the country.’’. (Command Paper No. 3692.) 


31 


2. The enlarged Jewish Agency, referred to in paragraph 24 on 
page 10 of the Annual Report for 1929 was formally recognized 
in a letter, dated the 6th August, 1930. The text of that letter 
is given on page 34 of this Report. 


3. The Executive of the Jewish Agency in Palestine is officially 
recognized as a consultative body for the purpose of advising 
and co-operating with the Government in matters that may affect 
the establishment of the Jewish National Home in Palestine; its 
members are regularly received for those purposes by the High 
Commissioner and the Chief Secretary. 


Question 2.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Adminis- 
tration in the past year? If so, in what form and in what con- 
nection? 


1. The principal matters in regard to which the Executive of 
the Jewish Agency in Palestine was consulted by the Government 
were the determination of the Jabour Immigration Schedules, 
the proposals for Land Legislation based on the Report of Bir 
John Hope Simpson, and the negotiations for agreement on the 
issue of the Wailing Wall which followed the visit of the Inter- 
national Commission in the summer. The Agency was responsible 
for co-ordinating and representing the views of the Chief Rabbinate, 
the General Council (Va’ad Leumi) and the Agudath Israel in 
these negotiations. 


2. The Agency has appointed a liaison officer to co-operate with 
the Military and Police in connection with the arrangements 
which are being made by the Palestine Government for the 
security of Jewish Colonies. 


3. The Agency made representations to the Palestine Govern- 
ment with a view to an increased grant-in-aid to Zionist Schools, 
and to a larger participation by the Government in the expenditure 
on Jewish health services. 


4. The Agency placed material dealing with (a) Land and Agri- 
cultural Development, (b) Urban Development and (c) Immigra- 
tion, at the disposal of Sir John Hope Simpson. 


5. The Agency advised the Palestine Government, on the basis 
of an economic survey, that there was a reasonable prospect of 
absorbing 3,143 new Jewish workers, men and women, in the 
half-year beginning at the 1st April. A Labour Immigration 
Schedule of 2,350 was authorized by the Government on this appli- 
cation, but for reasons appearing elsewhere in this Report, the 
issue of the Certificates was suspended. A second application for 
2,095 workers was made by the Agency in respect of the half- 
year beginning at the 1st October, 1930: a Labour Immigration 
Schedule of 1,480 was authorized by the Palestine Government.. 


32 


6. Representatives of His Majesty’s Government considered, in 
consultation with representatives of the Jewish Agency in London, 
questions arising out of the Statement of Policy in Command 
Paper No. 3692. 


Questions 3 and 4.—3. What is the nature and extent of the co- 
operation of this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in 
economic, social, and other matters? 


4. In what manner has this Agency taken part in the develop- 
ment of the country (statistics of the results obtained)? 


1. During a typhoid epidemic in June, 1930, in the Plain of 
Jezreel, the medical personnel of the Agency in the villages super- 
vised sanitary measures in the infected places, and carried out 
anti-typhoid inoculation in the hospital maintained by the Workers’ 
Sick Fund. 


2. In the campaign by the Government Department of Agri- 
culture against field mice in Northern Palestine, the Agency sup- 
plied the necessary labour and technical supervision on the Jewish — 
land which was infested, to the extent of about 100,000 dunums. 


8. The Education Department of the Agency maintains close > 
contact with the Government Department in many matters affect- 
ing the Jewish schools. The Agency’s Department assisted the 
Government inspectors in the elaboration of standard tests in 
certain subjects and co-operated in the making of a syllabus for 
English instruction in Jewish elementary schools. The Govern- 
ment Department is represented on the Va‘ad Hahinuch (Zionist 
Board of Education). 


4. During the year October, 1929-September, 1930, the Agency | 
spent the sum of £P.764,000 on economic and social services — 
distributed as follows :— 


£P. 
Keren Hayesod (through the Jewish pens . 422,000 
Jewish National Fund _... ... 192,000 
Hadassah Medical Organisation .. Se om ... 115,000 
Women’s International Zionist Organisation ... 35,000 
£P.764,000 


In addition, the Palestine Emergency Fund spent the sum of © 
£P.433,000 for reconstruction purposes (see Introductory Section, 
paragraph 13); the Hebrew University spent £P.48,000, towards 
which Keren Hayesod contributed £P.4,000; and the expenditure 
of the Sick Fund of the General Federation of Jewish Labour 
amounted to £P.60,700, of which £P.13,400 was a subvention 
from the Agency. 


33 


5. Expenditure of the Jewish Agency.—The principal items of 
expenditure of the Agency were as follows :— 


£P. 

Agricultural colonization including Experimental 
Station... oe Pee aes he ... 155,000 
Education _... as, a ms see ... 94,000 
Labour and Immigration ... oe a ... 44,000 
Health a oy Se 2: adi ... 17,000 
Urban Colonization fe ae be ... 21,000 
Investments ... re _ as ae ... 083,000 
National, Communal, and Religious Institutions 33,000 
Administration se aan a ad ... 25,000 
£P.422,000 


el 


6. Agriculture.—In 1930, the Jewish National Fund purchased 
16,950 dunums of agricultural land, thus increasing its holdings 
to 276,000 dunums. It carried out reclamation on a large scale 
in the swamps of the Haifa Bay area, installed water supplies 
in seven villages, and planted about a million forest trees. 


7. Further irrigation works were carried out by the Agency in 
a number of settlements, and many permanent buildings were 
erected. ‘The village of Bir Tuvia, which was entirely destroyed 
during the riots of 1929, has been reconstructed and resettled. 


8. To date, the Central Bank of Co-operative Institutions has 
made advances totalling £P.250,000, mainly for agricultural pur- 
poses. The investments of the Palestine Mortgage Bank in agn- 
cultural land and credits for construction of farms and farm 
buildings are about £P.50,000. 


9. Health.—The Agency carried out a series of works for im- 
proving sanitary conditions in its agricultural settlements and in 
workers’ quarters in the principal orange-growing centres. As 
part of this programme, it constructed permanent dwellings, 
kitchens, and dining halls, and service rooms, in accordance with 
plans approved by the Government Department of Health. 


10. A new hospital was opened by the Hadassah Medical 
Organization in Tiberias. The five hospitals of that Organiza- 
tion treated 10,845 in-patients in the course of the year, and the 
hospital of the Workers’ Sick Fund treated 1,676; altogether 
some 40 per cent. of all the patients, Jewish and non-Jewish, 
admitted to hospitals during the year. 

Two new Infant Welfare centres were opened by the Hadassah 
Medical Organization, bringing the total to 21. 3,769 mothers 
and 4,259 babies were treated in these centres. 

25,3840 school children are under the medical supervision of the 
Organization. 

10035 B 


34 


11. The industrial section of the labour census taken by the 
Agency in 1930 showed that there were in Palestine 617 Jewish 
factories employing 6,777 persons, with an annual expenditure of 
£P.1,221,000 on wages, material and fuel. The annual produc- 
tion of these factories is £P.1,653,000, and the total capital is 
£P.1,221,000. The Palestine Electric Corporation with a capital 
of £P.1,000,000, the Nesher Cement Company with a capital of 
£P.300,000, and the Shemen Oil Company with a capital of 
£P.250,000 were excluded from the census. Only 102 Jewish 
establishments with a total capital of £P.376,000 existed before 
the War. During 1920-1924, 199 factories with a total capital of 
£1P.430,000 were established and the rest have come into exist- 
ence in the last six years. 

12. 1,854 Jewish workshops (hand trades) were recorded in 
the census, with a total capital of £P.139,000. These workshops 
employed 3,386 persons; their annual expenditure amounted to 
LP.341,000 and the production to £P.404,000. 


Question 5.— What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of all 
Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the Jewish 
National Home? 

1. No further steps of this nature were taken by the Jewish 
Agency in 1930. The enlarged Jewish Agency described in para- 
sraph 24 of Section I of the Report for 1929 was officially recognized 
by His Majesty’s Government in a letter, dated the 6th August. 
1930, from the Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies in the 
following terms :— 


‘Downing Street, 
9; 6th August, 1930. 
Sir, 


I am directed by Lord Passfield to refer to vour letter of the 16th 
September, 1929, transmitting a copy of the Agreement embodying the 
constitution of the Jewish Agency for Palestine which was signed at 
Zurich on the 14th of August, 1929, and to inform you that practica! 
recognition of the enlarged Jewish Agency has in fact already been 
accorded both by the Colonial Office and the Government of Palestine. 
But, as it ie understood that formal recogrition is desired I am hereby 
to convey to you notification of the fact that His Majesty’s Govern. 
ment are prepared to recognize the enlarged Jewish Agency as con. 
stituted by the Agreement enclosed in your letter under reference as the 
Agency referred to in Article 4 of the Mardate for Palestine. 

“© 2. With regard to paragraph 3 of vour letter, I am to inform vor 
that in the event of the dissolution of the enlarged Agency, Hi: 
Majesty's Government, on being notified by the Zionist Organizatior 
that the enlarged Agercy has been dissolved, will, provided that they ar. 
satisfied that its organization and constitution are at that time appro 
priate, recognise the Zionist Organization as the Jewish Agency fo: 
the purpose of Article 4 of the Mandate for Palestine and the Organiza 
tion shall in that evemt be deemed to have reverted in all respecte t. 
the status which it possessed before the enlargement of the Agency. 


I am, etc., 


The Secretary, (Signed) O. G. R. Wintiams. 


The Zionist Organization.”’ 


35 


IV. IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1.—Q. What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish Im- 
migration? | 

2.—Q. What measures have been taken to safeguard the rights 
and position of other sections of the population? 


3.—Q. What measures have been taken in co-operation with the 
Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews on the 


land (give figures)? | 


4.—Q. What are the effects of these measures? Statistics of 
Immigration (country of origin, religion, race, profession, age, and 
sex). Geographical distribution within the country in the urban 
centres and in the rural districts. Same statistics for emigration. 


1. In connection with this Section of the Report, attention is 
invited to the conclusions respecting Immigration on pages 19-22 
of the White Paper (Command Paper No. 3692) and to the explana- 
- tion and interpretation of those conclusions given in paragraphs 14, 
_ 15, 16, and 17 of the Prime Minister’s letter of the 18th February, 
' 1931, to Dr. Weizmann. 


2. Instructions regarding immigration and naturalization were 
codified and circulated in print to Immigration Officers and to 
Police and District Officers concerned. Revised instructions to 
British Consular and Passport Control Officers for the grant of 
visas for Palestine and the issue and renewal of Palestine passports 
will shortly issue. 


3. Immigration in 1930 reflected the vicissitudes of agriculture 
and industry during the year and, the increasing economic and 
financial stress in Eastern Europe and America. The shrinkage 
in contributions and investments by American Jewry placed a 
check on Jewish enterprise in Palestine and in particular left the 
Jewish Agency with insufficient funds for any considerable measure 
of agricultural colonization. In the resulting depression, the figure 
of Jewish unemployment rose from 550 in April to 1,300 in June. 
Although, therefore, so far as could be foreseen, conditions at the 
beginning of May warranted the High Commissioner in authorizing 
a Labour Schedule of 2,300 men and 1,000 women workers, the 
reduction of this quota to 688 men and 262 women as a prudent 
reservation pending the outcome of the inquiry by Sir John Hope 
Simpson, did not cause any scarcity of labour in the following 
months. 


4. By the autumn, however, conditions were so far improved 
that it was found possible to authorize a Labour Schedule of 
950 men and 530 women for the half-year beginning the 1st October, 
1930. The Administration was satisfied that these men and 
women would be employed on new works which were to be 


10035 R 2 


36 


undertaken with Jewish funds, and in respect of which therefore 
no question arose of displacing Arabs already at work or aggravat- 
ing existing unemployment. 


5. 2,103 men and 428 women were registered as labour immi- 
grants in the course of the year, including some who were granted 
Certificates under the Schedule for the half-year October, 1929- 
March, 1930, and also working men and women who had entered 
Palestine without permission or as travellers. 


6. 6,433 immigrants were admitted to Palestine, that is 3,386 
men, 2,116 women, and 931 children, of whom 2,550 men, 1,700 
women, and 694 children were Jewish. Included are 695 Jews, 
493 Christians, 112 Moslems, and 6 Druze who had entered with- 
out permission but were allowed to remain. Of the 6,433 immi- 
grants, 3,563 came from Europe east of a line drawn from Danzig 
to Trieste, 1,187 from North Africa and Western Asia including 
‘Iraq, Persia, and Afghanistan, 411 from Central Europe, 286 from 
the United States of America, and 695 from the British Empire. 
The last figure includes 404 British Constables. 


7. 218 prospective immigrants who failed to comply with the 
Immigration Regulations were refused admission. 


8. 1,432 Palestinian citizens, including 597 Jews, 368 Christians. 
and 467 Moslems, and 1,571 foreigners, including 1,082 Jews, 430 
Christians, and 59 Moslems, left Palestine permanently. Among 
the Jewish emigrants were 1,002 comparatively recent arrivals. 


9. The Permanent Mandates Commission at its Seventeenth 
Session* asked for further information as to the restrictions alleged 
to have been imposed by various States in South and Central | 
America on the immigration of Palestinians, and as to the pro-— 
tection afforded to the latter by the Mandatory Power. 


10. The immigration of Palestinians and inhabitants of other 
territories in the Near East and Middle East is restricted in several 
of the Central and Southern American States. The Regulations 
under which they may secure admission vary, but in general require 
the prospective immigrant to be in possession of certain specified 
funds and to satisfy the Public Health Regulations. Relatives of 
settlers are usually admitted, provided that their maintenance is 
assured. Some States require certificates of moral character and 
conduct. 


11. The Salvadorean Government has placed a general embargo 
on the immigration into San Salvador of Palestinians and 
inhabitants of other territories in the Near East and Middle East. 
An exception has been made in the case of certain persons from 
those territories, including relatives of persons already established 
in San Salvador, and persons who have already resided there. These 


* Permanent Mandates Commission, Seventeenth Session, page 146. 


37 


persons may continue to be admitted subject to the fulfilment of 
certain conditions. Representations are being made to the 
Salvadorean Government by His Majesty’s Government with a 
view to the removal of the general embargo on Palestinian immigra- 
tion. 

12. The Government of Honduras requires Palestinian immi- 
grants to be in possession on entry into Honduras of the sum of 
5.000 silver pesos, and to deposit the sum of 500 silver pesos 
which is returnable to the immigrant provided he departs within 
two months of the date of his entry. Exception is made in the 
case Of Palestinians permanently resident in the country who 
return after an absence of not more than two years. Temporary 
permission to enter is granted on certain conditions to near rela- 
tions of Palestinian immigrants. Immigrants are, moreover, 
required to satisfy the Honduranean authorities as to their health, 
- morals, conduct, etc. 

13. As regards the protection afforded by the Mandatory to 
Palestinian immigrants, His Majesty’s Government in practice 
extend to the inhabitants of territories under British Mandate the 
same protection as is afforded to other protected persons, which is, 
generally speaking, the same as that accorded to British subjects. 


14. In April, the category (Ai) of persons of independent means 
was redefined. Previously, possession of a minimum capital of 
£P.500 was the qualificafion and a further category (B) permitted 
the registration of persons with less capital at the discretion of the 
Chief Immigration Officer. Experience of the working of the 
Immigration Law revealed the economic necessity to increase the 
Ininimum capital for Category Ai and to abolish Category B, as 
being dependent on a latitude of discretion which was undesirable 
ia principle and in practice difficult to exercise. The new minimum 
amount of capital is £P.1,000, but account is taken of long-term 
loans and the value of stock in trade. The Chief Immigration 
Officer may still, however, register under Category Ai members of 
professions possessing a minimum capital of £P.500, and skilled 
artisans with £P.250. 


15. Employment.—As regards availability of employment, the 
year under review may be divided into an earlier and later period. 
The months from January to May were marked by industrial and 
building activity, and plantation of new orange groves, and figures 
cf unemployment showed a continuous downward trend. There 
were at no time more than 850 Jewish and 2,400 Arab unemployed. 
Signs of an approaching depression were nevertheless visible in an 
increasing number of industrial disputes, a fall in agricultural 
prices, and frequent bankruptcies. 


16. With the approach of the summer months, the world wide 
economic and financial depression had reached Palestine and the 
second half of the year was marked by the familiar symptoms of 


10035 B38 


38 


an insecure economy: lack of money, increasing unemployment, 
and commercial failures. To make matters worse, Many men were 
thrown out of employment by the simultaneous conclusion of 
important works: such as the installation of the Shell Company 
at Haifa and the hydro-electric plant of the Palestine Electric 
Corporation at Jisr Majamie. 


17. Arab unemployment in 1930 was on the average in excess of 
that in the preceding year. Arab town workers were affected by 
the prevailing depression, which led, in particular, to stagnation 
of the Arab building trade. In addition, an unusually large number 
of fellahin sought work not only in the neighbourhood of their 
villages, but even in distant places, finding themselves unable to 
subsist on the income of their holdings in consequence of crop 
failures and the low prices ruling for agricultural produce. 


18. It is estimated that there were about 600 unemployed Jewish 
labourers in the Jewish agricultural centres in June, about 750 in 
November on the eve of the orange picking season, and about 850 
in December, when the seasonal work in the groves had begun. 
The Jewish farm workers constitute a floating population, and if 
work fails in the colonies they re-enter the towns. 


19. Employment of Arabs in the older Jewish settlements has not 
decreased; indeed, a tendency exists to replace organized Jewish 
labour by cheaper Arab and Oriental Jewish labour. 


20. The increase in unemployment in Jewish settlements may be 
ascribed, in part, to the extended use of machinery, to the 
suspension of work on new plantations owing to unavailability of 
funds, and to retrenchment necessitated by losses during the pre- 
vious orange season. 

21. The revenue of the Immigration and Travel Section was 
$P.13,461, and the expenditure £P.17 ,625. 


22. In August, 1920, a Land Commission consisting of a British 
official as President and of a Moslem and a Jewish Palestinian 
(non-officials) as members was appointed by the High Commissioner 
to report, inter alia, upon what steps should be taken to obtain au 
accurate record of State lands, and to advise upon the best dis- 
position of these lands in the interests of the country generally and 
of closer settlement and increased production in particular. 

Upon the recommendation of that Commission the Department 
of Lands was organized to ascertain, delimit, register, and control 
all State properties. | 

The Department of Lands began to operate on the 1st April, 
1921, the Land Commission being retained in an advisory capacity 
until it presented its report in the following May. Its functions 
were thereafter merged into those of the Department of Lands. 


23. Under the Ottoman Land Law, persons who had cultivated 
or developed waste State Land could obtain a title to such land. 


389 


In order to conserve the State Domain, the ‘' Mewat ’’ Lands 
_ Ordinance was passed, prohibiting unauthorized encroachment, and 
requiring persons who had already cultivated or developed waste 
land to lodge within a limited time applications for titles. 
(" Mewat ’’ means waste land.) 


24. Most of the land in Palestine is ‘‘ Miri’’ land. ‘‘ Miri ’’ 
land is vested in the State, the rights of user and disposition 
(except by will) being enjoyed by the holder so long as he cultivates 
or uses the land. 

In the event of failure to cultivate for three consecutive years 
or of failure of heirs within certain degrees the land reverts to the 

State as ‘* Mahlul ’’ (vacant land). 

_ In some cases ‘‘ Mahlul ’’ land, which had reverted to the State 
by escheat, was encroached upon without permission. An 
Ordinance was therefore passed in October, 1920, requiring all 
persons who had encroached upon ‘‘ Mahlul land to inform the 
Government, and providing for the lease of the land to the persons 
in possession by the Government in proper cases. 


25. On the recommendation of the Land Commission the follow- 
ing leases have been granted by Government for purposes of closer 
settlement of the land by Jews :— 


(1) An area of approximately 45,000 dunums (a dunum is 
approximately a quarter of an acre), consisting of the Athlit 
marshes, the Zor Kabbara and Mallaha and the Caesarea sand 
dunes was leased in December, 1921, to the Palestine Jewish 
Colonization Association for a period of one hundred years, at 
@ rental nominal at first but subject to reassessment by agree- 
ment or arbitration at intervals of thirty-three years. 

The lease is renewable for two periods each of fifty years. 

In this case an uncompleted concession of a similar nature 
for part of the area leased had been under negotiation at the 
outbreak of war by the lessees with the Turkish Government. 

The lessees, under the agreement of lease with the Palestine 
Government, were required to complete, within eight years, the 
drainage of all swamps within the area leased and within a 
period of twenty years to reclaim and plant the sand dunes. 

(2) A grant to the inhabitants of Rishon-le-Zion of an area of 
21,000 dunums of sand dunes adjoining the village, on the 
coast south of Jaffa, was made during the War by the Melis 
Tdara (Administrative Council) of Jerusalem. This grant has 
been confirmed, and the area has been set aside as 
‘* Metrukeh ”’ (common) land for the benefit of the inhabitants 
of the village in common. 

(83) A lease for a hundred years to the Township of Tel-Aviv 
of a plot of land on the seashore abutting on Tel-Aviv for the 
purpose of erecting a bathing establishment, restaurant and 
esplanade. 


10035 B4 


40 


(4) A lease to the inhabitants of Petach-Tikvah for fifty 
years, renewable under fixed conditions, of the Bassa swamps 
adjoining the village land, on requirement to drain the swamps 
within five years, and cultivate or afforest the land. | 

(5) A lease of 6,000 dunums at Tel-Arad, near Hebron, to 
Jewish ex-soldiers. In this case, lack of water led to the 
abandonment of the plan of colonization. 


26. It is the policy of the Palestine Government: not to alienate 
State lands by sale: only in a single case, namely the Ghor 
Mudawwara lands, has there been a departure from this policy. 
This case is fully dealt with elsewhere in this Report (see Section 
V, paragraph 4). 


27. The process of demarcation of the Baisan lands has shown 
that there are no grounds for expecting that, after the allocation 
of lands to the Arab transferees under the Agreement, blocks of 
any considerable area will remain available for close settlement by 
Jews. 


Ghazzawieh lands lying to the east of the Baisan lands should be 
placed at the disposal of Jewish ex-soldiers. But investigations 
revealed that included in the 50,000 dunums involved there was no 


For instance, a suggestion was made that the Beshatweh and. 


single parcel of land of 1,000 dunums in extent, fit for cultivation. 


which was not already fully used by the Arabs for summer and 
winter crops or essential grazing requirements. 
Previously, another area, of 10,000 dunums, in the Baisan lands 


was offered to the Jews for settlement; but it was declined as being 


too mixed in quality for successful farming. 


28. The following further measures have been taken by the 
Government to facilitate the close settlement of State lands bv. 


Jews ‘— 


(1) It had been proposed that Government should lease an 
area of 8,000 dunums of sand dunes at Acre Bay to a Jewish 
Development Company; but that proposal has been modified 
by arranging for an exchange of that area for an area of 2,000. 
dunums of cultivated land (equivalent in value) in the Com- 


pany’s ownership. These 2,000 dunums are required for 


purposes of public utility, namely as sites for railway workshops 


and an aerodrome. 


(2) The consideration of a proposal to lease an area of 44,000 


dunums at Rafa to the Zionist Organisation was suspended 
because the effective settlement of the area pre-supposed :— 


(a) the expropriation of a tribal area and the disposses- 


sion of squatters ; 

(b) elaborate arrangements for the protection of the 
settlers on the edge of the desert; 

(c) heavy initial outlay which the Zionist Organisation 
were not at the time prepared to incur. 


4] 


(3) A proposal to lease areas near the Dead Sea, in par- 
ticular at Ain Feshkha and at Jericho was abandoned because 
it was found that with the exception of Ain Feshkha, the soil 
and water of which are only moderately saline, these areas 
are heavily impregnated with salt and are not capable of 
cultivation without large expenditure on initial preparation 
of soils. 

(4) An area of 2,700 dunums near Mesha (Mount Tabor) has 
been reserved as the site for the buildings and farm lands 
of the Jewish (Kadoorie Bequest) Acricultural School. 

(5) A plot of 2 dunums, in the centre of J erusalem, is being 
leased to a Jewish ex-soldiers’ club as the site for its premises, 
for a period of 49 years, at an annual rent of £P.30. 

(6) The Jewish National Fund is now negotiating with 
Government for the lease of lands at Rushmia (on Mount 
Carmel) 3,000 dunums in extent; the proposed rent is 5 per 
cent. of the capital value. 

Attention is invited, generally, in regard to the question of close 


settlement and intensive cultivation of the land in Palestine, to 
the conclusions respecting Land and Agricultural Development 
recorded in Command Paper No. 3692, and to paragraphs 7-13 of 
the Prime Miunister’s letter to Dr. Weizmann, dated 138th 
February, 1931. 


PROVENANCE OF IMMIGRANTS. 


1930. 
Country of last permanent restdence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. Total. 


Austria ses xa ane ead 69 3 — 72 
Belgium See ete si _ 12 6 — 18 
Bulgaria ead ie eee — 28 4 — 32 
Czechoslovakia : .. 58 2 — 60 
Danzig 12 — — 12 
Denmark — 1 — 1 
Finland 1 — — 1 
France 31 51 — 82 
Germany 138 105 — 243 
Greece 40 22 — 62 
Hungary 22 2 — 24 
Italy ... 5 73 — 78 
Latvia 91 — — 91 
Lithuania... Ses 123 — — 123 
Malta ... ee arse ss ne — 10 —— 10 
Netherlands 12 1 — 13 
Poland 2,417 2 — 2,419 
Roumania 313 3 — 316 
Russia 420 2 — 422 
Spain ... 3 13 — 16 
Sweden — 3 — 3 
Switzerland ... sites sae ed l 7 — 8 
Turkey 45 25 5 75 
United Kingdomand L Irish Free State 52 554 — 606 
Yugoslavia ... x 23 1 — 23 

Total ... bas nee os 3,915 890 5 4,810 


42 


Country of last permanent residence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. Total. 


Asia— 
Aden ... des 
Afghanistan ... 
Hedjaz see wr wae wen 
India ... ion ahs — es 
Persia nee 


9 

34 

9 

91 

48 
Straits Settlements .. ae 1 — 
Syria .. “is se — 29 171 

2 ‘ie Fae 

646 


pm 
—SRmeawDone 


Trans-Jordai..; 
Yemen 


Total cae 


SLB LL mre | 
3/88 


| 


Africa— 
Abyssinia am 
Morocco sas ais aie ie 14 
Sudan... ner — 
Tanganyika ... as ee — 

Tangier a8 o ‘ac os 4 

] 
9 
83 


—] 
-—_ 
OO 

— & 


Om & Oho Ol = > 


Tunis ... 
Union of South Africa 


~~ 


Total ... 


elit dtl BI 


IS lellel- 
| 3 | 


America— 
Argentine... sae ot ae 11 
Canada én coe gus oe 16 
Colombia ts sis er ie 3 
Cuba ... ite oes wee Lise — 
Dominica... is cai gas — 
Haiti .. ve ees ee ans — 
Mexico. hi oe — 


United States “ot America see ... 260 
Venezuela sie ra nor ae — 


an ee De a os geo 


Total ... ee _ ... 29) 


Australia ies acs oe ae 9 
New Zealand ... ee was i — 


Grand Total ... ‘ss ... 4,044 1,296 193* 6,433 


hi | Paercre eine 


* Including 8 Druzes. 


CLASSIFICATION OF IMMIGRANTS AND EMIGRANTS. 


1. By Age and Family Groups. 


Immigrants. Emv«grants. 





(a) By Age Groups. ae ee Bie loose! 
Non-Jew. | Total. Jews. | Non-Jew. | Total. 


SE | cee eS | EE aS | SE ee 


















Under 18 years ... 283 | 1,087 | 500 221 721 
From 18 to 35 years 952 | 4,253 ; 938 901 1,839 
From 36 to 45 years 148 342 , 196. 110 245 
Over 45 years of age 106 741 ! 106 92 198 
Total 1,489 | 6,433 | 1,679 | 1,324 | 3,003 
(b) By Family Groupe. 
‘Individuals... ... ... | 2,683 | 1,175 | 3,758 | 818 ! 959 1,777 
Heads of families accom- 897 107 1,004 270 | 110 380 
panied by their families. | , 

Members of families accom- | 1,464 207 ‘| ‘1,671 591 | 955 846 

panying heads of families. | 
Total ... ... | 4,044 | 1,489 | 6,433 | 1,679 ! 1,324 | 3,003 

(c) Size of Families—Familtes consisting of :— 
e pop cens Bec qe 

2 persons 109 | 56 165 
3, 69 17 86 
2 3 55 14 69 
5 - 16 il 27 
6 ee 14 4 18 
7 and over 7 8 15 
Total Number of Families 270 | 110 380 


44 


2. By Occupation. 





Emigrants 
Jews Total. hae 
ewes. 
Agriculture 463 466 386 459 
Skilled Urban Tradea— 
Mining and Mineral ee 3 3 — — 
Textiles eae 39 39 —— 3 
Leather works 6 7 — 4 
Wood works .. 164 167 11 62 
Metal and Mechanioal wots 163 176 13 65 
Building aay 48 56 10 50 
Chemical works 2 3 — I 
Printing Ses ae 30 30 3 13 
Food products and Tobacco 4] 56 5 12. 
Clothing and Millinery __... 184 191 8 48 . 
Boot and Shoe making... 74 83 6 26 
Transport and Communication 16 20 13 23 
Other Skilled 24 38 1] 23 
Unskilled Labourers 989 997 3 126 
Professional— 
Physicians, Surgeons, Den- 17 27 3 
tists. 
Architects, Engineers (Profes- 20 33 4 
sional). 
Education 37 87 13 
Arts ... des sist ek 3 3 — 
Other Liberal professions ... 13 19 3 
Religious occupations 1] 233 43 
M rascellaneous— 
Commerce (Manufacturers, 129 164 185 
Merchants, Dealers, etc.). 
Clerical and Commercial] ser- 98 580 137 
vice, Civil Service (inclu- 
ding British Police Con- 
stables). 
Domestic and General service 25 121 33 
Students begs 66 85 37 
Total 2,665 3,684 927 
Persons living on income— 
No occupation : 
Men 228 236 13 
Women ... 445 556 74 
Individuals under 18 years.. 142 286 55 
Members of families accom- | 1,464 1,671 255 
panying heads of families. 
Grand Total 4,044 6,433 1,324 





45 





[#70 


a es 
‘(207og YsHtg Surpnyour) soueurpig uoMeroUy 

oq? JO suorstaoid 043 wory pajyduiexe suosiag : y 

a ouryse[eq JO s}Uepisel jo syuepusdag : q 

"** ¢) AtoBeq"e_ ur suosred jo syuepuadeg : 74 

ee "** gueutfojdme 03 Suraioo suosieg : 45 

“" PeMsSse SI OOUBUOJUTEU Gs04M syUOpNyG : (III) g 

"** (ft) q 1089785 ur suosied jo sywepuedeg : Z (1) g 

= uoryednooo snorsiyar Jo suosieg : (1) g 

sUOT}NjIVSUI OF SuTUOD suBydIC : (1) g 

V A10%0;%,) ut suosied jo syuespuedegq : z 

‘wd pF JO ouloouT UNUITUTUT Jo suOsIeg : (AT) VW 
‘OSS Weyy sso] Jou 

Jo [szid¥o @ Jo uolssosv0d ur suBsIyze porTTAG : (11) y 
"00CF UVYy Sse] 9Ou Jo [ezId¥o B Jo 

uolssess0d UI suOIssajoid [BIeqIT Jo sloquiayy :(N) ¥ 

“vs spreadn pure 0Q0'TF G14 suosieg : (1) ¥ 


Pe, te ages 
a 





° TTD | i oeeemementiemmnienienbeniehednmmenitiittineticn seinen: E Re eee 
| © Ns en 


‘OS6T SCL TE-OS6T TT Gordag aHL ONIEAd 
‘SINVUOINW] SV GAYALSIDAY SNOSUAT AO NOISSINGY AO saIUODaALVD 


UNEMPLOYMENT IN PALESTINE DURING 


January 
February 
March 
April 

May 

June 

July 
August ... 
September 
October ... 
November 
December 


46 


Jews. 


1,300 
1,300 


1,000. 


1,000 
1,150 
1,400 
1,750 


THE YEAR 1930.* 


Non-J ews. 
2,,000 
2,400 
2,300 
2,,200 
2,,200 
2,600 
3 ,600 
3,300 
3,300 
4,300 
5 500 

12,000 


* Until better means of determining the extent of unemployment are 
available, these figures should be accepted with reserve. 


EMIGRATION. 


1. Nationality, Status, Sex and Age of Emigrants. 








Children 
Class. Men. Women under 16. Total 
Palestinian citizens... or wie 914 235 283 1,432 
Foreigners ... ar a ars 794 440 337 1,571 


See aperennnE etn tntiamanatimeaciaianetmesamned’ ‘Rasmmenenmenteemeemmmemennieememmnnaremmithetiesemnemmmaet Cormeen eee a aaa 


Total... isd oe .- | 1,708 675 620 3,003 


47 


2. Destination, Religion and National Status. 














Destination. 2 ¢ | s § NM 
3 “ 2 g 
3 3 ° 3 F: 
a Ry os A, me 
Egypt ... 5 9 2 56 4 16 ll 81 
Syria... ee a oe ee a ae 6 | — | 28 
Russia ... — 26 —_ 1 — — — 27 
Poland ... l 193 — — — — 1 193 
Roumania l 23 — — — — 1 23 
Balkan States — 16 — 9 l 2 1 27 
Other ofa i Coun 10 | 134 3 | 238 4 — 17 | 372 
(onal and South 257 | 212 | 315 66 | 423 17 | 996 | 205 
America a ea 
United States of | 157 | 363 26 28 35 15 | 218 | 406 
America 
iat 40 2 l — — — 41 2 
South Africa ... 86 42 I — — — 87 42 
Australia and New} 26 27 — — — — 25 27 
Zealand. 
Other Countries 15 30 20 15 — 3 35 48 
597 | 1,062 | 368 | 480 | 467 69 | 1,432 | 1,57) 
Total | | 


1,679 798 526 3,008 


V.—LAND REGIME. 


1.—Q. How have State lands been defined and delimited? 
2.—Q. How have waste lands been defined and delimited? 


3.—Q. What measures have been taken for the registration of 
real property? 


1. 18,315 transactions in land were seiseres and £P.69,550 
‘was collected in fees. The corresponding figures in 1929 were 
11,290 and £P.68,247. | 


Four hundred and forty-five applications were granted under the 
Correction of Land Registers Ordinance, 1926, while 660 applica- 
tions are now under consideration. 

Daring 1980, 51,065 dunums of land were sold by Arabs for 
£P.554,486 and 24,516 by Jews for. £P.680,190. Most of the 
land sold by Jews was acquired by Jewish colonizing or urban 


48 


development agencies. During the same period, 31,261 dunums 
were purchased by Arabs for #P.422,778 and 438,882 by Jews for 
£P.817,260. Most of the land bought by Jews was rural land. 


T'wo hundred and eighty-one State Domain properties were leased 
and £P.6,240 was collected in rent during the year. 


In the course of Land Settlement, claims to all categories of 
State Domain are presented by the Department of Lands in the 
name of the Government. 


Nine actions in the Courts in respect of ownership of State 
Domain were decided in favour of the Government : these involve 
an area of 2,314 dunums. 


LAND SETTLEMENT. 


2. The staff engaged in Land Settlement and in the office of 
the Commissioner of Lands consists of 18 administrative and 35 
officers in clerical grades, and a Sharia’ judge. 


3. Land Settlement.—The Land Settlement Amendment 
Ordinance, 1930, simplified the procedure of settlement in respect 
of registration of houses and sites of small value in villages, and 
facilitated the partition of jointly-owned undivided parcels and of 
village common land. 


The title obtained on Settlement provides a greater measure of 
security of tenure to owners than was hitherto possessed; and the 
partition of land held in common, known as Masha‘a, which 1s 
being carried out in the course of Settlement provides a title to 
separate parcels and thereby encourages land development. Draft 
legislation designed further to accelerate Settlement in general 
and partition in particular, so as to promote better farming by 
empowering the rearrangement and regrouping of uneconomic plots, 
was under discussion at the end of the year. It is intended also 
to provide by law that the Torrens system of registration shall 
apply to any transactions or mutations in a village after Settle- 
ment. 

Cemeteries, village water supplies and the like are exempt from 
registration fees on Settlement. 

With a view to establishing a basis for reducing registration 
and survey fees, it has been decided to carry out a test in 1931 
which will reveal what proportion of the cost of Settlement is 
recouped from that source. 


4, Ghor Mudawwara Agreement, 1921.—Including 144 claims 
from tribal areas finally dealt with in 1930, all claims of indi- 
viduals to title to land under the Agreement have now been decided. 

Demarcation under the Agreement was also completed in the 
course of this year, with the division and assignment of the remain- 


49 


ing plots in villages and tribal areas, 34,594 dunums in the 
aggregate. ee ee 
Parcellation schemes were approved in respect of 53,819 dunums, 


and 74,590 dunums were parcelled on the ground and handed 
over to transferees or, as waste land, declared as State Domain. 


Land Schedules were compiled for 49 Registration blocks cover- 
ing 58,819 dunums, and registration of title will follow. 


It is estimated that the Ghor Mudawwara Agreement affects 
an area of 381,771 metric dunums. Of this, 235,054 metric 
dunums have now been transferred. 


The remainder includes village and State Matrukeh (common 
land), such as threshing floors, roads, cemeteries, canals; beds 
of rivers and wadis, antiquity sites and a few forest areas; and 
some exiguous and dispersed plots, for the most part uncultivable. 
This last category only 1s now available for transfer. 


There are 2,647 transferees under the Agreement, including 109 
claimants under Article 9 for whom no land is yet free for allo- 
cation. Article 9 provides that any family of those tribes generally 
living -and cultivating on the west side of the Jordan which has 
not hitherto cultivated any area shall be entitled to the transfer 
of an area not exceeding 150 dunums to be included in the tribal 
area. 


235,054 metric dunums are thus distributed among 2,538 persons, 
an average of 92 metric dunums each. 


5. General operations of Settlement.—At the beginning of 1930 
owing to the animosity engendered by the disturbances of 1929, 
Jewish and Arab claimants were unwilling to meet in the villages 
for the preliminary investigation of claims, and the work of the 
Settlement Officers was retarded. 


In May, Gaza Sub-District was declared a third Settlement 
Area, additional to Jaffa and Ramleh. 


Since Settlement began in 1929, 16,080 claims have been 
decided : 432 registration blocks, covering 161,529 dunums, have 
been settled ; Schedules of Rights have been posted for 323 blocks, 
and 53 Partition Schedules for undivided land posted after parcel- 
lation. During 1930, notices of settlement were served on 13 
villages. The process of Settlement had reached 32 villages by 
the end of the year. 


6. The question of the availability of State Domain for Jewish 
settlement requires some explanation. It cannot be maintained 
that the Palestine Government has the free disposal of such lands, 
cultivable as well as waste, or that the Arab inhabitants have 
no claims in their apportionment. 


50 


_In Appendix VI will be found a statement of registered State 
Domain, and, in the case of the cultivable areas, particulars of the 
occupants. 


Most of the cultivable State lands had been in occupation and 
under cultivation by Arabs for generations. They had owned the 
lands before the Ottoman Land Code was enacted, and, although, 
comparatively recently the Sultan acquired the titular ownership, 
the original possessors were not ousted and their position became 
that of tenants in perpetuity. They were allowed to sell their 
tenancy rights, and those rights were transmitted by inheritance 
to their descendants. Their position ots-d-vis the Sultan and, on 
his deposition, vzs-d-vis the Turkish Government, was in some 
degree analogous to that of owners of ordinary Miri land. 


Waste lands belonging to Government are the coastal sand- 
dunes, the desert area south-east of Beersheba, the arid waterless 
area between the Jerusalem-Hebron Road and the Dead Sea, some 
marshes, and forest reserves in the hills. In some of these areas, 
too, Arabs have grazing rights. It is, however, the intention of 
His Majesty’s Government to institute an enquiry as soon as 
possible to ascertain, inter alia, what State and other lands are, 
or properly can be made, available for close settlement by Jews 
under reference to the obligation imposed by the Mandatory by 
Article 6 of the Mandate (see paragraph 10 of the Prime Minister’s 
letter to Dr. Weizmann). 


Reference has been made by the Jewish Agency to the possi- 
bility of land settlement in the Negeb south of Gaza and Beersheba. 
It will, however, be some years before the programme of settle- 
ment and registration of title reaches that district; and investi- 
gations into the water supply have yet to be made. 7 


The Jewish Agency have asked for an area of 75,000 to 100,000 
dunums in the Negeb for preliminary research work. It is doubtful 
if any unoccupied cultivable tract of that magnitude is available, 
but this point will be further considered by the Palestine Govern- 
ment. 


Another question that has aroused considerable discussion is that 
of the Ghor Mudawwara Agreement of 1921, relating to the Baisan 
lands. It may be observed in regard to this question that it would 
not have been possible to grant Jewish settlers a share in the Baisan 
lands without buying out the rights of the Arabs, with their consent. 
That consent was not likely to have been obtained ; nor could public 
funds have been applied to such a purpose. 


The origin of the Ghor Mudawwara Agreement was the following. 


In 1920, the Palestine Government attempted to regularize the 
position of tenants of all State Domains, and called upon the 


SI 


eultivator-tenants of the Ghor Mudawwara villages to sign agree- 
ments of lease. 


The tenants refused, fearing that the leases would be used to 
prove that the lands were not theirs. They stated that the 
registration of ownership in the name of the State had in most 
cases been made in an improper manner; that their ancestors and 
they had owned the land in unbroken succession. long before the 
Ottoman Registration Law was enacted ; that even after the Sultan 
had obtained the titular ownership they had remained in possession 
of the land and had continued to buy and sell rights therein; and 
that their nghts had been transmitted by inheritance without inter- 
ference. Nor did they conceal their fear that the Government 
sought to give their lands to Jewish settlers. 


The Palestine Government in the circumstances decided to allow 
the Arabs to re-acquire full Miri rights in the land. The Ghor 
Mudawwara Agreement was the instrument signed for that 
purpose: being @ contract between the State and tenants which 
settled the respective rights of both parties. 


Where cultivator-tenants had tenancy rights over a large area, 
the Agreement did not limit their rights to 150 dunums for each 
family and take away their rights in the remainder of the area. 
They were allowed, in fact, to convert into Miri ownership the 
tenant rights which they possessed, irrespective of the area affected 
by those tenant rights, provided only that the area had been 
cultivated for two years by both summer and winter crops. On 
the other hand the Agreement provided that, where a person 
had cultivated a holding of less than 150 dunums, he should be 
entitled to the transfer of an area which, together with the land he 
had cultivated, would amount to 150 dunums. 


The transferees had previously cultivated the land on the masha’a 
(ownership in common) system. On their re-acquisition of full 
Miri rights, that system was abolished and they received parcels 
equivalent in area or in value to their former shares. 





7. Urban Property Tax.—The Urban Property Tax Ordinance 
came into force in 1930 in Nablus and Tiberias, and was applied 
to Safad, Nazareth, Beersheba, and Jenin. It was already in force 
in Jaffa, Jerusalem, Gaza, Lydda, Tulkarem, and Baisan. 


During the year operations under the Ordinance were completed 
or nearly completed in 15 towns. 10,400 parcels were surveyed in 
towns and 11,475 valued; 2,495 objections were lodged, of which 
1,572 were allowed. ‘There were 443 appeals. 


Urban areas have been delimited at Jenin, Bethlehem, and Bait- 
Jala and provisional boundaries fixed at Ramallah and Hebron, in 
readiness for next year’s programme. 


52 


- There were 38 Assessment Committees at work, and the total cost 
of assessment was £P.11,771. 


Assessments of the previous year were revised in seven centres, 
at a total cost of £P.632: but no variation in annual value of 
property was found which would necessitate a change in the rate 
or the limit of exemption. Generally, the rate is 9 per cent. of 
the annual value on house property including the site, 6 per cent. 
on house property used for an industrial undertaking, and 7 per 
cent. on land which is not the site of a house. House property is 
exempt if occupied by the registered owner and of an annual value 
less than £P.15 in Jerusalem, Jaffa (or Tel-Aviv), £P.10 in 
Tulkarem, Tiberias, and Nablus, £P.5 in Baisan, Gaza, Ramleh, 
and Lydda. 


It has been suggested that partiality is shown by Government in 
assessing Jewish property at higher values than Arab property. 


This is not the case. There is no discrimination between Jews 
and non-Jews in the application of the Ordinance. The basis of 
the Urban Property Tax being the net annual value of the property, 
the more attractive, costly, and better equipped the premises, the 
higher will be its value for taxation purposes. 


8. Commutation of Ttthe.—The commuted tithe for a village is 
a fixed aggregate amount paid annually. It corresponds to the 
average amount of tithe that was paid by the village during the 
four years immediately preceding the application to it of the 
Ordinance. The tithe is distributed by village committees under 
official supervision on the basis of the cereal productivity of the 
land held by individuals. 


The system was applied to 32 tribal areas in the Beersheba and 
four in the Hebron Sub-District, so that all cultivators in Palestine, 
except the members of two sub-tribes, now pay the commuted tithe. 


The fall in prices of the winter crops by about 50 per cent. 
compared with 1929, and the resulting collapse of the cereal market, 
coupled with the practical failure of the harvest, led the High 
Commissioner to remit 30 per cent. of the commuted tithe payable 
in 1930. This represented approximately a half of the proportion 
of the tithe due in respect of winter cereals. The amount remitted 
was £P.72,345. 


9. Proposals for Land Tax.—Lands in 73 villages were divided 
into fiscal blocks and the land in each block was valued. 
Schedules of Values have been prepared for 190 villages, involving 
2,570,705 dunums in 1,840 fiscal blocks. The total value of the 
land in these blocks was £P.7,465,072. 


Altogether this experiment is now proceeding in 190 villages. 


53 


SURVEYS. 


10. Staff.—The strength of classified officers in the Department 
of Surveys increased from 118 in January to 131 in December, as 
follows :— 


Office. Field. 
British officers, senior service 3 3 
Palestinian officers, senior service ... — 1 
British officers, junior service 4 — 
Palestinians: Clerks 7 — 
Computers 8 — 
Draughtsmen 35 ~— 

Surveyors aa 69* 
Printer 1 — 
Total 58 73 


* Includes 4 Cypriots. 


A non-commissioned officer of the Royal Engineers was lent by 
the Ordnance Survey to replace a Palestinian Sub-Inspector of the 
Field Section who had resigned. 


Of the 69 Palestinian surveyors, five are employed on triangula- 
tion, 16 on topocadastral survey, 28 on cadastral survey, seven on 
examination duties, four on contouring, and nine are attached to 
Land Registries. 


Included among the new Palestinian draughtsmen are five officers, 
and among the new Palestinian surveyors eight officers, who 
received their training in the Department. The training of student- 
surveyors ceased with the completion of the town-surveys for Urban 
Assessment in October. 


11. Triangulation and Mitscellaneous.—Fizred-point network.— 
The number of parties was increased from two to three in August, 
and work has in the main comprised topocadastral triangulation in 
hill areas. 


New 38rd-Order combined with topocadastral triangulation has 
filled in the gap between Lake Tiberias and the northern boundary 
at Metullah, and similar work has been carried out over a consider- 
able area between Jerusalem and Hebron. Existing 3rd-Order 
triangulation between Nazareth and Tiberias, and Jenin and 
Samaria, has been filled in with topocadastral points, but an 
extension of the town-planning area of Jerusalem has been covered 
with regular 4th-Order triangulation. 


In November and December one party was employed in restoring 
principal and 8rd-Order points in the Jordan Valley and marking 
them specially for aerial photography in connection with the Haifa- 
Baghdad Railway Survey. 


54 


12. During the year, 51 3rd-Order points covering 650 km’, 
and 485 topocadastral points covering 165 km’, were established, in 
addition to 73 km of traverse-lines containing 593 points. 

The fixed-point network now comprises 20,873 points having 
computed co-ordinates—representing the result of 10 years’ 
theodolite work—to which must be added 22,898 control-points and 
landmarks fixed by graphic means, making 43,771 points in all. 


13. The figures for density of this framework are given below, 
and the progress is indicated in the map, Diagram I. 


TABLE I.—FIXED-POINT NETWORK, DECEMBER, 1930. 


Average 
Portion of No. Total area | distance Localitu. 
network. ono (or length.) | between sd 
points. 
km. km. 
Principal Trig. ... 105 14,750 13-200 | Whole cadastral area. 
3rd Order ..- | 1,097 13,062 3-810 | Whole cadastral area except 
parts of Hebron and Beth- 
lehem Sub-district. 
Topocadastral ... 597 1,761 1-790 | Hill aveas. 
4th Order w- | 11,261 7,526 0-884 | Fertile plains and towns. 
Traverse ... .-- | 7,913 11,445 0-182 | Mainly towns and close areas. 
Graphic ... ... | 22,898 — — Controls on block boundaries. 


14. Tidal and Levelling.—Diagram II shows the monthly varia- 
tions of sea-level during the year. The variations are considered 
mainly due to wind, the summer level being probably the effect 
of the regular sea-breeze. 

The monthly variations of water-level in the inland seas are 
shown in Diagram III. The abnormal rainfall] of 1929 is evidenced 
in the graph for Lake Tiberias. 


DETAIL SURVEYS. 


15. Topocadastral Survey.—1/10,000 sheets covering the plain 
lands between Ras el Nakura and Jenin, the Carmel range, and the 
valley of Jezreel have been completed, villages in the foot hills to 
the north and south of Tulkarem surveyed, and the hill villages 
of Bittir and Bir-el-Zait, which presented special features, mapped 
for purposes of experimental] land-valuation. 

1,303,530 dunums have thus been added to the map during the 
year at an average field-cost of 2.95 mils per dunum. This brmgs 
the total area surveyed on the 1/10,000 scale to date to 5,522,000 


55 


dunums, covering the maritime plain, the plains of Acre and 
Esdraelon, and the whole of the Jordan Valley with the exception 
of a narrow strip between the Wadi Faraa’ and the Baisan lands. 
The surveyed area covers over 42 per cent. of the whole cadastral 
area north of the Beersheba Sub-District, and includes the greater 
portion of the cultivable land in this area. 

The progress is shown on Diagram I, in which also the portion 
of the area which has been valued for Land Tax is indicated. 

16. Contourtng.—Contouring has been carried out by telescopic 
alidade and India clinometer on prints of the 1/20,000 topocadastral 
sheets mounted on the Plane-Table. 

Eleven sheets covering 1,150 km* were completed during the year, 
bringing the total number up to 16 sheets covering 1,550 km’. 


17. Town Surveys.—The examination of the town-surveys of 
Safad and Jenin was completed early in the year, and by November 
the remainder of the present programme of surveys for assessment 
of Urban Property Tax, comprising the chain-survey and examina- 
tion of Bethlehem, Bait Jala, Beersheba, Ramallah, Jericho, and 
Hebron, was completed, at an average cost of 419 mils per dunum, 
including examination. 

The reduction of cost under that reported last year is due to the 
more open nature of a number of these towns and the increasing 
experience of the staff. 


18. The surveys of the 20 towns of the present programme, 
including the revision of Jerusalem, have been executed in four 
years. An example of a portion of Hebron which illustrates the 
difficult class of work required, is given in Diagram V. 


CADASTRAL SURVEY. 


19. Procedure.—In addition to Preliminary Block Plans showing 
the claims to Mafruz (divided) land as demarcated by the people, 
the survey now supplies Settlement Officers with schedules of 
claimants both in lands subject to Settlement and in built-on 
village sites of little value which may be excluded from Settlement. 

In the latter areas, Settlement of disputed parcels alone is now 
carried out, and the plans, with schedules of reputed owners, if 
undisputed, are registered without investigation of rghts. This 
procedure accelerates Settlement but increases the work of Survey. 


20. In Masha’a (undivided) lands, difficulties have been met with 
owing to unofficial parcellations on uneconomic lines which per- 
petuate some of the worst features of the Masha’a system, whole 
blocks being cut up into long narrow strips, often without access 
save from a wadi-bed. Strip parcels on a single frontage of more 
than 500 metres in length and less than 10 metres in breadth are 
frequently met with, and give rise to survey difficulties and delay. 
A modified procedure has been introduced by which a preliminary 
‘“ croquis’’’ of such blocks is made in advance with a view to 


56 


disclosing parcellations of the kind and enabling timely decision 
to be made as to their acceptance for Survey and Settlement. 


21. It was also found necessary in the summer to introduce pro- 
cedure by which the scale of survey and size of blocks in a village 
are obtained at the earliest stage by formula from the property- 
density, an investigation of which is made one of the first duties 
of the cadastral surveyor on entry into a village. 


22. Ghor Mudawwara.—Parcellations executed by the Depart- 
ment in 1929, covering 68,115 dunums in three villages, were 
demarcated at a cost of 5.8 mils per dunum and handed over to 
the transferees. 

The block surveys of three tribal areas, containing a number 
of irrigated and cultivated lands near the Jordan, were completed. 

These surveys covered 34,921 dunums and were executed at a 
cost of 29 mils per dunum. 


23. Maritime Plain.—Seventeen Arab villages containing 219 
blocks, which covered 74,765 dunums of Mafruz and 9,178 dunums 
of Masha’a land, and six Jewish and two German colonies together 
containing 140 blocks which covered 53,515 dunums of Mafruz 
land, have been surveyed on the 1/2,500 and larger scales, and 
250 Preliminary Block Plans with schedules of claimants have 
been issued to Settlement Officers. 

In addition, eight built-on areas of Arab villages covering 360 
dunums, and two built-on areas of Jewish villages covering 1,397 
dunums, have been surveyed on the 1/1,250 and 1/625 scales and 
completed for Settlement with schedules of reputed owners. 


24. Since the beginning of Settlement, 746 Blocks in 41 villages 
covering 333,636 dunums have been dealt with by the Survey. 
Details of the area and cost of these are given in Table II. 


TaBLB I].—DEtTaILs OF SURVEYED BLocKs, DECEMBER, 1930. 








; No. of Average cost of survey* 
d ategory 0. 0 No. of per dunum. 
Village. of land. | blocks. | “7° | parcels, | A%erage: 
Field. | Office. | Tota 
dunums dunums | £P. Mils| Mls. | £P. Mi 
Arab... | Masha’a 39 | 12,903 840 |} 15-4 29 13 42 
Mafruz 438 |215,496 | 17,074} 12-6 29 9 38 


Village sites (68) | (1,036) | (5,718) | (0-2) | 1-269 221 1-490 

















Jewish ... | Mafruz 176 93,084 7,003 | 13:3 27 10 37 


_—— | Ce | OS | ee | i | ES | gene 


German ... | Mafruz 25 11,117 1,046 | 10-6 27 1] 38 


————— ee | ey | | EE | ee | RE | a 


Total (excludes village sites).| 678 | 332,600 | 26,963 | 12-8 = = se 


* Includes all costs except overhead charges, and reproduction. 

























Metull 








Banas: 





o | 36° 





‘ 
i 











\ <G> __.dKuneitra 
iF pa plcoy * 

Lake Ze yin 

A ile . ‘ 


qJisr Benat waka 


SKETCH MAP ak y) 
| sia 3 Ras enNaqgura, 


KILOM.10 =§ 0 





2 
30 KILOM. ta 


¢ 


REFERENCE 





— }\.904 

Acre@ Y 

International Bdries.........—.—.—. i ) oe 
PRAIIINGY Sone te cs Fn Nes eee eee Fy: i | ty Go ) Eee s 
Metalled Roads..-...:------ eee, ape AIRY EE ae { re TST 

Other Roads & TrackS._......_.---_.-.- Carmelé WX pee) & 


F. 
5! 
\ 
\ 


?wee\\'s 
t\\ — 


os y Mis o\ Man : : = ae 
HEIGHESATIANCGK CS =e age eee seeclae. 1073 VAX ie: 

S.Limit of Present Cadastral Area....... ! 
Towns surveyed for | “thlith A 
Assessment Purposes...--.----------®@ A on 


Progress to Dec. 31% 1930. 





“S 
3rd Order........... LLB | hid 588 ee 
; fd eee Gh 
Triangulation fe Order & rat Oe 
Topocadastral........ Czxsareap A\Jisr Sh.Husein i 
SUPV@VED ...cseeecceene x Z gy Kassih . | x 
Topocadastral G tas SO 1088 
: | a "| ! 
Survey Published... ...2100-+- Zi ! / 
ty | ‘Ajluno x 
Surveyed ee ee CUGEEL )\ P if 
Cadastral | y | 330 i =| i 
Sur * Loa 4) 2 <n : bi. 
si Sa | rest dA (lo ee an ee “ge 4 : lax } “ / > xO a ie Be, OdJeras 
Limits of Areas covered BSS SSS OPUA SS sgNablus \% ae ke 
BY drana ValGaliort o-..esct-stios ees met ete! . iw 
NOTE. Municipal Surveys were 


utilized for Assessment: LOX. 

purposes in Jaffa& Tel-Aviv.  _ SRaap ema) 
| TEL AVIVASAa Ae 
JAFFA BY say 






(A Jisr ed Damie 
eS i 
32 


SRNR & 





Uy 


eee 4! 






Sa eta a ee \ Sersheba._| CME , 
i) . e A AGICK TA ees \ 
aie he eX, 

-458 ' . 





\EGYPT\, 7 vest {|| 
(Sinai) \. W 













Wvdaovid 


ee 

P| |S ae BS Asluj | re spell Hogs —/ | P| 
MAP/82 . 3 gS". oy | —~“Survey of Palestine , Jaffa. 1930. 36°|} 

2715.10/2,P31,1250,4]51. os | <r — —— 


Malby & Sons, Lith. 





Digitized by Google 


7 OR eee Re 


— ee | 


Clas 


DIAGRAM I! 


OCG} Yaquiaceg “eer ‘eunseaseg yo Aaasng 


Joquisleg c0qWeAON 40g0)990 40qusej}deg 


Jeqwoeseg sOQUIGACN #090700 J0quse;deg 


yenday 


iengay Ajap eunr Aen 


‘OS6L WWASTI-VAS AO SNOILVIYVA 


hsensqey 


ksenaqey 


Assnusp 


hewnivep 





VARIATIONS OF LAKE-LEVELS 


LAKE TIBERIAS 


Metres Below 


M.S.L. 


DIAGRAM II! 





Survey of Palestine, Jaffa. December 1930. 


DEAD SEA 


DIAGRAM IV 


OEGI BYES ‘aUASa8q Jo AeALNS 


ool 


0001 
550/g J aN 


"29g 


“AON 


"390 


ae 


rath 
Pat 








Sy20/g B,eYSeY JO OU pazeUI)Sa Sapn{ru; 
* 


‘Bay Aine aunr Kew jtudy “ae Q84 “ueL 


Digitized by Google 


sya Atv EP 


‘086i SNVId HOO18 
NOILVYULSIOSY JO SSAYHOOUd 


ABAYNS WHAISVAVO 


Digitized by Google 


HEBRON. 
(Part of Urban Area) 
LS 







a ena | 


‘ 


2715. 10298 31.2 44/4) 


Maiby & Sons, Lith. 


Digitized by Google 


Digitized by Google 


57 


The increases in the figures for cost per dunum over those 
given in the 1929 Report are due to work in closely divided Arab 
lands, fenced with cactus, and to the changes of procedure already 
mentioned, which frequently enforced the employment of the 
1/1,250 scale, and involved increase of work in the mensuration 
of small parcels. 


25. For 83 per cent. of the blocks, Preliminary Block Plans 
with schedules of claimants have been issued for Settlement, 48 per 
cent. have been returned by Settlement after investigation of 
rights; and 43 per cent. se as Final Block Plans and issued 
for registration. 


The areas covered are shown in green on Diagram I, and the - 
monthly progress during the year is illustrated by graph in 
Diagram IV 


26. It will be remarked that hitherto nearly 96 per cent. of 
the land dealt with has consisted of Mafruz land in a highly 
developed area, but that with the gradual extension of Settlement 
in outward directions along the maritime plain, more particularly 
towards Gaza, an increasing area of Masha’a land is being met 
with. 


Maps, PLANS, &TO. 


27. Published Maps.—The progress of publication of the 1/20,000 
topocadastral series in three colours is shown in Diagram f. 


28. Special maps and data.—Maps were printed and issued 
during the year for the Defence schemes of the Northern and 
Southern Districts and for the Royal Air Force. 


29. In addition to supplying data, instruments, and marks to 
the Haifa-Baghdad Railway Survey, the Department carried out 
the supervision of area-computations and printing of village-plans 
for the Trans-Jordan revenue-survey. 


30. In the early summer comprehensive estimates of the area of 
cultivable land, involving a scheme of aerial flights over hill areas 
and detailed examination of aerial photographs, were made for 
Sir John Hope-Simpson, and a variety of special maps was pro- 
duced and supplied to him. (See Command Paper No. 3686, 
pages 22-23 and Appendix Command No. 3687.) 


HRALTH OF STAFF. 


31. The health of the staff has continued to be good on the 
whole. 1,818 men-days were lost through sickness during the’ 
year, of which 68 are attributable to malaria. The decline in 
malaria, with marked improvement in health of the field-parties, 
is noticeable. 


58 


VI.—_ NATIONALITY. 


Question 1.—What is the text of the nationality Law? 


1. The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order in Council 
and of a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine 
amending Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the 
Report for 1924. 


Question 2.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as 
to facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


2. Article 5 of the Order facilitates the acquisition of citizen- 
ship by Jews who opted therefor under Article 2 of the Palestine 
Legislative Council Election Order in Council, 1922. The quali- 
fications for naturalization are simple: two years’ residence in 
Palestine out of the three years preceding application, good 
character, and the declared intention to settle in Palestine; know- 
ledge of Hebrew is accepted under the literacy qualification. In 
special cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant 
naturalization even if the period of residence has not been within 
the three years preceding application. 


3. The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. Jewish ex-soldiers 
form the majority of those to benefit from the exemption from 
naturalization fees granted to ex-members of His Majesty’s Forces. 


4. Special facilities have been granted to Jewish students resi- 
dent abroad to obtain citizenship, if qualified, without being 
required to present themselves in person at Jerusalem. 


5. 5,834 persons, including 5,611 Jews, were granted Certifi- 
cates of Citizenship or Naturalization. ‘Twenty-two certificates 
were revoked on the ground that the recipients had settled abroad 
and severed their connections with Palestine. 


6. It is proposed to amend the Palestine Citizenship Order in 
Council, 1925, early in 1931, so that, in accordance with the 
intention of the Treaty of Lausanne, Ottoman subjects who were 
habitually resident in Palestine on the 6th August, 1924, as well 
as those so resident on the lst August, 1925, shall acquire 
Palestinian citizenship automatically. At the same opportunity, 
amendments will be made (i) to remove doubts as to whether 
citizenship under Article 4 or 5 is revocable, (i1) to permit the 
grant, to a woman who became a Palestinian under Articles 1 
and 6, of immunity from an Order of the High Commissioner 
revoking her husband’s citizenship. 


7. The Permanent Mandates Commission at its Seventeenth 
Session* enquired when the Mandatory Power sent instructions 
to its Consular Agents in regard to the formalities required for 
the granting of visas for return to Palestine of persons born in 





* Permanent Mandates Commission, Seventeenth Session, page 146. 


59 


Palestine and returning to their country. The Commission also 
enquired whether sufficient publicity had been given to the pro- 
cedure adopted by the Mandatory Power in thig matter. 


8. The revised instructions regarding the grant of visas for 
return to Palestine of persons born in Palestine and returning to 
their country were sent to His Majesty’s Consular Officers on the 
27th of June, 1929. As regards the second part of the enquiry, 
His Majesty’s Government consider that sufficient publicity has 
been given to the procedure adopted by them in this matter. 


9. Steps were also taken to make the arrangements as widely 
known as possible by communicating with the various official and 
unofficial Arab organizations concerned in Palestine. 


10. 7,255 Palestine passports, 993 Emergency and Identity 
Certificates, 5,866 visas, and 1,402 endorsements were issued during 
the year 1930, and 310 passports renewed. 

11. Proceedings were heard by the High Court on the applica- 
tion of a Palestinian citizen to compel the Chief Immigration 
Officer to endorse his passport for certain European States. The 
Court held that the grant of an endorsement was entirely within 
the discretion of the Chief Immigration Officer who had not 
exercised that discretion unreasonably. 

12. Forty-four British subjects and British protected persons 
registered or renewed registration. 269 British passports and 54 
British Emergency certificates were issued, 146 endorsed and 267 
renewed. 32 passports were renewed on behalf of the Government 
of ‘Iraq. 

13. 292 changes of name were registered in the course of the 
year. 

CITIZENSHIP AND NATURALIZATION STATISTICS. 
(Palestine Citizenship Order in Council, 1925.) 
Period : The Year 1930. 
A. Applications accepted— 


Article 7 ... =e or a - se 1,310 
Article 7 (5) Sou th aa aii aod os 19 

1,329 

B. Certificates granted— 

Article 2 ... ae ee an we — 21 
Article 5 ... aa sey ome sie si +239 
Article 7 ... “ad Gen vie oo — 1,471 
Article 7 (5) va ie mar aust ae 26 


C. Applications refused— 


Article 5 ... ae see sta ae Sih) 44 
Article 7 ... dest bee ile re vo 48 
92 
D. Certificates unclaimed up to 31st December, 
_ 1930— 
Article 2 .. 110 
Article 4 .. 2 
Article 5 .. 312 
Article 7 .. 454 
878 
E. Certificates revoked— 
Article 5 ... dese ioe ve “6 ror 10 
Article 7 ... — con ue oe no 12 
22 


Classification of Persons enumerated under ‘‘ B."’ 
(Excluding Article 2.) 
F. By Class and family groups. 


1. Number of persons receiving Citizenship and Naturaliza- 
tion certificates (individuals and heads of families) :— 


Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 
Residents previous 








to July, 1920 ... 474 67 541 
Settlers subsequent 
to June, 1920... 2.156 39 2,195 
2,630 106 2,736 








2. Number of additional persons included in Citizenship 
and Naturalization certificates (members of families) :— 


Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 
Families of Resi- 
dents... aie 761 110 871 
Families of Settlers 2,220 57 2.277 





2,981 167 3,148 











61 


3. Total number of Persons :— 
Residents and their 





families .. 1,412 Jews 5,61) 
Settlers and their 
families we «= 4,472, Non-Jews 273 
Total .. 86,884 





G. By previous nattonality. 
Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 


American (U.S.A.) . os ane ae oes 14 — 14 
Argentine... is soe ae nas ae 1 1 2 
Austrian ahs ate re Ses sie 7 18 — 18 
Austro-Hungarian ... el ae wei ‘ee 70 1 71 
Bulgarian... oe 7 ae - aa 20 — 20 
Czechoslovak dod ne sats a naa 7 — 7 
Dominican ee — 2 2 
Egyptian 1 34 35 
Estonian 1 — 1 
German 16 — 16 
Greek ... 15 3 18 
French 9 — 9 
Hungarian 10 — 10 
‘Iraq 20 — 20 
Italian 1 1 2 
Latvian 37 — 37 
Libanese 2 2 
Lithuanian 105 —_— 105 
Moroccan 3 2 5 
Persian 40 7 47 
Polish 846 — 846 
Roumanian 137 — 137 
Russian 1,117 1 1,118 
Serbian 1 — 1 
Spanish 19 — 19 
Sudanese — 1 1 
Syrian... — 14 14 
Turkish 28 34. 62 
Yemenite ... ns ies es oa hae 2 — 2 
Yugoslav ‘a a 4 va 2 — 2 
Naturalized British Subjects ee a sh 3 — 3 
Undefined... sis Jo hae ae 87 3 90 

Total... whe Su mn cae ... 2,630 106 2,736 


62 


VII.—_JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 
1.—Q. When did the new judicial organization begin to operate? 


2.—Q. What special features does it include with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee of 
their rights as laid down in Article 9? 


3.—Q. What special measures have been taken to assure respect 
for personal status of the various peoples and communities and 
for their religious interests? 


4.—Q. How have the control and administration of Waqfs been 
assured? 


5.—Q. What extradition agreements have been made between 
Mandatory and other Foreign Powers since the coming into force 
of the Mandate? 


LEGISLATION. 


Twenty-five Ordinances were passed during the course of the 
year. ‘lhe objects of some of the more important are described in 
the succeeding paragraphs. ‘The remainder are Ordinances which 
amend the Principal Ordinances on some minor matter :— 


(1) An Ordinance entitled the Indemnity Ordinance was 
passed to restrict the taking of legal proceedings against public 
officers and officers of His Majesty’s Forces in respect of acts 
done on account of the disturbances in Palestine in the year . 
1929. 

(2) The provisions of the Ottoman Law in regard to Partner- 
ships were replaced by a comprehensive Partnership Ordinance 
which deals also with the registration of partnerships; to a 
large extent the Ordinance is based on the provisions of the 
English Law. 

(3) The Ottoman Law with regard to postal and telegraph 
services has been replaced by a Post Office Ordinance which deals 
with all matters connected with postal and telegraphic services, 
except wireless telegraphy. The Ordinance is based on English 
legislation and, among other things, makes provision for the 
introduction of Post Office Savings Banks. Wireless telegraphy 
is still governed by the provisions of the Wireless Telegraphy 
Ordinance, 1924. 

(4) Following the judgment of the High Court regarding the 
qualification of women to practise as advocates, which is 
referred to in paragraph 33 of Section IV of the Report for 
1929, the Advocates (Admission of Women) Ordinance was 
passed by which women were declared not to be disqualified 
by sex from practising the profession of advocate. It was, at 
the same time, provided that a woman who held a licence to 


63 


practise as an advocate should not have a right of audience in 
@ Tribal Court or in a Moslem Religious Court unless, in the 
latter case, she was certified by the Supreme Moslem Council 
to be qualified to practise. 


(5) The Electricity Concession for the supply of electrical 
energy in Jerusalem and the neighbourhood which was granted 
by the Ottoman Government to Euripides Mavrommatis and 
re-adapted under the provisions of the Treaty of Lausanne was 
validated by the Electricity Concession (Jerusalem) Ordinance. 


(6) In contemplation of the commencement of drainage 
schemes in Jerusalem and elsewhere, the Drainage Ordinance 
was passed by which the necessary powers in regard to the con- 
struction and maintenance of drainage works were conferred 
on Local Authorities. 


(7) By the Contempt of Court Ordinance, the offence of 
scandalizing the Court was created. The offence is defined as, 
by speech or writing, using words of any Judge with the intent 
to defame him in that capacity or with a view to bringing the 
administration of justice into suspicion or contempt. The 
Ordinance was passed after defects in the Ottoman Law had 
been discovered as a result of the prosecution of certain news- 
papers. The Ordinance provides that discussion with candour 
and decency of the merits of a decision of a Judge in a matter 
of public interest and concern does not constitute an offence. 


(8) The term of office of existing Municipal Councils was 
extended by the Municipal Councils Ordinance for a period not 
exceeding three years from the date of the Ordinance. The 
elections were due to take place in the early part of the year 
1930 and it was not thought desirable to hold elections owing 
to the state of affairs then prevailing as a result of the dis- 
turbances of the previous August. 


2. Special mention may be made of the following enactments 
which concern the judicial system. 


(1) The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1930, replaces 
Section 19 of the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1927, 
which relates to offences against women and children, and to 
crimes against decency. Certain of the provisions of that 
Ordinance were by that clause made summarily triable before a 
District Court under the same procedure as applies in the 
Magistrates’ Courts. They are now triable by British 
Magistrates. 


(2) The Validation of Judgments Ordinance, 1930, validates 
certain judgments of the Courts upon which a Senior Magis- 
trate sat under the misapprehension that a proper warrant of 
appointment of the officer as acting Judge of a District Court 
had been executed. 


64 


(3) The Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, 1930, consolidates generally the pre-existing legisla- 
tion on this subject. In particular, it provides that where a’ 
claim for a sum of money not exceeding £P.100 in respect of 
rent or the profits of immovable property or damage thereto is 
brought with a claim for recovery of possession of immovable 
property, an appeal on either of such claims shall lie to the 
Land Court; and that Magistrates’ Courts shall no longer be 
bound in passing sentence by any minimum penalty provided 
in the Ottoman Penal Code, but may adjudge such punishment, 
not exceeding the maximum prescribed, as may be just in the 
circumstances of the case. 


3. Extradition.—The Anglo-German Extradition Treaty was 
extended to Palestine in 1930. 

A list of the Extradition Treaties to which Palestine has adhered 
is given in Section XII of the Report. 

Negotiations are still proceeding with the Government of Egypt 
and Syria for the conclusion of Extradition Treaties with Palestine 
to replace the existing provisional agreements. 


4. Compantes.—Twenty-five new Palestinian companies, and 
eleven foreign companies were registered. Among the former, the 
principal were :—A Farmers’ Bank with a capital of £P.10,000, an 
Arab Bank with a capital of £P.50,000, a Hotel Company with 
a capital of £P.50,000, a Fruit Products Company with a capital 
of £P.10,000, a Tobacco and Cigarette Company with a capital of 
£P.25,000, a Flour Milling Company with a capital of £P.50,000, 
and a branch of Imperial Chemical Industries with a capital of 
£P.175,000. The aggregate capital of Palestinian companies 
registered in 1930 was £P.210,000 approximately ; in the previous 
year it was £P.770,000. 


Among the foreign companies registered were :—the Palestine 
Potash Company, which is working the Dead Sea Salts Concession, 
the Standard Marine Insurance Company, the Anglo-Persian Oil 
Company, and the Metro Goldwyn Mayer Company. 


5. Co-operative Societies.—Forty-two co-operative societies were 
registered, of which ten were for agriculture, four for building, 
eight for loans and saving, five for transport, and nine were 
societies of consumers and producers. 

The total number of co-operative societies now registered is 292. 


6. Trade Marks.—245 applications were received during the year, 
and at the 31st December, the number filed was 2,070. The 
revenue from fees amounted to £P.1,200. 


7. Patents.—Twenty-five applications were made for registration 
of patents, and £P.230 was collected in fees. There were also two 
applications for registration of designs 


€5 


8. Advocates.—Twenty-seven persons were admitted as advocates 
before the Civil Courts during the year. Of these, twenty-one were 
graduates of the Law Classes of the Government, five were foreign 
advocates, and one was a retired judge who was granted a licence 
without examination. | 

Kighty-one students were enrolled in the Law Classes for the 
1930-1931 session. 


JUDICIAL. 


9. Rules.—The following Rules of Courts were made by the Chief 
Justice during the year. 


(1) The Young Offenders Rules, 1929, make provisions as to 
whipping of boys and the mode of appointment of Probation 
Officers to supervise the conduct of young offenders. 

(2) The Advocates Examinations (Fees to Examiners) 
Rules, 1930. 

(3) The Foreign Judgments (Amendment) Rules, 1930, make 
a minor correction in the Foreign Judgments Rules, 1928. 

(4) The Advocates (Amendment) Rules, 1930, vary the 
licence fees to be paid on admission to practise. 

(5) The Land Settlement (Procedure) Rules, 1930, amend, 
as experience has shown to be necessary, the Land Settlement 
(Procedure) Rules, 1928. 

(6) The Advocates (Professional Conduct) Rules, 1930, are 
aimed at curing an abuse in the professional conduct of 
advocates, namely that an advocate having acted in a particular 
matter for one party has subsequently acted for the opposing 
party in the same matter or in a proceeding arising out of it. 

(7) The Arbitration (Amendment) Rules, 1930, provide that 
an application for leave to appeal to the District Court or Court 
of Appeal under Section 15 (2) of the Arbitration Ordinance, 
1926, shall be accompanied by a deposit which shall be forfeited 
if leave to appeal is refused. 

(8) The Land Settlement (Procedure) (No. 2) Rules, 1930. 
prescribe the payment of a deposit, which shall be forfeited 
if leave to appeal is refused, on any application to the Land 
Settlement Officer for leave to appeal from a decision of a 
Land Settlement Officer under Section 56 (1) of the Juand 
Settlement Ordinance, 1928. 

(9) The District Courts Rules of Court, 1930, aim at 
economizing the time of the clerical staff of the Courts, by 
providing that formal summaries of judgments, decrees, and 
orders shall be served instead of copies in ertenso; and reduc- 
ing the length of judicial proceedings by making the time in 
which appeals mav be lodged from judgments of District 
Courts run, not from the date of the service of the judgment 
on the person adjudged against, but from the time of its 
delivery. 


10035 C 


66 


(10) The Magistrates’ Courts (Formal Orders) Rules of 
Court, 1930, legalize the service of formal judgments, decrees, 
and orders. 


10. Municipal Courts.—10,770 cases were entered in the Muni- 
cipal Courts and 10,749 decided; 834 cases were pending at the 
end of the year. The pending cases were mostly in Gaza, Tel-Aviv, 
and Acre; in the Jerusalem and Jaffa Courts, presided over by 
the Stipendiary Magistrate, 7,126 cases were entered and 7,115 
decided. 


11. Magistrates’ Courts.—Civil Cases——The number of civil 
cases entered in Magistrates’ Courts in round figures in the last 
six years was as follows :— 


1925. 1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 
39,000 53,000 57,000 60,000 60,000 64,000 


The number of cases pending at the end of each of the last 
seven years 1s as follows :— 


1924 eee G09 
1995: ho ino ku “GR? vee aie can. . 488 
1926... ence eee 1,142 
19270 eee eee «174 
1928) ww eee ee nee nee 017 
1929 wee ee ena 1,700 
1930 2 ; : .. 1,796 


Criminal cases.—The number of criminal cases entered was 
93,481. 23,528 cases were decided. 


12. District Courts.—The following are the statistics of cases 
decided in the District Courts since 1923 :— 


1923 ee eee 8,255 
1924. 0. ee eee nee B BIB 
1925 nee ee ee 8197 
12600 2... eee eee B74 
19927) wanes 8,992, 
1928 eee eee 4,443 
19299) ee eee 4,490 
1930 eee ee eee 4,684 


13. Land Courts.—The number of cases entered in the Land 
Courts in the last five years is the following :— 


1926... whe asi ion es edt oT 915 
1927 li. die _ io wa bees oe 683 
1928 ae se sae ve a sey she 653 
1929... a as es ~ Zh ar 517 


1000; ce ues ay oes «ee: BIG 


67 


There were 573 eases pending at the end of 1930. | 

The Land Courts Judges of Jerusalem and Jaffa were frequently 
called upon during the first part of the year to sit on cases arising 
out of the 1929 riots. This, and the absence of the Land Court 
Judge of Jaffa on long leave, circumscribed the work of the Courts. 

14. Supreme Court.—The numbers of civil and criminal appeals 
m the last eight years are as follow :— 

Civil. Criminal. 


1923 ... yee ee bee sii ... 460 250 
1924 ... ee a ae ses ... 3836 339 
1925 ... Sai i. sis ‘i ... 290 295 
1926 ... ds aye = ee ... 440 267 
ae he an Bes os ... 260 312 
1928 ... foe, ek ast _ ... 240 362 
1929 ... as set or wo ... 226 306 
1930 ... ; os 210 217 


The drop in the figure of criminal actions in 1930 is no doubt 
due to the operation of the Trial Upon Information Amendment 
Ordinance, 1929, which eliminates barren appeals. This 
Ordinance confines the right of appeal from a conviction in a 
District Court to persons sentenced to imprisonment exceeding 
one year or a fine exceeding £P.100; whereas this right was 


formerly allowed to pefsons sentenced to a term of imprisonment 


exceeding six months or a fine of £P.100. The Ordinance also 
abolishes the provision in the principal Ordinance which prescribed 
an automatic appeal to the Supreme Court or the Court of Criminal 


_ Appeal in all cases of infliction of sentence of penal.servitude for 


not less than five years by a District Court or the Court of Criminal 
Assize. 

The time of the British Judges of the Supreme Court was for 
the first half of the year largely employed in hearing criminal 
cases arising out of the 1929 riots, either in the Court of Assize 
or the Court of Criminal Appeal; and for a month the Supreme 
Court could only sit in one division owing to the sickness of the 
Senior Puisne Judge. This accounts for the increase in the cases 
pending at the end of the year. 

The following are the figures of the cases pending at the end of 
each of the last eight years :— 


Civil Criminal | 

cases. cases. 
1923. 2s: ee Le a oe ... 204 51 
1924 ... ace oe at % 1. 227 39 
1925 ... oe = a oe ... 176 50 
1926 ... oe Nd ee si ... 170 38 
1927 ... 233 ee a ee ... 176 56 
1928 ... a me ie ch ... 237 60 
1929 ... a ies ae se ... 194 46 
1930 ... ost as sa 2 ... 807 37 


10935 C2 


68 


livery effort has been made not to allow an accumulation in 
criminal cases so as to cause convicted persons to have to wait 
longer than is normal for the hearing of their appeals. 


15. Court of Criminal Asstze.—The figures of persons tried on 
charges involving the capital penalty since the constitution of this 
Court are :—1925, 66 persons; 1926, 38 persons; 1927, 61 persons: 
1928, 38 persons ; 1929, 78 persons; 1930, 163 persons, of whom 72 
were concerned in the riots of the preceding year. 

Apart, however, from the riot cases, the number—91—of pre- 
meditated murder charges in 1930 was the highest on record. 

Of the 163 persons tried during 1930 on capital charges, 22 were 
sentenced to death, 34 to imprisonment, and 107 were acquitted. 
In one case the Court of Appeal quashed the conviction of the 
person sentenced to death by the Court of Criminal Assize; and in 
a second, reduced the death sentence to 15 years’ imprisonment. 
In 13 cases the death sentence, affirmed by the Court of Appeal, 
was commuted to imprisonment by the High Commissioner in the 
exercise of his prerogative of mercy. 


16. High Court.—101 petitions were entered in the High Court 
and 111 were decided in 1930; 25 petitions are pending. 

As in criminal trials, the policy has been to dispose of High Court 
applications with the least possible delay in priority over ordinary 
civil suits. $ 


The petitions entered in 1930 may be classified as follows :— 


(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus proceed- 
ings under sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the 
Courts Ordinance, 1924 ... whe ies 

(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) in execution 
matters... a Reg ge ies et 309 

(3) Other petitions under sub-section (2) for orders 
directed to public bodies or public officers 28 

(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for change of venue 8 

(5) Petitions under the Contempt of Court Ordinance 3 

(6) Not coming under the above heads Bop cake 


17. Personnel—In January, Judge W. G. Litt, for 10 years 
President of the District Court of Haifa, died of pneumonia. The 
loss of this experienced Judge was much regretted by his colleagues: 
and by the members of the Bar. 

Judge J. M. De Freitas, Relieving President of District Courts. 
was promoted to be a substantive President. 

Judge S. G. Kermack, President of the Land Court of Jaffa. 
resigned in October; and in December, Judge Sheikh Ragheb FE) 
Khalldi retired on the ground of age after many years’ service in 
the District Court of Jaffa. 


1 
? 


69 


_ 18. Advocates.—Under the provisions of the Advocates (Forensic 

Robes) Rules, 1930, which came into operation on the fitst day of 
the year, advocates appear robed in the higher Courts. The change 
has given satisfaction to the profession and adds dignity to the 
proceedings in the Courts of Law. 


Six advocates were reported to the Chief Justice for disgraceful, 
fraudulent, or unprofessional conduct under Section 15 of the 
Advocates Ordinance, 1922, and in two of these cases Courts of 

- Discipline were convened. 


19. General.—By Section 16 (2) of the Egypt Order in Council, 
1930, the Chief Justice of Palestine, or (in the event of his being 
unable to sit) a British Judge of the Supreme Court of Palestine, 
was made a member virtute officii of the Full Court of Appeal from 
His Britannic Majesty’s Supreme Court for Egypt. The first 
sitting of the Full Court took place on the 8th December, 1930, at 
Alexandria, the Court being presided over by the Chief Justice 
of Palestine. 


RELIGIOUS COURTS. 


20. The following Religious Courts exercise jurisdiction in 
Palestine. 


(1) Moslem Community. Sharia Courts are administered by the 
Supreme Moslem Council in the following places :—Jerusalem, 
Hebron, Gaza, Beersheba, Jaffa, Ramleh, Nablus, Tulkarem, Safad, 
Haifa, Nazareth, Tiberias, Acre, Jenin, Baisan; and a Court of 
Appeal at Jerusalem. 

The President of the Supreme Moslem Council presides over the 
Court of Appeal and there are two judges. Hach of the remaining 
Courts is conducted by a single Qadi. There are two Inspectors of 
Sharia Courts. Judges and Inspectors are on the Civil Establish- 
ment of the Palestine Government. 

During 1930, 4,728 cases were entered, of which 4,457 cases were 
decided. 

The revenue of the Courts amounted to £P.4,748. 

The Sharia’ Courts apply the Moslem Religious Law and such 
secular Laws and Ordinances as may be pertinent to the issue. 

A special licence under the Advocates Ordinance is necessary 
for practice as an advocate before the Sharia Courts. 


(2) Jewish Community.—The Rabbinical Courts exercising 
jurisdiction under the Palestine Order in Council are :— 

The Chief Rabbinate at Jerusalem, and the Rabbinical Offices 
at Tel-Aviv, Haifa, and Petach-Tikvah. An appeal from judg- 
ments of the Rabbinical Offices lies to the Chief Rabbinate. 


10035 C3 


70 


There are several Batei-Din (ecclesiastical tribunals) of which 
the judgments require confirmation by the Chief Rabbinate after 
lapse of the period allowed for appeal. 

The Chief Rabbinical Court consists of the two Chief Rabbis — 
as Presidents, and six Rabbis as members. It acts not only as 
a Court of Appeal, but also as a Court of First Instance for 
Jerusalem. The Presidents are invariably in session when the 
Court sits on appeals. 

Jewish advocates, if familiar with the Religious Code and of. 
accepted views in respect of orthodox Judaism, may plead in the 
Rabbinical Courts. : 


The Code by which the Rabbinical Courts are guided is based 
on Holy Writ and the Massoretic (traditional) and Halakhic 
(written) interpretation in the books of the Mishna, the Talmud, 
and the religious jurists and commentators. 

In the Chief Rabbinical Court, during 1930, 258 cases affecting - 
personal status, 32 civil cases, and 165 cases of succession and. 
guardianship were decided; and 35 appeals were heard. 

142 cases involving succession and guardianship, and 203 civil 
cases, were heard by the Tel-Aviv Court during 1930. : 

‘Statistics are not available for the remaining Courts. 


The following is the scale of fees in the different kinds of 
suits :— 
Personal status, 500 mils. 
Civil cases and Appeals, 2 per cent of subject matter. 
Will, 1 per cent. of subject matter.. 
Guardianship, £P.1 to £P.1.500 mils. 


No fees are charged to poor litigants and reduced rates are 
granted to persons of limited means. 


(3) Syriac Community.—There is a single Court, known as 
the Syrian Ecclesiastical Court of Jerusalem. It is composed of 
a President, who is the Bishop of Jerusalem, and two members. 
The Court follows the Code of Law entitled Al-Huda (Guide in 
matters of personal status). Counsel may appear. There are no 
Court fees. 


Fifteen cases were decided by the Court in 1930. 


(4) Melkste Community.—There is a single Court, known as 
the Ecclesiastical Patriarchal Court, which sits at Jerusalem. It 
is composed of a President, who is the Vicar of the Community. 
and three members. Counsel] may appear, if they are certified 
by the Head of the Community to be learned in religious matters. 
There are no Court fees. 


(5) Maronite Community.—There is a single Court, which sits 
at Haifa, composed of a President and two members. It applies 
the law of the Catholic Church and the special Maronite law of 


~ 


71 


personal status. Counsel may appear, if they are certified as in 
ine case of the Melkite Court. There are no Court fees. 


Thirty-two cases were heard by the Court in 1930. 


(6) Armenian Catholic Community.—There is a single Court, 
presided over, ex officio, by the Patriarchal Vicar. Its proceed - 
ings are governed by the Codex Iuris Canonici of the Catholic 
Church. 


One case was entered in 1930. 


(7) Syrian Catholic Community.—The description of the 
Armenian Catholic Court applies. No case was heard in 1930. 


(3) Greek Orthodox Community.—The President and members 
of the Courts of this Community are appointed by the Patriarch. 
Counsel may appear, but, in spiritual issues, only if they belong 
io the Community themselves. Remission of Court fees is granted 
to indigent pleaders. 

There are Spiritual Courts, composed of clergy, and Mixed 
Courts in which there are lay members as follows :— 


Jerusalem: A Court of Appeal consisting of the Patriarch as 
President, an Archbishop as Vice-President, and four clerical 
members. 

Acre: A Spiritual Court, consisting of the Metropolitan as 
President and two priests, and a Mixed Court, under the same 
President, with two clerical and six lay members. 

Haifa: A Spiritual Court, constituted as at Acre, and a Mixed 
Court with 10 lay members. 

Nazareth : A Spiritual Court, consisting of the Father Superior 
a3 President, and three priests. 

Jaffa: A Spiritual Court, constituted as at Nazareth, and a 
Mixed Court of similar clerical composition with the addition of 
two lay members. 

The laws and rules applied by these Courts are those of the 
Oecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, as set forth in the 
Code of Karavokyros—the Law of Succession and Family Law. 

277 cases were decided in 1930 and £P.304 collected in fees. 


(9) Armenian Orthodox Community.—There is a single Court, 
known as Denorene Joghove, consisting of a President, one per- 
manent member and six members elected for a term. The 
Patnarch is ex officio President. Ae 

The Court applies the secular Ordinances of Palestine, pertinent 
to the issue, the Ottoman Law of Succession, and the principles 
of the (uncodified) Armenian Church Laws. Counsel may appear 
if the parties desire. The only fee is £P.1 for delivery of judg- 
ment. but poor litigants may be exempted. 

Six cases were heard in 1930. 

10035 | C4 


72 


CASES PENDING, ENTERED AND DeEcIDED DurinG 1930 


Civil 
Criminal 


Total 


Total 


Total 


Total 


Civil ... 
Criminal 


Total 


Total 


Civil ... 
Criminal 


Total 


Total 


Supreme Court. 

















Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
148 210 88 
46 217 266 
194 427 314 
High Court. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
35 101 111 
Court of Criminal Assize. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
4] 59 76 
Special Tribunal. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
— 3 2 
District Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
375 2,501 2,361 
336 2,282 2,273 
711 4,783 4,634 
Land Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
507 515 449 
Magistrates’ Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
1,700 64.025 63,929 
1,382 23,481 23,528 
3,082 87,506 87,457 
Municipal Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.80. during during 
year. year. 
813 10,770 10,749 


Pending 
81.12.80. 


270 
37 


307 


Pending 
81.12.84 


25 


Pending 
81.12.30. 


24 


Pending 
81.12.30. 


1 


Pending 
$1.12.389, 


515 
345 


860 


Pending 
81.12.80. 


573 
Pending 
81.12.30. 


1,796 
1,335 


3,131 


Pending 
81.12.80. 


834 


73 


CaSES DECIDED IN THE YEAR 1930, 
INCLUDING APPEALS IN ALL COURTS OF PALESTINE 
OTHER THAN RELIGIOUS COURTS. 





























Courts. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
Supreme Court... he sg 88 226 314 
High Court - ee oe 111 — 111 
Court of Criminal Assize ae — 76 76 
Special Tribunal] ... ae oe 2 — 2 
District Courts... ©... = 2,361 2,273 4,634 
Land Courts sas a ek 449 — 449 
Magistrates’ Courts re ee 63,929 23,528 87,457 
Municipal Courts si — 10,749 10,749 
Persons charged before “Magis- —_ 14,825 14,825 
trates holding special warrants. 
Total Bae oak it 66,940 51,677 118,617 
1929 oak ae iz 64,333 49,826 114,159 
Increase ... Ses ie 2,607 1,851 4,458 
REVENUE 
OF ALL COURTS IN PALESTINE OTHER THAN RELIGIOUS COURTS. 
1930. 
Supreme District Magistrates’ Land 
Month. Court. Courts. Courts. Courts. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
January... ve 387-670 3,195- 200 4,339- 476 126-705 
Feoruary soe 156-080 2,566° 349 3,401-164 120-515 
March ... Se 71-300 2,551 - 322 3,995-197 163-725 
April, ae 119-660 2,728:108 3,563°521 134-385 
Mayo... at 155 - 230 3,520-518 3,011-067 145-090 
June. ae 93-950 2,693-576 3,617 -656 65-595 
Juy se ase 86-585 3,048 -904 4,017-904 99-800 
August - 47-770 2,308-314 2,167-583 80-625 
S-ptem ber hie 39°715 2,384°788 3,910: 295 100° 305 
October ... sere 95-795 2,814°470 4,181-022 112-295 
November re 105-200 2,677 -137 4,294-641 126-095 
Decemher me 94-580 3,528 -028 4,062-600 219-425 
Total .. 1,453-535 34,016:714 44,562-126 1,494-560 
Advocates Procu- 30-800 414-750 3,897 - 700 38 - 800 
ration Fees. 
Total =... .. 1,484-335 34,431 -464 48,459 -826 1,533 - 360 
ToTaLs :— £P. Mils. 
Revenue 81,526-935 
Municipal Courts 3,031-590 
Advocates’ Procuration Fees 4,382 -050 


Advocates’ Licence Fees... sis 665-000 


Advocates’ Annual Practising Fees 1,179-000 
Fees on registration of clerks under 
service in an advocate’s office ... 64-000 





Grand Total ... eee £P.90,848°575 Mils. 


74 


VOI. ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


Question 1.—How have the interests of the community beet 
safeguarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the de 
velopment of the country in respect of public ownership or contro 
of any of the natural resources of the country or of the publi 
works, services, and utilities? 


The Railways of Palestine, its Posts, Telegraphs, and Tele 
phones, its Ports and Roads are in public ownership and are ad 
ministered by the Palestine Government. 

The construction of the Haifa Harbour is being carried out b 
the Government Department of Public Works. 

Water supplies are administered, in all cases, by the Municip: 
or Local Council concerned: negotiations are proceeding with 
view to the improvement of the Jerusalem supply by a Britis 
Company which has acquired rights in a pre-war Ottoman Co 
cession. 

The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 

The principle that all mineral resources of Palestine are tt 
property of the Government and may therefore be exploited on! 
under licence by private individuals or corporations, is establishe 
by the Mining Ordinance, 1925, 

There are Ordinances for the control of fisheries, forests, an 
game; for the cultivation, manufacture, and sale of tobacco an 
liquor, for the manufacture and sale of matches, for the mam 
facture and sale of salt, and for the export of fruit. 

Reference may be made also to the Mewat (waste) Lands, Con 
panies, Customs Tariff, Urban Property Tax and Collection « 
_ Taxes Ordinances; and to the measures which are being taken ' 
carry out a Cadastral Survey and a settlement of title to land. 

The terms of the Concessions which have been granted by tl 
Government in respect of the exploitation or development of ar 
of the natural resources of Palestine, or public services are suc 
as to ensure, by means of time-limit clauses affecting the cor 
mencement of the work and the expiry of the Concession, genull 
and expeditious development. 

Where appropriate, the Palestine Treasury is to receive reaso 
able royalties or rents ; the employment of local labour 1s adequate 
guaranteed; the Government has the right of inspection of t 
concessionaires’ accounts; and in certain cases there is provisi 
for local investment in the capital of the Company. In no ca 
may rights under the Concessions be assigned without the conse 
of the Government: and, as a rule, the nght of the Governme 
to take over the undertaking in the event of war or similar em: 
gency is reserved. Finally, provision is made for the revers: 
of the undertaking and all assets and effects thereof to the Gover 
ment at the end of the term of the Concessions. 


45 


The provisions of the Mining Ordinance of Palestine ure so 
framed that it is possible for the Government to prevent any 
speculative ‘“‘tying up’’ of undeveloped mineralized areas by 
prospectors. 

All leases of State Domain land contain a clause enabling the 
Government to resume possession of the whole or any part «f the 
area for public utility purposes. 


Question 2.—Has it been necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities, or to develop any of the natural resources of the country 
and, if so, under what circumstances? 


It has not been necessary to make any such arrangements. 


Question 3.—Give a complete list of concessions, and the names 
and nationalities of the concession holders. 

A complete hst of Concessions, with the names and nationalities 
of the holders and the progress of the works or negotiations, as the 
case may be, 1s given in Appendix II to this Report. 


Question 4.—Give the reports submitted to the Company meet- 
ings and the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such 
reports and balance sheets are not available, give all information 
relating to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the 
uses made of profits. 

The latest Balance Sheets of the Palestine Electric Corporation, 
the Jaffa Electric Company, and the Jerusalem Electric and Public 
Services Corporation, and figures of the receipts of the Lighthouse 
Company, are printed in Appendix VII to this Report. 


Question 5.—What provisions are made to secure economic 
equality as regards :— 
(a) Concessions? 
(b) Land tenure? | 
(c) Mining rights (in particular), rules in regard to pro- 
specting? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation)? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit)? 

(a) See answers to Question 1. 

(b) See Section V of this Report. 

The difficulties placed by the Ottoman regime in the way of 
foreign persons acquiring land in their own name and the prohibi- 
tion against any foreign corporation holding land have been removed 
by the Palestine Government, and all foreign persons, whether 
individuals or corporate, may hold land upon the same terms as 
any Palestinian individual or corporate person. 

Attention is invited to the provisions for the protection of 
tenants’ rights in the Protection of Cultivators Ordinance, 1929. 


76 


(c) Economic equality as regards mining rights is secured by 
the provisions of the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 

(d) and (e). There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal 
regime or in the Customs Regulations of the Palestine Govern- 
ment. The special privileges in respect of Import Duty, State 
and municipal taxation and tithes which were enjoyed by certain 
foreign charitable, religious, and educational institutions prior 
to the War under the Ottoman Law of Zilhi 1281 A.H., and 
various Firmans are maintained in toto by the Palestine Govern- 
ment; but no fresh privileges of the kind have been granted. 

Apart from this, foreign subjects are hable to the same taxation, 
State or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. The Ottoman Law 
of Professional Tax (temettu) which was assessed only upon Otto- 
mano subjects and not upon foreigners, has not been applied bv 
the Palestine Government. 

Under the Urban Property Tax Ordinance the net annual value 
of all immovable property in towns is assessed by Committees on 
which the public and the Government are represented in equal 
proportion. 


Question 6.—What Regulations has the Mandatory Power made 
for the application of the clause providing freedom of transit under 
equitable conditions? 


Question 7.—Have any Customs Agreements been made by 
virtue of Article 18? If so, give the text of such agreements. 


Attention is invited to the relevant International Conventions 
and Commercial Treaties to which Palestine has adhered as set out 
in Section XII of this Report. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES. 


1.—Q. What measures have been taken for the assumption by 
the Mandatory of responsibility in connection with the Holy Places 
and religious buildings or sites, including the responsibility of 
preserving existing rights and of securing free access to the Holy 
Places, religious buildings and sites, and free exercise of worship? 


2.—Q. Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the im- 
munities of which are guaranteed? 


The Palestine Government has assumed responsibility for the 
Holy Places and religious buildings and sites as successors to the 
Turkish Government. In all specific cases that have arisen, and 
in particular in the case of the Wailing Wall at Jerusalem, it has 
strictly maintained the status quo. 

Article XIV of the Mandate provided for the appointment of a 
special Commission to study, define, and determine the rights and 
claims in connection with the Holy Places and the rights and 
claims relating to the different religious communities in 


17 


Palestine. Proposals were communicated to the Council ot the 
League of Nations by His Majesty's Government on the 3rd 
January, 1922, for the constitution of the Commission, but were 
withdrawn as it was not found possible for general agreement to 
be reached thereon. 7 7 

The Commission appointed by His Majesty’s Government with 
the approval of the League of Nations to study, define, and deter- 
mine the rights and claims connected with the Wailing Wall (see 
para. 5 of the Introductory Section of the Annual Report for 1929), 
visited Palestine in June. The Commission reported in December, 
1930. 

A measure for the preservation of existing rights to the Holy 
Places is the Palestine (Holy Places) Order in Council, 1924, which 
provides that no case or matter in connection with the Holy Places 
or religious places or sites in Palestine or the rights or claims 
relating to the different religious communities in Palestine shall 
be heard or determined by any Court in Palestine. Its provisions 
are declared, however, not to affect or limit the exercise by the 
Religious Courts of the jurisdiction conferred upon such Courts 
by the Palestine Order in Council, 1922. 

Plans have been made bv the Government. and will shortly 
be carried out, for reconstructing the Dome of the Katholikon of 
ihe Church of the Holy Sepulchre, to repair the ravaves of time 
and the damage caused by the earthquake of 1927. 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


Question 1.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom 
of conscience and religion? 

There is complete liberty of conscience and of religion through- 
out Palestine. 

The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescrip- 
ions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows :— 

‘* All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of conscience, and 
the free exercise of their forms of worship subject only to the mairr 
tenance of public order and morals. Every religious community recog- 
nized by the Government shall enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs 
of the community subject to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order 
issued by the High Commissioner.”’ 

The intervention of the Government in matters of change of 
religious community is regulated by the Change of Religious Com- 
munity Ordinance, 1927, and is directed to secure that there will 
be public notification of the change of legal status which is involved. 

A Special Tribunal has been established to deal with conflicts 
of jurisdiction between Civil and Religious Courts. 

An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to make 
Regulations for the organization of any Religious Community 


78 


which applies therefor. Separate Regulations are to be made in 
each case suited to the special circumstances and organization of 
the Community concerned. The Regulations may provide for 
the constitution of Councils or Boards of the Community which 
shall have juristic personality and may confer on them power to- 
impose contributions and fees for communal purposes which shall — 
be recoverable in the same way as municipal taxes and fees. 


The only Regulations of this kind which have so far been made | 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish Community, which 
contain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion to 
Jews who wish to hold aloof from the established Community. 


Question 2.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free 
exercise of any form of worship in the interest of the maintenance | 
of public order and morals? 


Provisional Regulations were issued by the High Commissioner 
in October, 1929 (see Appendix I to the Report for 1929), as a 
guide to officers in the discharge of their responsibilities at the 
Wailing Wall, and in order that the public might be under no 
misunderstanding as to the acts which might be done or which 
might not be done pending determination of the rights and claims 
of Jews and Moslems at that place by the Special Commission 
appointed by the Mandatory in 1930. 


Question 3.— What measures have been taken to assert the rights 
of communities to maintain their own schools for the education of 
their own members? 


What educational requirements of a general nature are imposed 
by the Administration? 


What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of such 
supervision over religious and other charitable bodies of all faiths 
or nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance 
of public order and good government? 


Communities are given full rights to maintain schools for the 
education of their children. All schools existing before the Occupa- 
tion of Palestine have been registered in accordance with the 
Turkish Law. Schools opened since the Occupation must be 
registered before they are sanctioned. 

The requirement tends to raise hygienic and educational stan- 
dards ; but in practice, educational requirements of any importance 
are imposed only on schools which receive a grant-in-aid from 
Government with a view to secure the attainment in such schools 
of the standard of efficiency which is reached in elementary Govern- 
ment schools. 

The draft of a new Education Ordinance is at present under 
consideration. 


19 


XI.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1.—Q. What is the form of military organization and training? 
2.—Q. (a) Are there any Police Forces independent of the 


military charged with the defence of the Territory? 


(6) What is the respective importance of these two Forces and 
the amount spent on each? Racial and religious composition of 


these two Forces. 


3.—Q. Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
Palestine to contribute to the cost of the maintenance of the Military 


forces of the Mandatory Power? 


4.—Q. Has the Mandatory exercised its rights to use the roads, 
railways and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed forces 


and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 


(a) PoLICE AND PRISONS. 


1. The strength of the Police Force on the 31st December was 





as under :— 
Officers. Other Ranks. 
Chris- Chris- 8 3 
——. tians. lians. & Se 
- : e 4 
2 s 
Z. g : : is 
4 & g 0 ea) s 5 g es i) ea) 3 
: ° ~ ~ 
2222223 23 2 2222 
QR BS & S x Ss 8S & & 
Police. 
District 42 20 43 17 1 #1233 — 221 8891 205 3 41,320 1,443. 
Police 
British Police 9 — —_  — 9 631 — — — — 631 640 
Prisons and 9 — 6 3 — 17 — 27 = =205 15 — 247 264 
Jail Labour 
Companies 
Municipal w— 11 _— 3 o=— 33 = 261 86 — 370 373} 
Police 
Total 61 20 49 21 41 #2152 + «631 ~« «22821 «21,347 306 = 3 2,368 2,720 


* Seconded from British Section. 


The health of the Force has been uniformly good throughout 


the year. 


A Palestinian policeman was killed in the execution of his duty, 


and one died as the result of an accident. 


Thirty-six Palestinian policemen resigned, and two Palestinian 
officers and 110 other ranks were discharged for misconduct, 
inefficiency, or medical unfitness. One hundred and ninety-four 


recruits (including 38 warders) were enlisted. 


80 


Twenty-four British constables were discharged for similar 
reasons ; and 84 returned to the United Kingdom on the termination 
of their contracts. The British Section was strengthened in 1930 
by the arrival of 394 men enrolled in the United Kingdom. 


2. T'wo hundred and thirty-two candidates sat for the examina- 
tion for Proficiency Pay and 67 passed. 


3. Police Training School.—The School reopened in September, 
when the Military Forces moved into their own barracks. Only 
@ single course of instruction could therefore be completed. This 
was attended by 38 constables. 

A second course opened in October, for which 83 recruits were 
enrolled and are still under instruction. 


4. Forty dismounted policemen were given training in horseman- 
ship with a view to transfer to the mounted branch ; and a refresher 
course is being held for mounted men. 

Six policemen are undergoing a course in farriery. 


5. Wireless Telegraphy.—There are 17 qualified wireless tele- 
graphy apparatus operators in the Police Force. In co-operation 
with the Royal Air Force, 28 stations and posts have been equipped 
with ‘* Message Picking Up’’ and ‘‘ Ball and Arrow ’’ Code 
signalling apparatus. 


6. Prisons.—The health of prisoners has been uniformly good. 

There were 14 inmates in the Criminal Lunatic Section of the 
Central Prison at Acre. 

The Female Section of the Central Prison at Jerusalem was 
transferred to a new building at Bethlehem. This change has 
relieved congestion in the Central Prison and allows of improved 
dispositions for the maintenance of discipline. 

Twenty-two prisoners escaped from custody, and 10 were re- 
captured. A faction fight broke out in a Labour Company, in the 
course of which several prisoners attempted to escape. The warders 
fired upon them, killing two and wounding seven. 

Six death sentences were carried out. 


7. The Penal Labour Ordinance, 1927, has been amended to 
include prisoners sentenced to a maximum term of three months, 
instead of one. Under its provisions 5,455 prisoners were released 
for employment on various services, mainly scavenging, road con- 
struction, and street cleaning for Departments and Municipalities. 
No wages are paid to the prisoners for this work. 

Convicted prisoners in jail labour companies work on road- 
making, quarrying, or railway ballasting; and in the Central 
Prisons the convicts are employed on making and repairing furni- 
ture for public offices, baskets for the Public Works Department, 
prison clothing and sleeping mats, carpets and mail bags, 
armouries, iron grilles, and. prison doors. They, too, receive no 
payment for their work. 


81 


8. Jatl population on the 31st December, 1930. 


3 Awaiting. 
Convicted. Trial. 

Central Prison, Jerusalem tas sae 329 54 
Central Prison, Acre... a es ATT 82 
Jail Labour Company No. 1 ... = 298 = 
Jail Labour Company No. 2 ... ine 194 — 
Jail Labour Company No. 3 ... re 305 _ 
Jerusalem District Lock-up ... se 125 49 
Northern District Lock-up _... sa) 86 43 
Southern District Lock-up _... sae 138 96 
Nablus District Lock-up base er 106 18 
Beersheba District Lock-up_.... - 11 12 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem ... se: 17 14 

Total... on ae ... 2,086 368 





9. There were in the Boys’ Reformatory 41 convicted offenders 
and four boys awaiting trial. The average age on admission was 
14 years. 

10. Criminal.—The Criminal Investigation Department has been 
reorganized in the light of criticisms passed by the Commission of 
Inquiry into the 1929 Disturbances. 

The reorganized Department is divided into a political and a 
criminal branch. It is in charge of an officer ranking as Deputy 
Commandant of Police. His principal assistant ranks as Deputy 
District Superintendent, and there are, in addition, three senior 
Police officers in the Department. 

The subordinate staff consists of four British constables, six 
Palestinian Inspectors, two sergeants, and six constables. There 
are also three detective sergeants and 21 constables on duty in 
the Districts. 

11. The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are 
to prevent and detect crime by the collection and communication 
of evidence and by investigation ; to watch and report upon political 
movements ; to repress seditious activities ; to keep criminal records ; 
to maintain a Finger Print and Photographs Bureau; to examine 
the regular organs of the Press and occasional pamphlets with a 
view to action by seizure and confiscation, suspension or prosecu- 
tion, in case of seditious or inflammatory articles; to prevent 
smuggling of arms and drugs; to scrutinize applications for 
naturalization; to arrange deportations and extradition: and to 
preserve liaison with the corresponding Departments in Egypt, 
India, Syria, ‘Iraq, and the United Kingdom. 

12. The Criminal Record Office and Finger Print Bureau holds 
16,109 convict dossiers, and dealt during the year with 3,275 finger- 
print slips. It was successful in tracing previous convictions in 
567 cases. 





$2 


13. Crsme.—Indictable and Non-Indictable Offences. 


1928. 1929. 1930. 
Indictable offences ... .. 4,218 4 723 5 015 
Non-indictable offences ... 24,396 22 804 29 ,086 


Incidence of Serious Crime. 
1927. 1928. 1929. 19380. 


Murder __.... ech 51 118 178 166 
Attempted Murder fa 82 90 232 179 
Manslaughter as be 50 41 58 13 
Highway eau e i 95 70 34 28 
Burglary... ins a 121 122 128 
Housebreaking... as 37 45 61 1,357 
Shopbreaking oe a 79 102 61 | 


Two fugitive offenders were extradited to Trans-Jordan from 
Palestine, 11 to Palestine from Syria, and 11 from Trans-Jordan 
to Palestine. 

448 persons were deported, including 184 to Egypt, 167 to Syria, 
32 to Russia, and 15 to Poland. 

In 287 cases, deportation was ordered for the offence of un- 
authorized presence in Palestine; and in 156 cases, after con- 
viction by the Courts. 

14. Twenty-nine seditious agitators were bound over under the 
Prevention of Crime Ordinance, and 162 were successfully prose- 
cuted before the Courts. 

15. The High Commissioner made eniens for hs exclusion from 
Palestine of 170 undesirable persons, mostly on grounds of sections 
activities. 


(b) TRANS-JORDAN FRONTIER FORCE. 


16. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, including 
the Reserve, at the 3lst December, 1930, was 980, made up as 
follows :— 


Arabs. 
penta h eas 
. 8 S r 
2 & = 3 < = 
ee ~~ 4 ” 3 N 3 "3 
‘= s- os 3. Og r 3 3 
RQ a S _ o Q mn & 
Officers ... 20 8 6 2 8 1 1 46 
Warrant Officers 6 — — — a —_ one, 6 
Staff Sergeants... aie 4 — — — — — — 4 
N.C.O.’s and Troopers... — 450 161 26 161 12 30 840 
30 458 167 28 169 13 31 896 
Reserve N.C.0.’8 and Men — 59 13 — 9 3 — 84 








980 


Jv) 
=) 
or 
pd 
~_Q 
a" 
QO 
(en) 
rt 
Qo 
— 
~] 
go 
pm 
fon) 
(Je) 
j= 


83 


297 recruits were enlisted during the year, of which 180 were 
Arab Moslems, 72 Arab Christians, 34 Circassians, six Jews, and 
five Druze. 


Of 514 applicants examined for enlistment, 163 were rejected 
owing to eye-diseases. 


93 other ranks were discharged, on expiration of contract or 
otherwise ; and 90 time-expired men elected to serve for a further 
period. 

Seven men were tried by Court Martial, and two deserted. 


17. The general health of the Force was good. 
496 members of the Force received hospital treatment, mostly 
at Zerqa and Ma’an. 


18. Operations.—The principal operations in which the Force 
was engaged in 1930 were the rounding-up of the band of brigands 
in the Safad area; and the guarding and patrol of the desert 
frontier of Trans-Jordan to prevent inter-tribal raiding between 
Trans-Jordan and Nejd. 


Numerous minor expeditions were undertaken to recover loot or 
apprehend raiders. The presence of detachments of the Force in 
the Jordan Valley has helped to secure the Jewish colonies from 
attack. 


19. Recruits were enlisted and trained, and remounts purchased 
to complete the increased establishment of cavalry squadrons; a 
mechanized company was formed; and squadrons and companies 
80 arranged as to allow the use of half-squadrons or half-companies 
as self-contained tactical units, each under a British Officer. 


20. The mechanized company consists of nine troop carriers, 
eight supply tenders, a salvage lorry, an ambulance, two wireless 
carriers, and four staff cars. Selected drivers and mechanics were 
enlisted in Palestine and Trans-Jordan and fully trained in 
military duties. A main workshop was built at Zerqa and a sub- 
sidiary workshop at Ma‘an. 


Notwithstanding difficult conditions in the Eastern Desert, which 
required its continuous employment for six months on intensive 
patrolling, often 150 miles from the base, the mechanized company 
satisfactorily discharged every duty assigned to it. 


21. Remounting.—There are 471 horses, 135 camels, and 17 
mules on the strength of the Force, of which only 128 horses and 
four camels are now privately owned. 


The animals were, in general, healthy and free from contagious 
disease during the year. 


84 


A Veterinary Officer is in charge of detachments at Rosh-Pinah, 
Samakh, Jisr-Majamie, and Baisan, under the Senior Veterinary 
Officer at Zerqa. 

The Farrier Staff Sergeant trains privates of the Force as farriers 
and shoe-smiths. 


22. Tactical Training.—The Force co-operated in tactical exer- 
cises with the Royal Air Force in the Jordan and Ma’an areas, 
and practised the picking-up of messages and the use of special 
codes. . 


23. Communication is maintained by wireless telegraphy 
between the Headquarters of the Force and its detachments; about 
18,000 messages were transmitted during the year. 

Tenders equipped with wireless appliances are used for com- 
municating with desert patrols. 


24. Regimental Training.—The wide dispersion of the Force in 
detachments made regimental training impossible, but the various 
companies and squadrons each went through courses in musketry, 
machine-gun, and general instruction. 

A higher standard of marksmanship is being attained; and in 
the Middle East competition of the Army Rifle Association, ‘a 
troop of the Frontier Force won the second prize. 


25. The Education Officer held successful classes at Headquarters 
in arithmetic, reading, and writing, in Arabic and English, and 
in geography and map-reading for local officers and other ranks. 

Newly-joined British officers were instructed in Arabic. 


26. Polo is played by the officers, and football and organized 
games are regularly arranged. Bathing is popular in the bathing 
pool at Zerqa and contributes to the health of all personnel. 


27. Health.—There were 70 cases of malaria, of which 27 were 
primary, chiefly in the Jordan area; and 80 cases of cutaneous 
Leishmaniasis at Jericho and neighbouring places. 

The sanitation in the permanent Camps of the Force 1s satis- 
factory, and sanitary men are detached to outposts, at which a 
good standard of cleanliness is kept. 

Water supplies at Zerqa are chlorinated, but a new installation 
is almost complete which should remove all risk of contamination. 


REPLIES TO QUESTIONNAIRE OF PERMANENT MANDATES 
COMMISSION. 


Question 1.—What is the form of military organization and 
training ? 

The military organization in Palestine is provided by a British 
garrison and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. No other military 
organization is provided. 


85 


The Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, consisting of local personnel 
enlisted voluntarily, with British officers, 1s administered by the 
High Commissioner, but for operational purposes the Force is 
under the directions of the Otficer Commanding the British Forces 
in the Mandated Territory. 


Question 2.—(a) Are there any Police Forces independent of 
the military charged with the defence of the Territory ? 


(b) What is the respective importance of these two Forces and 
the amount spent on each? Racial and religious compasition of 
these two Forces. 


The Civil Police is charged with purely police duties. The 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, which is organized on military lines, 
is available in case of emergency to assist the British Forces in the 
defence of Palestine. 


The racial and religious composition of the Palestine Police and 
the Frontier Force are set out in the earlier part of this Section 
of the Report. 


The cost of the Palestine Police in 1930 was £P.458,009. 


The cost of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in 1939 waa 
£P.232,080 (including £P.22,868 Extraordinary Expenditure), of 
which £P.128,314 was borne by British funds. 


Question 3.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration 
of Palestine to contribute to the cost of the maintenance of the 
Military forces of the Mandatory Power? 


See paragraph 19 of Section XXI, Finance, of this Report. 


Question 4.—Has the Mandatory exercised its rights to use the 
roads, railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed 
forces and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 


The roads, railways, and ports of Palestine are used by the 
Mandatory for the movement of the armed troops which form 
the garrison. 


Import Duty is not charged on consignments to the garrison, 
and the Import Duty on goods purchased by the garrison under 
contract in Palestine is refunded. 


Officers and men of His Majesty’s Forces are exempt from the 
provisions of the Immigration Ordinance, 1925, and the fees pay- 
able thereunder; and vehicles of His Majesty’s Government are 
exempt from the provisions of the Road Transport Ordinance, 
1929. 


86 


XII.—_INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS. 
PART I.—BILATERAL CONVENTIONS. 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syna 


Egypt 


France 


Great Britain ... 


‘Iraq 
Syria 


Syria 
Syria 
Syria 


Syria 
Syria 


Switzerland 


Great Britain 


Nejd : 
Palestine ... 


Palestine .... 


Palestine .... 


(A) Extradition and Other Conventions. 


(i) EXTRADITION CONVENTIONS, 


Palestine. 
Name. 


Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum 


(11) OTHER Sexcaadens. 


Convention concerning the 
Reciprocal Enforcement of 
Judgments. 


Convention of good neighbourly 
relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of the terri- 
tories of Palestine on the one 
part and on behalf of Syria 
and Great Lebanor. on the 
other part. 

Agreement between the Post 
Office of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Ireland 
and the Post Office of Palestine 
for the exchange of Money 
Orders. 

Parcel Post . . 

Agreement concernirg the Im- 
portation of Antiquities. 

Agreement to provide for the 
Distribution of certain Receipte 
from Animal Tax. 

Parcel Post . ss 

Parcel Post (amending agreement 
of 28.10.290/7.11.29). 

Money Orders 

Agreement regarding Measures 
to combat Cattle ee 

Parcel] Post . 


Trans-J rit: 
Agreement 


Hadda Agreement ... ee ae 

Agreement for the Taking of 
Evidence on Commission for the 
purpose of any Criminal or 
Civil Matter. 

Agreement as to the Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Interchange of Judicial 
ments. 


Docu- 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramleh. 
11.7.21 (Palestine). 
15.7.21 (Syria). 
10.1.24 (Palestine). 
28.1.24 (Syria). 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


2.2.26. 
Amended—14.3.27. 
22.3.27. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26 /4.8.27. 
13.3.28. 


30.3.27. 
28.10.29 /7.11.29. 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 


17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 


6.5.28 /15.5.28. 


20.2.28, Jerusalem. 
Ratified—31.10.29. 
—Amman. 


2.11.26—Bahra Camp. 


25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 
14.11.29, Jerusalem. 


25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman, 


87 


(B). Commercial Agreements. 


Country. 


Palestine. 


Name. 


Syna eas .. Customs Agreement 


Trans-Jordan. 


Syria eid ... Customs Agreement 


Palestine ... ... Transit 


Agreement Amendment 


Date of Signature. 


4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 


10.5.23, Amman. 
Amended— 
27.2.24, Shuna. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 
18.12.18, Jeruealem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


PART IT.—MULTILATERAL CONVENTIONS. 
(A) International Conventions 


Name. 


International Convention 
prohibiting the use of 
white (yellow) phos- 
phorus in the manu- 
facture of matches. 

International Convention 
relative to the  protec- 
tion of literary and 
artistic works. 

International Opium Con- 
vention and subsequent 
relative papers. 

Additional Protocol to 
the International Copy- 
right Convention signed 
at Berlin on the 
13th November, 1908. 

Convention and Statute on 
Freedom of Transit. 

Convention and Statute on 
the regime of Navi- 
gable Waterways’ of 
International Concern. 

Additional Protocol to 
the Convention on the 
regime of Navigable 
Waterways of Inter- 
national Concern. 

International Convention 
for the suppression of 
the circulation of and 
traffic in obscene publi- 
cations. 


Palestine. 


Date of Signature. 


26th September, 


Berne. 


13th November, 


23rd January, 
The Hague. 


20th March, 
Berne. 


20th April, 
Barcelona. 

20th April, 
Barcelona. 


2th April, 
Barcelona. 


12th September, 
Geneva. 


1906, 


1908. 


1912, 


1914, 


1921, 
1921, 


1921, 


1923, 


Date of .Accession. 


17th September, 1925. 


2ist March, 1924. 
21st August, 1924. 


Qlst March, 1924. 


28th January, 1924. 


28th January, 1924. 


2th January, 1924. 


23rd May, 1927. 


Name. 


Protocol on Arbitral 
Clauses (in commercial 
matters). , 

International Convention 
relating to the Simpli- 


fication of Customs 
Formalities. 

Convention relating to 
the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affect- 
ing more than one 
State, and Protocol of 
Signature. 


Convention and Statute of 
the International Regime 
of Railways and Protocol 
of Signature. 


and Statute 
of the International 
Regime of Maritime 
Ports and Protocol of 
Signature, 


Convention relating to 
the Transmission in 
Transit of Electric 
Power, and _ Protocol 
of Signature. 


International 
Bureau. 


Convention 


Locust 


International Sanitary 


Convention. 


International Commission 
for the Scientific Ex- 
ploration of the Mediter- 
ranean Sea. 


International Convention 
for the unification of 
certain rules. relating 
to Bills of Lading. 

Convention relating to the 
International Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 

International Radiu - 
Telegraph Convention. 

Universal Postal Conven- 
tion. 

Agreement Concerning 
Insured Letters and 
Boxes. 


88 


Date of Signature. 


24th September, 1923, 
Geneva. 


November, 1923, 
Geneva. 


9th December, 1923, 


Geneva. 


9th December, 
Geneva. 


1923, 


9th December, 1923, 
Geneva. 


December, 1923, 
Geneva. 


20th May, 1926, 
Damascus. 


21st June, 1926, Paris. 


26th April, 1929, 
Malaga. 


1930 Adhesions. 
25th August, 1924 


24th April, 1926 


25th November, 1927, 
Washington. 

28th June, 1929, 
London. 

28th June, 1929, 
London. 


Date of Accession. 
12th March, 1928. 


| 29th August, 1924 


(ratification), 


22nd September, 1925. 


22nd September, 1925. 


22nd September, 1925. 


22nd September, 1925. 


Palestine (excluding 
Tranes-Jordan), 
18th July, 1927. 

Trans-Jordan, 
18th August, 1927. 


9th October, 1928. 


19th December, 1929. 


25th June, 1931 
(effective date). 


4th December, 1930 
(effective date). 


15th August, 1930. 


3rd December, 1930 
(ratification). 

3rd December, 1930 
(ratification). 


Name. 


International Agreement 
for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 


Convention relating to 
the Regulation of 
Aerial Navigation and 
Additional Protocol of 
May, 1920. 


89 


Date of Signature. 


18th March, 1904, 
Paris. 


18th October, 1919. 


Date of Accession. 


Palestine is not a 
party to this agree- 
ment, but its pro- 
visions were applied 
to Palestine’ by 
the Criminal Law 
Amendment Ordin- 
ance 1925. 

Palestine is not a 
party to this Con- 
vention, but cer- 
tain of its  pro- 
visions were applied 
to Palestine by the 
Air Navigation 
(Mandated _ Terri- 
tories) Order in 
Council, 1927. 


(B) Extradition and other Treaties between the United Kingdom 
and Foreign Countries to which Palestine is a Party. 


(i) EXTRADITION TREATIES. 


(a) Palestine (including Trans-Jordan). 


Country. 


Between United King- 
dom and 


Albania 

Czechoslovakia pas ive 
Estonia . re sae 
Finland des ks ei 
Latvia va P 
Lithuania - 


Colombia 
Cuba 


Monaco 


Date of Signature. 


22nd July, 1926 


llth November, 1924. 

Protocol 4th June, 
1926. 

18th November, 1925. 

30th May, 1924 

16th July, 1924 

18th May, 1926 


1930 Adhesions. 


27th October, 1888 ... 


2nd December, 1929. 
3rd October, 1904 
17th April, 1930 


Date of Accession. 


29th January, 1927 
(ratification). 
15th July, 1927. 


10th March, 1927. 

25th November, 1926. 

7th June, 1926. 

29th March, 1927 
(ratification). 


5th December, 1930 
(effective date). 
(not ratified). 


27th November, 1930 (not ratified). 


(b) Palestine (excluding Trans-Jordan). 


Between Great 
and 


Austria 


Belgium 


Britain 


3rd December, 1878. 
26th June, 1901 


2th October, 1901 ... 


5th March, 1907 


38rd March, 1911, and 


8th August, 19238. 


28rd January, 1928. 
2nd July, 1928. 


Country. 


Between Great 
Britain and 


Belgian Congo 


Bolivia 
Chile 
Denmark 
Ecuador 
Greece 
Guatemala 
Hayti 
Hungary 


Liberia 
Luxemburg 
Netherlands 
Nicaragua 
Norway 


Panama 
Paraguay 
Peru 
Rumania 
Siam 
Spain 


Switzerland 


Yugoslavia 


Germany 


San Salvador 


90 


Date of Signature. 


29th October, 1901 ... 


5th March 1907, 3rd 
March, 1911, and 
8th August, 1923 ... 


22nd February, 1892. 


26th January, 1897. 
3lst March, 1873 


20th September, 1880. 
24th September, 1910. 


4th July, 1885 
7th December, 1874. 


3rd December, 1873, 


and 26th June, 
1901. 


16th December, 1892. 
24th November, 1880. 
26th September, 1898. 


19th April, 1905 


26th June, 1873 
18th February, 1907. 


25th August, 1906 


12th September, 1908. 


26th January, 1904. 
Qist March, 1893 
4th March, 1911 


4th June, 1878, and 
19th February, 
1889. 


26th November, 1880. 


29th June, 1904 
6th December, 1900. 


1930 Adhesions. _ 
14th May, 1872, and 
10th December, 

1928. 
23rd June, 1881. 


Date of Accession. 


lst August, 1928 
(effective date). 


18th February, 1928. 
13th January, 1928. 
10th February, 1928. 
19th January, 1928. 
19th April, 1928. 

llth September, 1929. 
13th January, 1928. 
25th April, 1928. 


16th October, 1928. 
28th January, 1928. 
27th January, 1928. 


12th January, 1928. 


13th December, 1929. 


24th January, 1928. 
16th January, 1928. 
16th January, 1928. 
llth January, 1929. 
27th February, 1928. 
13th February, 1928. 


19th September, 1929. 
lst November, 1928. 


lith August, 1930 
(effective date). 


8th August, 1930 
(effective date). 





In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing lists (a) and 
(b) and to those in Part I, list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition 
Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. 
France. 
Italy. 
Monaco. 


' Portugal. 
San Marino. 
Tunis. 


United States of 


America. 


Uruguay. 


91 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list (a) the 
Trans-Jordan Extradition Law has been applied to the following 





countries. 

Argentine. Hungary. Rumania. 

Austria. Italy. Salvador. 

Belgium. Jugoslavia. San Marino. 

Bolivia. Liberia. Siam. 

Chile. Luxemburg. Spain. 

Denmark Netherlands. Switzerland. 

Ecuador Norway. Tunis. 

France. Nicaragua. United States of 

Germany Panama. America. 

Greece. Paraguay. Uruguay. 

Guatemala. Peru. 

Hayti. Portugal. 

(ii) OTHER TREATIES. 
Country. Name. Date of Accession. 

Between Great 

Britain and 

Belgium ... Convention respecting Legal Pro- 13th March, 1925. 
ceedirgs in Civil and Commer- (effective date.) 
cial Matters, 21st June, 1922, 

London. 

Czechoslovakia ... Convention respecting Legal Pro- 17th February, 1927. 
ceedings in Civil and Commer- (effective date.) 
cial Matters, llth November, 

1924. 

France Convention respecting Legal Pro- 22nd March, 1923. 
ceedings in Civil and Commer- (effective date.) 
cial Matters, 2nd February, 

1922, London. 
Germany ... .. Convention respecting Legal Pro- 25th November, 1929. 
| ceedings in Civil ard Commer- _ (effective date.) 
cial Matters, 20th March, 1928. 
1980 Adhesion. 

Italy Agreement concerning the Re- llth/25th August, 
ciprocal Recognition of Passen- 1930 
ger Ship Certificates and Emi- 
grant Ship Regulations, 25th 
January, 1929. 

(iii) COMMERCIAL TREATIES. 
Palestine. 
Between Great 
Britain and 
Austria Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- Sth June, 1926. 


tion, 22nd May, 1924, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks ... 2nd December, 1927— 


13th April, 1928. 


Country. Name Date of Accession. 
Between Great 
Britain and 


Cvechoslovakia ... 
Finland ... 


Germany ... 


Latvia 


Lithuania 


Poland 


Spain 


Hungary ... 


Bulgaria ... 


Greece 


Greece 


Yugoslavia 


Egypt 


Japan... 


Treaty of Commerce, 14th July, 
1923. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 14th December, 1923. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 2nd December, 1924, 
London. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 22nd June, 1923, London. 


... Agreement respecting Commer- 


cial Relations, 6th May, 1922, 
Riga and Kovno. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tiom, 26th November, 1923. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 31st October, 1922, Re- 
vised 5th April, 1927, and 31st 
May, 1928. 


Treaty of Commerce, 23rd July, 
1926. 


Notes on Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 12th November, 1925. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 16th July, 1926. 


Notes on Consular Fees on Cer- 
tificates of Origin, 21st June, 
1929. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 12th May, 1927. 


1930 Adhesions. 


Commercial Modus-Vivendi, 5/7th 
June, 1930, Cairo. 


Treaty of Commerce and Naviga- 
tion, 3rd April, 1911, and Sup- 
plementary Corvention of 30th 
July, 1925. 


Sth June, 1926. 
13th February, 1926. 


2nd December, 1926. 


25th May, 1924. 


24th April, 1928. 


19th June, 1924. 


Ist December, 1928. 


Sth July, 1929. 
25th February, 1929. 
28rd March, 1927. 


2ist June, 1929. 


4th April, 1928. 


Palestine (excluding 
Trans-Jordan) 
llth June, 1930. 
Trans- Jordan, 
21st August, 1990. 


lIst June, 1990. 


93 


XIII. ANTIQUITIES. 


Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a Law of Antiquities according 
to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? Give 
the text.. 


1. The policy of the Palestine Department of Antiquities is based 
on the requirements of the Mandate, which are implemented by 
the Antiquities Ordinance, 1929, and the Regulations made there- 
under. The texts of the Ordinance and Regulations were printed 
in Appendices VII and VIII to the Report for 1929. 

That policy is to preserve unimpaired, so far as is possible, exist- 
ing opportunities for adding to the knowledge of Palestinian 
archaeology and history and to ensure that the best use should 
be made of those opportunities. 


2. With these objects in view, the country is divided into three 
Inspectorates, each containing approximately 800 registered 
historical sites and monuments; these are visited periodically and 
every endeavour is made to acquaint the inhabitants with the 
terms of the Law. Schedules of registered historical sites and 
monuments are exhibited in all Post Offices. The Inspectors 
provide records of the condition of the sites visited and take 
measures to prevent damage. 


3. Licences have been issued for archaeological excavations at 
the following sites :— 

(1) Tall al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), to Mr. P. L. O. Guy for 
the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(2) Tall al-Far‘a and Tall al-Ajjul, to Professor Sir Flinders 
Petrie, assisted by Mr. Starkey, for the British School of 
Archaeology in Egypt. 

(3) “Akabet-es-Suwan (Mount of Olives), El Aisawiyyeh and 
Bait Alpha, to Dr. EK. L. Sukenik for the Hebrew University. 

(4) Beth Shemesh, to Dr. E. Grant for Haverford College, 
Pennsylvania. 

(5) Wady Mughara (near Athlit) and Zichron Station, to 
Miss D. A. E. Garrod for the British School of Archaeology 
in Jerusalem. | 

(6) Amwas, to the Reverend Pére Vincent. 

(7) Tall Bait Mersem, to Dr. W. F. Albright for the Xenia- 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary and the American School 
of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. 

(8) Khurbet al-Kerak, to the Reverend Pére Mallon. 

(9) St. Euthymius, to the Reverend D. J. Chitty for the 
British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(10) Baisan, to Mr. G. M. FitzGerald for the Museum of 
the University of Pennsylvania. 

(11) Jerusalem : Herodian Tomb, Nikeforia Quarter, to Dr. 
G. Welter for the Archaeologisches Institut des Deutschen 
Reiches Referat fur Ausgrabungswesen. 


94 


(12) Magharet al-Zuttiyeh and Kerazeh: south-eastern 
dolmen field, to Mr. Turville-Petre for the British School of 
Archaeology in Jerusalem. 


4. The following is a statement of the special facilities seauted 
by the Palestine Government to archaeological expeditions :— 


Customs. 


(i) Remission of export fee on antiquities allotted to the 
holder of a licence as a result of the division with the Depart- 
ment of Antiquities of the objects found. 

(11) Remission of Customs import duty on instruments and 
scientific apphances needed for the purpose of excavation and 
archaeological study, and on camp and household equipment 
and technical apparatus imported for the use of the expedition. 


Railways. 

(i) Reduction of fares to all members of the- personnel of the 
expedition, on the basis of 2nd Class fares for lst Class tickets, 
and 3rd Class fares for 2nd Class tickets. 

(ii) Half-fare reduction on 8rd Class fares to all skilled 
labourers engaged in Palestine or in Egypt for purposes of 
excavation in Palestine. 

(iii) Reduction of freight in respect of antiquities discovered 
in the course of the excavation and of archaeological equip- 
ment, on the basis of one-half the full rates on consignments 
by passenger train, and Class 6 rates (without increase) on 
consignments by goods train. 


Immigration. 


Simplification of the normal procedure to enable expeditions 
to obtain visas for all members, and for such labourers as can- 
not be engaged in Palestine. 


5. The regulations governing the importation and exportation of 
antiquities are as follows :— 


Importatton. 

(1) All antiquities must be declared to the Customs 
Authorities immediately on arrival in Palestine. 

(2) Antiquities imported into Palestine from countries other 
than Syria are subject to Import Duty at the appropriate 
rate, according to the Customs Tariff in force from time to 
time. 

(3) (a) The importation of antiquities into Palestine from 
Syria is governed by the Palestine-Syria Customs Agreement, 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the 1st June, 1929, 
and by the Agreement as to the importation of antiquities, 
published in the Official Gazette of the 16th April, 1926. 


95 


(b) No antiquity shall be permitted to enter Palestine from 
Syria or the Grand Lebanon unless its exportation has been 
sanctioned by a licence issued by the competent authority in 
the territory of export. 


(c) Antiquities of Syrian origin accompanied by a certificate 
from the Syrian Customs Authorities to that effect, and 
antiquities not of Syrian origin, which are imported into 
Palestine accompanied by a certificate from the Syrian Customs 
Authorities stating that the Customs duties on the antiquities 
have been credited to the Palestine Customs Administration, 
will be admitted into Palestine free of Import Duty. 


(d) Antiquities not accompanied by either of such certificates 
are subject to Import Duty at the appropriate rate, according 
to the Customs Tariff in force from time to time. 


Re-importation. 

(4) Antiquities exported from Palestine and subsequently re- 
imported will be admitted free of duty provided that re-im- 
portation takes place within one year from the date of exporta- 
tion and that the licence to export issued by the Department 
of Antiquities on their previous exportation is produced, to- 
gether with such other information as the Customs Authorities 
may require for identification of the antiquities. 


E,.xportation. 


(5) (a) The exportation of antiquities from Palestine is 
governed by Section 11 of the Antiquities Ordinance, 1929, 
and the Regulations made thereunder. 


(b) Under the Ordinance, no person shall export from 
Palestine any antiquity unless he has obtained a licence to 
export it from the Director, Department of Antiquities. 


(c) Application for a licence to export antiquities shall be 
made in writing to the Director, Department of Antiquities, 
Jerusalem, giving the following particulars :— 


(i) a list of the antiquities, containing a description of 
each object sufficient for identification ; 

(ii) a declaration of the value of each object; 

(iii) any other information regarding the antiquities 
that the Director may require. 


(d) Before a licence to export antiquities is granted, the 
applicant for such licence shall pay to the Department of 
Antiquities an export fee at the rate of 10 per cent. on the 
value of the antiquities, unless exempted under the Ordinance. 


(e) All antiquities must be declared, and the licence to 
export exhibited, to the Customs Authorities on departure 
from Palestine, but packages of antiquities sealed with the 


96 


seal of the Department of Antiquities and bearing within the 
official stamp of that Department the number and date of the 
licence relating to them may be exempted from further 
examination at the discretion of the Customs Authorities. 


Re-exportation. 

(6) Antiquities upon which Import Duty has been originally 
collected, if re-exported within six months from the date of 
importation, must be accompanied by a licence to export. 
The Customs Authorities will refund the Import Duty 
originally collected, less 10 per cent. in accordance with 
Section 155 of the Customs Ordinance, 1929, provided that 
they are satisfied by the production either of a certificate of 
import for purposes of re-exportation or of other documents 
that Import Duty was originally collected. 

(7) The Instructions regarding the Importation and Expor- 
tation of Antiquities which were published in the Offictal 
Gazette of the 16th October, 1926, are cancelled. 


6. The Department has begun investigations at the Crusaders’ 
Castle of Athlit. The work during the present year has been con- 
fined to a clearance of the moat and outlying fortifications. 


7. The formation of the nucleus of an archaeological library has 
continued during the year, purchases being made out of the funds 
given by Mr. J. D. Rockefeller, Junr., for the equipment of the 
new Museum. 


8. A workshop has been established in connection with the 
Museum for mending antiquities prior to their exhibition. 


9. The foundation stone of the new Museum was laid by His 
Excellency the High Commissioner on the 15th June, 1930, and 
work upon the main buildings is proceeding satisfactorily. 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


Question 1.—Have the three official languages been used simul- 
taneously and on an equal footing in legislative and administrative 
documents and in the Courts? 


If not, what languages are used? 


1. The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance 
with Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows :— 


‘* All Ordinances, official notices and official forms of the Govern- 
ment and all official notices of local authorities and municipalities in 
areas to be prescribed by order of the High Commissioner, shall be 
published in English, Arabic, and Hebrew. The three languages may 
be used in debates and discussions in the Legislative Council, and, 
subject to any regulations to be made from time to time, in the 
Government offices and the Law Courts.’’ 


97 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to the 
use of English, Arabic, and Hebrew in the Law Courts was more 
exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows :— 

‘In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a trilingual area, 
every process, every official copy of a judgment, and every official 
document shall be issued in the language of the person to whom it is 
addressed, and written and oral pleadings shall be conducted in any 
of the three official languages. The Legal Secretary may from time 
to time issue rules* restricting the languages of pleading in any 
Court or class of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 

*  ‘*In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court shall, and 
in any other area he may, accept a declaration and register a docu- 
ment in any of the three official languages.’’ 

2. The trilingual areas in which Hebrew and English may be 
used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, Haifa, and 
Jaffa, and also the district of Jaffa and sub-districts of Tiberias 
and Safad. The recognition of the three languages in the Courts 
involves some complication in the hearing of cases, and occasionally 
tnalg are protracted. The rules have, however, on the whole 
worked smoothly. 

3. The Official Gazette, Reports of official Commissions and 
Committees, and Departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic, and Hebrew. 

4. In Appendix XVI to the Report for 1929, the text was printed 
of the judgment of the High Court respecting the use of Hebrew 
characters in telegrams. 


Question 2.—To what observations does the application of this 
system give rise? 


5. The application of the trilingual system in Palestine gives 
rise to no special observations beyond those mentioned in the 
answer to the preceding question. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


Q.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities? | 


1. A complete list of the days which are recognized as holy days 
by the various communities in Palestine was given on page 23 of 
Colonial No. 9 of 1925, being a Report by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment on the Administration of Palestine for 1923. 

2. For convenience, this list is set out again in Appendix IX to 
this Report. 


* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 
10035 D 


98 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 


See separate chapter on Trans-Jordan on pages 195 to 221. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


1.—Q. What measures have been taken to ensure, in accordance 
with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the consideration of 
conventions and recommendations of International Labpur 
Conferences? ) 


2.—Q. Are these conventions and recommendations being carried 
into effect? 


3.—Q. What other regulations are in force in regard to labour? | 


4.—Q. What powers has the administration for controlling labour 
contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both on the part 
of employer and employed, and what powers does it possess to 
prevent any abuses in this respect? 


5.—Q. What is the competent authority in regard to labour 


legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application of . 
such legislation? | 


1. The collection of reliable statistics of unemployment presents 
considerable difficulty. The term ‘‘ unemployed ’’ is for the pur- 
pose taken to comprise men and women of the working class in 
need of and seeking work at the time or employed for less than 
three days a week; but it includes fellahin working on their farms 
for perhaps eight months of the year but seeking employment at 
other times. Information regarding Jewish unemployment is based 
on figures furnished by the Labour Exchanges of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour, checked and supplemented by official 
inquiry among large employers, contractors, public institutions, 
and managers of important undertakings. Particulars are also 
obtainable from the employment bureaux organized by the Mizrahi 
(Orthodox) Workers and the Revisionist Organizations. Arab un- 
employment is estimated on the basis of official investigation among 
individual employers, account being taken of figures offered by Arab 
Trade Unions. A special difficulty in estimating Arab unemplov- 
ment consists in the existence of a class of cultivators who from 
choice or necessity seek to supplement their agricultural earnings 
by outside work. The definition of unemployment adopted in pre- 
paring statistics is therefore exceptionally wide. 


2. An approximate census of Jewish labour, excluding clerks, 
shop-assistants, hospital nurses, chauffeurs, domestic servants, and 
members of similar trades, was taken in the Jerusalem, Jaffa, 


it 
ak 


Pad 


+ 
- 


> 


99 


Haifa, and Ramleh Sub-Districts in June. The following are the 
comparative results. 

















<= June, 1929. oe June, 1980. 
Factories... se ai ae 4,121 4,587 4,407 
Building... wi ssi Ake 2,134 2,260 2,424 
_ Public Works a ees 479 1,366 928 
Agriculture... 0... see ae 5,440 6,149 6,155 
Small employers... ve ue 2,588 2,671 2,582 
~ Government and Municipalities 465 657 579 
(permanently). 
_Totalemployed ... ... ... | 15,172 17,689 17,078 
Unemployed... biog a ids 735 611 1,198 


me 








The last column excludes working men and women who had 


__ mgrated to other Districts to take up or seek employment. 


4 


e 


3. It is of interest to compare these figures with a census of 
Jewish labour taken by the Jewish Agency in March. According 
to the Jewish Agency, there were 23,830 Jewish workers and 


_ Salaried officials in Palestine in that month, of whom 16,095 were 
: Working in the towns and 7,735 in agricultural settlements. With 


ake 


the members of their families, these 23,830 persons account for 
90,000 souls, or almost one-third of the Jewish population. Their 


- pincipal occupations were: agriculture, 5,133; industry, 6,440; 
_ building, 1,887 ; transport, 1,492; and clerical, 1,551. Of the urban 


male workers who received daily wages, 20 per cent. received less 
than 200 mils, 12 per cent. between 200 and 249 mils and 68 per 
cent. more than 250 mils. 75 per cent. worked 8 hours a day, 
while long hours were worked by domestic servants. 

The Jewish Agency counted in chauffeurs, clerks, shop-assistants, 
domestic servants, technical personnel in factories, and nurses, who 


_ Were not enumerated in the official census. 


The Jewish census indicates that about 31 per cent. of Jewish 


agricultural labour, skilled and unskilled, is permanently employed. 


4. As stated in paragraph 27 of the Statement of Policy issued in 


- October, 1980 (Cmd. 8692), His Majesty’s Government propose to 


give serious consideration to devising machinery for the accurate 
determination of the degree of unemployment. 


5. Wages.—There was no considerable change in the general leve) 
of wages in the firet half of the year, though the actual earnings of 


_ the working class were evidently diminished, and the tendency 


subsequently was to reduce wages, if possible, so that in the second 
of the year there was a slow and slight downward movement. 
The character of the strikes which took place during the year varied 


. Correspondingly—those organized for the betterment of conditions 


10085 D 2 


100 


occurred at the beginning of the year ; afterwards the declared object 
was to resist any attempt on the part of employers to worsen the 
the conditions. 

In the urban industries, wages were practically stationary in 
the textile, tobacco, card-board, foodstuffs, and furniture trades, 
despite endeavours by employers to reduce them. In the metal 
works, and especially in printing, wages showed a downward ten- 
dency. A decrease of employment and also of earnings occurred in 
the clothing and shoemaking trades. 

Wages in the building trade, both Jewish and non-Jewish, showed 
a slight decrease at the end of the year; and wages of stone-dressers 
fell considerably, because reinforced concrete is being increasingly 
employed in building. 

As previously remarked, there was a constant tendency on the 
part of Jewish farmers in the older colonies to reduce the rates of 
Jewish union workers and to employ cheaper Arab labourers. 


DaILty WAGES IN MILS. 


Jews. Non-J ews. 
Agriculture. Mils. Mils. 
Skilled oes ee ae 250-350 150-250 
Unskilled... dies 200* 80-120 
Women, unskilled — es 150* 50-80 
Children sd ate 80-100 50-80 
Industry and Building. 
Skilled pas se 350-600 350-600 
Semi-skilled ~ ahs 950-350 200-3800 
Unskilled... ie os 200-300 100-150 
Women si an a 100-200 70-100 
Children... eee sr 50-100 50-100 


_ 6. Conditions of Labour.—Hours of labour are unchanged. The 
eight-hour working day is the rule in the larger industrial estab- 
lishments where Jewish or mixed labour is employed, in the 
Jewish building trade, and in Jewish agriculture. In small work- 
shops, Jewish and non-Jewish, the hours of work vary from 8 to 10, 
in some cases rising to 11 and 12. The census taken by the Jewish 
Agency in March showed that 17 per cent. of the Jewish workers 
(including clerks) were working less than eight hours, 59 per cent. 
eight hours, 10 per cent. nine hours, 6 per cent. ten hours, 2.5 per 
cent. eleven hours and 5.5 per cent. more than eleven hours. 


7. Responsible Jewish bodies have not overlooked the possibility 
of arranging collective agreements between Jewish workers as 
represented by their Union and individual employers or groups of 
employers. Agreements of this nature were in fact negotiated 
between the Hebrew University and its non-academic staff and 
employees, and between the Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ 


a ee es 


* Minimum Union rates. 


101 


Association and the Waiters’ Union of Tel-Aviv; and in practice 
there are conventions between individual industrialists and the local 
Labour Offices. This year an agreement was made between the 
orange growers of Magdiel, Raanana, and Bnei Brak and the 
General Federation of Jewish Labour, for a minimum period of a 
year. The agreement provides for joint Labour Exchanges, 
through which all labour, except a few specially skilled men and 
kin of the employers, shall be engaged, which shall decide the 
minimum amount of output to be expected of each employee, and 
serve as Courts of Arbitration for the settlement of all disputes. 
The agreement prescribed an eight-hour day, a minimum daily 
wage of 200 mils for men and women with a 50 per cent. bonus for 
overtime, a 100 per cent. bonus for night work and contributions 
by the employers to the Workers’ Sick Fund. Reasonable notice 
of termination of service and also compensation for dismissal are 
stipulated ; and the labourers undertake not to strike in any circum- 
stances. A standard form of collective agreement was drafted in 
1929 by the Manufacturers’ Association of Tel-Aviv, but it was not 
regarded by the General Federation of Jewish Labour as affording 
a basis for discussions. At the instance, therefore, of the Jewish 
Agency, the parties came together, but the negotiations broke down 
on the question of the employment of non-Union labour, to which 
the Federation could not agree. 


8. Twenty strikes, two lock-outs, and four disputes came under 
notice during the year involving loss of 9,234 men-days. Arab 
workers were involved in three cases. Demands in regard to wages 
and hours of work, protests against reduction of wages, change of 
the pay-system, or discharge of comrades, and insistence on 
recognition of the Labour Organization and its principles of alloca- 
tion of work, were the different causes. 

In fourteen instances the workmen succeeded in securing their 
demands, in six they failed, and in four the result was a com- 
promise. 


9. In Petach-Tikvah and Ness Ziona, important orange-growing 
centres near Jaffa, trouble arose at the commencement of the 
picking and packing season. The growers declared themselves 
unable to employ entirely Jewish labour or to pay Union rates to 
those employed. To assert its claims, the Labour Council con- 
cerned instituted a regime of picketing and police intervention was 
necessary. A compromise was eventually reached by the media- 
tion of the Jewish Agency and the General Council of the Jewish 
Community ; and the dispute faded away in the progressive absorp- 
tion of Jewish labour in the affected colonies as the seasonal work 
expanded. 

10. Throughout the year there was a noticeable movement 
towards organization among Arab workers, and a principal aim of 
the newly-formed Unions is to create machinery for finding work 
for their members. 


10035 D 3 


102 


In January, a Congress of Arab labourers was held at Haifa 
which resolved to form a permanent Federation of Arab Trade 
Unions. Branches of the Federation were established in several 
towns and organized in the form of associations consisting of 
groups representative of different trades. 

The Arab Workers’ Association of Jaffa resumed activity and 
sister organizations appeared in Haifa and Jerusalem. The 
Association has increased its membership considerably, but has done 
little or nothing so far towards the improvement of working con- 
ditions in Arab undertakings. 

There is a Union of Christian Arabs, entitled the Christian 
Labour Association, and there are independent Arab Unions with 
Christian and Moslem members. 

Arab Unions are nevertheless making themselves felt in teaching 
the doctrines of trade unionism, such as the standardization of 
wages, the observance of an eight-hour day, and the payment of 
compensation to labourers injured accidentally in the course of their 
work. 

At the end of 1930, an Arab-Jewish Union of Guides was 
registered : it consists of 105 members, of whom 90 are Arabs, and 
the remainder Jews. There are, in all, 175 licensed guides in 
Palestine. 


11. The following is an observation* by the Permanent Mandates 
Commission on the Annual Report on the Administration of 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan for the year 1929 :— 

‘‘The Commission hopes to find in the next annual report some 
indication that the Administration is developing a policy of labour 
legislation adapted to the increasing industrialization of the country 
and designed to meet the problems which that industrialization is creat- 
ing (pages 96-98).”’ 


Legislation tn Force. 


The following Conventions adopted by the International Labour 
Conference, have been applied in Palestine :— 


International Conventions concerning employment of women 
during the night, minimum age of admission of children to 
industrial employment, and night work of young persons in 
industry (International Labour Conference, 1919). 

Convention concerning Equality of Treatment for National 
and Foreign Workmen as regards Workmen’s Compensation 
for Accidents, 1925. 

International Convention prohibiting the use of white 
(yellow) phosphorus in the manufacture of matches, 1906. 


Early in 1931, notice was given by His Majesty’s Government 
of the application to Palestine, without modification, of the Con- 
vention concerning Forced Labour which was adopted by the 





* 17th Session of Permanent Mandates Commission, page 147. 


108 


- International Labour Conference at its 14th Session in Geneva, 
June, 1930. It is not anticipated that any changes will be required 
in the law of Palestine to bring it into conformity with the pro- 
visions of the Convention. 


The policy of the Government is to confine interference in private 
enterprise as far as possible within the limits imposed by inter- 
national obligations and by the interests of public health and order. 


At the same time, progressive and protective labour legislation 
has been placed on the Statute Book. These laws are designed to 
meet the special needs of Palestine and are therefore carefully 
adjusted to the still divergent requirements of an advanced Jewish 
proletariat and a primitive Arab working class. For the same 
reason, their provisions have been so framed as to permit of 
expansion should experience show that wider and more general 
application is desirable and practicable. 


The principal Ordinances of this kind are the following :— 


(a) The Industrial Employment of Women and Children 
Ordinance, 1927, embodies the principles laid down in the 
International Conventions concerning employment of women 
during the night, minimum age of admission of children to 
industrial employment, and night work of young persons in 
industry, adopted in the first session of the International 
Labour Conference (1919) and gives partial effect to the recom- 
mendations regarding protection of women and children 
against lead poisoning made in the same session. Factory 
inspection is also stipulated. 


(b) The Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927, em- 
bodies the general principles of the Convention on this subject 
adopted in the seventh session of the International Labour 
Conference (1925). The mght to compensation is restricted 
to workmen engaged in certain specified trades and industries 
involving special danger, as follows :— 


(1) Building operations, including operations for the 
construction, alteration, repair, or demolition of a build- 
ing, and decorative work and operations connected with 
stone cutting and dressing when done upon the premises, 
and installation of gas, water, and electricity. 


(2) Transport by railway and motor vehicles and works 
connected therewith. 


(3) Blasting, excavation, quarrying, boring, and mining. 


(4) Manufacturing operations in which mechanically- 
driven machinery is used. 


10036 D4 


104 


(5) The generation and distribution of electricity ; the 
laying and maintaining of telegraph and telephone lines; 
works connected with the public supply of water and public 
drainage schemes. 


- (6) The work of constructing and maintaining roads. 


(7) The handling of goods by manual or mechanical 
means at docks, quays, wharves, or warehouses within the 
area of a port. 


Panels of non-official medical referees and arbitrators have 
been formed for the purposes of the Ordinance. 


Revision of the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance is 
about to be undertaken by an official committee with a view 
to amendment in the light of experience of its working during 
a period of four years. 


(c) The Fencing of Machinery Ordinance, 1927, provides 
for the fencing of dangerous machinery and the inspection of 
industrial establishments to ensure the observance of the law. 


(d) The Steam Botlers Ordinance, 1926, provides for the 
inspection of steam boilers and prime movers. 


(e) The Prevention of Intimidation Ordinance, 1928, sup- 
plements the defective provisions of the Ottoman Code with 
regard to threats and intimidation, particularly in reference to 
labour disputes. 


(f) The White Phosphorus Ordinance, 1925, prohibits the 
manufacture, sale, and importation of matches made with 
white phosphorus, in accordance with the International Con- 
vention on this subject adopted in Berne in 1906, and endorsed 
in the first session of the International Labour Conference 
(1919). 


(g) The Regulation of Trades and Industries Ordinance, 
1927, empowers the Government to regulate the control of 
certain dangerous or unpleasant trades in the interests of 
the health and safety of the workpeople and the general 
public. 

Inspectors are specially trained for this work; and atten- 
tion is given particularly to sanitary installation. 


(h) The Mining Ordinance, 1925, makes special provision 
for the prevention of accidents in mines. 


12. There is no single subordinate executive authority charged 
with the duty of administering labour legislation. Labour legis- 
lation as part of the law of Palestine is considered and debated 
by the Advisory Council. 


105 


The Department of Health and Local Authorities apply the 
regulations for the control of public establishments and workshops. 


13. An official committee is about to be set up to review existing 
labour legislation, in particular that which concerns workmen’s 
compensation, and, if necessary, to make recommendations for its 
amendment. 


Legtslatton considered. 


(a) Creatton of machinery for conciliation and arbitration in labour 
disputes. 


14. The present practice in Jewish disputes of this nature is 
for the Executive of the Jewish Agency, the General Council of 
the Jewish Community or the local Jewish authority to intervene. 
In some cases ad hoc committees are appointed to arrange settle- 
ments. The intervention of the Manufacturers’ Association and 
the General Federation of Jewish Labour has often given satis- 
factory results. The possibility of setting up a neutral machinery 
for intervention in the early stages of labour troubles will continue 
to be examined by the Government. 


The execution of awards of arbitration is judicially assured by 
the provisions of the Arbitration Ordinance, 1927. 


There is frequent resort to arbitration in disputes arising out of 
claims to compensation under the Workmen’s Compensation 
Ordinance, 1997. 


The Ottoman Law of the 22nd Rajab, 1327 (27th July, 1909), 
deals with labour disputes on works of public utility. A transla- 
tion of the Law is given in Appendix VIII to this Report. 


(b) The securing to both employers and employed of reasonable | 
notice of termination of employment. 


15. The practice varies in different classes of employment. ‘The 
practice of giving reasonable notice is fairly prevalent in Jewish 
industrial establishments and public institutions, especially where 
collective agreements are in force. On the other hand, many 
employees are liable to dismissal without notice and are free to 
leave without notice. 


(c) Security for the provision of instruction to apprentices. 


16. The possibility of legislation is under consideration by an 
official committee. 


106 


Labour Exchanges. 


17. The General Federation of Jewish Labour has for many years 
included Labour Exchanges or employment bureaux in its urban 
and rural organizations. Early in 1930, a Mutual Labour 
Exchange, managed by representatives of Jewish farmers and 
workers, was established in Magdiel and Raanana, and the exten- 
sion of the principle is being actively canvassed. 


Recently there has been some movement among Arab workers 
to organize, and one of the principal objects of the newly formed 
Unions is to create machinery for finding work for their members. 


Investigation of labour conditions. 


18. Information on hours of labour, rates of pay, unemployment, 
and trade disputes is obtained by the Government and regularly 
tabulated in the Report to the League of Nations. The frequent 
variations in conditions of work, the diverse categories of workers, 
and the absence of special machinery for labour investigation and 
statistics make it difficult, however, to collect the information or, 
once obtained, to verify it. 


19. Hours of work.—An eight hours working day is a rule in 
the larger industrial establishments where Jewish and mixed labour 
is employed, in Jewish building and agriculture. In small work- 
shops, both Jewish and non-Jewish, the hours of work vary from 
8 to 10, in some cases rising to 11 and 12 hours per day. No 
legal regulations regarding hours of work are in ferce, except as 
prescribed by the Industrial Employment of Women and Children 
Ordinance, 1927. 


Seven-day labour is not prohibited, but in practice the weekly 
day of rest is strictly observed by the Government, and by all 
communities and businesses. 


There is no discrimination between native and foreign workers ; 
although there is a considerable difference of conditions and needs. 


20. System of pay.—Time-rate pay is still the prevailing system , 
although piece-work, which only made its appearance recently, has 
already become customary in many trades. The piece-work system 
is generally adopted, for example, in the larger mechanical knitting 
and card-board box factories and is also widespread in the clothing , 
shoemaking, furniture, quarrying, stone-dressjng and building 
trades, and to some extent is practised in agriculture. One large 
factory pays fixed daily rates plus a bonus. 


Overtime, when worked, is usually paid for at the same rates 
as ordinary work, except in the Jewish printing trade, in which a 


107 


collective agreement between Master Printers and the Printers’ 
and Bookbinders’ Union, concluded in 1930, laid down a 50 per 
cent. supplement to wages for overtime. 


Contract labour is popular among Jewish building and agricul- 
tural labourers. The latter, often organized in co-operative groups 
of permanent or temporary character, undertake to carry out 
a certain amount of work, are paid in gross and divide the earnings 
among the members equally or according to the family conditions 
or qualifications of each member. 


Arab labourers, in agriculture and urban works, are usually paid 
by time rates. 


Payment in kind is frequent in Arab villages. Fellahin, who 
cultivate plots of their own, in their free time work on the fields 
of the landlords. A fifth of the total crop is the usual pay in such 
cases, while the expenses are paid by the fellah himself. 


21. Rates of wages —Wages paid to different categories of 
labour vary greatly. A union scale is adopted by the Jewish Trade 
Unions in some branches of work and it is the intention of the 
Arab Unions to introduce a union scale, but in practice there is 
no homogeneity in rates, even in similar occupations. A standard 
exists in general agricultural works and in building for unskilled 
labour. The wages paid to Arab agricultural workers fluctuate 
between 80 and 150 mils, the average being about 100-125 mils 
aday. Jewish agricultural labourers are paid from 150 to 200-220 
mils, the former being the usual pay of Yemenite workers, the 
latter the labour exchange rate. 


The wages paid for special agricultural works (orange picking, 
closing boxes, digging wells, ploughing with animals, irrigation) 
are higher. 


Wages paid to urban unskilled labour range from 120 to 150 mils 
for Arabs and 250 to 300 mils for Jewish organized labour. A 
Commission was appointed by the High Commissioner in 1927 
to inquire into the question of wages for unskilled labour. The 
chief proposals made to the Commission—enactment of a general 
minimum wage law and adoption of minimum wage by the Govern- 
ment and Municipal Councils with a fair wage clause in cases 
where work is carried out by contractors—were held to be 
premature. 


In skilled work there is no considerable difference between wages 
paid to Jews and non-Jews. Wages for skilled work fluctuate 
between 300 and 700 mils. The average, however, does not exceed 
400 mils in industries and 500 mils in building. Rates of wages 
paid to Jewish building labourers are as a rule higher than those 
paid to Jewish labourers employed in workshops, where the cheaper 
Oriental labour is employed to a great extent. 


108 


Housing Conditions. 


22. The housing accommodation of members of the working 
class in Palestine, both Jewish and Arab, is as a rule very restricted 
and, according to English standards, overcrowding is prevalent. 
The Jewish Agency, the Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association, 
and some semi-public organizations have provided a number of 
dwellings for Jewish working men in the agricultural settlements 
and also in the towns, and the Nesher Cement Factory, the 
Palestine Potash Company and the Palestine Electric Corporation 
have erected modern quarters for their employees at their works. 
But the relative number thus provided for is not considerable. 


Medical Aid. 


23. The members of the General Federation of Jewish Labour 
receive medical advice and sick pay from the Sick Fund (Kupat 
Holim), which is an integral part of the Federation. In the course 
of the current year a special fund was established by the Federation 
to secure necessary medical treatment for workers suffering from 
chronic diseases. The Executive of the Jewish Agency and also 
many Jewish employers contribute to this fund. 


Arrangements have been made by the Arab Trade Unions of 
Jerusalem and Jaffa to provide medical aid for their members. In 
theory, means are derived from the members’ contributions, but 
sufficient funds are not always available. At Jaffa, a physician is 
paid by the Union, but in Jerusalem, the provision of medical aid 
depends to a great extent upon the voluntary services of physicians 
and pharmacists. 


109 


"(3m3poy pure 


021-08 0S I—-00T | prved a SUBAIOS ULE; PTS SIAINOGYT “OT 


























8—09 a 

08-0F 08-09 021-08 11-6 7 QLT-09T 006 6-8 __ Texoma siemMogey °¢ 
0g 001-09 0ZI-00T Fe 00c-OST | O0S9c-00G oa yiom Aireq °g 
= OOT-09 | 09-002 8 = 092-002 | 00€-092 8 * (poe Burqoed p pus Suiddeia o8uesQ *1 
00T—0S 001-09 021-08 8 a GLI-OST | 006-SLI 8 Suraveypo ofue1Q “9 
08-0F 08-09 021-08 6-8 001-08 GLT-0ST 006 8 ***((040 ‘souta ‘searo) Suryord ymig -g 
= = OST—-03I 6-8 =a 092-002 | 00€-0S¢ 6-8 ‘(PoE) yiom Areamu pre Zunjaepd col], “> 
09-0F 08-09 OFI—-08 TI-6 ae 002 086-006 6-8 _Bapsearey ‘Sarqsoryy “Barpeoas ‘Zuidvoy “¢ 
— = OvI-08 TI-6 = = 092-006 6-8 Surysnog °% 

a — 00-092 ay _ — 00F-00E — soluvyoour Zutdumd “soraerpoour IOZOBIT, 
> HJOM OUTQOSY *T 

“UIIpNYD | "usu M | ua “y4on "usspnYD | "UsULO | “ua 
fo esnoy for hace 
"eprus us sabon Apog Anoqg ‘opus us cabo finog finoqg 
"740M fo eoyounsg 
"ema U0 NT "one / 


“LNERXOIGNG TVEOLINOMUOY NI HHOM 40 sano AMV spvM (V) 


110 


























_ _ _ ae _ _ aie aie eg jc oo seep pag 
— a am OI-6 = 7 008-009 6s jo" oc SeBfo 4ST : slequInIg ‘OT 
— —_ 00E-00G OI-6 —_— —_—s OOF 00€ 6-8 eoe eee eee BSBTO PUZ 
= is OOF 01-6 ma 7 0gs-09F 68 |°" " *%  SRBfO 4ST + BlOleISTI °6 
= = OsE-09% | OI-6 a = 00F-098 68 | 7 * BeBTD pus 
= = 009 01-8 a a 009-009 6s fo BF¥[O 48] : BloyUodIED -g 
—_— — 09S OI-6 == aia O0F 008 6-8 eee eee SEB]0 puz 
—_ oe ae 01-8 —_ = 009 es |°" aay BBO ISBT : BIOYIOM O4AIOUO, °*7 
= = = oI-6 = = 00F-008 6-8 | oc BeBTO pug 
_ 2 Een) OI-6 aes se 009 6-8 eee eee oes S88] 48] : sioAeTHOLIGg "9 
a0 = 00-008 | oI-6 = a 00F-098 68 jt saefo pug 
as an 008-009 | OT-6 = 7 008-002 6S pe Pewee 2 SUPae nN 
“7 an 008-002 | 1-6 = = a 68 [7 7 SaBfo pug 
== cad 00% 01-6 = ae 00F-008 6s ju ee ee ree dee 
08-09 = o9t-08 | 6-6 ra 003 | 092-002 8 a POTTY 
-_ = 00Z-0sT | 6-6 = = Oss-00£ | 8 PONTPAS-FUIES 
= = oos-09z | 6-6 = = 002-00F | 8 Poms 
: Surpgec oF pue Aoug “g 
a == OFI-OOT | OT-6 == =< 093-002 | 8 es paypyeuy) + Bargsnso ours °% 
a = 00Z-00I | 01-8 aa a OSE-09% 68 jw eramnogs] Pee 
a zi 00-00% | OI-8 os a ose-093 | 68 |” 7 apurdirengy 
7 = OOF-008 | OI-8 = = 009-00 6-8 | °° 810}9;n0-eU0}es pal[HyS pue soraeqoayy 
: SutAxrenb eu0jg *{ 
"sop. pay pun burping *7 
"UaspnyD | "UaUo M | ead A "y4on | “uasPAYD | "Wao M | ‘wan yaon 
fo sinoy fo ssnoy 
“epsus us sabom finog Anoqg onus us sabom knog nog ‘woyndnvg pun huysnpuy 
“emar-UON ‘onar 


‘SHTMISQGN] GHLOTIEG NI HAO ZO SUNOH ONTTIVATaG GNV sOVM— A 


111 


S 
ia Ea Ae 


It | 


Pld? Fd 


br tdd 


I | 


=) 
Pe Va 


ae yh IIE 


2 
Mira a Aes 
ve) 


seornuerddy 
POT[TAS-Taeg : SFIOM POOM fBIeUeX) “EZ 
se _ asTOroeW, BuTyYIOM-POOAA “ZZ 
oes sisre}sfoqdy) “1% 
os sreyEog ‘BloysTuIVA ‘OZ 
SSB]O Pug 
BEBO 48] 
‘ SIOHVAY JOuIGeD ‘s1oyuedrey) “g] 
"BANZID{[NUD Pr 
OANBULNT “SYLOM POOM—' TIT] 


POTS 


: (sloqenson ]IVUs) SYIOM [BOW [BIOMIEX) “gT 


| 
SSE] 4B] : SUBIOLMOOTY “LT 

S8E]D PU 

SEED 48T 


: : sprameddon ‘SqIUISUTY, ‘SYWTUISHOUl °9] 


BeE]O PUZ 
eeu YS] : sIOpuNog “GT 
eeu] puz 
SSO 48] : SOTUBYOOW “FT 
“+ SB¥IO pug 
BRET ST: SYITUIBHOOT “ET 


"bussoourbugy ‘q¥4oM 1979FT—' TT 


sIEMoqge Zarpymgq perrASsuy °ZT 
a ae 


@eUyO 4e— *° BIQQUIVG “II 


112 





O8-0P OOT-OL OSTI-OL 8 

















— 09T—-00t — 8 a Wee 
sale 8 _ pa 00F-002 8 yiow& CUTQOey_, : SIO VU xog 4 
"“soxog pavoqpsog— TT A 
OOT-08 | OOI-08 — 8 = 002-001 — 8 e * Sayjequy ‘Burgoeg “gg 
008-002 g — — 092-091 8 ed af 
oos-ose | 8 — aa O92-00F | 8 * PoPIG + euryowur “Surywur oyeresy “ge 
OOT-0g | OOT-09 = 8 a 001-08 = 8 ee WIOM [enuVEUT “BuIzJ08 Jeo] “Tg 
— = 008-002 8 os == 0S8-091 8 ""* SYTTEISTSEY 
= = 0039-028 8 = se 00F-098 8 POTS : Zamy4n0 puw ZuyJ108 yoo] “Og 
‘sapesnbe) pun 000090,[—TA 
08-09 ca 002-001 | 01-8 os 00Z-0ZT | 008 8 “* siamogey peyrysim paw Zuryoed duog -6z 
— a 008-002 | OI-8 = 00-0ZT | 00F-008| 8 Baydureys pre Supgno deog “gg 
es a OZI-08 OI-8 = = = 8 (sodeyia) edoysyiom [[wus ‘Sutssaid [IQ *2Z 
a = 092-002 | OI-8 = == 03-098 8 i Pos : Suruger pue Suseaad [19 9% 
tO pun doog— A 
= = 002-081 | 6—8 a = 092-002 8 "+ peyTpys-Toreg 
= sas 098-093 | 6—8 = 3 ose 8 7" POTTFAS + stoyteoduroo ‘siaquplg “9g 
"8103 810d GQ 
= = OS%-00F | 6-8 = a 099-09F | 8 edAgoury ‘eoyisodmoy pore qaIH “FZ 
“‘buspussg— A] 
“Uaspnyy | “UdULO | “ua “ysom “UdsPNYO | *Ustuo M | “ta WW *yton 
fo sanoy fo ssnoy 
"onus us sabon hog nog ‘opus us sabon fpnog hpoq 
‘wospdns0g pun fuysnpuy 
"89 -UO NT "ona 








"JU00—SUTULSOGN] GULOATAG NI WHOM 40 SUNOAIONTIIVARAT ANV STOVM—d 


113 


ae 





OOI-08 | 031-08 ¥6-8 = O91 | 093-003 8 Jes ae oe Zurysem pue JaII30g “Eh 
= ost 16-8 == = 09€-092 8 oe a siojeiedo oUIqoUy] “ZF 
‘aungoofnun yy 4340 poysay— TX 
Ss 4. OI-8 = 002-081 092 OI-8 0 os Suryoed puw ZaryeU-syMosig, “1% 
= 008-002 | OI-8 = = osé-008 | OI-8 nee tes PeyTHYS-Tueg 
= 009-007 | OI-8 = == Ose-00F | OI-8 sre tee 8" POTTS ? peaiq—soyxe_ “OP 
"saayng —X 
= 032-091 OI-8 =< a Ofe-0&2 | OI-8 ie ee “** sHoMOqey “6g 
"on OJ — XI 
OOT-09 a 8 =a = le. 8 os ee Ruyoods pus Burney “sé 
OZI-08 = 8 cate — = g oes eas oes ee ---  BSUTABOAA “LE 
= 7 8 — 033-091 = 8 (oe ee Surnedar ‘Zarqely “9 
— a 8 = O9Z-O9T | O9F-O9E 8 ere ae ie Burjgiay PeoruvqoeRy “OF 
y , *ea7saxe, TL "TILA 





114 


XVIII.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or the 
control of the importation of the production and consumption of 
poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


1. Syria continued to be the almost exclusive source of the 
hashish smuggled into and through Palestine. Other narcotics, 
such as cocaine, sutal, and opium are only found in very small 
quantities and their origin is unknown. 


2. Reply to Question raised at the 17th Session of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. See page 116 of the Minutes of the Sesston. 
—The total quantity of dangerous drugs seized during 1930 was 
nearly 500 kilograms, including 470 kilograms of hashish. 


‘ 3. 278 persons were prosecuted and 202 convicted during 1930 
for offences connected with the drug traffic, mostly the offence of 
possession of hashish, but in some cases of acting as intermediaries 
in the illicit trade with Egypt. In 158 cases fines, averaging 
£P.10 each, were imposed, and in 43 cases imprisonment was 
imposed, of an average term of ten weeks. 


Among the convicted persons were 32 Egyptians, 16 Syrians, and 
some ‘Iraqis and Armenians, but the great majority were 
Palestinians. 


4, As it is known that the bulk of the hashish smuggled into 
Palestine comes from Syria, and that a large percentage of it is 
destined for Egypt, close liaison is kept by the Palestine Govern- 
ment with the Egyptian Government. Information of the move- 
ments of suspects is freely communicated by telegraph. The 
Central Narcotics Bureau of the Egyptian Government extends 
every assistance to the Palestine Government and provides a fund 
of £P.200 to meet urgent expenditure which the Palestine Police 
may incur in preventing the entry of dangerous drugs into Egypt. 


5. International Opium Convention.—69 Import Certificates 
were granted for dangerous drugs. Imports in 1930 were as 
follows :— 


Grammes. 
Medicinal opium tee a oe ees .. 19,518 
Morphine ies a se oy a ... 1,494 
Heroin sie ee a she teh a 131 
Pantopon sis ie a ee ee .. 1,161 
Cocaine ae jee sei as aie ...  €,657 
Liquid extract of coca fas a ... 17,500 


Galenical preparations of Indian hemp i in terms 
of the British Pharmacopoeia Extract . w. = 2,825 


115 


6. The legislation under which the Palestine Government controls 
the traffic in dangerous drugs is the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 
1925, as amended by the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) 
Ordinance, 1928. This legislation implements the accession of 
Palestine to the International Opium Convention. 


In the list of prohibited imports into and exports from Palestine 
the following appear :— 


Prepared Opium. 
Raw Opium. 
Coca Leaves. 
Indian Hemp. 


Hashish, or the resin prepared from Indian hemp or from 
the plant Cannabis sativa, and any preparation containing the 
resin except those mentioned in Part II of the Schedule to 
the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Ordinance, 1928. 


XIX.—EDUCATION. 


1—Q. What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 


Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it free? 


2.—Q. What measures have been taken for higher education ; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 


3.—Q. In what languages is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


1. The educational work of the year proceeded normally, and 
general progress has been made. 


2. The disturbances in August, 1929, reacted unfavourably on 
certain of the Arab schools during the following session. Under 
the influence of agitators, several sporadic strikes took place, but 
prompt measures were taken to deal with breaches of discipline. 


3. 762 classified officers were employed by the Department on 
the Ist November, 1930, including 10 British officers. The 
remainder, with very few exceptions, are Palestinians. 


4. The actual expenditure by the Government on education in 
1929 was £P.189,787. The approved estimate for 1930 was 
£P.150,359, and the actual expenditure £P.143 543. 


116 


DETAILS OF ACTUAL EXPENDITURE IN 1930. 
(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Arab and Hebrew) Overhead 














Charges :— 
£P. £P. 
Salaries oat a os je ... 18,159 
Other Charges _... sed eae a 267 
13 ,426 
(b) Schools :— 
(i) Government. 
Salaries ses ... 95,403 
Books and Rauipmede. coh .. 8,918 
Scholarships, maintenance,  allow- 
ances, etc. ... a, - ... 8,424 
 ——— 102,745 
(11) Non-Government. 
Block grant to Jewish Agency ... 19,190 
Per capita grants to other Schools : 
Jewish sce — ste © tee. ob TL 
Moslem dies a 528 
Christian Gucinding foreion) .. 1,231 
22,120 
(c) Miscellaneous :— 
Grant to Board of High Svadies me 500 
Transport and Travelling es ... 8,719 
Miscellaneous ha ae Die si O73 
4,792 
£P.143,083 





The revenue from the sale of books and school materials amounted 
to £P.1,240 and that from school fees to £P.2,512. 


5, There are no exact figures of the total expenditure of private 
bodies and foreign organizations on education in Palestine. 


6. It will be observed that the allotment of Government ex- 
penditure on education to Arabs and Jews (see under (b) Schools, 
supra) remains in the rough proportion of 5:1 on the basis of the 
estimated figures of population in 1927. 


The expenditure on Arab (Government) schools must be reduced 
by £P.3,752, which is the amount received for books and materials 
and in fees. 


117 


7. In 1929, the following approximate amounts were expended 
by the Government upon educational services, outside the budget 
of the Department of Education. 


£P. 
Hygienic and medical care of pupils... ... 1,500 
Rents, repairs, furniture, water UBD ... 10,000 
Trees for Arbor Day .. ~ ae sai 20 
Printing and stationery a ... 284 
Cost of living and house allowances to officers ... 8,160 
£P.19 964 


ARAB PUBLIC SYSTEM OF EDUCATION (GOVERNMENT), 


8. Eleven new teaching posts were filled in September, 1929, 
and four in September, 1930. There were 725 teachers employed 
at the beginning of the academic year 1930-1931, of whom 717 
were Palestinian (525 Moslem, 187 Christian, 5 Bahai), four 
British, and four of other nationalities. 


9. Elementary Education.—No new elementary schools were 
established during the year, but existing schools have been 
strengthened and developed. At the end of the 1929-1930 session 
there were 22,828 pupils in attendance in the 308 schools, as 
against 21,508 in the preceding session. 


10. 2,868 new pupils were admitted to Government schools in 
September, 1929, but this year places in town schools could be 
found only for 2,422 (1,606 boys and 816 girls) or approximately 
one-half of the applicants. 


11. The class returns for 1929-1930 show a certain improvement 
in the grading by age. The gross ranges in town boys’ schools 
were still abnormal, viz., 10 years in the 2nd class, nine years 
in the preparatory and Ist and 3rd classes, and eight years in the 
4th, 5th, and 6th. 


In town boys’ schools the percentages of pupils who were found 
unfit for promotion and repeated their classes in July, 1929, and 
July, 1980, respectively, were as follows, calculated on the 


numerical strengths of the various classes in the previous school 
year :— 


July Class Prep. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 
1930. % 18-4 16-0 17-4 23-0 12:6 5:5 10-2 
1929. % 17-8 16-7 15-0 16-9 19-0 11-0 6-2 

The figures for rural boys’ schools were as follows :— 

July Class Prep. l. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 
1930... % 17-1 15-1 19°6 18-3 8-8 1-7 0 
1929. % 13-5 15-5 16-6 12:2 2:9 3-0 0. 


118 


12. In town schools pupils show a tendency to prolong the period 
of education. 


The existence or continuance of this tendency will be verified 
in succeeding years, when the regulations governing the admission 
of pupils, their grading by age and ability, and their superannua- 
tion in higher classes, have further stabilized the proportionate 
distribution of the school population between the various cycles of 
the educational course. 

13. Town Schools.—New town schools for boys were opened in 
Tulkarem and in Safad, bringing the number at the end of the 
session 1929-1930 to 51 with a roll of 9,766 pupils, which includes 
21 for girls with a roll of 4,061. 


At the end of the 1929-1930 session there was a 6th class in 19 
boys’ schools, with an attendance of 264. Of these boys, 181 are 
continuing their studies in secondary schools, and 20 are known 
to have found employment. 

14. Headmasters of town schools for boys are authorized to levy 
an annual fee of 100 mils from well-to-do pupils to meet expenses 
on the school library, sports, garden, and the like. 


15. In spite of the limited and often unsuitable accommodation 
which is available, it has been possible steadily to increase the 
number of children under education, mainly by internal reorganiza- 
tion in the schools. The two upper elementary clssses are 
restricted to chosen pupils, superannuation is applied, and pupils 
are admitted to the lower classes to the numerical limit allowed 
by the health regulations. 


16. During the year, the Tulkarem Education Committee spent 
£P.90 and the Nablus Committee £P.473 on repairs and other 
school needs. The Municipal Council of Majdal built an addi- 
tional room in the boys’ school at a cost of £P.100. 


17. Rural Schools.—A serious obstacle to the economical de- 
velopment of rural] education is the small size of villages, and the 
reluctance of neighbouring villages to combine in providing and 
using a central school. But the interest of the Arab peasantry 
in the education of its children is undiminished, and many requests 
for new schools were received which could not, however, be met, 
owing to absence of funds. 

At the end of the 1929-1930 session, there were 257 rural schools, 
of which eight were for girls, with a total attendance of 12,404 
boys and 658 girls. 

Five rural schools were closed on account of low attendance or 
on hygienic grounds and three new ones were opened in other 
villages. 

Over £P.2,600 was contributed by villages for erecting or im- 
proved school buildings, and the purchase of furniture. 


119 


18. The seasonal holidays in rural schools are subject to local 
arrangements aud vary with the time of the harvest: the total 
period allowed is 10 weeks in the year. 


| 19. Secondary Schools.—In the 12 schools which had secondary 
‘ classes there was a total attendance of 353 pupils as against 369 
last year. 


' 90. (a) Government Arab College.—38 new students were 
' admitted to the College in September, 1929. For hygienic reasons 
the total number of students was reduced to 82. 


The students of the 4th class were entered for the Palestine 
Matriculation Examination : 16 out of 23 passed and the remainder 
qualified for School Certificates. 


Seventeen students completed the 4th class in July, 1930. Of 
these, seven were selected for further training, four were appointed 
to temporary teaching posts, two were awarded Government 
scholarships at Beirut University, three became wireless operators 
in the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force and one a clerk in the Depart- 
ment of Lands. 


At the same time, fourteen students completed the 5th class, 
and were appointed to permanent teaching posts. 


21. (b) Women’s Training College.—Eighteen new students were 
admitted in September, 1929, six as free scholars. There are no 
day students in the College. 


Students according to class and religion. 








Class. Moslem.| Christ- | Bahai. | Total. | Scholar.) Fe- | Total. 
wan. Paying. 
Ee oe se es 
IV 7 5 = 12 4 8 12 
It 12 8 = 20 9 1] 20 
| a 10 1 = ll 3 8 11 

I 14 3 } 18 6 12 18 

dtending the Jerusalem 1 l — 2 1 1 2 
Girls’ College 

Total owe | 13 1 63 23 | 40 63 





Nine girls in the 4th class, one of them a scholar from Trans- 
Jordan, passed the College diploma examination in July, and were 
appointed as teachers. 


22. Of 145 teachers in Government girls’ schools, 94 have now 
taken the four-year course at the College. 


23. Scholarships —The Government scholar at Cambridge 
University obtained 3rd Class Honours in the Geography Tripos, 
Part II, and the scholar at University College, London, 3rd Class 
Honours in History. Both have since been appointed to lecture 
at the Government Arab College. 


120 


Three new scholars were selected, one to the University of 
London, for the study of Arabic and Semitics, a second to the 
College of Hygiene and Physical Education, Dunfermline, Scotland, 
and the third, a girl, to the London Day Training College, to 
undergo an intensive course in educational practice. 


Three of the Government scholars at Beirut graduated as 
Bachelors of Arts and were appointed to teaching posts. They were 
replaced, as scholars, by three students of the Government Arab 
College. 


24. Study leave is granted to secondary school teachers in the 
Junior Service, and one such teacher is at present studying methods 
of foreign language instruction in an English school. 


25. Conferences.—Conferences for teachers were held periodically 
in various centres and educational lectures on a variety of topics 
given, frequently by Medical Officers and Agricultural Inspectors. 


26. Female Education.—There were, at the end of the 1929-30 
session, 29 Government elementary girls’ schools of which eight 
were in villages. The teaching staff comprised 62 Moslem, 79 
Christians, and 4 Bahais, and the rol] numbered 4,782 pupils (3,817 
Moslem, 905 Christian, 31 Druze, 23 Jewish, and 6 Bahai). 


In Jerusalem, Nablus, and Hebron religious instruction in the 
Quran is given by a Sheikh. All other teachers are women. 


27. It will not be practicable to open secondary classes for girls 
until elementary education is well established throughout the 
country. There is an increasing demand for elementary education 
in towns, and in many of the villages which are still without girls’ 
schools. ; 


The early leaving age of the majority of girls hinders the develop- 
ment of these schools. At present only about 20 per cent. of the 
pupils pass into the higher classes of the elementary schools. The 
only employments open to Moslem women are the teaching pro- 
fession, nursing, and midwifery, and most parents are inclined to 
remove their daughters with a view to early marriage as soon as 
they can read, write, and sew. The lower classes of the girls’ 
schools are, however, overcrowded. 


JEWISH PUBLIC SYSTEM (ZIONIST SCHOOLS). 


28. The proposals made by the Government Department for the 
reform of the constitution of the Va‘ad ha-Hinukh (Board of Educa- 
tion) and the bodies affiliated to it are yet to be carried out. 


29. A revision of the teachers’ salary scale and conditions of 
service is under consideration by the Government Department and 
the Jewish Agency. 


121 


30. Distribution of schools and pupils by groups :— 








TABLE I. 
1928-29. 1929-30. 
Schools. Pupils. | Schools. Pupils. 
General 123 12,200 125 13,133 
Mizrahi (Orthodox) 58 5,977 54 6,392 
labour... 46 1,272 51 1,506 
Totals 227 19,449 230 21,031 
Grades and types :— 
TABLE II. 
1928-29. | 1929-30. 





Kindergartens .. 117 4,253 
Elementary... aes os sie oe 95 | 12,618 
Secondary si 2 he Sia 4 1,363 
Training Colleges st i ie set 4 48] 
Commercial and Music — she a 4 624 
Trade... a iad ond Ae Sag 3 110 
SATS arena es Re OPE OE, aS ONL, 

Totals ... 227 | 19,449 


—— eS  SSESeEeEeeSSSSESEee atime _—— 








| Schoole. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupile. 


126 4,650 
90 ' 13,705 
4 : 1,465 
4 526 
3 «B85 
3 | 150 
230 | 21,031 


| 


31. Approval by the Government Department of the educational 
budget of the Jewish Agency is a pre-requisite of the Government’s 


block grant. 
32. Budgets, 1928-29 and 1929-30 :— 


REVENUE (ORDINARY BUDGET). 


1928-29 
£P. 

Jewish Agency 58,300 

Government 19,033 

Palestine Jewish Colonization “Association (in 5,465 

respect of ite amas £P. 

Tel-Aviv... ‘es 11,063 
Other local authorities... 4,856 
School fees 8,550 

24,469 

8,338 


£P.127,350 





122 


EXPENDITURE (ORDINARY BupDGEr). 


Administration. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Salaries ae sa ou she ae 2,802 5,602 
Departmental expenses... rae Sa 975 1,492 
School secretaries ... i ee ies 444 534 

—— 4,221 —— 7,628 

Schools: Salaries. 

Teachers : 

Kindergarten se ae he .. 8,584 8,253 
Elementary ... ae id _ ... 67,748 70,797 
Secondary ... - ses sis .. 9,371 10,115 
School servants... Se it ue 5,580 5,846 
Pension Fund, compensation, etc. Ses 2,712 2,315 

— 93,995 —— 97,326 

Busldings. 

Rent ne —_ bas oe ome 7,302 8,877 
Repairs ae 2a ne ae Sus 1,000 1,425 
Furniture and equipment ... fod . 93,550 4,275 

— — 11,852 —— 14,577 

Grants-in-aid. 

Labour schools ae ‘ee aa i 3,000 4,450 
Other schools one 7 soe Sex 2,006 3,072 

—— 56006 —— 7,522 


Unforeseen expenses... ase sss bb. 531 297 
£P.115,605 £P.127,350 


33. In general, the financial position was satisfactory, and 
teachers’ salaries were punctually paid. The Tel-Aviv contribu- 
tion to revenue represents £P.11,000 from the rates and £P.1,000 
from entrance fees paid by parents. The revenue from fees shows 
a considerable advance as a result of improved methods of 
collection. 


34. Fourteen new posts of elementary teachers were created 
to cope with the increases in the number of pupils and lesson- 
periods. 


35. Several kindergartens were opened in colonies on a grant 
basis. 


36. Elementary Schools.—¥For the first time, standardized tests 
were given in the elementary schools in Hebrew and English in 
the highest class, and in arithmetic in the two upper classes. 


37. Teachers’ conferences were held, and summer courses for 
special training in gymnastics, handwork, and nature study. 


38. A new syllabus was drawn up for the teaching of English. 


39. Secondary Schools.—There is no matter of particular note to 
report affecting the secondary schools of the Jewish Public System. 


123 


40. Mtscellaneous.—Steps were taken to improve the teaching of 
Arabic in Jewish schools. Arabic is taught in nearly all secondary 
schools and training colleges and schools of the Alliance Israélite 
Universelle, and in some colony schools of the Jewish Agency. 


41. A special school was opened at Tel-Aviv for defective 
children, maintained by private donations and fees. 


42. Considerable improvement was made in the sanitary and 
hygienic conditions of many school buildings. 


43. The principal Hebrew publishing companies have issued 
useful text-books and other books. 


44. The Hadassah Organisation is responsible for health and 
medical services in Zionist schools. There are 10 special school 
nurses, who give lessons in personal hygiene and assume general 
supervision of the health of the children in school or at home. 
New groups of ‘‘ Health scouts ’’ were formed in the principal 
school to assist these nurses. 

The Hadassah Organisation maintains kitchens in 23 schools and 
kindergartens, and in 1980, 270,777 meals were served at a cost 
of about 10 mils each. 


OTHER SCHOOLS. 


A. Moslem Schools. 


45. The number of Moslem private schools was 94 with 5,644 
pupils (including 812 girls) compared with 75 schools and 4,710 
pupils in the previous year. Most of the schools are kuttabs in 
which the standard of education is not high. 


B. Christian Schools. 


46. There were, in 1930, 149 Christian schools with 14,918 
pupils, excluding schools maintained by the Latin Patriarchate, 
the Greek Catholic Bishopric, and the Jesuit Fathers. 


1928-29. 1929-30. 


SS | | te | TD 


Protestant 49 4,022 52 4,150 
Orthodox 24 2,083 26 2,371 
Catholic 86 8,957 69 8,322 
Others 3 717 2 76 


Totals ... ese 162 15,139 149 14,918 





124 
47. The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by Palestinian and foreign organizations separately. 


Palestinian. 


1928-29. | 1929-30. 
Schools. "Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 


————_—___- 





Greek Orthodox Patriarchate 14 1,143 15 1,163 
Syrian Orthodox Patriarchate 2 103 2 100 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate 4 | 304 4 490 
Orthodox Societies 4 533 5 618 
Terra Santa 14 1,621 16 1,836 
Greek Catholic 16 877 * - 
Protestant Native Council l 79 l 61 
Private Christian ... 3 77 2 104 
Totals 58 4,637 44 4,372 
* Figures for 1929-30 were not submitted. 
Foreign. 
1928-29 1929-30 
Schools Pupus Schools Pupils 
British as oF in te 20 2,017 23 2,072 
American ... ous ae ran 9 494 10 494. 
French wee | 8B 4,693 38 4,628 
German beg ee oe ee 21 1,733 21 1,818 
Italian awe a sie oe 13 1,344 12 1,381 
Swedish... sbi oe eis 1 152 1 153 


Totals eae | 102 10,502 | 105 | 10.48 


oe 


48. The American Carmelite Mission opened a school at Nablus, 
but the Jerusalem Men’s College, a pre-War institution which 
aimed at providing post-secondary education, was closed in July 
owing to lack of funds. 


Le = 


125 


C. Jewish Schools. 
ge NOH mee Enesco neh eh ie ewe eee 
| 1928-29. | 1929-30. 


[erence eee a ne ee 
et 


| Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 











Alliance Israélite Universelle sae 8 3,071 8 3,461 

Anglo-Jewish Association (Evelina 1 505 1 487 
de Rothschild). 

Women’s International Zionist 2 87 2 105 

ization. 

Kefar Han-No‘ar Agricultural Or- l 141 ] 175 
phanage Ben Shemen. | 

Meir Shefeya Agricultural Orphan- 1 101 ] 103 
age (Junior Hadassah of U.S.A.). 

Giv‘at Ham-More Agricultural Or- ] 80 1 80 
phanage. 

Agudat Israel Organisation i. 12 741 11 790 

Communal Talmud Toras ... dis 7 591 7 530 

Other Talmud Toras a 30 2,681 31 3,125 

Private schools and Kindergartens... 33 1,368 37 1,709 

Jewish Local Authorities ... ee 2 53 — — 

Totals _ oe 98 9,719 | 100 10,565 


49. Kindergartens were established by a German Jewish Com- 
mittee at Tel-Aviv and at She‘arayim colony, in which children 
from the poorer Yemenite, Bukharian, and other communities 
are fed and cared for during the day. A new school for languages 
and commercial subjects was established at Tel-Aviv. 


SECONDARY AND Post-SEcoNDARY EDUCATION. 
A. Government. 
50. The following is a list of all Government schools in which 
secondary education is given :— | 


1929-30. 





No. of second- | No. of secondary 
ary classes. | pupils. 
Boys. | Girls 
Government Arab College, Jerusalem... 2 57 | —-. 
Women’s Training College, Jerusalem... 2 — 34 
Elementary-Secondary Day Schools for | 
boys :— 
Rashidiya, Jerusalem ae faa 2 60 ~— 
Nazareth iu - ie oe 2 18 -—- 
Gaza | 2 18 — 
Hebron .. | 2 16 — 
Salahiya, N ablus | 2 37 — 
Acre ms des or 2 20 — 
Tulkarem eh ae Pee sete 2 17 — 
Safad : we , 3.4 2 18 ~ 
Ramleh 2 13 — 
Jaffa 3 45 | — 
Totals 25 319 | 34 


126 


B. Non-Government. 
(i) Moslem. 
51. The following secondary classes, all for boys, exist :— 





1929-30. 


School. a le 
No. of secondary | No. of secondary 
classes. pupils. 





Boys. 

Al-Najah, Nablus 3 81 
Al-Falah, Gaza... ae 2 27 
Raudat al- Ma‘aref, J erusalem 3 65 
Totals 8 173 





(ii) Christian. 
62. A large number of Christian (including foreign) schools have 
developed secondary classes, as follows :— 








1929-30. 
No. of secondary : 
pupils. 





? 
2 














Teaching in English : 
St. George’s, Jerusalem . 
English High School, Haifa 
Jerusalem Men’s College... 
Jerusalem Girls’s College 
Bishop Gobat, Jerusalem 
Scots College, Safad = 
English High School, Jaffa 
Tabitha Mission, Jaffa ... 
Schmidt’s Girls’, Jerusalem 
Friends Boys’ Ramallah... 
Friends Girls’, Ramallah ei 
Terra Santa College, Jerusalem... 
Teaching in French : 
Collége des Fréres, Jerusalem ... 
Collége des Fréres, Haifa 
Collége des Fréres, Jaffa... 
Pensionat N.D. de Sion, Jerusalem 
Pensionnat St. Joseph, Jaffa 
Ecole St. Joseph, Bethlehem 
Pensionnat Carmelite, Haifa se 
Pensionnat Dames de Nazareth, Haifa 
Teaching in Arabic : 
Greek Orthodox Boys’ School, Jaffa ... 


Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem ... 
Carried forward... oe wag 67 


slSll | e&slRis 
ISI Rol 1 Sl SI 


104 
46 
54 


bo = bo GO > OD 09 We 09 Or Or DS GO BR 09 OL m 69 i 
jos 
aes | | | 





127 











1929-30. 
———. No. of secondary 
No. of second- pupils. 
ary classes... | ——————, —__—_ 
Boys. | Girls. 

Brought forward wits ses 67 596 300 

Teaching in Armenian ; : 
Armenian Seminary, Jerusalem sit 4 41 — 

Teaching in German : | 
Deuteche Evangelische Gemeinde Schule, 1 7 — 

Jerusalem 

Deutache Schule, Haifa .. ia l 8 10 
Lyceum Tempelstift, Jerusalem : 2 20 13 
Deutsche Schule, Sarona ai aa 1 8 6 
Deutsche Schule, Wilhelma 1 4 4 
Deutsche Schule, Bethlehem 1 4 3 
Talitha Kumi, Jerusalem l — 10 

Teaching in Greek : 
Greek Gymnasia, Jerusalem 4 23 2 

Teaching in Itahan: ... 
Ospizio 8. Luigi Conzaga, Cremisan 4 29 — 

(Seminary) 
Scuola Italiana Maschile, Haifa 2 22 = 
Totals ee eh — aia 89 762 348 





(iii) Jewish. 


53. The following is a table of Jewish schools with secondary 
classes :— 





School. ; 
No. of secondary pupils 
classes. —__———. 
Boys. Girls 
Talpiyot School, Tel-Aviv 1 — 35 
Gymnasia Herzlia, Tel-Aviv 5 241 152 
Tahkemoni Reali, Tel-Aviv... 4 15 — 
Commercial High School, Tel-Aviv... 4 108 105 
Women’s Training College, Tel-Aviv ... 5 — 181 
Gymnasia Realit, TS ees an 3 60 39 
Mizrahi Men’s Training College, Jeru- 5 135 — 
salem. 
Mizrahi Women’s Training College, 4 — 136 
Jerusalem. 
Gymnasia ‘Ivrit, Jerusalem _... 5 97 78 
Hebrew Men's Training College, Jeru- 3 66 — 
salem. 

Reali, Haifa = aes 5 108 64 
Commercial and Technical, Haifa bee 3 27 50 
Gymnasia Binyamina, Rishon ... : 2 17 12 
Gymnasia Klasit, Petach-Tikvah 5 28 42 
Evelina de Rothschild, Jerusalem 2 — 16 
56 957 910 


128 


PostT-SECONDARY EDUOATION. 


54. In 1929-30 there were 183 Palestinian students in the upper 
department of the Beirut University. 

In Palestine itself the only teaching bodies of a university 
standard are the Hebrew University and the Government Law 
School (governed by the Council of Legal Studies). 


55. Matriculation Examination. Board of Higher Studies. 


1929. 1930. 
Examined. Passed. Examined. Passed. 

Moslems ... i oe 4l 18 34 16 
Jews ous cas si 44 12 22 12 
Christians ... ce sis 19 3 17 8 
Examined through : 

(1) English es es 24 6 23 9 

(2) Arabic sale sae 42 18 32 18 

(3) Hebrew _... sa 38 9 18 9 
Presented by Schools... 77 27 49 30 
Unattached candidates ... 27 6 24 6 


At the 17th Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, 
page 111, the question was asked why it was that out of 41 
Moslems 18 had passed the Matriculation Examination of the 
Board of Higher Studies but out of 44 Jews only 12. 

The explanation is that the Moslems in that year, as in this 
year, are all selected scholars from the Government Arab College 
at Jerusalem, whereas most of the Jewish candidates were private 
entrants from private study who had not had the advantage of 
passing through preparatory courses under proper instruction. 


56. For the Intermediate Examination of the Board there was 
a single candidate, who passed, and in the Final Examination, 
out of three candidates two passed. The papers, except in Arabic, 
were set and corrected by experienced examiners at Oxford 
University. 


57. The Board of Higher Studies approved the institution of a 
Palestine Secondary School Certificate, to be issued on the papers 
set for Matriculation but on less stringent conditions. 


58. Students were again prepared in 1929-30 for the examination 
of the Board by the Jerusalem Men’s and Girls’ Colleges, and the 
Scots College, Safad. 


59. Hebrew University.—This was the second year of regular 
teaching in the Faculty of Humanities, on a four years’ course, 
leading eventually to a degree. A degree is given on examination 
in a major subject (three years’ study) and two minor subjects 
(each of two years’ study). The mediaeval history of the Jews, 
and Syriac and Latin, were added to the list of subjects taught. 

There were 177 students at the beginning of the session, as 
against 250 in the preceding year. 


me? Ry eee, eee 


129 


60. Language Examinations for Government Officers.—All 11 
candidates passed the elementary examination in Arabic, and four 
out of five passed in Hebrew. 

Two officers were successful in advanced Arabic. 


61. Teachers’ Examinations.—Eighteen candidates sat for the 
Teachers’ Lower Certificate Examination : one passed in Part I 
(practical and theoretical pedagogy) and Part II (school subjects), 
one passed in Part I only. In the Higher Certificate Examina- 
tion, eight out of 10 candidates passed in Part I and all seven 
candidates failed in Part II. 


62. Results of examinations held on behalf of foreign institu- 
tions :— 


Number of Candidates. 
University or Board. Examination. _—_—_—_—— 
Entered. Passed. 
Matriculation : 
January oy 10 4 (Palestinian). 
June oe 17 6 (4 Palestinian). 
London University ... Intermediate : 
Arta : 4 2 (2 Palestinian). 
Science ee 6 None. 
Law : 1 1 (Palestinian). 
London Association of | Intermediate 1 1 (Palestinian). 
Accountants 
City and Guilds of | Final Telephony ... ] 1 (Palestinian). 
London Institute (De- | 
partment of Tech- 
nology) 
Institute of Electrical | Graduateship sea 2 2 (Palestinian). 
Engineers 








63. The results of the Oxford and Cambridge Joint Board 


School and Lower Certificate Examinations held in Palestine were 


the following :— 
School Certificate. Lower Certificate. 


Name of School. Entered. Passed. Entered. Passed. 
8t. George’s School, Jerusalem ve 11 9 16 9 
Jerusalem Girls’ College _... aed 4 1 — — 


64. Physical Trainang.—Sixteen teachers attended the annual 
elementary course in physical training, and twelve a ‘‘ refresher ’’ 
course during the summer vacation. 

So far, sixteen teachers have gained the 1st Class Certificate, and 
84 the 2nd Class Certificate of Physical Training issued by the 
Government Department. 

There are three playgrounds in Jerusalem maintained out of a 
Jewish bequest and a fourth maintained by the American Colony. 

There is also a club for Moslem working boys in Jerusalem, at 
which instruction is given in Arabic, arithmetic, and hygiene, 
organized games and physical training. 


10035 E 


130 


AGRICULTURAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, 


Government. 
A. Agricultural Education. 


65. A course in theoretical and practical sericulture was given at 
Nablus to 26 teachers from various rural schools. Sericulture is 
directly taught in nine schools; demonstrations are given to the 
inhabitants, and the importance of planting mulberry trees is widely 
emphasized. Some 2,200 mulberry trees were planted during the 
year 1n 36 village schools. 

Lectures were delivered by specialists to school children and 
practical lessons given in all the branches of the work, from setting 
up the frames and feeding the worms, to storing and reeling the 
cocoons. 

A promising feature of the work is the interest taken im the 
school experiments by the townspeople and villagers concerned. 


66. Practical and theoretical teaching in agriculture is now given 
in 89 rural schools. On the practical side much progress was made. 
Vegetables and grains were sown in school gardens; communal 
plots were arranged to encourage co-operative labour amongst the 
boys; in the higher classes separate plots were allotted to each pupil, 
and in gardens where trees had already been planted each boy was, 
whenever possible, made responsible for the care of a tree. Where 
ample water supply was available, three crops of vegetables and 
grain were obtained. 

Experiments were also made with natural and chemical fertilizers. © 


67. School gardening was introduced in six urban schools. The 
tree nursery at Acre produced 6,600 forest and fuel trees for sale 
and distribution to other schools. Most of the schools have now a 
flower garden as well as vegetable plots, and tree planting is carried 
out extensively. 


68. 10,000 trees were planted on Arbor Day in Government 
school gardens. 


69. Competitions and exhibitions for the display of local wild 
flowers by Government school children were held and aroused 
encouraging zeal and interest among pupils and parents. 


70. Kadoorie Agricultural School for Arabs, Tulkarem.—The 
curriculum provides two alternative courses; a senior course com- 
prising three years’ work, and a junior course of one year. 

Over 60 candidates from secondary schools applied for admission 
to the senior course, of whom 30 were selected, and ten out of 
twenty-five applicants were admitted to the jumior course. Sons 
of landowners or practical farmers were given preference in all cases. 


71. The Institute of Rural Life of the American Near East 


Foundation has made a grant of £P.1,000 a year for two years to 
the Government for the purpose of promoting rural education. 


131 


The grant is being devoted to training rural schoolmasters at the 
Agricultural School. An Arab instructor, with a Cambridge degree 
in agriculture, is in charge of this class. 

The grant also provides a few scholarships for poor and deserving 
pupils at the School. 


B. Technical Education. | 


72. Mr. W.. A. Stewart, formerly in the service of the Egyptian 
Government, was appointed as Supervisor of Technical Education. 
He took up his appointment in March, and spent the remainder of 
the school year in a survey of Jerusalem district schools and local 
industries. 


73. A teacher trained in the Cairo School of Arts and Crafts was 
appointed to give instruction in drawing and modelling in the 
Jerusalem boys’ schools, and a well-qualified European instructor 
in woodwork was placed in charge of the manual training centre at 
the Rashidiya School. A weaving section has been opened at 
Bethlehem. 


74. To meet the need for instruction in drawing and manual 
training, a course for teachers was held in August, comprising chalk 
drawing, clay modelling, technical workshop drawing, and light 
woodwork. The work done at this course reached a high level of 
excellence and accuracy. 


75. Designs for copper-work were prepared by the Supervisor of 
Technical Education and sent to the coppersmiths at Nazareth; 
his designs for garden pottery were successfully carried out by 
potters at Hebron and Ramleh and for new forms of table glass by 
the Hebron glass blowers. The Jewish silverworkers in Jerusalem 
were furnished with designs for simple but useful table silver. 


76. Samples of various types of cotton, wool, silk, and mixture 
yarns from Manchester were sent to Majdal, Hebron, and Ramallah, 
and proved of considerable interest to the local weavers. With a 
wider range of yarns the weavers should be able to create new fabrics 
to supply local demands at present met by imports from Egypt. 


Non-Government. 


77. The Syrian Orphanage built and equipped large modern 
workshops for carpentry, leather, and wrought-iron work, and the 
technical instruction has been improved by the appointment of 
specialists to teach workshop drawing. 

78. The Hebrew Technical Institute at Haifa opened a section 
for the practical training of mechanics and fitters. 

79. Answers to questions raised during the discussion of the 
1929 Report at the Seventeenth Session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission. (See page 111 of the Minutes of the Session). 


10035 E 2 


132 


(a) The Education Ordinance. 


The question was asked whether there were any regulations 
prohibiting instruction likely to produce dissension and lead to 
party propaganda. 

In the present draft of the Education Ordinance, Clause 81 


reads :— 

‘* (3) The Director may require the dismissal of any teacher, whether 
in a public or assisted school or in a non-assisted school, who has been 
convicted of a criminal offence involving moral turpitude, or who is 
shown to the satisfaction of the High Commissioner, after judicial en- 
quiry by a Judge or Magistrate appointed for the punpose, to have 
imparted teaching of a seditious, disloyal, immoral, or otherwise harm- 
ful character.” 


(b) Racial Co-operation. 
It was asked whether anything was done in schools to promote 
racial co-operation and mutual understanding. 


1. The history of the Jews in Palestine is a part of the official 
syllabus in Government (Arab) schools. 

Arabic is taught in a number of Jewish schools and Arab 
history and culture is a necessary part of the study of the 
Dispersion. 

2. The Inter-School Sports held annually in Jerusalem are open 
to all boys’ schools in the Jerusalem division, and have been the 
means of attracting to the athletic field competitors from all com- — 
munities. In 1930 only one Jewish school competed, probably as 
a result of the disturbances in 1929. Efforts are being made to 
induce schools of all denominations to compete in 1931. Football 
and other games afford an opportunity of inter-school matches. 

The Palestine Boy Scout Association still consists of Arab troops 
only. Attempts to include Jewish troops in the Association have 
so far been unsuccessful. 

The Palestine Girl Guide Association includes three Jewish 


companies. 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


1.—Q. What steps are being taken to ensure public health and 
sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases? 


2.—Q. What is the regime for medical assistance? 


3.—Q. What is the actual situation as regards prostitution and 
what measures have been taken in this matter? 


1. Epidemic Diseases.—Palestine was comparatively free from 
epidemic disease during 1930, and there were no cases of plague, | 
cholera, or smallpox. 

Although the rainfall in the Northern districts was again high, 
malaria was not as prevalent as last year. Energetic measures 


133 


were renewed to minimize the breeding of Anopheles in rural 
areas, and the voluntary labour offered by villagers in clearance 
of ditches and water courses was of material assistance. The 
routine urban anti-malarial work continued with success. 


Typhoid of minor severity broke out in the Afuleh district and 
surrounding villages in the early part of the summer. There was 
also a higher incidence than the normal in Haifa which persisted 
until autumn. The general incidence was comparable with pre- 
vious years, but the case mortality rate shows a slight decrease. 


The incidence of measles was considerably lower and the case 
mortality 8.36, compared with 10.24 in 1929. 


The incidence of dysentery continues to decline, and typhus and 
relapsing fever occur only sporadically. 


Summary. 


Acute Poliomyelitis 

Cerebro-Spinal Fever ... 
Diphtheria ee 
Dysentery ase: -. ss 
Encephalitis Lethargica 
Influenza ie re 


Undulant Fever 
Blackwater Fever 


Totals 





7,272 | 847 


2. Births, Deaths, and Infantile Mortality rates for the quin- 
quennial period, 1926-1930. 


Birth- Number Estimated Infantile Mor- 
rate of popula- Number Death tality, 1.e., deaths 
per births tion of rate of children under 
1,000 regis- (Mid- deaths per 1 year of age 

Year. living. tered. year). registered. 1,000. wer 1,000 births. 
1926 ... 53-47 40,741 761,896 18,620 24°43 163-03 
1927 ... 50-22 39,093 778,369 21,795 28°12 201-27 
1928 ... 51:15 41,742 216,064 21,634 26-51 188-52 
1930 ... 52°88 44,587 843,132 19,513 23-14 154-28 

10035 E 3 


134 


Births and Deaths by Religions, 1980. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 


Populations... ... 82,590 588,849 162,467 9,226 843,132* 

Deaths ais ut 1,840 16,434 1,662 177 19,613 

Deaths per 1,000 of 16-22 27-90 9-61 19:18 23-14 
population. 

Births is sa 3,221 35,517 §,434 415 44,587 

Births per 1,000 of 39-00 60°31 33-44 44°98 52-88 
population. 

Deaths of Infants 433 6,022 375 49 6,879 
under 1 year of age. 

Infantile Mortality 134-43 169-56 69:00 118-07 154-29 
Rate. 

Natural Increase per 22:77 32:40 23°83 25°79 29°73 
1,000 of the popula- 
tion. 


* Not including nomadic Bedouin population, which in 1922 was estimated 
at 103,331. 


The birth-rate shows a general increase except among Jews; 
and the death and infantile mortality rates are markedly less than 
in 1929. 

The decrease in the death-rate is common to all age-groups, but 
is particularly evident in that from one month to five years. There 
is also a slight decrease in the number of deaths under one month; 
the difference from other age-groups is not striking. 

The diminished death-rate may be ascribed to the favourable con- 
ditions of weather during the greater part of the year and the 
consequent increase of vitality, particularly in small children. 
Infantile diarrhoea, which normally accounts for a high mortality, 
was therefore much less in evidence. Mention has already been 
made of the decreased virulence of measles and the repression of 
malaria. The remarkably low Jewish rate of 69 is noteworthy 
and compares very favourably with the figure for much more 
advanced countries. 


3. Trades and Industries.—Minor trades, concerned with the 
preparation of foodstuffs and beverages, continue to multiply. 
They are rigidly controlled under the Regulation of Trades and 
Industries Ordinance, 1927, by Inspectors specially trained for the 
purpose. | 

Particular attention has been paid by the Department of Health 
to the improvement of aerated water, ice and butter factories and 
dairies, and advantage taken, particularly in the larger towns, of | 
the Regulations under the Ordinance to specify the class of sani- 
tary installations in establishments. This has led to a general 
improvement in the hygiene of trade in Palestine. 


4. Drainage and Water Supply.—Negotiations have continued 
during 1930 between the Government of Palestine and the Power 
Securities Corporation, Ltd., which acquired the rights of 
Mr. Mavrommatis under the Jerusalem Water Concession. 


135 


The proposals of the Company involved a maximum charge for 
water to the ordinary consumer which in the opinion of Govern- 
ment would place the piped supply beyond the reach of the poorer 
classes of the population, and moreover would not permit of such 
a general demand by consumers for supply from the Company as 
to render the undertaking remunerative. 

This point and other outstanding questions were discussed by 
the Palestine Government with a technical representative of the 
Company who visited Palestine for the purpose in February, 1931. 

Plans for a main sewer for the Western section of Jerusalem 
are approaching completion, and temporary works are in hand at 
Haifa. 


5. The municipal scavenging services in the larger towns were 
satisfactorily carried on. ‘The sanitary services were adequately 
carried out, within the limits imposed by the absence of main 
water supplies and drainage. In the areas of Municipal Councils 
which employ British sanitary surveyors, considerable advance was 
made in domestic installations and disposal, and in several in- 
stances temporary drainage systems were installed at the expense 
of property owners to meet the urgent requirements of a particular 
quarter. 

The development of tarred roads promotes the maintenance of 
cleanliness in the streets and has overcome the plague of dust 
which was an unhealthy feature of the towns. 

A new slaughter-house was built in Tel-Aviv, and a project 
has been approved for a new slaughter-house and refuse destructor 
at Jerusalem. 

6. Quarantine.—513 Palestinians and 28 Trans-Jordanians pro- 
ceeded on the pilgrimage to Mecca under arrangements made by 
the Department of Health. All returned, except six Palestinians 
who died on the journey. Fifteen Palestinians and six Trans- 
Jordanians travelled independently. 

369 foreign pilgrims visited Palestine en route. 

A quarantine tax was collected by the Department from pilgrims 
on behalf of the Quarantine Board of Egypt in payment for 
quarantine services rendered at El-Arish. 


7. Medical Practice. —653 doctors, 212 dentists, 184 pharmacists, 
and 332 midwives are licensed to practise. Thirty unqualified 
dentists hold annual permits. 

Regulations for the examination of Assistant Pharmacists were 
published under the Pharmacy Ordinances, 1921-1930; and four 
candidates passed a special examination for students who had 
obtained diplomas in pharmacy after a course of only two years 
at certain European universities. 

Under the Midwives Ordinance, 1929, 27 Municipal and Local 
Council areas were prescribed, and henceforth only fully trained 
or qualified midwives may apply for licences to practise therein. 


10035 Ed 


136 


Rules were issued for the training and examination of midwives 
and Regulations specifying recognized schools and diplomas and 
laying down the forms and notifications to be made by practising 
midwives. 


8. Infant Welfare.—Four additional District Nurses have been 
engaged by the Department of Health to develop and extend 
infant welfare and maternity work in appropriate places. 

In addition to the centres already in existence, as mentioned 
in previous Reports, the Department opened an Infant Welfare 
Centre in Jaffa; and a similar activity was initiated there by the 
Franciscan Sisters. 


9. Hospitals.—The following is an observation by the Permanent 
Mandates Commission* on the Annual Report on the Administra- 
tion of Palestine and Trans-Jordan for the year 1929 :— 

‘‘ Although recognizing the efforts made by the Government and 
by private institutions in the matter of public health, the Commis- 
sion would like to know whether it would not be possible for the 
Administration to devote a larger sum for this purpose, since it appears 
that the population of certain areas has recently been without adequate 
hospital facilities (pages 113-115).”’ 

The following is a statement of the present position as regards 
hospital facilities in Palestine and of the expenditure of the Gov- 
ernment on providing these facilities. 

10. Palestine has 38 hospitals, of which five are of a special 
character : namely, two mental hospitals—118 beds; a tuberculosis 
hospital—63 beds; an ophthalmic hospital—45 beds; and a leper — 
hospital—60 beds. 

For general purposes, therefore, 33 hospitals exist and these 
contain approximately 1,690 beds, or one bed for every 600 of 
the population. In practice, however, the number of beds avail- 
able is considerably less, as few voluntary institutions can afford 
to admit patients to the maximum of their accommodation. 


11. The general policy of the Department of Health in Palestine 
has been :— 

(a) To concentrate on public health and sanitation, and the 
prevention of disease ; 

(b) To provide hospital accommodation for infectious and 
communicable diseases and for the insane; 

(c) To limit as far as possible the hospital accommodation 
provided by the Government for the treatment of general 
diseases to the requirements of Government officers and em- 
ployees, members of the Police Force, prisoners, medico-legal 
cases and accidents, and the very poor; 

(d) To provide hospitals, or to aid Municipalities to pro- 
vide hospitals, for the needs of the general population where 
no provision or inadequate provision is made by voluntary 
organizations. 


* 17th Session of Permanent Mandates Commission, page 147. 


137 


12. As regards the first point, the policy has been pursued with 
reasonable success, except in so far as water supplies and drain- 
age, and the investigation and treatment of tuberculosis, syphilis, 
and certain other endemic diseases are concerned. 


13. As regards the second point, provision for infectious diseases 
has been made at Jaffa and on a temporary basis at Haifa, but 
not yet at Jerusalem, Nablus, or in Galilee. A small Mental 
Hospital exists at Bethlehem. 


14. As regards the third point, hospitals of the Government exist 
as under :— 


Beds. Beds. 

Jerusalem: General bet me awe “6 
Isolation =O ee ee 
Maternity... se .. 16 

— 103 
Hatfa: General oe ses ... 80 
Infectious on a ... 40 

— 70 


Municipal hospitals, in which the Government provides and pays 
for technical staff, equipment, drugs and dressings exist at :— 


Beds. Beds. 
Jaffa : General sind as 48 
Infectious (Government) 25 
— 73 
Nablus: General 48 
Isolation 4 
Maternity 4 
— 56 
Beersheba: General 8 
— 8 
Acre: General 24 
Isolation 5 
— 29 
Gaza: General 22 
Isolation 9 
Maternity 2 
— 33 
Total beds: 
General (Government and 
Municipal) ae ... 236. 
Infectious and Isolation ... 94 
Maternity... 7 ... 22 


_— 372 


138 


This number of beds is barely sufficient for requirements, but in 
Jerusalem, Nablus, Jaffa, and Gaza, and to a minor extent at Haifa, 
there are voluntary hospitals which cater for the needs of the rest of 
the population, more especially for those that are able to pay fees, 
and for the bulk of the Jewish population. 


15. As regards the fourth point, the hospital relief provided by 
the Government and Municipal Hospitals in the places enumerated 
in the preceding paragraph, supplemented by the voluntary 
hospitals including the Jewish hospitals, provides sufficiently for the 
population as a whole, except in the Northern District. 


16. In Haifa, the hospital of the Government, containing 30 beds 
for general cases, can seldom take in patients other than officers and 
employees of the Government, including railway employees, and 
policemen, prisoners, and accident cases. The Hadassah (Jewish) 
Hospital of 50 beds is insufficient for the Jewish population of 
Haifa and the numerous colonies in the District. The small 
German and Italian surgical hospitals do not provide adequate relief 
for the situation. 


17. In Kastern Galilee, the existing hospitals are :— 


At Tiberias.—The Scottish Mission Hospital—60 beds— 
(closed three months in the summer of each year for financial 
reasons) ; a temporary Hadassah (Jewish) hospital of 38 beds, 
to be closed on account of insufficiency of funds. 


At Safad.—The Hadassah (Jewish) hospital of 49 beds, 
devoted to tuberculosis cases, with the exception of 11 beds 
for general cases. 


These hospitals cater for the need of a population of 41,000 Arabs 
and 21,000 Jews, in addition to the whole of Northern Trans- 
Jordan. 


No hospitals are provided in Galilee by the Government or 
Municipalities ; and there are no infectious hospitals of any kind in 
the district. 


18. It is, therefore, in Haifa and in Eastern Galilee that the 
hospital accommodation for both general and infectious cases falls 
short of requirements. In. Jerusalem and in Nablus, infectious 
hospitals are necessary. The question of providing additional 
hospital facilities in Haifa and Eastern Galilee will be carefully 
considered in the light of the general] financial situation. 


19. At the Seventeenth Session of the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission* a request was made that the next Report might contain a 





’ * 17th Session Permanent Mandates Commission, page 115. 


139 


Table showing the amount spent on health services for a period of 
years. ‘The following are the figures :— 


£P. 
1921-22... oe ee ice si an 146 596 
1922-23... = sco xh dae ee 117 ,074 
1923-24... -— ~ a = ee 93 ,698 
1924-25... sie sa ae ah ee 84,440 
1925-26 ... ... suk $e a due 85,411 . 
1926-27 ast 7 ae as 91,676 
1927 9 months) . us ies a ae 73 858 
1928 at - et eG Hes. Fas 98 ,681 
1929 an ‘ae ea — wee ne 101,864 
1930 ie oa se he er Sas 105 ,481 


20. It is not possible to calculate exactly the outlay by the 
Government on hospitals which is included in this general ex- 
penditure on health services. 


21. Laboratory Section.—The Laboratory Section is charged 
with the responsibility for the laboratory diagnosis of disease. It 
dealg with insects, molluscs, snakes, and worms of medical im- 
portance ; conducts research into problems affecting Public Health ; 
prepares and issues all vaccines of a curative and prophylactic 
nature ; performs chemical analyses of food, water, drugs, minerals, 
and the like, and undertakes medico-legal and -chemico-legal in- 
vestigations. 


In. 1980 the Section also undertook the verification of weights 
and measures and drew up Special Conditions governing the issue 
of licences to public pathological and bacteriological laboratories. 


The Bacteriological Division carried out 126,882 investigations and 
prepared more than half a million doses of calf-lymph, 110,000 c.c. 
of anti-rabies vaccine (1,500 courses of treatment), 60,000 c.c. of 
anti-enterica, anti-plague, and anti-cholera vaccines. 


The Chemical Division examined 6,724 samples, and has advised 
in a large number of cases involving Customs and Excise. The 
efficiency of certain anti-boiling compounds is being investigated for 
the Royal Air Force. Analytical control of all Government Food 
Contracts for the coming year has been provided for. 


22. The Travelling Commission of the International Committee 
set up at Geneva to supervise the investigation into the traffic 
of women and children in the East is expected to visit Palestine 
at the end of 1981. 


Arrangements have already been made to receive the Commission, 
to give ‘them such facilities and advice as they may desire and 
generally to enable them to obtain all the relevant information on 
this traffic which is in the possession of the Palestine Government. 


140 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of the 
territory, the budgetary system, and indication a the nature and 
the assessment of taxes. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and ere from the 


Ist July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Government), 
to the 3lst December, 1930, are set out below :— 


Period. Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. £P. 

Ist July, 1920, to 3lst 
March, 1921 bes . 1,186,951 1,259 587 
1921-22 9,971,531 1,929 341 
1922-23 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-24 1,675 ,788 1,675,105 
1924-25 2,154,946 1,852 985 
1925-26 2,809 ,3824 2,092 647 
1926-27 2,451 365 2,123,568 
1927 (April ‘6 December) . 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 ... - ... 2,584,317 3,381 ,993 
1929 ... aa ... 2,823,572 2,140,032 
1930 ... ee as ... 2,389,546 2,536 ,505 
£P.23,446,551 £P.22,820,440 
Surplus Balance at 3lst December, 1930 .. 626,111 


£P.23 446,551 


REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE. 


2. Summaries of the revenue and expenditure under heads are 
contained in Appendices I and II*, and explanations of variations 
of note are appended thereto. The figures prior to the introduc- 
tion of the Palestine currency in the year 1927 have been con- 
verted from pounds Egyptian to pounds Palestine for facility of 
comparison. 


3. The revenue for the year under review aggregated 
£P.2,389,546 and the expenditure amounted to £P.2,536,505, or 
a deficit for the year of £P.146,959. 


4, The revenue for the year shows increased Customs receipts 
of £P.74,638 as compared with the revenue for the year 1929; 
and, under the Head Miscellaneous, the profits from currency 
show an increase of £P.10,000. The revenue under Licences, 
Taxes, etc., has, however, been adversely affected owing to partial 
remission of taxes in consequence of the serious fall in value of 
cereals and the inability of cultivators to pay the full amount of 
the commuted tithe. 


* Pages 165-157. 


141 


5. The expenditure for the year shows an increase of £P.99,791 
under the Head Police, owing to the enlargement of the Force 
and in particular the strength of the British Police; and also an 
increase of £P.68,650 under the Head Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force, owing to the mechanization of one company and the en- 
largement of the Force. Under Defence increased expenditure 
of £P.72,605 has been incurred in meeting the cost of local 
services, i.e., billets, transport, etc., to British troops in Palestine. 
Under Agriculture and Forests the ‘increased expenditure, namely 
£P.25 804, is due to anti-locust measures; and the expenditure 
under Miscellaneous includes compensation for damage sustained 
during the riots in August, 1929, and also a special grant of 
£P.31,178 to the Jerusalem Municipality to defray Railway trans- 
port charges of water from Lydda to Jerusalem during the excep- 
tional drought in the year 1925. 


RaILways. 


6. The following are the figures for 1930 :— 











£P. £P. 
Revenue :— 
Coaching and goods ... 847,739 
Miscellaneous Si .. 37,985 
385 ,724 
Expenditure :— 
Ordinary __... 53 ... 390,259 
Capital improvements .. 15,057 405 ,316 
Deficit ... si ae a ... £P.19,592 


The deficit of £P.19,592 has been incorporated in the general 
accounts of Government. 


The capital expenditure on the Railway to the 31st December, 
1930, is appended :— 
£P. £P. 
From Loan Funds : 
Purchase of Assets from 
His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment (included in Item 
2 of Appendix V*) ... 841,370 
Other Expenditure (see 
Item 1 of Appendix V*) 1,532,272 
—_——— 2,373 ,642 


Carried forward ... ae 2,373,642 


* Page 161. 


142 


Brought forward 
From Revenue : 
Capital Improvements 
to 31st December, 
1928 (Total of ex- 
penditure on Railways 
Extraordinary shown 
in Appendix I1*) 
Capital Improvements 
in 1929 se 
Capital Improvements 
in 1930 


15,057 


£P. 
2,373,642 


£P 


518 ,325 

8,269 
541,651 
£P.2,915 ,293 





7. The earnings and expenditure of the Petach-Tikvah, the 
Hejaz, and the Sinai Sections of the Railway are not included in 


the revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railways. Separate 
accounts are kept for these Sections. 
£P. 
Petach-Ttkoah Railway : 
Net Earnings at 31st 
December, 1929 18,939 
Revenue for 1930 1,986 
Expenditure for 19380 ... 840 1,146 
Net earnings ... £P.20,085 


In the terms of the agreement the earnings are to be applied in 


payment of interest charges on the capital provided by Government 
and the landed proprietors of Petach-Tikvah, namely £P.34,089 
and £P.20,513 (£E.20,000) respectively, and in amortizement of 
the latter sum which was provided by way of loan by the colonists. 

The earnings have proved inadequate to meet the interest 
charges; and at the end of the year the arrears of interest due to 
the Government amounted to £P.547 and to the colonists £P.4,511. 
The apportionment of the earnings is appended :— 





Apportionment Amounts paid 
of net to 31st 
earnings. December, 1930. 
Interest :— £P. 
Palestine Government... 13,099 13,099 
Petach-Tikvah Colony... 6,151 6,151 
Amortization of loan 
of £P.20,513 (see 
Appendix IVt) 835 835 
£P.20,085 £P.20,085 
* Page 158. t Page 160. 


143 


Hejaz Ratlway. 














Ea a 
Deficit as at 3lst December, 
1929 a 67,114 
Less repayment on _ stores , 
account 49 
67 ,065. 
Net earnings for the year 
1930, as under :— L£P. 
Revenue 116 ,406 
Expenditure ... 94,073 
ane 22 333 
Deficit (see Appendix 
IV) ae ate £P.44,782 
*Sinat (Kantara-Rafa) Railway. 
£P. . 2P. 
Net earnings at 31st Decem- 
ber, 1929 96 ,238 
Revenue for 1930 ... 139 ,412 
Expenditure for 1930 .. 110,224 
= 29,188. 
Net earnings ... an £LP. 125,426 





The net earnings have been apportioned in accordance with the 
financial scheme and accounted for as follows :— 


Apportionment Disbursements to Balance 








of net earnings. 31st December, available. 
1930. 
£P. £P. £P. 
Renewals Fund 62,713 7,770 54,943 +t 
His Majesty’s 
Government 61,233 46 ,000 15 ,233 
Palestine Gov- 
ernment 1,480 1,480 — 
£P.125 ,426 £P.55 ,250 £P.70,176 











* The figures given in regard to the Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) Railway are 
provisional. 
t See Appendix IV, page 160. | 


144 


Posts, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 

8. The revenue from the Posts and Telegraphs Department 
amounted to £P.220,384, and the expenditure, other than from loan 
funds, amounted to £P.173,434, as under, or an excess of revenue 
of £P.46,950 :— 


£P. 
Posts and Telegraphs ... me se 147 ,338 
Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary ... a 26 ,096 
£P.173 434 








The Department does not, however, bear any direct charge in 
respect of interest on the capital expenditure of £P.188,000 defrayed 
from loan funds (see Appendix V*). 


TaxaTION. 

9. The revenue from taxes is derived principally from Customs 
Duties, Tithes, House and Land Tax, Urban Property Tax, 
Tobacco Excise, Stamp Duties, and Animal Tax. 

10. The revised customs tariff which became operative as from 
the 24th December, 1928, extended the application of specific 
duties for ad valorem duties so as to facilitate assessment of duty, 
and slightly increased the duties on certain commodities, notably 
motor-spirits. At the same time a variety of articles were added 
to the schedule of commodities in order to assist local industries ; 
the duties on other articles were reduced for similar reasons, and 
the duties on certain other articles were increased as a protective 
measure in the interests of local manufacturers. In particular the 
duty on cement was increased from 600 to 850 mils per ton. 

The duty on essences was increased as a protective measure by 
the Customs Tariff (Amendment) Ordinance, 1929, and the duties 
on flour, wheat, motor-spirits, and matches were further increased 
by the Customs Tariff (Amendment) Ordinance, 1930. The duty 
on motor-spirits was increased under this enactment to 50 mils 
(1s.) per gallon. 

Under the Customs Tariff Ordinance (No. 2), 1930, a duty was 
imposed on sesame, and the duties on flour, semolina, and wheat 
were further increased as a protective measure to agriculturists. 
Steps were also taken to restrict the importation of flour other than 
from Syria and Trans-Jordan, and to prohibit the importation of 
olive oil by an Order dated the 22nd July, 1930, under the Customs 
Ordinance, 1929. ‘This measure has prevented the dumping of 
foreign flour from Russia and elsewhere and has stemmed the fall 
in prices of the local product which, by reason of competition 
from Syria and Trans-Jordan, cannot rise unduly. 





145 


Beduin areas in the Beersheba Sub-District. The commuted tithe 
is based on the average aggregate amount of tithe assessed as pay- 
able by a village during a period of years, and for this purpose 
a period of four years immediately preceding the application of the 
Commuted Tithe has normally been taken. The apportionment 
of the aggregate amount among reputed owners is carried out by an 
Assessment Committee, except in the case of fruit trees, in the 
proportion of the potential productivity in terms of wheat of the 
lands of such persons if such lands are Mafruz (divided), and in the 
proportion of the respective shares of such persons if such lands 
are Masha’a (undivided). In the case of tribal areas the apportion- 
ment is made in accordance with tribal custom. The average 
aggregate amount of tithe assessed on the produce of fruit trees is 
apportioned by the Assessment Committee among reputed owners 
in the proportion of the actual average amounts of tithe payable 
during the period of four years in respect of the produce of the 
fruit trees in the reputed ownership of such persons. Im the year 
1980 the commuted tithe was reduced by 30 per cent., representing 
50 per cent. of the portion of the commuted tithe based on winter 
crops, owing to abnormally low prices and the inability of the 
cultivators to pay the full amount due. 


12. The House and Land Tax (Werko) is payable under the 
Ottoman Law of the 5th August, 1886. 


The tax is assessed on the capital value at rates varying from 4 
to 10 per mille. 


Additions to the tax were from time to time made by Ottoman 
decrees and aggregated 56 per cent. of the tax on Miri land, 61 
per cent. of the tax on Mulk land, and 41 per cent. on the tax on 
buildings. 

The surtaxes on lands were abolished from the Ist April, 1922, 
by instructions by the Director of Revenue dated the 18th 
February, 1922, in the case of property which has _ been 
re-assessed at its correct capital value, and on buildings from the 
Ist April, 1923, by Notice published in the Official Gazette of 15th 
January, 1923, in the case of property which has either been 
assessed for the first time since the Occupation or has been 
registered at its true value since the publication of the Transfer 
of Land Ordinance, 1920. 


Where lands and buildings have not been re-assessed the property 
values as assessed during the Ottoman Administration have been 
retained for purposes of this tax. ‘The earlier assessments were 
made when land values were considerably less than to-day, and 
the values and areas are notoriously inaccurate. 


In the townships of Haifa, Acre, and Shefa Amr the building tax 
18 assessed under the Mussaqafat law on the gross income of build- 
ings. The rate at first imposed was 8.1/3 per cent., the receipts 


146 


being shared between Government and the Municipality in the 
proportion of 3.1/3 to 5. Later the tax rate was raised to 11 per 
cent., the municipal share being increased to 7.2/3 per cent. 


13. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance, 1928, as amended by 
the Urban Property Tax Amendment Ordinance, 1929, has been 
applied in lieu of the House and Land Tax in the under-mentioned 
areas :— 


Jerusalem. Tulkarem Gaza. 
Jaffa. Tiberias. Ramleh. 
Nablus. Beisan. Lydda. 


Re-assessments have also been carried out in Bethlehem, Beit- 
Jala, Ramallah, Beersheba, Hebron, Haifa, Acre, Nazareth, Jenin, 
and Safad, with a view to the application of the tax. 


The Urban Property Tax is payable by the reputed owner, ia 
the rate of the tax, not exceeding 10 per cent. of the net annual 
value, is prescribed annually by the High Commissioner. For 
rating purposes house property and land are divided into the follow- 
ing categories :— 

(a) All house property including the aite, except house 
property constructed and used solely for the purpose of an 
industrial undertaking in which mechanically-driven machinery 
is used ; 


(b) House property sonstaeial and used for the purpose 
of an industrial undertaking in which mechanically-driven 
machinery is used ; 


(c) Land which is not the site of house property, or which 
is used for the cultivation of crops and is subject to the pay- 
ment of tithes. 


The following rates have been applied generally :— 
(a) 9 per cent.; (b) 6 per cent.; (c) 7 per cent. 


14. The Tobacco Ordinance, 1925, prescribes an excise duty of 
250 mils per kilogram on tobacco, including imported tobacco for 
blending, manufactured and sold in Palestine. 


15. Stamp Duties are payable under the Stamp Duty Ordinance, 
1927, which replaced the Ottoman Legislation as from the Ist 
November, 1927. In particular, the Stamp Duty Ordinance, 1927, 
abolished the stamp duty hitherto levied on petitions (any written 
request) to Government, advertising matter, tradesmen’s bills and 
extracts of current accounts, etc., and reduced oppressive ad valorem 
duties on agreements, receipts, bills of exchange (cheques), etc., by 
the substitution of reasonable specific duties. But the duties on 
leases, policies of insurance, etc., were increased. 


147 


16. The Animal Tax is imposed per capita annually on all sheep, 
goats, camels, buffaloes, and pigs at rates ranging from 48 mils to 
120 mils. Camels and buffaloes used solely for ploughing are 
exempt from tax. 


GRANTS-IN-AID. 


17. Non-recoverable grants-in-aid, as under, were made to the 
Palestine Government by His Majesty’s Government to meet the 
cost of the British Section of the Palestine Gendarmerie until its 
disbandment on the 31st March, 1926; to meet a moiety of the cost 
of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in 1926-27 and one-sixth of 
the cost from the 1st April, 1927, to 3lst March, 1930, the latter 
proportion being regarded as the Trans-Jordan share of the cost 
of the Force. The arrangements for the apportionment between 
British and Palestine funds of the cost of defence forces in Palestine 
and ‘lrans-Jordan were revised during 1930. Under the revised 
atrangements, which took effect as from lst April, 1930, His 
Majesty’s Government make a contribution towards the cost of 
the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force representing three-quarters of the 
recurrent cost of the force and the whole of the cost of the capital 
works in respect of the force in Trans-Jordan :— 


Year. Amount. 
a ge 

1922-23... oe ote a = a3 295 ,000 
1923-24 _.... ae ee ae oe ee 240 ,622 
1924-25... eee aes Ssh ue a 195 ,126 
1925-26... oe gt ae ce a 204 ,878 
1926-27 ... ©... ae be sal ve 86,476 
1927 (April to December) eae 2 is 30,345 
1928 Bs ses jas sis be oe 35 ,797 
1929 abe bak die bea oe Set 24,523 
1930 ste a = oe oe oe 41 ,286 


18. The expenditure during the years 1922-23 and 1923-24 in 
respect of the British Section of the Palestine Gendarmerie was 
defrayed direct by His Majesty’s Government. The share of His 
Majesty’s Government in 1930 was £P.128,134, of which £P.89 346 
was unpaid at 31st December, 1930. 


19. The cost of maintenance of the military and Air Force units 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan is defrayed by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment, but during the last four years the Palestine Government has 
made contributions representing the excess cost of the British Forces 
regularly stationed in Palestine and Trans-Jordan over the cost 


148 


of such forces if stationed in Great Britain. The amounts of these 
contributions were :— 


Year. Amount. 
£P. 

1927-28... ae at gig 31,000 

1928 aie to December) sd ton aa 22,500 

1929 : ses sa es 30,375 

1930 age sins i: i te oat 94 375 


£P.108 ,250 


In accordance with the revised arrangements for apportioning 
the cost of Defence Forces in Palestine and Trans-Jordan between 
British and Palestine funds, the Palestine Government has also 
borne the cost of local services (that is billets, transport, etc.) 
rendered to the British military forces in Palestine in 1929 and 
1930 amounting to £P.68,193, and the difference between public 
and preferential rates on the Palestine Railways for the Royal 
Air Force and Army Units (£P.17,107). Palestine will continue 
to bear such charges, and will, in addition, make a contribution 
towards the excess cost of the British military forces in Palestine. 


ASSETS AND LIABILITIES. 


20. The assets and liabilities are set out in Appendix ITI*. At 
the 31st December last the surplus balance amounted to £P.626,111, 
as under :— 





Surplus Balance at 3lst Decem- £P. 
ber, 1929... ca ws 773,070 
£P. 
Revenue for 1930 ... 2,389,546 
Expenditure for 1930 ... 2,536,505 
Deficit for 1930 see bak 146 ,959 


Surplus Balance at 31st De- 
cember, 1930... ve £.P626,111 


The liquid or readily realizable assets at the end of the financial 
year consisted of :— 


£P. 
Cash oe a oe 64,746 
Investments (less ‘Loan Funds) sais sag 444.114 
£P.508 ,860 


The rest of the surplus balance, namely £P.117,251, was im- 
pounded in advances, imprests, and unallocated stores. 


* Page 158. ee 


Ce eee OE 


149 


MUNICIPALITIES. 


21. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities are sum- 


marized, a8 under :— 
Jerusalem : £P. 


Ain Farah Water Supply— 
purchase of plant from Sir 


John Jackson, Ltd. ... 11,860 
Abattoir and Incinerator ... 4,581 
“Other ... . 8,298 

Haifa : 
New Access Road... ... 2,736 
Oil Storage Area... ... 6,999 
Petach-Tikvah : 
Construction of Internal 
Roads 


Other Municipalities - 
For works and services 


AGRICULTURAL LOANS. 


22. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of 


Loans are summarized as under :— £p 


(a) Agricultural Loans : 
Advances outstanding at 31st 


December, 1929 ... see 45 ,654 
Repayments ne the ye 
1930 Ss 4,101 





(b) Beersheba Cultivators : 
Advances outstanding at 31st 


December, 1929 ... as 8,245 
Repayments ene the = 
1930 7,251 





(c) Agricultural Loans, 1928 : 
Advances outstanding at 31st 


December, 1929 ... ... 17,805 
Repayments pene the big 
1930 sé 3,954 





(d) Agricultural Loans, 1930 ... 


£P. 


19 ,239 
9,735 


2,762 
1,358 
£P.33 ,094 


£E. 


41,553 
994 


13,351 
17,590 





£P.73 ,488 





160 


The arrears of due instalments at the 31st December las 
amounted to £P.41,553 under (a), £P.994 umder (b), and . 
£P.13,351 under (c). The recovery of the outstanding loans : 
has been rendered difficult owing to the low prices of agricultural 
produce. 


EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION LOANS. 


23. The position with regard to advances made on account of 
earthquake reconstruction loans may be summarized as under :— 





£P. £P. 
Advances outstanding at 31st “a 
December, 1929 a se °7 ,116 
Advances in 1930 me oot 656 27,772 
Repayments during the year 
1930 on - sae 4 2,457 





Total outstanding: £P.25,315 





These loans were made principally to persons residing in Lydda, 
Ramleh, Nablus, and Nazareth. The arrears of due instalments 
at the 38lst December, 1930, amounted to £P.3,481. 


DEPOSITS—PALESTINE ARCHAEOLOGICAL MUSEUM. 


24. Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., has generously undertaken to 
provide the sum of two million dollars to be paid in instalments, 
as required, for the construction, equipment, and endowment of 
the Palestine Archaeological Museum. The sum of £P.4,521 in 
the Statement of Assets and Liabilities represents the unexpended 
portion of funds already placed at the disposal of the Palestine 
Government by Mr. Rockefeller to meet initial expenditure. 


151 


INVESTMENTS. 


25. The total investments, amounting to £P.1,716,458, consist of 
securities held by the Crown Agents, London, and locally, as 
under :— 


Securities held by Crown Agents :— 
Nominal Value. Cost Price. 


Treasury Bonds 4 Es cent. 





























1931-33... ; 510,030 509 ,664 
Treasury Bonds 5 per cent. 
1933-35... 100,000 101,563 
London County 4h per cent. 
1945-85... 18,630 17,606 
628 ,660 628 ,833 
Payment on application for 
£100,000 Treasury Bonds 
4 per cent. 1934-36 
alloted at £100 10s. 6d. 
per cent. sag see — 10,000 
638 ,833 
= £P.638 ,833 
Cash lent to Joint Colonial 
Fund __.... 1,067,000 
£P.1,705 833 
Police Fines Fund :— aca 
£ = 
New South Wales 4 per 
cent. Stock 1933 as 1,829 1,742 
Victoria 54 per cent. 
Stock 1924-34 ... Be 1,800 1,755 
3 ,629 3,497 
=£P.3,497 
Fixed Deposits at Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.) 
Jerusalem :— 
| LP. 
Insurance Companies’ Deposits at 34 per 
cent. ... ... 2,000 
At Call + per cent. below. Bank Rate... 5 ,128 





£P.1,716,458 . - 





152 


STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE FROM LOAN FUNDS. 


26. The expenditure from Loan Funds is shown in Appendix V*. 
The Palestine Loan of £4,475,000 5 per cent. stock, issued at 
£100 10s. per cent., realized £P.4,497,375. 


The expenditure during the year amounted to £P.235,885, as 








under :— 
£P. LP. 

Railways aoe ar ae 17 356 

Harbour Construction and Port 

Improvements :— 
Jaffa Port Improvements ... 3 ,638 

Haifa Harbour Construc- 
tion ia ae ... 213,029 216 ,667 
Telegraphs and Telephones ... 1,862 
£P.235 ,885 





27. The total expenditure at the 31st December last amounted to — 
£P.3,235 ,656, leaving a balance of £P.1,261,719. 


CURRENCY. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual 
Report for 1929.) 


28. During the year under review the Currency Board paid an 
amount of £P.20,000 in aid of the revenue of Palestine. 


29. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the total 
currency in circulation at 3lst December, 1930, amounted to 
£P.2,244,664, or an increase of £P.127,000 as compared with the 
currency in circulation at the end of the preceding year :— 


Coins and Notes Coins and Notes 


in circulation in circulation 
at 3lst December at 3lst December 
1929. 1930. 
Denomination. EP. £P. 
Silver Coins :— 
100 mils... bie ... 101,000 123,000 
50 mils... a Ms 98 ,500 119,500 
Face value of Silver Coins .... 199,500 2.42 500 


* Page 161. ° 


153 


Nickel Bronze Coins :— £P. +P. 
20 mils 11,700 13 ,500 
10 mils 13,800 15,900 
5 milg 10,500 11,400 
Face value of Nickel Bronze 
Coins ... 36,000 40,800 
Bronze Coins :— 
2 mils 960 1,024 
1 mil 1,484 1,280 
Face value of Bronze Coins ... 9 144 2,304 
Face value of all Coins 237 ,644 285 ,604 
Notes :— 
£P. 100 25,100 11,600 
£P. 50 96,450 66,750 
£P. 10 191,340 213,200 
£P. 5 531,580 588 ,680 
£P. 1 865 ,731 968 ,845 
£P. 4 169,819 109,985 
Face value of Notes ... . 1,880,020 1,959,060 


£P.2,244 664 


Face value of Coinsand Notes £P.2,117 ,664 





MONOPOLIES. 


(See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual Report for 
1929.) 


SPECIAL STATISTICS. 


30. In paragraph 6 of their Report on the Work of their 
Twelfth Session, the Permanent Mandates Commission asked for 
epee showing year by year both under main heads and in 

tal :— 


(a) Revenue, including sums received from His Majesty’s 
Government as (i) loans and advances, and (ii) non-recover- 
able grants ; 


154 


(b) Expenditure shown in the account of the territory, and 
also sums expended directly by His Majesty’s Government on 
behalf of the Territory (e.g., Defence) or its administration 
(e.g., High Commissioner) ; 


(c) Deficit or surplus, and how met or disposed of ; 
(d) Assets and liabilities at the end of the financial year. 


31. The following Appendices to this Section furnish the in- 
formation as far as it is available :— 


(a) A summary of revenue including non-recoverable grants 
is given in Appendix I. There were no loans or advances from 
His Majesty’s Government and the non-recoverable grants to- 
wards the cost of the British Section of the Gendarmerie and 
of the T'rans-Jordan Frontier Force are set out in paragraph 17 
above. 


(b) A summary of expenditure in the accounts of Palestine 
is given in Appendix II. In addition the following expendi- 
ture has been incurred by His Majesty’s Government on the 
common defence of Palestine and Trans-Jordan since lst 
April, 1922 :— 


L£P. 
Year ended 31st March, 1923 ... a ... 1,579,066 
Year ended 31st March, 1924 ... ade so: 909 ,807 
Year ended 3lst March, 1925 ... ee oes 687 ,319 
Year ended 31st March, 1926 ... ae 422,066 
Year ended 31st March, 1927 ... ae Bee 336,110 
Year ended 31st March, 1928 ... oe sa 275 3874 


Figures for the following years are not available, as no 
separate record has been kept. 


(c) A statement of Assets and Liabilities is given in 
Appendix III. The surplus balance of £P.773,070 at the 31st 
December, 1929, hag been reduced to £P.626,111 at the 31st 
December, 1930, by the deficit in 19380; and the surplus 
balance of £P.626,111 at the 3lst December, 1930, has been 
carried forward to 1931. 


82. The general statistics for which the Commission have asked 
are furnished in Appendices VII and VIII. 


155 





‘eqgoid jo yoodse1 ul pivog Aoue1IND oUTzse[¥gq OY} WOIJ poOAtodel (00‘OS ‘AF epnpouy (ua) 
*szgoid jo Joodse1 ul pavog Aoueling eUryse[Vg OY} WO1J poalooel OOOO dF JO JUNOUIB [VIZIUI UB SOpNjoUyT (J) 
*489107UI JO 809B1 IOYSIY 9B SooUVl[eq O[QB[IVAB JOTI] JO JUCUISOAUI 07 ONP esvol1OUT (¥) 
"‘spunj Uvo, Jo yUowYSOAUT AIvIOdUIOY WOly 4se109Ut sepnyouy (f) 
0F10q31Y SB 

Ss, USMIESINGSIp pus 84d 1a0e1 s8013 OY} JOU PUB szUNOIG OY} UI pexeIOdIOOU! Used sey GINZIPUedxeE 1040 ONUOAGL ABAIVY 4O B800xX0 OF LF (I) 
‘sivod o80y} UI OpeUl 4OU o1OM SedIVYO [BvyUEeMZIVdep-107 UT? (q) 

‘guN0d08 o4BIEdes B 07 PEZIPeIO Teed Bulavy szdieoe1 quonbasqns ‘ABA IVY zeloFy WOIy syd1e001 sepnfouy- 
‘siv0f e804} UI OpvUl OU OJOM SadIvYyO [equoM4IVdap-16eqUy (J) 
"sdo1d 10JUIM UO OY4L], Ul UOTZONPeI 09 onp esBver2eq (0) 
"£4nq estoxg ooowqoy, pus seyziy, Jopun Ajurvul osvoroUuy (p) 
"GZ6L ‘COUBUIPIC O8IOxy ODDBQOy, Jopun szdie0e1 09 ONp esBoIDUY (9) 
"U8U10930 e1ldmyY | op selvyg sop Q[VIOU!) DONVIFSIUIMIPY O4F 4FIM JUSMIESIZE ON} JOpuN oIBYs OUIzSe[Ug Bulog ‘1/1°S dF sopnyouy (q) 


‘OSET ‘CouBUIpIO JUEUIpUOUIY soTzNng sSm04BND (/) 


‘6Z6I ‘COUBUIPIO JUeUIpUCUTYW seIzNG suI04sNy (9) "8Z6T ‘SOURUIPIO JUCMIpUEMIY seIyNG swoysNy (C) 
"LZ6T ‘OOUBUIPIO YUCUIpUCMTY selyng swmoysNy (Ff) ‘PSG ‘OOUBUIPIC JUSUIPUOUTY so1zng swoysny (¢g) 
‘PZ6L ‘COUBUIPIO (JUCMIpUEMY) 44ynq [sUOIZIPpY sz1oduy USIe10q (Z) "EZGT ‘eoUBUIPIO WUCUIpUCUIY selqyng suI0ysNy (T) 


—:S8MO][OJ SB OUI} OF OUI WOIJ PIV} suIOjsNH oY} JO UOIsTAeI OY} 07 ONP oI SOBBEIOU] (¥) 


| yaa “a 


9F2"68E'S,  SLE"ETE'S LIg‘FS89'S| O8S‘6EL'T g9E‘TSFS| FzE‘608'S 9FGFST 6] S8L'SL9°T| TE" ida ‘d3 


es ek eleias ESSA IE! BE SEES EE SEE Re Se eaiiaad MRR! Malena oad REO er ales 




















O8zIr | Eze LOL‘cg | oe‘ 9LF‘98 | SL80s | gz'eer | — — St = pry-al-gue1y 
Lgs‘9 FLL‘9 list | zZoeF Loo‘L =| = SOP‘LI IFT FEST ose 2° 7 = sofeg pue’y 
( m)egpsz | (DOS9‘9T 1009 L8z°¢ IFO =| 90% co6‘é | 1809 or9'9 ee os “* SnOSTRTTIOSTAY 
esPL8 (CDLOSFOL |(DPE‘Le | GPL LELT tee §| fis =| LOT LE8 T°. 32? Laois a emanate 
| “Agredorg 
E19FI IFe‘9I Z60°LT 06ST | OSL‘6I | 91E‘IzZ 099'%Z 980°9T SEZs qUOUIILIGAOK) + WOIZ  onuUeAczy 
— (1)86162 ost‘csr | ezie9z | sel‘éze (a)ose‘zor (a)FCE‘ORE (G)eFE‘oce (U)@LEF Teg | ag — “+ sAwarey 
P8E0GS | 88ZL0G | Fag'ST | LES‘6I (J)s9e‘eeT | (3)LOG‘LET | (HEBL‘Le1 | (HSSE‘LIT | (3)L86‘801 | seucydofey, pus sydyasojoy, ‘sys0q 
TILe‘Sts | «FPS ‘0ES | «86aFEs | «899TOT «= TST‘9b% | ~=egs‘oOos | FZ0°L8T | ez9°erT Gog‘est | “** 090 “eoWjO pure qaMoO_ jo seoyy 
((o)F99OFL (P)ezs‘I9L | PFLOGOL | SZO°LFS  oFOSZL (o)999° ZOS | SPsLZ9 | LIG*IES 6Fo‘S0g | ** "* "9g ‘sexu, “seousorT 
gol |(Q)LL9°8 89F'O FOE 9Z'L 669‘8 Oz ‘9 86L‘S Z86'F es" 3° * SULIVA, pure 910g 
(z)gso‘res (¥)oso‘LI6 (*)szz‘zes | (e)ege‘e99) se9‘gos | ste‘ess (e)s90‘srO | ISI FEF $z9°609 | *" sa asf **  SUTOgSNY 
aS ae a ee ‘as 3 ‘ds ‘as ‘as aa 
ww 
“Of6I | “626T | “S26r ssoquasoecr "Le-926I "96-2261 | -s0-r FE6L “Fa- £261 | "£6-2e6I 

















“OEGI O22 £Z2-ZS6Gt saweA Ouz 4 enwenew 40 Aumununs 











156 


www 


6L9‘ST 
299°Z8 
819°8 

069°68 
is a8 £4 


Ila‘L 


609‘ZIT 
6z8o1 | 


"dS 


“O86I 


awww»? 


(a)198" QL (m0 OLE 


PILOL 
68°61 
FOS‘TOI 
£08°99 
299°8 


060‘9T 
86908 
696‘8 

829°88 


| Fe9'6I 


6EL‘8 
(T1600 (4)8Z1°0%8 


6L‘LI 
"ds 


‘6061 


www ew 


SEe‘LPI | OOS IPI | ZIL‘6ET 
(o)gz9‘601 \(u)oLo‘ze |(™1)009%ee 
(DB1S‘608 ZOS‘OFI | sa0‘OrT 

= 008 


Q6L‘ZFE (o)tet* 198 
(q)9ZT‘S8I 


TS6‘L1 
Z6L‘Z1 
7298 
098°SL 
STI‘LET 
189°86 


9g9‘69 
£96'8 


68F‘9I 
9L0°8L 
7909'S 

LZo‘E6 
L68‘LI 


gos"9 


19F‘OI 
‘dd 


898°SL 
Taal 
220°9 


69F‘SI 





“OS6L 92 SZ-ZZE} SHBOA OY} JO} OUN}IPUedXy jo Asewwins 


LOZ‘SOT | 
ZLEOLT |(1) 800° 


PIGLI 
O9L'‘T 


S8L°S1§ 


889°ZE 
926°ST 


6676 


S1E‘99 
O18*OIT 
9L9°T6 
62629 
T99°L 


£69‘ST 
£91 °69 
$28°6 

G01°L6 


(0)6Z9‘TE 


SLE‘L 
SZ1°SE 
1¥8‘QI 


"ds 


“L6-966T 





"** @O1Og IOMUOIT Weplor-suTly, 
* (WoMCeg qsMLIg) eLreuLrepuer) 
(aono0g UVIUT}S[¥q) SLIOULIUpUSy) 
fe SUOSLIg pu sdIT;OT 
quowyredeq Aeaimg 
quomyiedeq, spuv’y 
ane *** qmoUIET}409 puB'y 
quowyjiedagy soymbnuy 
*T9ABIT, PUB UOT} RIZIUIMT 
*** MSQIO,T PUL OINGINOLIY 
“** quounredeg uoNnsonpiy 
quounredeg W380 
**Ajsnpuy puv eoiaUTWO/) 
Opvl], pu osfoXT] “sUIO}sNH 
ae quoujredeq sIpny 
AreaI00g [spuvuly 
Amseoly, 
sve [etorpas 
See [ese] 
lied 5 fare be Sas pL 
.° 7BITBIALNH 
*IOWOISSTUTTIOL) 
eq} Aouoyooxq si 
**woBTeID weoT puv sqoql oan 
** guoTsueg 


‘aengy~pusdag fo spvat 


‘spuny UBOT 0} posreygo puv srvoM snotaoid ul Usye}JepUN SxIOM SNOLIBA Jo yOodser UT [7620S ds jo uomAeN[pe Ue sopnjouyT (A) 
‘(SLI‘I'a3) Agqedrorunyy moyesnior 07 yuv1d jeloeds pue (9ET ‘IOI ds) 801 Ul peLMoul sesvurep jo yunoo0v Uo UoryesueduMo sepnjouy (n) 
(T12‘eo'd3) Agredroromy woyssns0p pus (61 9°9L'd3) drqsumoy, AlAy-foy, 0} sues [eroeds sepnyouy (9) 
‘uoHsystuTUIpy Arey Bump yoyep Suteq 1F9‘90 ds sepnfouy (8) 
"07104714 
ge s}UCMIOSINGSsIP pue sydIo001 ss013 oy} JOU pus syUMNOD8 9} UT po}BIOdIOOUI Useq SB aINyIpUedxe JoAO ONUOAOI ABMITEY JO s900XO OTT, (2) 
‘yuN0008 o7eIedas B 0} po}Iqep Ueeg ZuLAsy amnyrpuedxo quenbesqns ‘Avaprey zefoy] oy} Jo yoodser ul omyIpuedxoe sepnpouy (b) 
‘sizof snoraeid Ut poLmMout amyipuedxe jo yooedsel ul sesz1eyo sepnyjouy (d) 
(LOULUd3) tag Aury pue 9010, ary [ehoy 40} sAvmrey outyse[vq 
64} WO 80781 [BIQUOIOJoId pus so}¥I OGNd UseMZeq GoUDIEyIP pus (Eg ‘So'dF) CUSE[Vq Ul SdooIyT, YsYLIG 0} SedlAJos [BOO] JO 4800 sepnpouy (0) 
dOTyNqIIAUOD BIBIA OMY pojucseidex 8Z61 Ul omMyrpuedxq (u) 
UBPIOP-SUBI], pus SUySseeg Ul SIN) pemMoully pus eolog ITY [eAoY Jo 4800 SpIeMo} UOIyNGUAUOD (uz) 
*ZUSUIYSI[G B}Se UI osBelOUI OF ONp osvaloUyT (7) 
‘eoT]Og UBIUIQSe[vq JO Y43UAIT48 OY} UI OsBaIOUT 07 PUB TOM0g YsyLIg JO 47FUaI48 OY UT eseeIOUT JoOyZINJ 07 onp osveroUT (¥) 
"eoT]Od oy} JO UOMDeg YSHALIG oy} JO qySueI}8 oY} UI oseoIOUT 0} onp esveroUT (f) 
“‘peyUSMIsNe 9010,7 
eOTOT 64} pus poysqujse SVM OO1OT JONUCIA Uvplor-suvl]y, OY} PUY PepuTgsIP seA OLIOULTEpUer) oY} Ajyuenbesqns ‘peonpel sea 
@010, GOOG OY} JO WISuaNs 04} BOY FZ-EZG[ Ul Poysqejse SBA OLIEULIEpUEr) OY} JO UOIZ00g oUTySe[¥q OY} PUB ‘ spung fetioduy 
WOT 4ooITp your sem sIvod OM] 481 OY} JO 4800 OY} PUY POUST[GvIse SBA OLIOULTEpUOL) OUTJSe[Bq 94} JO UOIOEG YS O43 EZ-ZZ6T UT (1) 
‘qUNODDY UBOT IOI, poLieysueTy 1LZ-0Z6I Polied oy} ZuLmp ommgrpuedxe jo yoedser ut IZL‘6FI'ds Sepnpouy (q) 
‘SOMSBOUI YSN0[-GUVW Jo yoodsel Ul EPR‘QZ' dF Sepnyouy (3) 
*Apoatjoodsol ,, 7VIIBIOINTY ,, PUB ,, SUIO}SND ,, Speoy OF poLlojsuBI, ‘seTeos Poonpal UO ‘UOTZ00G 9910}G PUB UOIZ9eG Ops], ‘peystjoqe yuowiedeq (3) 
<c[BOIpur ,, pesy AoU Jopun WAOYS 8}IN0D UO emMyIpuedx| (0) 
, MOHVISUTUpY 4OLIsSiqy ,, pvey Jopun popnjour uoyoeg enueaey uo cimyIpuedxg (p) 
eSOT]Od », peoy Aq 309%] pure ,, FeLIWeI00g ,, peor] Aq eurog Ajyenbesqns uoMoeg Joavi], puw uoyersroMy (0) 
‘UBvOT OUIISO[Vq OY} UO SsesIVYO 49910} UI 
Jo qoodser Ul QSO‘OLI'dF PU SUTYSETET 07 PoyNgIyAe yqoq ONGng UVM; ey} JO oIBYS oy} Jo yoodsar UT EzE‘gta'ds eepnyouy (q) 
‘3qeq OG weU10;30 ey} Jo y0odser ul solyMuUe sepnjouy (¥) 


157 


































go0a‘eea's | Zeo‘Orl’s| see‘Tse‘’s| Lee‘Fre'T | 899°EZI‘S | L¥0‘Z60S 986‘'Z98‘T | SOL‘SL9‘I | 08% F88‘T “ds 
—<—_—<—_—— ———$$<$<<$—<$$—— —_—_———=_—_—_——ess —____—- ‘ONUVASTYT AQVAO 
26961 = ein4ipued xq Jo sse0xy]—sA BM [TE qT 
ArTeurpi0elyxG 
898‘SS a as Joryuoly Usplor-susBry, 
(7) — OZL‘Z8 029‘9SI 186‘96 = Areurpi0eyxg sfeaprey 
IL9‘69T OI8‘IgI ¥99‘89 0se‘FI SFE‘S — s+ ATBuTps0eI}X5T SYIOM ona 
960‘9Z 8269S 9zo‘OT LOF‘ST F2POS 6LI‘TI —_ “BINT _ sqdersojoL pue 9390g 
(2pseL‘sez |) oes‘eez |(“ovr-ces 168‘L8 PUS*VST E96°IFT ZIO‘OFI 866 ‘621 ove‘ost | - snoeuvoospg 
ec ee SERIES | gee’ors | SsHE"soe | Pee’tog | ggetens | geetere (Piaee'rae foe nee re Re 





158 


9S8' V6 ESZ 


909° SPL ‘¥0 
“OSs “ds 


09% 62 ZI 
LES OIL'S 
066° 1L9°T 
£69°126'F 
609'S8T 
T88°L¢ 
F60'S8E'T 
PLO'SIL'T 
S6L'F6E 


LES LLOL 


968 F0LF 
SOT SE0 Fs 
O10'S1E‘9d 
O32" LEP‘EL 
679661 
892 F60‘ESE 


“opus “ds 


s}unoo0y AIpung 


"* emytpusdxgm Areqytyy 
"* DONSSTUTUIpPY FIBA 
qsonbeg olloopey siTq Ig | 
prvog suyjoyreyy ondwy 
pavog AoueLmMy) ournsereg | 


4uNnODDV os10F{ 


eos JeRHUOLY Uepsof-suery, 


eee §qguMmoo0y 9810F{ soljog 


uvUUTY “uOpIseYy YsHug 
“qunoDDy 


eoueApy sydeigojoy, pue 9380g | 
[ei1oues)-194seUIySOg | 


"> ghealrey ‘“soSevuvpy [eiouer) 
*sUBO'T 


WOT}0N.I4SU000}] equabyyrey 
810} 
“an % smeOT PEIMMOLsy | 
"* soyddng s0ye 4 OB¥TTTA 
“+ gerqipediorunyy 
*SHONVACY 
H8VQ 
“s1088 








"opus “ds 





"Of6} ‘uequies9g ISLE 78 sol} iquiy pue sjossy 


“SENLISHTIV J {0 INSANGEAOY) 
[I] xcipuaddy 








902° 8Z1‘L 
966'980"9 
8LP Str 
062098 
6L8°LOL 


OLG'F8Z 
_  L99°690°F 
 $LA°ZL9°F 
 - 98E"SSS°ZE 
 6H0'SFL‘S 


Geo"SOLT 
Z0S" 169°Sz 
808991 ‘Z 


| OLLOLeF1 
| SLE 1Eh‘és 


9L6'°299‘Z 


OTS F6E‘ST 


"OI “ds 


“sy 1sodocy 
ooprEreny) solusdw0;) oouvmnsuy 
| * Aqrodorg 078g TWeIsenyy 
| see “+ gra) yorwoRs : 
“+ gemddng 103844 OSeTIA 
8}80g oolog Teedg 

“pany SULT 
eo1oy JoyUCLY wepio¢-sTel], 
* pany seul SUOSLIG pu BOTIOg 








STVMOUIY 04N0y ae reulg 
*unoDDy 

ysodeq + sydvisejoy, pue s}s0g 
*48010}U]T SUVO'T 

UOT}ONI}SU0EY eyenbyyreq 

qs010}U] SUBOT [vING[NOLISY 

yueg [emgMousy uevU107}40 
(pry-al-quvip) 

e010gj JOyQUOI_y UPplOf-sueIy, 

ats “+  quouwIUIOAOr) [etIeduy 


"*SLISOdA(T 


“COM QUYT 





jo jUgWIE}BI>g . 


159 


L60'F19690'°S | “ds | L60°F19‘690°S 








| | "ORBIT ‘FequIeAONT 48] OT UIOIy 
! ev uvseq umngueo Jed “py ‘8g IF 
| | jO Ofer of} 98 pung Zuryquig 


£06 1L6°9Z perma eq} 0} UORHNGLHUCO [enUUY oY], 








F68'912'TI > gydviZojey, pure 980g 
600°S9L‘ST “ te se BYTOM OF G0 000°SLF‘F 
5 
‘SHUOLY GELVOOTIVNG) SIOP[OGAOOHH—UvoT ounyseed 
FOE'SOF OIL IPC pepungy 
-‘eyreodoq 
90S SZI‘L oeqTeIUNE) soruedue,) couvmsuy (‘eouspeg snjding) ‘sani 
6LE°L6F‘E a puny seuly eoog || gsgg'OTl‘9z9 TEE BRAG PASS, 20 Sex 
“spun S88°SI L190 1 LIACOOY NVO'T 
OOS'ZESS0L*T TWO] puvy scouyeg equresy || OF9'FSL‘IST 
90¢"LE6‘6I eee eee oes syUNOOOW Arpung 
“SLNELLSHANT seaqoindes 
L8'L98‘F 4oH ey) JO YonyD 04 siedoy 
vere OfE'S6L‘F SFTVAA O7BALLZ 
GLE 28F'L | ore see ote SLOWUAA] O6l'1Zo°F unesnyy [eo}Sojoowgory sunsered 


VOT F96°T scongfFuUIMIOD ToNnVvonpY frewoy 


160 





ZQT'SE0'FS ‘dF 





020°F06 


ZOL' HET ES 


gra “ds 
‘ABOSVER], FHL NI LNNOOOY 


+ (JJ xtpueddy) sonmaqery 
pues sjossy JO 4UeTIO}eIg O49 UI WMOTS 8B gumoooy eouBApY 8,loZvuvyy [elouer) jo oouveg 


** (poysn{pe Zuteq) sheamjrey fq suroq poysn{[peuy : ppy 


GAGS ZU9TIG}EIG UI WMOYS SB FUNOOOY 8, Jomnsvaly, 


SONVACY 8.SNOVNVY IVHANSY) FHL LIM SLNQOOOW AVATIVY MHL NI LNQOOOY 6,aHUNSVEA], AO NOLLVITIONOOTY 


ZS" 1FOFLI 








231889 
¥60'CELFP 
66F'820°F 
BTL “ds 


"d3 


699°61Z‘00T  * 
Q8Z'EL8'IZ °° 


_S[PHOH] PTB sa104g poysoorjeuy) 
* skemprey oyeyg uendésy 


Asapey zefoH : 


* 488 
970807 


soouBApY ° 


= OOD HO 





C99 1FO‘FLI “ds 





289°028'T Lf 


? * gunos0y ear ~niei0 YRayly, oueg ° 
"* pung semoucy Avaprey (eyey-ereyavyy) redig 


“SosqoyT 


Bicuaae d 8, JaMSVoly, 
a ‘puny seuly ~° 


sj1sodoq 


=a OOD 6 


“O61 “AXaNEOAG LS[E LV LNAANUAAOY) UNILSHTV GHL AG CHLVARdIOD SAVATIVY FHL JO SALLIIIAVIT GNV SLASSY ZHL 40 INGAALVLIS 


“HNLISTIVG 40 LNXWNUZAOS) 


‘AI wipuaddy 


161 








L99°628'd3 9L¢°909' dF 








eq 
£0EOZT €0f‘0ZI ace eee oes eee eee eee UBoOy Sursrer Jo 4809 
. ‘eoyO SuyZULg 
0012 1¥8° LOI 30 quourdm bay Bay ononseo0 pues soolgQ  JUCSUIMIDAOK) 
vO6'LET 1€2‘SsI “+ — gguoydeyoy, puv sydezBoyoy, 
“d3 “dF 


—:zepun se dn epeyy (2) 




















6IL‘I9S'T GLE‘ LOPVF GLE‘LOP‘P | 000‘000'F 
anit eine TaN Safer Ses rnian a 
| | | "WeO] 643 JO ZupTer ey} Burpuyour 
‘emnpetyog; sty} Ul pouoHueu sesodind ey} jo 
| Aue ajlA poyoouuo0o Jo 0} [e}UeprIoUr sesodind 
| pas “jueudojeacp jo syI0M Jour ‘sfeaIns 
808‘OLI (D) L99‘6ze (D) gLE‘909 GLE‘CPL | 000‘SFL ‘souoyqdeoy + pue sydeiseje, ‘sZurpimq oyqng “fF 
€81‘LL6 LIS‘ELe 000‘TS¢‘T OOO'STI‘T  OOO'STI‘T |  Mucuresorduy qI0q pus UOHONASsUOD MoqIeH “E 
| ‘yueuTUreAor) 8,Aqe0fepy STA WOT] 
— 000‘000‘T 000‘000‘T 000‘000‘T . 000‘000‘T sjosse peyideo s0oqj0 pue Avmjrer jo osvqoing °Z 
SZL‘LOT 000‘0F9‘T 000‘0F9'1 skearey *] 
: : old : 
‘9S6I 
‘upoT fo | “py suvoT 
epaaooid ponjzon | orafy wD "eY40 M 
fo woypoonp pun suysorog 
04 aynpeyory 


"OSG ‘dequies9eg 381g }e SooOUBIEG UBOT jO JUOWE}E}S 
“ANLLEHIVG SO LNEAWNUBAOL) 
"A wipuaddyp 


10935 


162 


S88 SIL‘T9S‘T 














SIT 999°9ES‘S 

g90°L99'6se = | ———— 
89F'208 ‘031 
000°008‘T3 
L69°F96'L8I 

ogsLIs‘eze =| ————— 
940°0L8°608 
| PLULVO‘ED 
| 

000°000‘000T 

EIS 1Lz‘seo'l 
: GOL'SIS‘F6E'T 
; SOT69L‘LET 

stu “qF qr ‘d3 

qunowp 








i 


i 
eouuled | 


WeOyT Burstel JO 490: 
**"eq18 JO uoMIemboy 
—:s8urprmg yueUITLIEA0,) 
‘souoydofey, pus 
sydeiBojoy, “AT m04] 





“way WO *syee ‘tT : 
—:s,uemIeAOId 
“wy Hod 
pus uonyonsys 
“uo MoqievA “TIT mos | 
*QUOUITLIOAOX) 
s,Aysoluyy 8TH 
wmoy s]0688 
[eqidvo 10490 
pus Asayres 
jo sseqomMd “TT Wz] 














(pezajdar00) 8x10 A 
Avaprey 10y10 
‘sdoys 
-YIOM 9 ABVATICY “| *19q UIE quedo Jod Q'OT'OOIF 38 ponsst "19q U9 
—iskemprey “] wax] |-00 ISTE] OOO'SLE'LEFP | “A90IG COO'GLE'HS JO aBOT %g jo sposoosg | -ooq 381E 
| oser | sm as Og6I 
asngrpuadxiy | “aroqT | ‘yunowy ‘eidraoey “a0q 








-OS61 “‘yoquies9g ISLE " qunossy ue0} 
‘INILSHTVd 40 LNXWNYAAO*) 


‘TA wipuaddy 





163 























096'813'6 | 98E'923'6 = ! == SBF'SZ | GREiSST 89 32S. 81 $59'T | seo'oee't | ozz's 
F60'SEF'L | FOR'FER'L — — —_ TOS‘¢9% _ TZ9°6LT L99'31Z | 296 FSG‘T OTe‘3I 
FLS'S19'8 L99'869'8 — — — LEFLLT 06 ZORLLT $63 'SS LOZ‘ 28 'T 66‘ LT 
¥E8‘19F'S $36'LZL'8 — — — 6Z0‘TST — 66S‘9F3 Ost's | 6S2‘668'T 669'9Z 

(di, d3 | dz ‘d3 “dZ "dF ‘d3 "dB "dF "d3 "d3 
190'286‘L 9Z8'T10'8 6 TI's 00g T6362 SII 6ZT'SLT 9S6'eT GZ9'CL3'T ges‘Ol 
625'968'8 ZOFF6T‘S 0248'S | BS2‘SF — OLLTL ZI T02‘68T SPL‘ZOT 665'263'T 969‘S61 
FT ‘9089 bO9‘OTL'2 — Z00‘19 _ SEL‘OET 3 CESTFT GLZL1L 318'008'T Soo L8T 
LB¥' 2869 $62'656'9 261 GIF ‘SP — 089'68T = L6‘EES 96F TTF FES SFL‘T O80‘OTT 
SLO‘SSL'L ¥S0'615‘2 803 | LostLy —_ 669'LFE ZIS‘T | Sce‘Zel LOL‘E8S TZ1‘0L0'T GOF‘60T 
Oa ic = — 91'S _ 689'LFT — 898'38 _ gos ‘OLFT = 

— — — — _ — = = 029‘818‘T — 

as | WS ‘53 | ‘53 ‘a3 ‘H3 "53 "a3 ‘H3 | ok ‘T3 

‘weds | ‘neds e . | e. I *gv0ed *9 * da ° e 
buipnprg | duipnjour nods enpunyrsey ‘aweds cide ae weds |esipunyoyy | ‘alsedg § |-aipunyoeyr| = ‘avedg 
‘muhy wosf suodzq | “mils wosf sqsoduy 
"7070,], | "974002 -OU "9740020 
"NSUDLL 
"pws 
‘SI=dF 1 ‘(avd 1%) F=1TLGIOT=AF I 


‘(UBplO“F-suvIy, SuIpnloxy) 


INILSAIVG 


“UOI}BUUOJU JBIIBSIZBPS yo Auewwins 


‘TIA wipusddy 





89¢'S86'9 
S6S°99T'L 
818‘OLL‘9 
bSP'FST'9 


L86‘604'S 
“as 


000‘9*6 
000‘026 
000'006 
000‘068 


000‘288 
GtZ 189 
SSI'L92 


962'T9L 
S61'EL9 











F 2 


10035 


686 ‘CSE 
L¥6‘00€ 
PIL‘ZPE 
#869‘'GOG 
ISITE 
FLO'LIZ 
FE ‘FOT 
999°LFT 
S8E‘61S 
F6E‘FOT 
009‘LST 
‘dF 


"740M 


MMd 


869°E6 
PLO'LIT 
969°9FI 
GLG ISI 
"dd 


“Y?109 H 


19% 


ee Se 


819°ZO1 
PIL‘OL 
09€°SL 
06F‘S9 
o1€‘99 
680°LE 
1699s 
0E9°9E 
O19'8E 
LEE‘OF 
9F0'IE 
"dS 


uo yuode yunowp 


gooSFI 
681681 
STI“LEl 
6£0°00I 
OI8‘SIl 
666 °€01 
999‘ZOI 
oLL‘66 


02916 


SIF‘06 
60°09 
"ds 


‘aangmnaibpy | “worponpy 


092‘Ste‘S 986'IF os, 
6F0°662'S ESS FS =. 
069‘8#o'S LOL‘SE = 
SE0‘60L'T GFE ‘0E = 
688‘F9E‘s OLF‘98 = 
OFF'F09S 8L8°F0S a 
0¢8°696'T 9S1°S6I = 
S8L°SLO'T 669 ‘OFZ re 
1€8‘608‘T 000°962 = 
T€S‘T Les — = 
PES‘SEl‘T — =. 
"d3 ‘d3 "d3 
004N0E 7 sees | ‘eeoupapy 
wos, -U0 AT atlas | 
Voy, £oyf0 |__| 
anuUarasy "PIOLNOK) [DULL T 
wos enuoaay 
"PREATS Teyoedg 


‘TITA vipuaddy 


000‘SLh'F 
000‘SLFF 
000‘SLFF 
000‘SLFF 





O£6I 
6261 
"S261 

L26l ecu 04 Judy 
LZ61-9261 
9261-S26I 
S261-¥261 
¥261-€261 
€261-ZS61 
2061-1261 


1Z6T ‘GouUVsp_ 981E 07 ‘OZET ‘AOL 98T 


ana X saypnsvusupy 
40 POOUDUS 


165 


XX1I.—DEMOGRAPHIC STATISTICS. 


Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, emigra- 
tion and immigration. 


fick Census.—A census was taken in Palestine in October, 1922, 
with the following results. 


Moslems... ve ae a oe se 590 ,890 
Christians ... i aie ve ee see 73 ,024 
Jews a ois ia Bat os oe 83,794 
Others a wis es an ae ae 9,474 

Total ... a _ Biss ae sie 757,182 


_ The nomadic Beduin, who were estimated at the time to number 
in the neighbourhood of 103,000, were not included in this census. 


A second census is to be taken in October, 1931. 


| 2. Vital Statistics.—The following are the vital statistics since 
1921: those from 1923 onwards include estimates of population, 
other than nomadic Beduin : 





Birth Number | Estimated | Number| Death | Infantile Mortality, 


rate of population of rate | i.e., death of children 
Year, per births | (Mid-Year| deaths per under 1 year of age 
1,000 | registered. | Estimates).| regis- | 1,000. per 1,000 births. 
| living. tered | 
a ee EAN) Meee Seen Reed (ERENT Ae EE EEC? eee eee ae eran 
1921. 
own 27°4 — — — 16-1 Town 209-6 
Country 28-4 - — ae — | Country 123-3 
a = aus ae ss 18-75 = 
@ 47-43 | 31,402 | 662,013 | 16,994 | 25-67 184-76 
4 51-31 34,955 | 681,245 | 17,672 | 25-94 184-83 
a 49-31 35,479 | 719,508 | 19,611 | 27-25 188-64 
iB 53-47 | 40,471 | 761,896 | 18,620} 24-43 163-03 
di 50°35 | 29,1931 778,369] 21,806 | 28-01 200-46 
8 53-99 | 42,899] 794,516 | 23,170] 29-16 188-25 
4 51-16 | 41,742 | 816,064 | 21,634 | 26-51 186-52 
a) 62-88 | 44,587 | 843,132 | 19,513 | 23-14 154-28 


De ee ee EN 2 a SISO aE a ae Pe ONS RR eae ee 


3. Distribution of Jewish Population.—At the time of the Armis- 
ice the Jewish population of Palestine is believed to have been 
about 55,000. 

10038 F 3 


The progress of the Jewish population, urban and rural, is in- 


166 


dicated in the following estimate. 


Towns. Colontes. 
1918 41,000 6,000 
1920 56 ,200 10,370 
1922 (October) 68 ,622 15,172 
1923 (January) 71,000 16,000 
1924 (December) 85 ,000 23 ,000 
1925 (December) 114,000 24 000 
1927 (July) 118 ,000 30,500 
1929 a 130,000 32 ,000 


The principal centres of Jewish urban settlement (according to 
the most recent estimates available) are :— 


Jerusalem ree 53,500 
Tel-Aviv and Jaffa ... 48 ,000 
Haifa 14,000 
Tiberias 5 000 
Safad 3.000 


4. Immigration and Emigration.—The following is a table show- 
ing immigration and emigration in respect of Palestine of Jews 
and non-Jews from the year 1920 to 1930 inclusive :— 


Immigration. Emigration. 
Year. Jews Non-Jews Jews. Non-J ews. 

1920 (September—October)... 5,514 202 — — 
1921 ... ae me ... 9,149 190 a —_ 
1922 ... 7,844 284 1,451 1,348 
1923 ... 7,421 570 3,466 1,481 
1924 ... see See ... 12,856 697 507* 604* 
1925 ... see ae ..- 33,801 840 2,151 1,949 
1926 ... aay oe .- 13,081 829 7,365 2,064 
1927 ... ae 2,713 882 5,071 1,907 
1928 ... 2,178 908 2,168 954 
1929 ... 5,249 1,317 1,746 1,089 
1930 ... 4,044 1,489 1,679 1,324 


* Figures for July-December. 


XXITI.—OUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


1. Agreements.—The Customs Agreement with Syria and the 
Transit Agreement with Trans-Jordan (see Annual Report for 
1929, page 43) work smoothly. Relations with the Syrian Customs 
Authorities are cordial, and their readiness to assist and co-operate 
greatly facilitates the work of the Palestine Department. 

The Transit Agreement with Trans-Jordan appears to have 
stimulated the trade of that country. Until, however, the rates 
of Import Duty in Trans-Jordan are assimilated generally to those 
in force in Palestine, the lower Trans-Jordan tariff encourages 
smuggling, particularly of tobacco, into Palestine. 


167 


REVENUE. 


= PRS ee er 


2. The figures of total net revenue of the Department of Customs 
and Excise for the quinquennial period 1926-1930 are as follows :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 
or. £P. £P. £P. LV. 
1,022,124 976,171 1,118,531 1,166,424 1,234,957 


Import Duty.—The Import Dues collected during the same 
period are as follows: 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
818,860 766,175 895 ,302 921,514 991 ,560 


3. The principal imports and the revenue derived from each in 
1930, are set out below :— 





Article. Quantity Value. Rate of Duty Duty 
Collected. 
7 £P. EP. 
1. Benzine in tins of 4-gal. tins 876,150 222,107 | Per tin 180 and |} 171,736 
200 m. 
| »» 5, other containers | 400,696 5,201 | Per litre 10 m. 2,665 
| and in bulk (litres). 
2 Sugar (kilos)... ; .-- | 10,669,752 121,504 | Per kilo 10 m. 105,187 
Kerosene in tins of 4- gal. tins 177,793 18,737 | Per tin 24 and 27 m. 4,794 
9 », Other containers | 34,455,406 166,559 | Per litre 1.50 m. 51,719 
(litres). 
A Tobacco Leaves (kilos) 114,841 24,754 | Per kilo 400 m. 45,940 
‘ Wheat Flour (kilos) 13,886,041 178,329 | Per kilo 1.75 and 44,128 
4.50. 
‘ Cigarettes (kilos) ... Ss 26,146 14,856 | Per kilo 1,000 m. 26,137 
1. Cotton Piece-goods (kilos) .. 2,503,887 478,545 | Various. 64,667 
§. Motor Cars are 848 163,485 | 15 per cent. ad val.| 23,837 
§. Rice (kilos) . 9,269,886 127,941 | Per kilo 2 m. 18,485 
ht. Coffee (Ikilos) 763,580 43,427 | Per kilo 15 m. 11,274 
l. Wood and Timber for build- 49,811 167,564 | Per M.3 300 m. 14,944 
ing (M.3). 
@. Woollen Tissues and mixed 175,678 150,135 | 12 per cent. ad val.| 17,774 
(kilos). 
B. Silk Tissues and mixed (kilos) 196,464 182,144 | 15 per cent. ad val. 21,302 
4. Rubber Tyres and Tubes 230,184 47,994 | Per kilo 60 m. 12,220 


(kilos). 





4. It is satisfactory to record that the Customs revenue in 1930 
exceeded that of any previous year since the British Occupation, 
notwithstanding that Palestine was affected by the general fall in 
world prices. The increased receipts are due in part to the needs 
of an increasing population but are also indicative of continued 
development of commerce and industry. 

10035 F 4 


168 


5. Osl Fuel.—The increasing importance of benzine as a source 
of revenue is noteworthy. 


COMPARATIVE STATISTICS OF ImPpoRTS oF On, FuRL. 


Petroleum, 
Benzine. Kerosene. Crude. 
litres. litres. tons. 

1922 ane 2 412 234 15 ,059 ,897 466 
1923 <i 3,806,946 16,176,916 1,743 
1924 ie 3,222 060 20,129 549 2,526 
1925 nae 5 656,464 23 032 837 4,125 
1926 wee 8,446 215 27 ,789 148 3,860 
1927 a 7 381,456 30,851,643 5,370 
1928 ... 11,266,347 35 548 631 6 085 
1929 ... 18,901,760 38 333 ,707 7,426 
1930 .. 16,346,626 37 ,655 ,680 16,537 


6. The new Oil Storage Area at Haifa was completed during the 
year : so that almost all imports of benzine, paraffin, and fuel oils 
will henceforth be pumped into the Area from tankers in the 
harbour, through two submarine pipes terminating at a depth of 
six fathoms, extending to a distance of 750 metres from the shore. 
There are thirteen tanks in the Shell Company’s installation, with 
a capacity of 19,000 tons, and a factory which turns out 6,000 
Kerosene and Benzine tins daily. 


7. Exctse Duties.—The Excise dues and licence fees collected 
during the last five years are shown as under :— 


1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 

Tobacco— £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 

Duties ... ..» «ee 124,700 128,898 148,744 162,984 150,541 

Licence Fees ... aes 5,798 5,517 6,276 6,290 6,076 
Intoxicating Inquora— 

Duties ... sete Bee 11,385 15,165 22,967 28,220 31,941 

Licence Fees ... aie — — 3,347 3,461 6,223 
Salt— 

Duties ... soe ... 24,282 26,484 9,440 11,118 11,341 
Matches— 

Duties ... Seis aes — 4,918 6,643 6,684 10,447 

Licence Fees ... oe — 15 10 10 100 


——_ aS Le 6 GE SE 


te eG 


8. Disttillertes and Wine and Tobacco Factories.—There are 21 
distilleries in Palestine, 15 establishments for the manufacture of 
wines, nine tobacco and cigarette factories, two factories for tombac 
and one for snuff, and two match factories. Salt is manufactured 
at Athlit by evaporation from sea water, and rock salt is gathered 
from Jebl Usdum (Sodom). 


— 


169 


The output of these undertakings from 1928 to 1930 is the 
vllowing :— 


Intoxicating Liquors :— 


Wine. Arak. Cognac. Other 
Spirits. 
(litres.) (lstres of alcohol.) 
1928 die .. 1,813,924 84,738 137,720 414,837 
1929 oe .. 3,581,391 66,539 153,210 425,321 
1930 uc .» 4,125,680 78,094 229,079 361,618 


7,618 hectolitres of wine were exported in 1930. 


' Tobacco and Cigarettes :— 


Cut Tobacco Cigarettes Tombac Snuff 

(kilos). (kilos). (kilos). kilos). 

1928 eae ae 16,020 493,715 84,071 57 

1929 wel Sas 20,107 531,887 100,127 1,209 

1930 pes oe 20,301 487,585 96,899 2,223 

Match Factories :— 

1928 ss wey a oo Le 110,650 gross 
1929 bd ae ae bi as 130,569 gross 
1930 oa Se a ‘sf si 145,786 gross 


| 9. The total production of the salt works was 7,600 tons. 


) 

{ 

| 10. 23,500 dunums of tobacco were planted in 1930 by nearly 
2400 growers, of whom 1,225 are in the Acre District. 


The crop for the four years 1926-1929 was as under :— 


! Tobacco. Tombac. Total 

; kilos. kilos. kilos. 

| 1926 sate 526,448 25,700 552,148 
1927 ke 494 590 52,152 546 ,742 
1928 Ge 334,455 7,381 341 ,836 

: 1929 ... 1,183,195 10,748 1,193 ,943 


The large increase in production in 1929 resulted in a fall in 
prices in the following year, since the annual consumption of the 
‘actories is limited to about 500,000 kilograms, and there is little 
market abroad for Palestinian tobacco. Only small quantities of 
‘eaf were exported, principally to Poland. 


There was moreover a decrease in the output of the tobacco 
factories in 1930, which may be attributed to the disturbed con- 
ditions in the north of Palestine during the early part of the year 
and to smuggling from Trans-Jordan. 


11. Fines and Forfettures.—Seizures. 


1928 1929 1930 
5,948 5,994 6,997 


170 


12. Fines. 
1928 1929 1930 
Paid into Court ... ee nn £P.3,206 £P.2,199 £P.1,449 
Compounded £P.5,213 £P.4,703 £P.4,816 


Imprisonment in lieu of payment £P.3,353 £P.4,448  £P.4,111 





Total... Ss ae .» £P.11,772 £P.11,350 £P.10,376 





13. Many offences against the Merchandise Marks Ordinance, 
1929, were detected and compounded for fines. 


14. Smuggling of tobacco and tombac from Trans-Jordan, o! 
salt from the Dead Sea and Egypt, of matches from Egypt and 
Syria, of manufactured tobacco and cigarettes from Syria, and ol 
cigarette paper from Syria and Trans-Jordan is common. 


15. Ports and Lights.—The share of the Palestine Governmeni 
in the gross receipts of the Lighthouse Concession was £P.3,194 


The following lighthouses exist :— 


1. Acre. (15th June, 1864.) 
On the ramparts of the town. 
Latitude 32° 54’ North—Longitude 35° 08’ East. 
1 red fixed light. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . 154 metres. 
Range :—10 miles. 
2. Hatfa. (25th April, 1864.) 
On the old fort of the town. 
Latitude 32° 47' North—Longitude 35° 05’ East. 
1 red light with red flashes every 3 seconds. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . 17 metres. 
Range :—8 miles. 


3. Mount Carmel. (Built 20th July, 1869, rebuilt 28t) 
January, 1928.) 
On the terrace of the Monastery. 
Latitude 32° 49’ 55” North—Longitude 34° 58’ 01” East. 
1 white light with white flashes every 5 seconds. 
Range :—26 miles. 
4, Jaffa. (5th October, 1846.) 
South-east of the town about 90 metres from the sea. 
Latitude 32° 03’ North—Longitude 34° 44 East. 
Alternating red and white flashes every minute and tota 
eclipses. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . 28 metres. 
Range :—White flashes 18 miles. 
Red flashes 14 miles. 


16. The four ports of Palestine are Jaffa, Haifa, Acre, an 
Gaza. The Customs revenue at each of these ports for the fiv 
years 1926-1930 is shown hereunder, with the amount of Por 


171 


Dues and the number and tonnage of sailing vessels and steamers 


entered inward from foreign ports :— 


AS 


1926. 
Inport Duty... ... £P. 427,215 
| Pot Dues ... £P. 3,302 
\amber of Sailing 746 
| Vessels. 
Tonnage tis. ei 18,619 
Number of Steamers 489 
_lonnage 1,021,350 
Lira: 
Inport Duty ... £P. 277,947 
Port Dues =... ... £P. 2,210 
‘amber of Sailing 872 
Vessels. 
Tonnage sn. er 12,246 
‘umber of Steamers 221 
Tnmage ... .... ~—-568,390 
loz: 
Inport Duty ... £P. 4,229 
Fat Dues www we EP. 21 
Number of Sailing 303 
Vessels, 
Tompage a” 2,638 
\omber of Steamers 2 
Tomage 800 
liza : 
inport Duty ... £P. 12,425 
tort Dues... .. £P. 4 
Somber of Sailing 18 
' Vessels, 
Tonnage ga 591 
Number of Steamers — 
Imnage og ane 


1927. 
390,846 
3,159 
637 


16,821 
459 
957,715 


250,997 
2,032 
807 


13,645 
238 
612,827 


1928. 
487,656 
3,162 
575 


13,755 
450 
1,098,220 


255,385 
2,168 
676 


11,461 
283 
682,639 


3,130 


15,103 
18 
61 


18,642 
1,147,262 


288,052 
2,479 


1 
955 


16,750 
765,789 


365 
21 
256 


1,337 
17,279 


li, Economte Conditions.—The flow into Palestine of foreign 
‘apital for various institutions and for investment diminished con- 
aderably during the year, largely on account of the financial crisis 


in the United States. 


18. The abnormal decline in values of cereals throughout the 
rorld aggravated the difficulties of Palestine, for there was no 


neans of disposing profitably of the plentiful local harvest. 


5 ,000 


‘ons of barley were, however, shipped from Gaza to the United 
Kingdom, and 11,000 tons to Tripoli, at an average price of £3 a 
‘n, which was barely profitable. 


_l. Liquid capital became scarce and credits were restricted. 
several merchants, some of whom had already been embarrassed 
Y losses incurred in the previous orange season, were declared 
‘ankrupt or came to arrangements with their creditors to pay 20 
Per cent. to 35 per cent. of their debts in instalments extending 


‘ver @ period of years. 


he amount involved in these failures ig estimated at £P.500,000. 


172 


20. Money lenders demanded usurious rates of interest, and 
Banks were constrained to reduce their rate of interest on deposits 
to about 14 per cent. owing to the difficulty of finding sound enter- 
prises in which to invest their funds. The difficulty in obtaining 
credit locally was reflected in the number of bills protested from 
Syria, where some local merchants secured advances at high rates 
of interest. 

21. Prompt steps were taken by the Government to remedy the 
situation. The importation of wheat, flour, semolina, and olive 
oil was controlled by licences. The Import Duty on wheat and 
flour was increased by 50 per cent.; and the duty on sesame seed 
reimposed. The local market for these commodities was thus . 
sustained. | 


22. Local flour is now consumed in larger quantities, although 
the prices of local wheat and native bread are unchanged. 
Prices for unrefined olive oil improved and local stocks were sold. 


23. On account of the financial depression in Europe and 
America, the tourist traffic of 1930 showed a slight falling-off. 
There were 13,000 tourists in all, comprising 28 steamship cruises - 
and. 22 conducted parties. 


24. Building Acttoity.—Building was active in Jerusalem, Tel-— 
Aviv, and Haifa. In Jerusalem, new shopping centres have come 
into existence outside the Old City; a large modern hotel was 
opened to visitors, and new premises for the two principal banks 
are under construction. 


25. Air and Steamship Navigation.—Imperial Airways established 
a trial service by seaplane between Alexandria, Haifa, and > 
Famagusta. | 

26. Direct steamship connection with Italy via Cyprus now exists 
in the sailings of the Lloyd Triestino Company; and the Swedish 
Orient Company runs boats between Gdynia and Jaffa. 


27. Industry.—There was a slight increase in the export of 
manufactured articles. It was to be expected that the fall in 
world prices would affect adversely Palestine industry, and, indeed, 
four small establishments were compelled to close down. On the 
other hand, the position of several factories improved and addi- 
tional undertakings for the manufacture of mineral water, floor 
tiles, knitted goods, and mirrors were started. 


28. The Jewish Manufacturers’ Association sent a mission to 
South Africa, which was successful in establishing several agencies 
for Palestine wares and in booking substantial orders. 


29. The Orange Trade.—In 1930, oranges were exported from 
Haifa for the first time on a large scale: the facilities for speedy 
handling of the fruit from truck to steamer ensure that it is shipped 
in good condition. During the 1929-30 season 357,436 cases were 
shipped from this port. 


173 


The first direct shipments of the 1930-31 season from Jaffa and 
Haifa were made in November from 12s. to 16s. the case. 


30. The efforts to open up new markets in Europe are meeting 
with success. Germany in particular is becoming an important 
customer, and imports to Norway and Sweden are increasing. 


31. Thanks to the facilities accorded by the Italian Government 
for the transit of oranges via Trieste and Genoa, the orange trade 
with Central Europe is developing satisfactorily. 


32. The Egyptian market for windfall fruit was, however, lost 
by an increase in the Import Duty from £P.1.700 mils to £P.12.000 
mils a ton. To counterbalance this, expansion of business has 
permitted the local factory to make increased use of the surplus 
crop for the extraction of fruit juices; and there is a considerable 
increase in the export of grape fruit at good prices. 


33. There was some further planting of groves during the year, 
and the area of citrus cultivation now extends as far south as Gaza. 


34. The Oil and Soap Industry.—It was a difficult year for olive 
growers and for the associated manufactures owing to over- 
production in Palestine and elsewhere. Prices for olive oil fell to 
30 mils a kilogram and stocks were stagnant. A crisis was averted 
by placing an embargo on the importation of unrefined olive oil 
except under licence. Soap-boilers were thus induced to purchase 
their requirements locally, and by December the average price of 
oil had risen to 40 mils per kilogram. 


35. 6,000 tons of laundry soap were exported, compared with 
5,103 tons in the previous year; but the price of soap in Palestine 
dropped to £P.33.200 mils per ton, as against £P.43.500 in 1929. 


36. Cement Industry.—12,350 tons of cement were exported, 
mostly to Syria and Cyprus, compared with 7,639 tons in the 
previous year: the price in Palestine was reduced from £P.2.700 
to £P.2.500 per ton. 


37. Cost of Living.—The cost of living, calculated on the basis 
of retail price movements, fell by 8 per cent. as compared with 
1929; and the index number of wholesale prices fell by 15.4 per 
cent. 

ToTaL IMPoRTS AND E:XPORTs. 
Comparative Table 1927, 1928, 1929 and 1930. 


IMPORTS. 
1927. 1928. 1929. 1980. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Imports for consumption 6,184,454 6,770,818 7,166,593 6,985,258 
Imports in Transit is 131,029 177,447 265,501 155,385 
Imports of Specie ds 262,659 17,949 12,310 3,229 














Total £P.6,578,142 £P.6,966,214 £P.7,444,404 £P.7,143,872 














174 





EXPORTS. 
1927, 1928. 1929. 1930. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Exports of Palestine Pro- 1,899,759 1,487,207 1,554,262 1,896,095 
duce. 
Exports in Transit 131,029 177,447 265,501 155,385 
Exports of Specie aoe 3,430 22,254 212,667 1,654 
Re-Exports of Foreign 246,592 177,892 197,671 182,222 
Goods. 
Total £P.2,280,810 £P.1,864,800 £P.2,230,101 £P.2,235,356 
IMPORTS AND EXXPORTS By CLASSES. 
Comparative Table 1927, 1928, 1929 and 1930. 
IMPORTS. 
1927. 1928. 1929. 1980. 
£P. £P. £P. SP. 
Food, Drink and 1,631,982 1,800,986 1,911,158 1,393,009 
Tobacco. 
Raw Materials and 568 424 643,683 720,554 597,574 
Articles mainly 
unmanufactured. 
Articles wholly or 3,439,875 3,662,851 3,715,647 4,067,135 
mainly manu- 
factured. 
Miscellaneous and 544,173 663,298 819,234 927,540 
Unclassified. 
Total ne ... £P.6,184,454 6,770,818 7,166,593 6,985,258 
EXPORTS. 
1927. 1928. 1929. 1980. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Food, Drink and Tobacco 1,494,093 1,050,989 1,101,529 1,476,070 
Raw Materials and Articles 63,629 74,590 93,841 51,992 
mainly unmanufactured. 
Articles wholly or mainly 337,108 354,493 353,789 365,350 
manufactured. 
Miscellaneous and _ un- 4,929 7,135 5,103 2,683 
classified. 
1,487,207 1,554,262 1,896,095 


Total £P.1,899,759 





Note:—The decrease in 1930 under Food, Drink, and Tobacco is due to the 
fall in the prices of all foodstuffs throughout the world. 


175 


PRINCIPAL ARTICLES OF EXPORTS. 


Comparative Table 1929 and 1930. 





Articles. Unit. 1929. 1930. 
Quantity. Value. Quantity. Value. 
£P. £P. 
Barley Tons 3,656 26,552 17,847 565,749 
Durrah oe 11,642 90,856 26,806 151,716 
Sesame ... roe 55 3,539 72,325 2,718 36,222 
Oranges in cases Cases. 1,722,078 516,621 2,857,041 857,223 
Watermelons Tons 49,151 101,736 35,616 83,625 
Almonds ... : ee 644 22,933 878 27,670 
Olive oil, edible ... % 164 7,736 520 = 19,394 
Wine os Litres. 1,028,018 27,304 1,074,807 31,411 
Wool, raw ised Tons 289 20,927 81 4,909 
Hides and Skins, raw and Sy 700 47,954 427 28,151 
dried. 
Cement... a 7,639 19,026 12,351 28,702 
Stockings Dozens 47,492 18,919 48,161 19,722 
Laundry Soap Tons 5,103 214,135 5,945 204,876 
Mother of Pearl manufac- — — 12,869 — 11,513 
tures. 
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS BY STATIONS. 
Comparative Table 1929 and 1930. 
Imports. Exports. 
1929. 1930. Percent- 1929. 1930. Percent- 
£P. £P. age 1930 £P. £P. age 1930. 
3,591,942 | 3,585,005 51-34 877,285 | 1,098,256 57-92 
2,461,833 | 2,410,470 34°51 412,812 480,763 25-36 
485,079 415,989 5-96 28,037 33,772 1-78 
322,019 300,504 4-30 12,582 6,472 0-34 
_ 74,281 44,603 0-64 132,028 139,670 7°37 
73,762 70,193 1-00 25,314 87,599 4°62 
23,496 18,398 0-26 44,761 36,501 1-92 
46,417 27,813 0-40 952 728 0-04 
29,566 54,649 0-78 13,545 3,568 0-19 
46,960 48,370 0-69 — 5 — 
6,420 4,180 0-06 — — = 
4,816 4,184 0-06 6,946 8,761 0-46 
2 at ues ce ee oe 
Total . 7,166,593 | 6,985,258 100-00 | 1,554,262 | 1,896,005 100-00 








176 


ImPorTs AND Exports By COUNTRIES. 


CoMPARATIVE TABLE 1929 anp 1930. 


Countries consigned from. 


United Kingdom 
British Possessions 
Austria ... 
Belgium 
Bulgaria ‘ 
Czechoslovakia ... 
Egypt ... 
France ... 
Germany 
Holland ... 
Hungary 

Italy ... 
Poland ... 
Roumania 
Russia ... 
Sweden ... 
Switzerland 


yria a. nee oe 
United States of America 
Other Countries 


Total 


Countries of destination. 


United Kingdom 
British Possessions 
Belgium 
Denmark 

Egypt ... 
France ... 
Germany 
Holland ... 
Italy ... 
Poland ... 
Roumania 
Syria... bes 
Tripoli ... te 


United States of Renericn be 


Other Countries 
Total ... 


Imports. 
1929. 


£P. 
1,011,082 
122,376 
122,381 
179,561 
67,843 
139,707 
1,781,620 
465,148 
743,653 
83,136 
18,795 
284,388 
28,105 
189,275 
82,886 
42,017 
64,080 
1,055,611 
395,933 
288,996 


.. £P.7,166,593 


.. £P.1,554,262 


1930. 


£P. 
1,163,619 
119,462 
129,625 
194,625 
74,416 
177,275 
1,591,355 
288,348 
762,073 
78,407 
47,886 
247,789 
66,277 
247,221 
75,034 
51,413 
77,736 
1,035,411 
358,528 
198,758 


£P.6,985,258 


£P.1,896,095 


RASCH SORS 


BS] wakroreowor Satur 
Oo} Se8hese 


ro) 


37-07 


Sl wren ocowsusonw 
S| RYPASSZPOeUr Se Ssay 


ro 


177 


Principat ARTICLES OF IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION. 


CoMPARATIVE TABLE 1929 axp 1930. 


Articles. 


Rice, decorticated and 
bleached. 

Sesame 

Wheat... 

Wheat Flour __... 

Cattle for slaughtering .. 

Fish in brine, dry, aalted, 
fresh, and tinned. 


Wood, cod, prepared for orange 


Wood ‘and Timber for 
‘building. 

Olive Oil, unrefined Set 

Iron Bars, Angles, and 
Rods 


Iron Tubes, Pipes, and 
fittings thereof. 


Cotton piece goods, grey, 


bleached, dyed, and 
printed. 
Woollen Tissues, wholly 
of wool and mixed. 
Silk Tissues, wholly of 
silk and mixed. 

Outergarments and Un- 
dergarments. 

Boots and Shoes. of 
leather. 

Kerosene in tins of 4 
gallons. 

Kerosene in bulk 

Benzine in tins of “4 
gallons. 

Benzine in other con- 
tainers and in bulk. 
Motor Cars ane or 
Rubber Tyres and Tubes 
Fertilizers oe 
Government Stores 
Military Stores ... 


Oni. 


Litres. 


Tins. 


Litres. 


No. 
Tons. 


1929. 


Quantity. 


9,781 
3,470 
12,949 
27,543 
110,071 
1,791 
711 
9,848 
6,548 
33,846 
29,349 
39,844 


2,542 
11,727 


6,062 
1,822 


134 
122 


. 527,287 


28,737,084 
755,480 


152,024 
823 
219 

6,911 


Value. 
£P.- 
152,832 


80,777 
152,528 
390,253 
137,531 

68,474 


63,336 
142,867 
48,940 
61,711 
143,433 
141,245 


130,388 
88,676 


99,519 
422,940 


126,147 
143,545 
114,007 
71,261 
60,939 


140,799 
198,115 


3,514 


150,564 
47,743 
59,396 

338,226 

199,367 


1930. 


Quantity. 


9,270 
22 
2,476 
13,886 
103,280 
1,669 
764 
10,670 
7,431 
46,179 
26,161 
49,811 


875 
10,848 


4,637 
2,504 


176 
196 


177,793 


34,455,406 
876,150 


400,696 
848 
230 

6,120 


Value. 
£P. 
127,941 


378 
21,350 
178,329 
193,187 
64,879 


43,427 
121,504 
43,694 
70,129 
128,246 
167,564 


29,749 
72,071 


91,169 
478,545 


150,135 
182,144 
111,060 
89,634 
18,737 


166,559 
222,107 


5,201 


163,485 
47,994 
52,227 

395,397 

194,253 


178 


te fl 


ERS LOL'T | Stor | oso‘eeo'T | @e6a't | EzP‘LT 26L O10‘OT LI6 091‘069‘T | 28 OFO'LLO'T | 389 "** [BZOT, 


SSS ee | es | | ES | | a | | | TS | 


SIT ers 808 8EE‘ors 96L LLG‘8 00F 08s‘L 6hP 1¥O‘FE8 SOF 8oF‘SE8 L¥E ""* palseiy 
99F F908 LO8 ZIL‘OFS £08 98'S G6€ O&I‘8 SOF 619°ecs SIP o8S‘8E8 SEE " peleyay 











“eUOT, =| “8fa889 A "SUoT, =| “8728804 “euoy, =| “8yaese 4 "UOT, | “872889 A "suo Ty, =| “87a8ea A UOT, | S1eee A 


SS ES | Heer | nay et eS | NAD fee | eg 


—_—_———_————————— | ee es ee | Sr Se |S EE | a A | TS 


‘OS6T PUP 6Z6I 
ssvoh oy sof auysaog fo xpos], buysnon ay us psn pun posaqua sposva4 Buspng pun wag fo abowuo pup soqunyy 
‘Hava, ONLLSVOD 


9F0'EL8'E | 82s‘ | IZe‘oL6E’e | GSEE‘e | 81608 109‘€ | OFS‘I8 | 6¢8°E | 8ZI°Z6L‘E | LZ9°T | SLPE68‘E | OLFT | °° [OL 
ZCO°LEG‘T | 129°C | SEFBGEI | ZL9°S | FOF‘OF LOST | 626‘0F LE6‘T | 88S°968°T | FI8 6098961 | SEL “* peree[y 
F66'SEG‘T | L69‘S | ES8'SLE'T | €99°S | FOF ‘OF F6L‘T | LIG‘OF Cc6'T | OFS*SES'T | E18 996°FE6'T | TFL “* perezUy 


et | | NE | eS | | Ancestry | mere fa | RS | ee | I | A 


pc ea prt || eee a | a | | Ns | er | aT | pt = fp NOSES eS 


Ofer 6261 0€6l 6c61 Of61 6261 
1701 buspng wmnay 
“OE6T PY 6Z6T 
savak oy} sof suysepog fo opps, ubsasog oy] Us posveto pun pasoqua szassaA buspog pun wag fo abouuo,y, pup saqunyy 
‘HaVa], NOIMUOT 


“Suyddiqg 


179 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


1. The business of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs 
during 1930 showed an appreciable increase on that for the previous 
year. Revenue amounted to £P.219,783* compared with 
£P.202,549 in 1929, a difference largely in respect of sale of stamps . 
and telephones. The increase of £P.16,629 in telephone receipts 
was not, however, entirely due to increase of business, but was, to 
some extent, attributable to the fact that many subscribers in 1929 
availed themselves of the moratorium which followed the riots and 
deferred payment until early in 1930. 


2. Telegraph revenue fell off slightly, but the revenue from this 
source in the previous year was abnormal on account of the 
disturbances. 


3. The Daily Letter Telegram and Night Letter Telegram 
services were considerably extended in 1930. 


4. Expenditure amounted to £P.146,830*, as compared with 
£P.140,058 in 1929. The increase was due mainly to increased 
charges for the conveyance of mails outside Palestine. 


5. The excess of revenue over ordinary expenditure was 
£P.72,953 and, if the value of free services rendered to or by other 
Departments be included, the surplus was £P.80,239, the largest 
yet recorded. 


6. Posts.—The letter service with Trans-Jordan, which, owing 
to the limited train service, formerly functioned thrice weekly, was 
replaced by a daily (Sundays excepted) motor service via Jericho, 
which takes only five hours, compared with ten hours by rail. 


7. The London-India Air Mail, which was performed with im- 
proved regularity under the summer time-table, again became un- 
satisfactory in respect of the London to Gaza stage after the in- 
troduction of the winter time-table, under which the westbound 
itinerary from Gaza to Germany and the United Kingdom offered 
practically no advantage over the land and sea route via Egypt and 
Italy. The Air Mail despatches for those countries were therefore 
suspended. 


8. The policy of affording a delivery and collection in rural areas 
was continued, and this benefit was extended to 33 additional 
villages during the year. 


9. The ‘‘ Small Packet ’’ service, introduced as a result of the 
International Postal Convention of 1929, has proved popular. 


10. The letter postage to the United Kingdom, which was in- 
creased from 7 mils to 18 mils on the 1st March, 1929, was reduced 
to the former rate on the 1st April, 1930. 

* Certain discrepancies between these figures and the corresponding figures 
in Section XXI of the Report are due to transactions adjustable by the 
Department. 


180 


11. The Money Order Service with the States of the Levant under 
French Mandate, which was suspended in 1924, was re-established. 


12. An Agreement was entered into with the Lloyd Triestino 
Steamship Company for the conveyance of mails by steamers of 
the accelerated Adriatic-Cyprus-Palestine Line sailing from Haifa 
each week, and Palestine mails formerly routed via Egypt were 
diverted to this service at the end of the year. The new route, 
besides securing appreciable economy in transit charges, affords a 
later hour of posting in the principal towns for correspondence 
addressed to the greater part of Europe, Africa, and the American 
Continent. It has also been adopted by a number of other Postal 
Adruinistrations for the conveyance of their mails to Palestine. 


13. 123,713 items of undelivered correspondence were dealt with, 
of which 76,823 were posted in Palestine, and the rest abroad. 
66,436 packets were returned to senders and 24,361 to the Adminis- 
tration of origin for disposal. 32,916 letters remained in Palestine 
undelivered and unreturnable. The value of articles found in un- 
delivered letters was £P.592, of which £P.350 was restored to 
the senders. 


14. Telegraphs.—It is not yet practicable to overcome the tech- 
nical and administrative difficulty in the way of introducing a 
Morse Code for Hebrew and training staff in the use of it; senders 
are therefore still required to transcribe into Latin characters tele- 
grams for despatch in Hebrew. 


15. Telephones.—There was a continued demand for telephone 
installations, especially in outlying Jewish settlements. The net 
Increase in exchange lines was 13 per cent. and in instruments 
9 per cent. 

Both local and trunk lines continued to be heavily used. 


16. The rental charge for an Exchange line not exceeding 1 kilo- 
metre in length (measured radially) in exchange areas outside Haifa, 
Jaffa, and Jerusalem has been reduced from £P.10 to £P.8 per 
annum; but the allowance of unlimited free local calls under the 
former rental charge has been replaced by an allowance of 2,000, 
additional calls to cost 4 mils each. 


17. The radial distance allowed for the minimum rental at Haifa, 
Jaffa, and Jerusalem was increased from 14 to 2 kilometres. 


18. In the smaller Exchange areas the development necessitated 
the installation of switchboards of larger capacity in 19 cases. 


19. Coin-collecting boxes are increasingly used at Public Call 
Offices. 


20. Engineering.—Additional trunk lines were constructed during 
the year from Jerusalem to ey Bridge and Ramallah, from 
Jaffa to Petach-Tikvah, to Bnei Brak and Kfar Saba, from Nablus 


181 


through Jiftlik to Jisr el Damieh, from Haifa to Benyamina, and 
from Benyamina to Lydda. 


21. In continuation of the policy of dispensing with the use of 
open lines in town areas, considerable progress was made in the 
laying of underground cables in Haifa, Jaffa, and Jerusalem. 


22. General.—The health of the staff showed a marked deteriora- 
tion, sick absences averaging 7.59 days for males and 17.80 days 
for females, compared with 6.48 days and 11.44 days respectively 
last. year. 


93. Notwithstanding the fact that a broadcasting service has not 
yet been established either in Palestine or Egypt, there has been 
a noticeable increase in the number of applications for wireless re- 
ceiving licences. During the year 200 new receiving licences and 
18 new dealers’ licences were issued. 


24. The Post Office Ordinance, which replaces all Ottoman legis- 
lation with regard to posts, telegraphs, and telephones in Palestine, 
was enacted in August. 


TRAFFIC STATISTICS. 


Increase or 
1929. 1930. Decrease. 
Per cent. 

Letters ee ‘i ioe es oat 11,625,742 11,763,770 + 1 
Post Cards... - a sie ane 942,259 932,080 — 1] 
Printed Matter and Samples wae eo sas 5,750,000 6,194,900 + 8 
Parcels, Inland sis a a sek 33,517 36,800 +10 
Parcels, Foreign, Despatched oe - sale 32,028 33,990 + 6 
Parcels, Foreign, Received . ae = 86,455 93.197 + 8 
Cash on Delivery Parcels reer 1.45] 115 ) 
Cash on Delivery Parcels Received : 1,424); 
Telegrams én er 336,902 264,378 —22 
Telephone Subscribers’ ‘Exchange L Lines an wins 2,496 2,821 +413 
Telephones (Stations) avs ee ae 3,977 4,336 + 9 
Telephone Local Calls ee mer is on 11,477,910 13,199,600 +15 
Telephone Trunk Calls soe ee oe 564,630 632,385 +12 
Telegraph and Telephone Local Lines... Km. 10,433 13,807 +32 
Telegraph and Telephone Trunk Lines ... Km. 12,822 13,152 + 3 


Money OrpER AND PosTAL ORDER STATISTICS. 


Increases or 


1929. 1930. Decreases. 
Per cent. 
Postal Orders issued (Palestine)— 
Number ae ae ee 92,627 90,946 — 2 
Value ... ne aS ..» £P.73,724  £P.71,207 — 3 
Postal Orders issued sa sala a 
Number oe as 14,889 20,657 +39 


Value .. sei aoe -- £P.9,615 £P.13,114 +36 


182 


Increase or 
1929. 1930. Decrease. 
Per cent. 

Postal Orders paid eas a 
; Number 2, : - 92,293 90,882 — 2 

Value .. . £P.73,486 £P.21,334 — 3 
Postal Orders paid ral il 

Number “a 5,609 7,038 +28 

Value .. ; £P.3,760 £P.4,722 -+ 26 
Postal Orders paid eae 

Number — vie 5,255 5,471 + 4 

Value .. : £P.4,748 £P.4,935 + 4 
Money Orders, Inland (issued)— 

Number sae : su 13,624 13,486 — 1 

Value .. sian ... £P.171,847 £P.165,950 3 
Money Orders, Foreign ae ae 

Number ae 1,454 2,497 +72 

Value .. wha £P.8,885  £P.12,583 +42 
Money Orders, reas (paid)— 

Number ua ae fe 19,353 19,337 — 

Value ... . £P.64,349  £P.61,492 — 4 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS, AND FISHERIES. 


1. The resources of the Department of Agriculture were mobilized 
throughout the first six months of the year to repel a serious locust 
invasion in Southern Palestine. The campaign, which was com- 
pletely successful, entailed an expenditure of £P.27,000 on labour, 
special police, equipment, and materials. 


2. A plague of field mice in Galilee assumed alarming proportions 
during the autumn. 500,000 dunums of infested land were inten- 
sively treated with poisoned grain with satisfactory results, but 
not before considerable damage had been done to standing crops. 
The Executive of the Jewish Agency defrayed the cost of labour and 
supervision on Jewish lands. 


3. Mention has been made in paragraph 49 of the Introductory 
Section to the Report of the establishment of a General Agricultural 
Council, and the working of its Sub-Committees. 


4. The buildings of the Government Kadoorie Agricultural School 
for Arabs consist of school premises, farm, Dutch barn, dairy, and 
dipping tank. Forty students and eighteen teachers from village 
schools are in residence. 


5. Working plans for the Jewish School at Mount Tabor have 
been completed and construction is to be taken in hand at an early 
date. Some road communications have been provided and other 
preliminary work has been done on the land. An ample supply of 
water has been found on the site by deep boring. 


183 


6. Agricultural Service.—Ample and well-distributed rainfall at 
the end of 1929 was unfortunately followed by a very dry March. 
Yyinter crops suffered severely in the north from drought, owing to 
abnormal heat and easterly winds. Barley and wheat developed 
prematurely, and the rains of early April could not repair the 
damage. letter results were obtained, however, in the south 
where the crops were approaching maturity at the onset of the 
drop. ‘The grain market collapsed im consequence, and sales of 
barley at £P.2 a ton were recorded at Annam and Gaza. Reference 
is made elsewhere in this Report to the steps taken by the Govern- 
ment to alleviate the resultant distress of the agricultural popula- 
tion and to restore the local market for agricultural produce. 
Summer crops were good again in the south but poor in the north, 
failing almost completely in the Tiberias and Baisan districts. 
The water melon crop was above the average but exporters were 
seriously affected by the new Egyptian tariff, which is discussed 
in the Introductory Section and in Section XXIII of this Report. 


7. The Agricultural Field Service organized demonstration plots 
in eighteen selected villages. This undertaking covered crop rota- 
tions, green manuring, the use of commercial fertilizers, seed-plots, 
wheat and barley breeding, and fruit tree nurseries. Work at the 
Acre and Baisan agricultural stations included comparative field 
experiments, trial of new forage crops and grasses, seed selection, 
and plant-breeding. There is a marked increase in the demand 
for selected seed from the stations. 


8. Veterinary Service.—The country was free from cattle plague, 
bovine contagious pleuro-pneumonia, and haemorrhagic septicaemia 
during 1930. 


9. In November, 1929, foot-and-mouth disease had assumed 
epidemic proportions in Syria and the Lebanon. By the following 
April, despite precautionary measures, the disease penetrated to 
several villages on the northern frontier. Movement of cattle 
within the country was consequently prohibited ; stock markets were 
closed and the slaughter of cattle in areas of local authorities was 
suspended. Strict quarantine measures were taken to prevent ex- 
tension from infected to non-infected areas. There were 63 out- 
breaks, all, with two exceptions, in the Northern District. 
15,128 head of cattle were involved. Emergency inoculation was 
extensively practised and by the end of August the disease had 
been suppressed and all restrictions could be withdrawn. 


10. It is estimated that approximately 80 per cent. of local dairy 
herds are infected with contagious bovine abortion. The percentage 
of infection in herds which have been tested ranges from 15 per 
cent. to 20 per cent. The segregation method of contro] has been 
adopted by five settlements and will be progressively extended. 
The practicability has been successfully demonstrated of eradicating 
Bang’s Bacillus disease economically from infected herds. 


184 


11. Forty-eight outbreaks of anthrax, causing 141 deaths, were 
controlled by vaccination of 5,369 in-contact animals. 2,177 cattle 
located in black-quarter areas were vaccinated. ‘Twelve cases of 
epizootic lymphangitis were reported and destroyed. There were 
two outbreaks of sheep-and-goat pox. Ephemeral fever was ob- 
served : it occurred during the autumn, ran a mild course and, 
save for a few dairy cows, caused no losses. 


12. Forty-five cases of rabies in animals, two of which were 
wolves, were established by laboratory test. 392 animals which 
had bitten persons or other animals were placed under observation 
for ten days; 24 developed symptoms of the disease and died. 
18,419 dogs and 2,032 cats and other animals were destroyed by 
various authorities. 


13. The country is free from fowl plague, but endemic diseases 
continue to hinder the development of poultry-farming and cause 
heavy losses. There were twenty-six outbreaks of fowl pox, seven 
of fowl typhoid, and two of fowl cholera. 


14. 196,515 animals, of which 120,789 were sheep and 52,652 
goats, were examined at frontier quarantine stations. 41,094 head 
of stock, imported from overseas through the Haifa quarantine 
station, were inoculated with anti-anthrax serum. An inspection 
of all consignments of imported and exported hides and skins was 
conducted. 


15. In connection with the World Agricultural Census, a census 
of livestock was taken. The figures obtained were: 146,397 cattle, 
252,773 sheep, 440,132 goats, 5,247 buffaloes, 13,825 horses, 
5,304 mules, 76,858 donkeys, 25,341 camels, and 1,161,576 
head of poultry. It is believed, however, that some forty thousand 
head of cattle and half a million head of poultry were not returned 
by owners who suspected the census to be a preliminary to the 
imposition of fresh taxation. ' 


16. 167 veterino-legal cases, mostly of arsenical poisoning and 
malicious wounding of cattle, were dealt with. 


17. The control of cantagious animal diseases rendered necessary 
3,569 laboratory examinations of various kinds. Testing of cattle 
prior to purchase is more generally adopted, and routine agglutina- 
tion tests of the blood of cattle suspected of contagious bovine 
abortion, have been much more numerous. The B. abortivo- 
equinus and the Vibrio foetus were isolated, following abortion in 
mares and cows respectively. | 


18. Further pedigree South Devon cattle were imported to the 
Government Stock Farm from England, and local stockowners 
were assisted with the loan of young cross-bred Devon bulls. Im- 
proved rams and goats were also distributed. Horse and mule 
breeding was, however, at a standstill in 1930 owing to the pre- 
valence of dourine. The poultry and beekeeping branch of the 


185 


Farm continues to expand satisfactorily, and turkey, duck, and 
rabbit sections have been added. The Poultry and Beekeeping 
Instructor attended the World’s Poultry Congress and the Inter- 
national Beekeeping Conference in London. 


19. Forest Service.—The Forest Service raised 1,293,698 plants 
in its fourteen nurseries, and 100,000 plants were purchased from 
Girls’ Groups operating under the auspices of the General Federa- 
tion of Jewish Labour. 1,444,931 plants were used in afforesta- 
tion schemes departmentaily : 103,441 were distributed gratis for 
amehity purposes, and 13,051 were sold. Olives planted by the 
public numbered 186,588, of which 19,687 were extracted from 
forest reserves under licence. Departmental plantations have made 
favourable development. Approximately half a million timber and 
shade trees were planted by private agency. 337 persons were 
convicted for forest contraventions. 


20. Four forest reserves embracing 1,284 dunums were pro- 
claimed, bringing the total number to 202 and the total area to 
679,556 dunums. 


21. Horticultural Service.—A Horticultural Service was formed 
at the beginning of the year to deal with the problems of fruit- 
growing in all its phases. The Service assumed responsibility for 
departmental horticultural stations at Jerusalem, Jericho, and 
Baisan and organized co-operative experiments in private planta- 
tions and demonstrations of improved orchard and vineyard practice. 
Experimental shipments of pomegranates and apricots to prospective 
markets in the United Kingdom and Egypt respectively were 
arranged. 

The Regulations andes the Fruit Export Ordinance, 1927, have 
been more rigidly enforced. 


22. Irrigation Service.—The reconstruction of the irrigation 
system at Jericho with a view to ensuring the better use of the 
water available is in hand; and similar work will shortly be under- 
taken at Wadi Fara’a and Baisan. Experiments have been 
organized at various centres to determine the optimum duty of 
water in irrigation practice. 


23. Entomological Service.—Fumigation of citrus groves con- 
tinued in the Northern and Southern Districts and 51,508 trees 
were treated. 652 trucks of oranges in export to Egypt were 
fumigated at Kantara; 77 consignments of plants were rejected 
on importation and either destroyed or returned to their place of 
origin. 

24. Soil Analysis.—The Analytical Service carried out rock- 
phosphate and sulphur experiments in field and laboratory, with 
a view to increasing the local supply of fertilizers. A soil-survey 
of the Jordan Valley was made in connection with Sir John Hope 
Simpson’s investigations. 


186 


25. Fisheries Service.—The fishing industry derived during the 
year a net income of £P.90,000 representing the first price of fish 
taken in local waters. A steady improvement is shown in methods 
of capture and marketing, and there are indications that agricultural 
depression is leading cultivators to turn their attention to fishing. 
Fish caught at the Gulf of Aqaba is transported by road and train 
to the markets at Jerusalem and Jaffa. 


26. Marketing.—A committee on marketing was set up in June 
with official and unofficial membership and included in its activities 
questions of economics and farm accounts. The possibilities of 
finding markets for grapes in Poland, bananas in Cyprus, grape- 
juice and olive oil in the United Kingdom, fruits and vegetables 
in Rumania, and of re-establishing trade in agricultural produce 
with Russia, are being explored 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS, GEOLOGY, AND MINING. 


1. The total expenditure by the Department of Public Works 
was £P.494,410, compared with £P.360,100 in 1929. 


2. The architectural staff has been fully engaged on the super- 
vision of buildings under construction and on the preparation of 
plans of new buildings. 


3. Designs.—The preliminary design for the new General Post 
Office, Jerusalem, has been approved; and the preparation of plans 
for a Police Training School at Jerusalem put in hand. 


4. A preliminary design has been prepared for a standard Police 
Post. 

5. The detailed plans, specifications, and quantities of the 
Palestine Archeological Museum (Rockefeller Gift) have been com- 
pleted. The foundations of the building have been laid and a 
permanent wall of masonry now encloses the site. 


6. Major Works.—The residence for the High Commissioner, 
begun in May, 1929, will be ready for occupation in March, 1931. 


7. A new Headquarters Office for the Department of Surveys at 
Jaffa was built under contract for £P.9,055. A Boys’ School at 
Tiberias was also built under contract for £P.5,200. 


8. A new prison was constructed at Gaza on State Domain, and 
the Police Post at Khalsa, in the Northern District, practically 
completed. 

9. The Post Office at Jaffa, begun in August, 1929, was nearing 
completion at the end of the year. 


10. Nurses’ quarters were erected in the grounds of the Municipal 
Hospital, Gaza. 


187 


11. A further stage of the large Animal Quarantine Station, 
Haifa, begun in 1927, was put in hand. 

12. Further additions and major improvements were carried out 
at the British Police Camp, Jerusalem. 


13. Quarters were built for the telegraph linemen at the four 
railway stations of Ras el Ain, Artuf, Deir es Sheikh, and 
Kalkilieh, and work has commenced at two further stations. 


14. A beginning was made of providing additional accommodation 
for the Department of Customs at Ras el Nakura. 


15. At Auja el Hafir, on the southern frontier of Palestine, 
married quarters were put up for the Police. 


16. The first stage of providing road communications in the 
Haifa Oil Area, which includes the construction of a large ferro- 
concrete bridge over the railway, was nearly completed. 


17. Work continued on the Jaffa Port Improvement Scheme. 
A 7-ton electric crane was erected on the quay and the construction _ 
began, under contract, for £P.6,800, of a reinforced concrete build- 
ing on the site of the old Customs Shed, to provide accommodation 
for Port Offices, Disinfecting Station, Medical Examination, and 
Customs. 


18. Permanent camps were constructed at Baisan and at Jisr 
Mejamieh for detachments of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force ; 
the camp at Samakh was completely reconditioned, with provision 
of new stabling, water supply, drainage, and roadways; work was 
begun on the construction of temporary accommodation for the 
Force at Rosh Pinah; and searchlights were installed at Zerqa 
and Ma’an. 


19. ‘Maintenance services and minor works on Royal Air Force 
and Army buildings and hirings were carried out by the Depart- 
ment of Public Works as required. 


20. Roads.—The ferro-concrete length of the Petach-Tikvah-Kfar 
Saba section of the projected highway from Jaffa to Haifa was 
completed ; a reinforced concrete bridge, of 3 x 5.60 m. span, was 
erected over Wadi Iskar and the road south of Iskar and the Auja 
River has been completed. A steel girder bridge, of 100 feet span, 
was built over the Auja River; the approaches to the bridge are 
complete and the stretch from Jaffa to the bridge is now opened 
to traffic. 


21. Work has also advanced on the northern end of the highway. 
This end, on which a Jail Labour Company is employed, is exten- 
sively used by traffic from Haifa to the quarry at Athlit, wherefrom 
stone is extracted for the Haifa breakwater. 


22. Jail Labour was also employed on the construction of the 
Acre-Safad and Jenin-Megiddo-Hartieh roads. 


188 


23. The roads to Jewish colonies in the Northern District, begun 
in the winter of 1929, were completed, and communications are 
now assured for purposes of defence, in emergency. 


24. In the interests of public security the Acre-Safad track, 55 
kilometres long, was converted during the year into an all-weather 
road at a cost of about £P.12,000. The distance from Haifa to 
Safad by the new route is 71 kilometres, compared with 106 kilo- 
metres by the alternative route through Nazareth and Tiberias. 


25. The track from Baisan to Jericho along the Jordon Valley 
was repaired to make it passable in all weather, in the interests of 
public security. 


26. A road was built from Rosh Pinah to Merjayun on the 
Syrian frontier, linking with the road to Sidon. 


27. Motor Transport.—Motor transport continues to develop. 
There are regular bus services between the various quarters of the 
principal towns, and between towns and villages; and a service from 
Haifa to Beirut. 


28. The desert route to ‘Iraq is increasingly popular. The through 
journey from Haifa to Baghdad takes 30 hours. 


29. Many villagers use motor trucks for the distribution of agri- 
cultural produce to the local markets, with resulting economy of 
time and effort and improvement of prices. 

30. 850 motor cars were imported in 1930. 

31. A census of traffic taken in October on all main and municipal 
arterial roads revealed that its volume had doubled since the previous 
census in 1926. 

32. 50 persons were killed in road accidents during the year. 


33. Water Supply, Irrigation, and Drainage.—The installation 
was put in hand of an hydraulic ram to supply water from a spring 
to the camp of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force at Zerqa. 


34. Improvements are being made to the head works of the Ain 
Sultan spring at Jericho to obtain a better irrigation scheme. 


35. The water supply of Kalkilieh was improved, at a cost, borne 
by the Local Council, of about £P.1,200. 


36. Plant bas been ordered for deep well-borings and for tests of 
the strata in localities where the existing water supply is inadequate, 
with a view to discovering sources of increased supplies. 


37. Tunnelling is being attempted at the Ain Saade source near 
Haifa, where there is a possibility of large quantities of suitable 
water being found. 


38. Wells continue to be sunk successfully by private enterprise 
on the coastal plain. 


39. Towards the end of the year further work was started on 
the drainage of swampy land at the mouth of the Kishon River. 


189 


40. Plant.—Supplementary road and building plant was acquired 
during the year, including eight new road rollers, each costing 
£P.1,000. 

41. Weigh-bridges are in course of erection at Jerusalem and 
Haifa to check the weights carried by motor vehicles in accordance 
with the Road Transport Ordinance, 1929. 


42. Quarries.—78,000 units of stone from the Government Quarry 
near Jerusalem were supplied for the construction of the residence 
of the High Commissioner and the Palestine Archaeological 
Museum. 


43. The possibility was tested of using the coloured marble de- 
posits east of Bethlehem. A site was purchased, various strata were 
examined and several samples cut and polished. 


44, Miscellaneous.—The power stations of the Palestine Electric 
Corporation and Jaffa Electric Company at Jaffa, Haifa, and 
Tiberias continue to be operated satisfactorily. 


45. The power station of the Jerusalem Electric and Public Ser- 
vice Corporation has also been operated satisfactorily and many ex- 
tensions have been made. The Company supplied to 2,800 con- 
sumers at the end of the year; the prices of current are 50 mils per 
Kwh. for light and 25 mils for power, but special rates are allowed 
for large consumers of power and for agricultural purposes. 


46. 45 steam boilers and 3 prime movers were licensed under the 
Steam Boilers Ordinance, 1927. 


47. Regulations for the storage of petroleum and inflammable 
products were published in May. 


GEOLOGY. 


48. Examination of a portion of South Palestine confirmed the 
presence of granite and metamorphic rocks from near Jebel Ghudian 
southwards to the Sinai Frontier. Everywhere, these crystalline 
masses are traversed by porphyry or basaltic dykes. After it was 
planed down by erosion in early Cambrian or pre-Paleozoic times, 
the flat surface received a deposit of a bright red sandstone contain- 
ing quartz pebbles, similar to that associated with Cambrian rocks 
in Trans-Jordan. This formation is overlain unconformably by 
black sandstone and shale, probably corresponding with the Car- 
boniferous beds of Sinai. The shales contain extensive deposits 
of manganese ore. Both the underlying sandstones and particularly 
the white sandstones above contain widespread impregnations of 
malachite, but the valuable ore occurs in veins of cuprite and mala- 
chite containing 50 per cent. copper, which generally traverse the 
series in a vertical direction. This ore was worked by the ancients 
and there are many slag heaps to be seen. 


49. Detailed geological mapping was continued west of Jerusalem 
and in the Ramallah district. An unconformity was noted in the 


190 


Wadi Kelb between the Upper and Lower Cretaceous strata which 
are just visible here. In addition to the water horizon in the argil- 
laceous limestone formation which forms the base of the Upper 
Cenomanian strata, two other clay horizons were mapped, one in 
the upper and the other at the base of the Lower Cenomanian strata. 


50. The age of the rocks from Ramleh quarry, although confirmed 
as Lower Miocene on the ground of containing Lepidocyclina dilatata, 
was stated by Professor Blanckenhorn, from the Pecten Livoniani 
to be of Eocene age. He considers that the fossils resemble those 
obtained from the Lower Eocene of Syria, described in his publica- 
tion of ‘‘ Das Eocéin in Syrien.’’ He also states that Cardito 
Livoniani is among the fossils obtained from El Kubeibeh. 


51. The presence of Triassic rocks above the Cambrian green 
shales and black limestone of Zerqa on the east shore of the Dead 
Sea was proved in purplish sandstones containing Pseudomonotis 
claraia (Emmrich) and Myphoria laevigata (Goldfuss). 


52. A report by the Geological Adviser on the Mineral Resources 
of Palestine and Trans-Jordan was published. A collection of the 
principal mineral type fossils and building stones of Palestine is 
open to the public in the Department of Public Works. 


MINING. 


53. In Southern Palestine, four prospecting licences for 
manganese and four for copper were issued in the area of the Wadi 
Meneiaieh. Further south, seven prospecting licences were issued 
for copper or manganese, one for mica, and one for garnets and 
non-precious minerals. The samples submitted by the prospectors 
show that both manganese and copper ores extend through the 
whole area from Jebel Ghudian to the Sinai frontier. 


54. In the Nebi Musa area, 32 prospecting licences were granted 
to the Palestine Mining Syndicate for rock-phosphate and bitu- 
minous limestone. 

Exploratory work was carried out by the Syndicate under an 
option on the sulphur deposit south of Gaza. 


55. Four Exploration Permits, in leu of seven Ottoman 
‘* permis de recherche,’’ were issued to the holders of Ottoman 
Concessions for sulphur, bitumen, petroleum, oil, asphalt, salt, 
coal, and gypsum. 


56. Hatfa Harbour Works.—Satisfactory progress was made on 
the Harbour Works during 1930. (See map, Appendix X.) 


57. By the end of December the Main Breakwater had advanced 
to a point 1,049 metres from the shore, or almost half its final 
length. It is constructed of stone conveyed by railway from quarries 
at Athlit. The completed section of the Breakwater contains 
approximately 190,000 M®* of stone. The value of the work so far 
carried out on it exceeds £P.100,000. 


191 


A quarter of a million cubic metres of stone were quarried during 
the year. 


08. The Rubble Dyke, which acts as a retaining wall on the 
western side of the reclaimed area in the harbour zone, has reached 
a point 578 metres from the shore. 


59. For the purpose of the harbour works, 16 kilometres of rail- 
way, standard or 4’ 84” gauge, were laid, and a yard, for the manu- 
facture of concrete blocks for the construction of the main wharf 
has been laid out over an area of about 17,000 square metres, which 
has been reclaimed with waste from the quarries. 


60. The gross expenditure since the beginning of the Works is 
approximately £P.300,000. 


61. Labour.—1,171 men, of whom 988 were Arabs and 183 Jews, 
were employed on the Works and at the quarries at the 31st 
December, 1930. ‘The bulk of the work is still of the unskilled 
class. 


62. In 1931 it is proposed to call for public tenders for dredging 
the harbour. There is little local Jabour trained in this skilled 
work, and it is unlikely that many Palestinians will be employed 
upon it. 


XXVIT.—_RAILWAYS. 


1. The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated 
Lines is divided as follows :— 


Kilometres. 
(a) In Palestine. (Mandated Territory). Standard 105 cm. 
Gauge Railway. Hejaz Railway. 
Rafa—Haifa ... Sak bes ae age 238 — 
Jaffa— Jerusalem “gle rae ea jes 87 — 
Haifa—Samakh* on bid ss dette — 88 
Haifa (4-50 kilo.}—Acre __... ts ae — 18 
Afule—Nablus—Tulkarem ... sie oe — 98 
325 204 
(6) In Sinai. (Egyptian Territory). (Owned 
by His Majesty’s Government.) 
Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafa wr 203 — 
(c) In Trans-Jordan. (Mandated Territory). 
Nassib via Amman to Ma’an* me ws — 323 
Total—Palestine and Trans-Jordan ... 528 527 


* The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans-Jordan 
runs through the French Mandated Territory of Syria and is administered and 
Operated by the French Authorities. The line formerly continued southwards 
to Mudawwara (113 kilometres) on the border of Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz and 
thence to Medina but this section of the line has not been fully reconditioned since 
the damage done during and after the war. 


192 


2. The Railway system which serves Palestine comprises three 
lines of separate and distinct origin :— 


(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem Railway. 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder line from the Port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed to carry pilgrim 
traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its origin was a 
length of standard gauge line starting from Haifa which an English 
Company had built, but not completed, under an Ottoman con- 
cession. The original concessionnaires were bought out by the 
Hejaz Railway Administration and the 105 centimetre gauge Hejaz 
Railway system was laid out of Haifa on the formation completed 
or partly completed by the English Company. 


(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem Railway was laid originally as a metre 
gauge line by a French Company, also under an Ottoman con- 
cession. At the outbreak of War it was taken over by the Turkish 
Army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to serve as part of the 
projected extension southwards of the Hejaz Railway as a military 
track. Subsequently the line was converted by the British Army 
to standard gauge and incorporated in the line built during the War 
from the Suez Canal to Palestine. 


(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge system 
in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British Army 
in 1918 as the northern extension of the line which fed the troops 
during the advance from Egypt. 


At Haifa and at Tulkarem the standard and 105 centimetre 
gauge lines come together and at Haifa in order to use the space 
available for shunting to the best advantage, it was necessary to 
make use of many dual gauge tracks. 


3. Maintenance of Permanent Way, Buildings and _ Rolling 
Stock.—The permanent way, buildings, locomotives, and rolling 
stock were kept in the best possible condition with the funds avail- 
able. Some of the buildings are of a temporary type left by the 
Army and will require replacement soon by permanent structures. 
Many of the locomotives are very old, and owing also to the 
unusually corrosive nature of the water at Haifa, there was an 
excessive number of engine failures during the year. 


4. Operating Results.—A summary of the principal operating 
and statistical results compared with 1929 is given below. The 


193 


effect on railway traffic of the disturbances in 1929 should be kept 
in view, in this connection. 


Gross Revenue. Working expenses. 
1929. 1930. 1929. 1930. 
: £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Palestine Railway _... sie ... 400,794 387,715 372,889 389,970 
Sinai Railway se ie ... 143,764 139,412 131,424 110,195 
Hejaz Railway se de .. 110,585 116,478 96,371 87,269 


5. The working expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 
includes £P.138,604 for interest and amortization charges on the 


capital value of the line. : 
1929. 1930. 
Passengers carried ... ... 1,829,475 1,444 289 
Freight handled (tons) ... 569,285 1,186,074 
Trains run ... = or 16,397 17,920 
Engine Mileage (miles) ... 1,259,725 1,277,778 
Total Staff at 31st December 3,326 — 8,360* 
Salaries and Wages ... £P.288 073 £P.294,708 


6. Passenger Traffic.—Passenger traffic receipts in 1930 showed 
an increase of £P.8,000 over the previous year, mainly in the third 
class; but there was a marked decline in tourist traffic. The 
increase in the third class was largely due to the reduction in the 
cost of return tickets to single fare and a quarter. 


7. Goods Traffic.—There was a decrease in many items of goods 
traffic, the principal reductions being on :— 


£P. 
Flour _... Su -_ ae Sie s32 we» 3,100 
Melons ... = a a ae wee = wee ~=— 4,000 
Petrol... ah ae oe ash ve ... 6,400 


The decrease in flour traffic is attributable to the imposition of 
the restrictions on importation of wheat and flour mentioned else- 
where in this Report, and an abundant local crop. 


The reduced receipts for melons, and other fruits, reflect the pro- 
hibitive Egyptian Customs Tariff, which is also discussed elsewhere 
in this Report; while the establishment of bulk oil installations at 
Haifa has diverted the oil traffic to the sea route. 


* The small increase in staff during 1930 was due to temporary additions to the 
Traffic and Mechanical Branches at the end of the year to provide a more intensive 
service of freight trains for the Haifa Harbour Works. 


10035 @ 


194 


8. Principal Commodities Transported.—The principal traffics 
carried by the Railway during the year were as follows :— 


Commodity. Tonnage. 
Barley sale sts Be ber ne sais 14,018 
Stones _ — 5088 oe Sas as 661,612 
Sand ve aes aes oe oe es 94,175 
Lime a ve, eae bas ie ate 3,447 
Cement... me es 2s 80.567 
Other Building Materials _ se oe ys 26,500 
Cereals te 13 ee wee 58,518 
Coal a dead see sgh nat 41,139 
Groceries and Provisions: hs fei Se 14,178 
Flour -_ oe ss i 15 ,432 
Kerosene and Fuel Oils oa i os 54,255 
Manure... Ka ae at we sii 23,705 
Melons ia yes wae me ine she 30,955 
Oranges... ss a S08 on Site 33 832 
Petrol sos she ve sie sie ee 8,210 
Salt ... sis sed ee ees oe use 6,561 
Soap ae so, Hegel ee ah ne 5 3875 
Miscellaneous ses ue sii gue a 83,595 

1,186,074 


The marked increase in the total tonnage of freight traffic is 
‘ explained by the movement of stone from the Athlit Quarries to 
the Haifa Harbour Works. 


9. Trans-Jordan Traffic.—Traffic in Trans-Jordan is still limited ; 
the requirements are met by three mixed trains each way weekly 
between Nassib and Amman and one between Amman and Ma’an. 
The principal commodity transported from Trans-Jordan is cereals. 


10. Ratlway Afforestation.—The Railway continued its pro- 
gramme of tree planting, some 60,000 being distributed at stations 
and along the track during the year. 


195 


TRANS-JORDAN. 





I.—_INTRODUCTORY. 


The locust invasion, which began in October, 1929, was not 
finally overcome till the end of June, 1930. Officers and fellahin 
worked admirably and sustained an exhausting but successful effort 
over a long period. Serious damage to trees, vines, and crops 
was averted, but the expenses of the campaign, amounting to 
approximately £P.22,000, bore heavily on the slender resources 
of Trans-Jordan and necessitated the reduction of expenditure in 
other ways. Tax collections were also unfavourably affected as 
every available man of the Arab Legion was engaged on the cam- 
paign and the tax-collectors were deprived of the effective aid of 
police escorts. 

2. A satisfactory rainfall ensured a good harvest, but the price of 
agricultural produce fell and money became scarce. There has, 
however, been some export of grain to and through Palestine, and 
the garrisoning of the post at Mudawwara has stimulated a revival 
of trade in grain with the Hejaz. 


3. By an agreement with King Ibn Saud and the Amir Abdullah it 
was arranged that outstanding claims in respect of inter-tribal raids 
between Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz-Nejd which had taken place 
since the conclusion of the Hadda Agreement in November, 1925, 
should be referred to His Majesty’s Government for decision in 
their absolute discretion. An Investigator was appointed to examine 
the claims on the spot and report to His Majesty’s Government 
with detailed recommendations. The local inquiry of the Investiga- 
tor was completed at Amman in November. His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment’s arbitral decision had not been given at the end of the year. 

Relations between the Beduin of Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz- 
Nejd remained, however, unsatisfactory, in spite of the constant 
vigilance exercised by the British Forces and Trans-Jordan authori- 
ties in the punishment and prevention of raiding. To ensure a 
greater measure of control and protection, a British Officer, who is 
an expert in Beduin affairs, has been appointed to command a patrol 
of armed cars and the garrisons of three desert posts which will be 
manned by police drawn from the Beduin tribes. | 

4. The situation vts-d-o1s the Syrian tribes has greatly improved 
and since the first meeting of the Mixed Tribunal which took place 
at Deraa in the beginning of January (see Annual Report for 1929, 
page 139) raiding has almost ceased. 

5. The Amir, by proclamation, amended the Organic Law, firstly 
to give power to the Amir to summon the Legislative Council into 

10035 G2 


196 


Extraordinary Session for consideration of matters specified in the 
summons, and secondly, to set up a special body, composed of 
two Judicial and two Administrative officers, under the presidency 
of the Minister of Justice, to decide questions regarding the inter- 
pretation of the Organic Law. 

The decisions of this special body are published in the Gazette. 


6. The Legislative Council completed its first Ordinary Session 
on the 31st January, by which time the 1929-30 Trans-Jordan 
Estimates had been passed, with minor modifications, in the form 
presented to the Council. The Council was again summoned in 
Extraordinary Session on the 6th March to consider certain specified 
matters, including the Budget Law for the year 1930-31. This 
session was prolonged till the 28th April to enable the Council to 
complete its examination of the Budget. 


7. Ex-King Hussein, who had been resident in Cyprus since 
June, 1925, arrived in Amman in November. His health had 
made it desirable that he should leave the Island. 7 


8. The collection of laws which is being prepared* by the 
Judicial Adviser to the Trans-Jordan Government is not yet ready, 
but its completion is shortly expected and copies will then be 
forwarded to the Permanent Mandates Commission. 


9. The Permauent Mandates Commission has askedt to be in- 
formed as to the steps taken to control the arms traffic in Trans- 
Jordan. 


The Wadi Sirhan, which is the winter grazing ground of certain 
of the nomad Trans-Jordan tribes, is situated within the territory 
of Nejd. The Trans-Jordan nomads who cross the Nejd frontier 
in winter are beyond the protection of the British and local forces 
which are available in Trans-Jordan. It is impossible to disarm 
them, since, if in this annual migration, the Trans-Jordan tribes 
were to go unarmed, they would speedily be stripped of their 
possessions by hostile Beduin of the Hejaz. 


Moreover, there are numerous wells close to the frontier in 
Nejd territory, but very few on the Trans-Jordan side. The Trans- 
Jordan Beduin, when living to the east of the Hejaz Railway, 
although still in Trans-Jordan are thus peculiarly exposed 
to raids from across the frontier by armed bands of 
Nejd tribesmen. The desert frontiers of Trans-Jordan are some 
600 miles in extent. In these circumstances, it is impracticable to 
prohibit the carrying of arms in Trans-Jordan except in towns and 
in villages possessing a police post. Any armed person arriving in 


* Annual Report for 1929, page 158, paragraph 3. 17th’ Session of 
Permanent Mandates Commission, page 91. 
t 17th Session of Permanent Mandates Commission, page 146. 


197 


such places must hand over his arms, against a receipt, to the 
police, to be returned to him on his departure. 


Arms, ammunition, and explosives may not be imported save 
by permit. Premises in which arms and ammunition are sold must 
be licensed, and registers, which are inspected by the Police, must 
be kept by the licensee showing the arms and ammunition in 
possession and in case of sales, the name of the buyer. The ex- 
portation of arms igs prohibited, as is the movement of arms in 
excess of the number of persons carrying them, and the possession 
of any form of automatic rifle or machine-gun. 


10. The Permanent Mandates Commission asked* for information 
as regards the progress made in the abolition of slavery in Trans- 
Jordan since 1924, and particularly the results of the enactment 
of the Law of 1929 for the Abolition of the Status of Slavery. 


Trans-Jordan is a party to the International Slavery Convention 
of 1926, and it may be assumed for all intents and purposes that 
slavery is non-existent in Trans-Jordan. 


It is not the case that the Amir has a bodyguard of slaves and 
it is possible that the newspaper report to which reference was 
made during the Seventeenth Sessiont was written under the im- 
pression that the Amir’s Hejazi retainers were slaves. There is no 
longer any infiltration of slaves into Trans-Jordan although black 
- people are still customarily spoken of as slaves (Abid). Some few 
cases had however occurred in the past in which a girl was pur- 
chased for marriage, a marriage contract being made at the time 
of the sale. Under the provisions of the Abolition of Slavery Law, 
1929, such contracts are void. 


11. Personnel.—Classified officials of the Trans-Jordan Govern- 
ment are graded as follows :— 


Monthly Salary. Grade. 
£P.60 and ap are Sa ee ass ce ss I. 
£P.48-2-58 wed — eg dict oat II. 
£P.38-2-46... 1, Si is sii ie IIT. 
£P.32-1-37 _... a sie se at a IV. 
£P.26-1-31 ... st si ies i a V. 
£P.21-1-25 a is ban os sus VI. 
£P.17-4-20 ... vi se me des ee, NEEL, 
£P.13-4-16 ... si i sai seh wc VIAL. 
£P. 9-34-12... St si - ee a IX. 
£P. 6-4- 8 Sei ates X. 


The following table aha the sete hien of classified officials. 
There are 1,124 unclassified officials and employees, of whom 827 
are members of the Arab Legion. 





* 17th Session of Permanent Mandates Commission, page 146. 
tT 17th Session of Permanent Mandates Commission, page 107. 


10035 Q3 


198 


DOVE SUA PULUTIVIMUORS PLA Bsr ) Bupipous “ 
eee 12729. 


GI g an g S I si “* quowuqivdeag ypny 
I I I I I I eee ss quepisey YsaLig 





a 8) 
‘SOPBIL) OUTzS2[Cq 
eel rol 9 | €8 | 6 | o | ST | L | 2 I g1 


ee | greens | oe | EE | | | a 

















9 
N 
N 
(oon 


souoydefey, pus ‘syderfojay, ‘93807 
a _Juoupredog SHIOM Oqng 
me ‘guougiedeq pu] 
_ SuoBLd pus ‘eo1jog ‘uoldey] quiy 
* Alquiossy oary esto] 

= nes quowyredeq senmbyuuy 
Rais A pus ‘s}se10,7 ‘enymnonsy 
quouziedeq WW]e0q] onqng 

JOOqIS #7Fa1H pus iy 

"* quewyredeq uoyvonpg” 

: OslOxG PUB sMO}sND 
eouvuly jo Ansar 

quowyredoq (BLIVyg 

; sonsne jo Ansrony 

_  UOWBIQSTUTUIPY 401L1481q 
_copiequy jo Aystary 

8 gery TK) 


1°.) 


= 
== = 


QD Oo 6 
aD ea ea ae aan eae cea 


[eee eS Cees | | |Suwnre 


ee 
mA WHOM © 
pad 














re | ae | pS | NS | | LS | a AS 

















nnn Re ee 


“SapDsgy é "quawpspdaq? 








‘SIVIOLAIQ GXLAISSVI) 40 LNAWHSTIEGVish 


199 
12. Sets of translations into English of the laws enacted in 


Trans-Jordan during 1930 have been furnished to the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. 


II.— FINANCE. 


Revenue (including 
Grants-in-Aid from Expenditure. 





Period. British Exchequer) 
£P, £P. 
Surplus Balance at 1st April, 

1924 23,958 — 
1924-25 280,673 274,868 
1925-26 282,459 274,573 
1926-27 302 ,520 274 920 
1927-28 282,073 318 ,260 
1928-29 307,555 318 ,950 
1929-30 ee i sh 316 ,147 338 ,460 
1930-31 (Estimated) se 368 ,996 360 ,350 

2,164,381 2,160,381 
Kstimated Surplus at 31st 
March, 1931 ve Aas 4,000 


£P.2,164,381 


Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure will be found at the end 
of this Section with explanations of important variations. 


2. For the present financial year, the estimated receipts from 
local revenues are £P.260,301, compared with actual receipts of 
£P.239 172 in 1929-80. 


The principal increases are £P.6,000 from Customs and Excise ; 
£P.7,000 from licences and taxes; £P.3,000 from Fees of Court 
or Office; and £P.7,000 from Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones. 
There are decreases in the revenues from Interest, Miscellaneous 
Receipts, and Sale of Land, a total of about £P.2,000. 

10035 G 4 


200 


3. The estimated expenditure during the present financial year 
amounts to £P.360,350, compared with an actual expenditure of 
£P.338,460 in 1929-30. The increase is due mainly to :— 


(1) Expenditure of £P.22,000 on anti-locust measures, com- 
pared with £P.12,648 in 1929-30; 


(2) £P.5,500 for Desert Control Service ; 


(3) £P.17,175 for re-arming the Police and in respect of 
capital expenditure on the Desert Control Service; 


(4) £P.2,000, representing a share in the cost of Trans- 
Jordan-Nejd Arbitration (see Introductory Section, para- 
graph 3). 


4. Agricultural Bank.—In 1929-80 the revenue from interest on 
agricultural loans was £P.2,871 and the expenses of the Agricultural 
Bank were £P.1,316. £P.13,986 was lent and £P.9,760 repaid. 


5. Taxation.—Considerable progress has been made in demarca- 
tion and valuation in the Ajlun District. On completion of that 
work, a new Land Tax Law is to be enacted, replacing the present 
Tithe and House and Land Tax in such manner as will ensure 
fairer taxation while increasing the revenues. 


"usTeduso 4sNd0]-14UB JO} OUTQSEI¥q Aq 4UBIT) (0) 
‘U0 
“SHIQIY Uvpio¢-suvly—plon wo 000‘ ds * se01ATEg Jor}U0D 
qzoseq] UO 9/9°%Z' dF JO omMyIpuedxe poysumse ‘ udredurvo 
qsnoo[-HUB UO 00O'ZS'TF jo amgrpuedxe ‘QgEl “Gov 
SIE 38 80H ds JO JWoyop 07 onp pry-Ul-jueIy) UT oseolOUT (t) 
“pry-al 
“jUBIr) 8B pred 10;e] pus 4qoq7 ONGNY UvUI0Z(C JO; oUTZSOTeg 
Aq ploy sxvok snorsoid soy oreys suoyeny 1ZL‘s9'dF sepnfouy (uw) 
‘uo14810d 
“ION OLQ0e[Y SUTAMPEG 0} PUB Jo oTes WOIZ OOO'EI' ds sepnouy (7) 
“*sONUGAGI O80} 
JO} pepNjoul useq sey GOGO 10 10D Jo see Jopun uorrimo0ld 
T&-O€61I Ul ‘“sezx8OyHI0D A_tfeuoneN wOIy enueAGI sepNyoUT (7) 
‘quuidsrm 8 st y10dey §Z6T UI 
UMOYs AMT ‘onueaoy 07 spsodep ulos; syuouysnlpe sepnjouy (/) 


96689 LPL9IE GGG‘LOe EL0°C8S 03S‘Z0E 
= 009‘ — — = 

(%) 000°F8 000‘0F 000‘0F 000‘SF 000‘99 
969‘'FS QLPIE ¥FO'LZ = = 
106‘09% ZLU‘BES 116°6&Z SLO‘LEZ 029°9EZ 
OOT‘T OSL OFF o8E 86¢‘E1 
1g9 (y) 926‘T GIs €6P Egg 

(t) 086 (3) [LOT (8) 692 (¥) SL8‘T (Y) SIFT 
000‘F OCLF 89'S Pel > 920'F 

(f)000'0 | (f)oto‘st | (£) 0's (f£) 00F's £99'F 

(2) 000°LZ (2) 966°Ee | (2) ZOI‘KS (2) ggg’tz (a) Lgo‘6I 
OF0‘9EI L89‘6Z1_ | (Pp) $89°SIT LOUISE 889‘SEI 

(2) 000‘OL (2) SOTO (9) 0682S L&Z‘T9 ESI ‘FS 
"d3 "dS "d3 "ds "dF 

"IS-O€6I "08-6261 *6Z-8Z61 
Saxe oF Sony p o7DNngpo py 


"8S-LE6I “LE-OG6I 


‘sUvOT joroy eyenbyyreq uo pue seouxsg yueg uo qsoloquy (4) 
‘soouBegd FAV uo ysosozuy (¥) 
“949 Ong We0I0;40 JO; 
eurjseteg Aq preg sreed snotsord Joy oreys sU10}sN) UO ysarozUT (8) 
"seZreyo [eyueUl 
-4aredeq] JO UoonpoyUT pus eoLAles pepuejxo pus posoiduy (f) 
"101300 
29340q PUB 890} GOIYO PUB 4.0) Jo uoITAGI 04} 07 onp m esvarouy (9) 
‘adoro Jood pue 4qZnosp 0} enp SI osval0eg: (p) 
"6Z6I “sen3ny Jo ssousqingsiq’ ouTeoTeg 
043 Jo s}0eHe 04} 07 Ansed pus sy1odun o008q0} UI os¥BaIDOp 
2 03 Apied onp sem O¢-¢EZ61 UI onuoAdy SUI0ZEN JO osvaloog (9) — 
"009°G3'dF 0} sdrecey 
BULOZST) WOT} UBpPlOf-suBL], JO aIVYys oy} poseosoUl ouTyseTeg (4) 
"S[8N408 40U PU so) 0UIT}S0 ore saln3y eseyy, (v) 


"MONHARY 
—! 0N Alo; eugtdxq 
69F‘°S8Z €L9°08Z 10,7, 
= = eUl{SeTeg WO ZUBIN) 
| ‘ronbeyoxg ysylig 
L96‘E0T SLOLL | Wooly UWeplof-suvIy, jo  pry-uI-yuesx 
‘sonboyoxg Ysiyztig wloly so10q 
ae ai ToyVUuOLT Usplof-suvly, JO pry-ul-yuwiy) 
Z09°SLI TOT ‘E03 
= 09%, puwy jo ojeg 
LI9'S (¢) sze‘sI snoows]]eostpy 
(¥) 8 (5) oe ee ee ee 4801090] 
rs €62'E Aqiedoig yUeuUIEAOYH WO enuescy 
sco‘ SLP‘F quowyredaq sydvitojey, pus 990g 
8oe‘sI $L0‘SI "** gydlocey co pus seeg 9.09 
SO0E‘TOT ore OU oe BOXB], pus seouCOryT 
¥06‘SF SIF‘'SO esIOx”y PUY sUI0ZSNH 
"dF "dS 
9Z-#Z61 "gunoooy Jo ett, 


"O2-VS6I 


a ————— 








le 


202 











983‘OI $90°S1 696°IT | (7) eve'TE 6LI‘9 298‘L (¢) s98‘T9 se see 8" gmoetrurjecstpy “gz 
009'9 = ae atti = — — “s  * Jonyeg queweg¢ “<q +4z 
006‘T — = — = — = Prong) s.seouqsTH TH “9% 
006 186 — — — — — couse] “Q Oz 
OOL‘IT L26‘II 006‘01 —_— _ — — “* suoslig ‘gq ‘FZ 
000‘E8 908‘F8 ZOL'LS 996°ZOT | (%) 880‘90I 632 ‘0FI 88F‘601 eood "VY ‘&& 
° SUOSLI I pue soT0d 4 

(y)09L‘2I | (¥) ToL‘Or 9EL‘9 QLE‘T 189 _ — re quowyiedagy spuvy *[Z 
— — — — —_— — P69 a! ov UOlt4 B14 STUuUTUI py [Pq], “0S 
000‘'ZI 9F0‘0T LIT vFE'S O6F‘'L 166‘9 Po8‘F pts quouredoq, sis tia IL pue sys0g ‘6T 
= = — — £08 Loe‘T 966 aes * Belg SUAULIG “ST 
0€6‘9I £0161 6£00Z L69‘LI ZL6 ‘91 — —_ nee see GUeLMOeY SHIOM OGD “LT 
CaF 166‘ 139‘ gce‘s 996‘ 11922 9FL'S yaouEsedecT SYIOM GU “OT 
== = 80e‘e 099°C LIO% OIZ'T ZE0‘T ANsisoyy puwy “gy 
OOF'S €fs‘I F861 (5) gze‘@ ¥98°9 18h F PIE eee quouyredeq soymbnuy °PT 
006‘9 SIF‘g (£)060°8 see’9 600‘ 66F‘T L6e‘T ATWU111049 A pue s}sol0g ‘omgmousy gy 
000‘ZZ £9F1Z F601 SEL‘6I ZE2 ‘81 IL9FI POST | cu quouyjsedeg uonvonpy -ZI 
SI 6 I £08 60F — — ee ouljUBIENy UL.eW “IT 
000‘TT P2801 L96‘OT 608 ‘OI L96‘8 ZII‘L OZI‘e “* guouyreded q[%eF oONqng ‘OT 
099'L Z00‘L £12'9 919‘9 SEL‘E ISL‘? Ssl‘F “*  *** @RIOXGT PUB SIIOZEND °g 
099‘ST 99L‘OT €96‘OI LOZ‘LI 6EL‘FI ILe6 LEP se ee " quouryredeq eouvUly “g 
OOL‘S 6£9‘E 160° ¥20'E SII‘é 6L8‘S Z18'S OME * #LIMOD) ,BLIBYYG *L 
000‘ST St0'OI G69 6I TOT She FI Org‘Il 99F'6 + + quouqaedaq [ese] °9 
OLI‘L 008‘L O6L‘L go¢‘L SLE‘L SZL‘L o¢s‘9 MoWeHsTaTUpPY WLS’ “g 
OLL‘S 689'F 700‘9 €69'9 006‘9 0¢8‘a ¥C8'F ss " JOASTUTY JoryD *F 
00c‘F Q0L‘E 609‘S 10¢‘F F6L'S Corl 80g‘ solyINjulr) pues sucIsUeg “¢E 
0L0F SPP's Fol — _ — — ner ts eMNgesIsey °Z 

(9) OGL (p) 2g9 (P) 069 — — — — sof WeoT pure sqoq ongng * 

(9) ZL9°E1 (9) LEQ‘oT (2) OIF‘ (9)9¢8‘9I (9)9¢0'91 | () gee‘sT €19'0Z ao q8P] [AQ 
‘dF “dF "dF ‘dF ‘dF “dF ‘dF 

"1S-0661 “08-6261 "6-861 ia. : : ; > 

sopoumoyy eyongoy erompoy 83-LZ61 LZ-O261 92-2261 G2-F261 gunosop fo o7t7, 


Sa ee a ee eee 
*THOLIGNGIXY 


‘qsod Jomuoly Suons}su00 pure Jo14eq 7108eq] 
Sutddmbe 303 opg'Il'ads {eoyog oy) Butuire-cr soy OEg‘o'ds (1) 
‘prey oyxenbyyegq Jo} weplop-suely, 
0} peteo, Auonbesqns sea qorgs 0000S dF JO FUSUITIOAOY) 
a Ajeolepy STE, 0} cousreq snjdime og} wory queued & sepnfouy (7) 
“So, eUITZSY OY} UT pozsrxe 
uomtaoid OU YOY JOJ HQep po jo uonepmbl gIL‘9'dF 
pase Yo Uo}7LIM soouBApE o[qurescoeI Zgl‘or'ds sepnpouy (f) 
“9010/7 
JONUOLy Usplor-sUBL], Jo FUSUTYSITGe}8e Jo yUNOCOB UO os¥eTOAC ($) 
“puvy pure 
knee puey sepun uaoys Ayenoracid emyrpuedxe sepnpouy (¥) 


T9F‘SEs 


6490'S 
E13 


£633 
OSS 
L80°8 
69¢ 
GL¥S 
GLE‘OI€ 








., ATSUTpPIOBHXG ,, Jopun st uorstaoid sree yuenbesqns 
uy ‘sonmmbyue jo uoyealesuco uo emytpuedxe sepnouy (4) 
‘usredurey ysno0]-Huy uo yueds gzz‘e'az sepnpouy (f) 
“*{UOUIUMIOAOL) OUT}SOTRT 
Woly UBO[ 000'S'dF WO 4eolojUT pus joey oxsnbaaIeg 
Jo} yusUIMIeACL) 8, Aqsefuy ST WOI; UBC] OO0'OS TF UO yseI0}UT (2) 
‘TAY oxenbyywreq 
Jo} yuouTaIAOL) 8, AgsefeW] SIT WOT, MeO] 0000S TF U0 yse107UT (Pp) 
‘SUOSLIG pues soTOg Jepun popnyour st sve J0q}0 
UT Torys PIVEN) s.esouqsTy STH JO 4800 opnjouT sam3yg oseyy, (9) 
"s[eNgoe 4OU ‘so, BUITAZSe ae samsy oseqy, (9) 


“OT SIC 
U8,eAy JO UoMexouue 0; ZurMo IeeA sty} Ul sesBarOUT peoUeX) (DP) 
*WAMLIGNGIXY 
—: on A10; 808d xy 
ELO‘FLZ 898°FLZ “POL 


NN i ere em cm ee 


oS ae uoMsriqry PloN ‘ZF 
“+ Areurploenxy SuOsLIY Puy eojod “1F 
le usredurey yeno0]-HUy “OF 
ArsurpioeHxy B"H OAM “GE 
"Areurpio 
— “BIYX7T GO1O JONUOIA Ueplor-suviy, “SE 
an Areurpiovyxg sqdeisopoy, pue s80g “LE 
oat cee eee Areurpi0e yxy eouvUly ‘9f 
= * ATBUTPIOVIAXGY SFIOM OG “Sg 
= a ee eouepisey THU “FE 
= “7 +" sonmbyuy jo uoyesresucy “gE 
89 é 


ELO°FLS 8 PLS 
= ar COT IOUOLT UBpIOP-sUBI], °SE 
Posen Beis’ eco eee een prsog [orU0D [Sqr ‘ts 
a as ee wee ae quounredecy 41pny ‘Ok 
986 6 E88 quepIsey YSIxlIg °6S 


Public 
Debt. 


204 


ABSTRACT TABLE. 


Revenue from Grant-in- 
Atd from His Majesty’s 


Government to Trans- 


Jordan Frontier Force. 


xeric eee ee eee, | ee | ee | Cater | geet eee | qr recreate [fears eee ae eae 


1926-27 ... 
1927-28 ... 
1928-29 ... 
1929-30 ... 
1930-31 ... 


Se op ey 


1924-25 ... 
1925-26 ... 
| 1926-27 ... 
1927-28 ... 
1928-29 ... 
1928-30 ... 
1930-31 ... 


REVENUE. 
s 2 .| ees 
Yes /i¥is 
go. 8| gers 
Internal | g 3 S35 3° 3 
Revenue. | PUP S Be S 
gees Ti 
psiilish 
=: 
So SSS 
£P. £P. £P. 
203,101 — 77,57 
178,502 —_ 103,957 
236,520 — 66,000 
237,073 20,000 45,000 
239,911 — 40,000 
239,172 — 40,000 
260,361 — 84,000 
EXPENDITURE. 
i] 
Public 
Health. 
£P. £P. 
1,397 5,120 
1,499 7,113 
3,609 9,426 
6,338 10,612 
8,090 11,268 
5,418 11,106 
5,900 11,018 





The discrepancies between figures here shown for 1924-25 and 1925-26 and those 
shown in the 1929 report are explained by the fact that the figures shown in the 
latter were in Egyptian Currency. 


205 


IlI.—_ CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


Statistics of Revenue (exclusive of the payment made by 
Palestine on account of re-exported foreign goods). 


1927 1928 1929 1930 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Customs 
Local sis sige Sas .. 10,108 12,899 12,991 15,377 
Liquors ogg sees 819 763 1,050 1,188 
Tobacco... Sats ssi ane 9,962 17,112 12,238 3,976 
Excise “es 
Liquors ses se oat ste 734 93] 1,004 824 
Tobacco a sid wisi 20 3,072 3,500 6,934 
Licences (Liquors) .. vas a 159 61 205 262 
Licences (Tobacco) . 312 476 481 521 
Miscellaneous including Examin- 660 681 916 1,831 
ation Fees 
Fines... sie ssf ous sisi 594 542 572 418 





Total ... see sia .. 23,369 36,537 32,957 31,331 


TD 


Syrian valuation of goods imported from Syria :— 
1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 


£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Local ... a --- 106,000 231,000 173,000 133,000 115,000 
Foreign... see .- 98,000 99,500 64,000 49,000 46,000 


2. The increased local receipts from Customs follow an increase 
of the duty on benzine and sugar, and the decline in Customs 
receipts from tobacco, as the import decreases in inverse ratio to 
the expansion of the local crop, is gradually set off by additional 
excise revenue. 


3. The average annual value of imports is estimated to be 
£P.427 ,200. 


4. There are only two licensed alcohol factories in Trans-Jordan. 


5. There were 413 Customs prosecutions; cases settled by the 
Director of Customs without reference to the Courts are becoming 
more numerous. 


GENERAL TRADE FIGURES, 1930. 


Imports. Ezxportst Transit. 
—— to Syria and to Trans-Jordan. 
From Syria. From Palestine*. Palestine. 
Local. | Foreign. | Local. | Foreign. | Grain. Other Via Via 
goods. | Syria. | Palestine. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 


115,000 | 46,000 130,000 | 200,000 | 115,107 | 44,067 6,475 72,440 


* Approximate only. 
{+ The exports shown are only those for which Customs declarations were taken 
out. 


206 


IV.—LEGAL AND JUDICIAL. 


To carry out the intention of the Agreement with Syria for 
settling disputes between the nomadic tribes of Trans-Jordan, Syria, 
and the Jebel Druze (see Annual Report for 1929, page 139), a 
Special Tribunal was constituted consisting of a British officer, a 
French officer, and a native official from each territory, to sit every 
two months at Dera’a and Irbid alternately. An Ordinance has 
been passed to provide for the production of evidence and the attend- 
ance of witnesses and for the execution of the judgments of the 
Tribunal. 7 


2. A Law was enacted for the registration of trade marks, prac- 
tically identical with the Palestine Ordinance of 1921. 151 applica- 
tions to register have so far been received. The Law and 
Regulations are available in English for the convenience of foreign 
firms. 


3. Amending laws with regard to Criminal Procedure, Land 
Registry, Fees, Customs, and the Composition of Administrative 
Councils have been passed by the Legislative Council, and Regu- 
lations to govern visits to Jerash, Petra, and other historical 
monuments. 


4. 521 cases of serious crime were tried by Courts of First 
Instance, compared with 646 in 1929; less serious offences dealt 
with by the Magistrates were 6,219, as compared with 7,114 in 
1929. One death sentence was carried out. 


5. Civil actions numbered 12,557. 


6. In the Sharia’ Courts, 24 fewer actions were decided than last 
year and £P.81.868 mils less was collected in fees. 


207 


eS te a ne RI a ee 


O8F'SSs 

G8F'98s FOS TE 
OLG’6EF O0€S OTT 
O€F'29P 909°69 
LOG E8F STSOL 
€F8°062 I QIS' 133 
vPT'969°9 

STP'ES8 | 





SI6SIT 
SOP SOT 
corel? 








ILP°686'S 


“OS6T ‘SLUN0D TIAIQ dO FTANGARY 






81S FE | : 









QLL'OLG =< TOT 
| 

OSF'8Z 5 Sr * equby pue ue, 37q 

LI9°9¢ Zh0'98 eget 

996° LE O&F 9g eqopeyy 

9L9'L8 0£0'F9 ee ace 

veslige 959°9F -umyty [oqo 


OLL'IET NES Bo 


—! SLHN0) ,SELVALSIOVY 
OPP SCI‘T 


TIT08 
LL@'OFI 
1éS"€eg 
—i GHNIGWOO LUN0D STLVALSIOVAL 
NV HONVISN] Isa 40 LX000 


"IVHddY 40 LHN00 


ysnog fo UD 
*POUsU SS) 











208 


 Criinan Cases. 


1930. , 
Pending 
lst Jan., New a 
1930. entes 
Appeals from Courts of 0 149 
First Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ 0 680 
Courts. ee ee 

Total ane teas ts 0 829 
Amman 5 261 
Irbid me ie 0 152 
Kerak .... Waa siais 10 108 
Total oe cae aaa 15 §21 
Amman 47 1,735 
Irbid 5 1,194 
Kerak 20 735 
Es Salt... 64 1,033 
Jebel Ajlun 37 422 
Jerash 8 352 
Madeba 7 335 
Tafileh ... Gaa 16 247 
Ma’an and Aqaba 9 166 

Total ... a 213 6,219 








Count OF APPEAL. 


Particulars of Appeals entered in the Four Years 1927, 1928, 1929 and 1930. 


Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
Year Hrom From Total 
: Courts M . 9 ; 
fj agrstrates 
of First Courts 
Instance ita 
1927 43 406 1,421 
1928 50 6592 1,508 
1929 53 681 1,744 
1930 61 592 1,372 








Crviz, Actions. 
1930. 
Pending Pending 
let Jan., | New Cases | Mases | Bist Dec., 
1930. ' ; 1930. 
Appeals from Courts of 9 61 53 7 
First Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ 24 592 611 5 
Courts. ——_ —_ 

Total 33 643 644 12 
Amman 20 165 152 33 
Irbid 12 70 72 10 
Kerak 6 23 25 4 
Amman 59 2,739 2,722 76 
Irbid 13 2,369 2,367 15 
Kerak iv se 68 1,677 1,713 32 
Fe Salt... ase wien 51 1,941 1,951 4] 
Jebel Ajlun re ae 18 1,059 1,035 42 
Jerash ... a cas 17 871 876 12 
Madeba ... a wos 28 957 965 20 

Tafileh ... sie aoe 20 344 ! 364 — 
Ma’an and Aqaba ae 6 342 336 12 
Total ... sate 280 12,299 12,329 250 


ToraL REVENUE oF Civiz Courts FOR THE Four YEARS 1927, 1928, 1929, 





AND 1930. 
Criminal. Civil. Notary 
Year Reve-on Pose Public Total 
Fines Costs Actions. | Execution. Fees. 

£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
1927 ... | 1,584:088 | 685-243 | 3,563-774 | 407-580 | 1,721-457 | 7,862-142 
1928 .. | 1,895-488 | 487-244 | 4,281-593 616-352 | 1,757-656 | 9,038-333 
1929 ... | 2,128-069 | 806-465 |4,972-793 | 483-739 | 1,640-148 | 10,031-214 


1930... | 1,702-224 | 1,138-127 | 4,720-359 | 879-085 | 1,642-849 | 10,082-644 





210 


O19 8E8‘0% SLL‘OG 9Lg va “"" 0861 


9Lg 1261S 9Y9°TS 18 as "" 6661 
{¥8 SPP'SZ 9E0'8S LET ee "8261 
LPI‘T £186 £9661 LOO‘T - “" LO6I 
“aveh fo pua “paproep "pasaqua ‘svah fo 
1D Puapuag suo p SUunizID Na AT Buruubag "400 X 
yD Burpuag 


“IVaddY 4fO LUNO) OPNIGATONI SLYNO/-) TIAL) NI SNOLLOY dO UAENAN TVLOT 


‘poyVULEs |v soseo FI § 
“6Z6T Ul OpPBUr 4siy UOTsIAIp-qns siqy, 7 
"O4BIISIDB OY} 09 JUS SaSBdD 
GET PUT [VIIZ 10} DOUBSU] 481g JO 8Z1N0D 07 4UOR Bose SOgIUBIS QOP ‘G6Z61 UI peydope ueoeq sey UOIQBoYISSE[D YUOIOgIp Y 4 
‘uOpisg [V1oUer) 04} JO ONSsI O44 UO poly sasuy JF Sepn[ouy , 


SL ball LI 619 raat £28 | O9T 








ost | Leet | ope tt 190 (RBI 
trp L6 Zl 19 tcet | 490% oot | zo |Sreoct | ree't €6 | 6Z6I 
ae Ze 981 E29 Il 928 6sT 86 |xbzO'L | 09'T elt | Szer 
— gg TFI Z9E PI org 6sT eIr | pial | Ize 2 29 
| : | 
‘wowpypeuant | “pepuoosqn | ‘pasopexp | “souepsas |euosqusa | ‘sunouvowap | . 
fo xouy | paenooy | 20uaffo on| suarosffneuy | -paguop| -ee yr aval aval fo 
Se SS Se a Se fo pua 70 “paproep *"Pentaes busuurba 9 ; 
PRA F980) "qs, 4of puae seenp Burpuad | saenp patie Pe aoa 
SS ee a a bakDg : 
‘poproop seeps) fo ssomnoysng mae 





‘SUOLOOEBOUT OVIANd AHL AG FAVA SNOLLVOILSAAN]T TWNIWIUYS) 


211 


_ Ee thE CNY TRIM LEG ‘“‘sMw5k A WUE RA PT BONO GINV CAMNMBLNGZ FSNOILOW 





9F9- 189‘T COPE 988'Z 999 ae oe - "e780, 


008 - #6 PSI 6FI og nee tee see es amily jeqar 
nor ee per Hite ee vue. che «yee «|. dak qOTyeT 
G1Z-96 S81 €e1 gg se a ss UB, Bl 
OSL: €91 1Z€ L8Z FE ree eee eee see eIOW 1 
0G: LLI FOE EZE IP a ee WPS 8 
023-081 EGE 60 tF i a ysvior 
069° LLE €€8 OSL €1l ih piqiy 
991 - 86F 9L6 ILL COZ ree tee eee eee OBO 
"dF 





“uno 





“OS6I AVAA AL NI HONTATY GNV AHARLNA SNOLLOY 
‘SLYUNOOD .VIUVHS 





FIPEILT!  9LP'E gggz | ssc | 6sczor'z! o2g‘e 902‘ $99 | SFI'GOS'I] OzS'E €£0'S “eg f°" [840,], 

OSL SII 061 SSI ZE 090°68 Cg Zél PELIG Gal 08 Zn OL ALAN 
GL6SIT L0 LSI og | OCGIOL 981 ZF ZVG' 18 981 6F1 ng |" LAS 1 
09F €02 Z9¢ 866 | #9 0S9°961 L6E LZ 16G'E9t | 9IE Gz gg i" 4819-1 
GPZEIS | 6EP GUE 92 | 00€'0Z 109 61¢ 16¢°023 | 9g 9GF 68 ante 
GGE'srl FOE 992 8g GI8'9FZ FE9 1624 Z6SN°'PL] | «GOL 0¢9 ” eee == qresep 
169°20F 908 00L 901 | SI'1g9 068 | > ¥6L LOU'SFE | 826 F18 piqay 
80° LPP 806 EEL GLI | IGZ°109 | 226 ISL Terane | Sil EL¢ a UsMy 





a poreentey 





"yIDYID AA | *8uOIDLDP ont oe ")ojOT, | “ywwymAY | "su0NnIp 






ds ‘PORIOT | “yepyinpy | ‘suotopy ds 


anuaaaryy 


“1DIOL 





annuaaary 








"7.4no0g 
“LEGIT 








212 


1&1 IL LE 6 | 636 88 +9 OL | 96F 18! 08 SOT 
ELI 86 8g LI | 98@ esl gg sh | GLE 9LI 9L eel 
991 TL 99 0€ | 9Ic 831 6% 6€ | 9&9 666 001 LOZ 
693 Laid | 0g 9% | 936 oPl 9¢ 8% | 93S 686 06 9FI 
"ssnouneu | “eaus49 "s4nouveus | “SaUitsO ‘ssnounous | “eats 


‘TROL | -epeAT | fous | “aty | OL | = -epetAy | pouswusse) | 8H) | TIO. | = -epstyy | POU) | °784/) 


en Fee | ASS pS Beer EY fee ee | ee ee EST | cares SR 9 cei ets fF sercereseermerem | samen ER AEN fc A NES | 


“OL6I ANV ‘“6Z6I ‘SZ6I ‘SLZ6I SUVA ANOT AHL NI GHAALNA SASV) AO SHVINOILUVG 
“GONVISNI LSULE AO SLANOO 


"409 X 


qeeio/ 


61Z°9 662'Z1 80°61 PILL FOG'TI | O19°SZ 819*9 Z60°61 | S6F'LT S£6'S S9¢' Il 
991 ore 6LP 661 086 G8P 106 183 OLG 09 OIs 
L¥G PVE 898 166 L9g SLP‘T 196 LIZ‘T 90L FOP o0€ 
Gét LS6 2931 SIé L¥6 6IL‘T 98€ rEE'l 1Za‘T 666 666 

5 TL8 GZE‘T Ovg 98L E9L‘T Org €1Z‘T StF‘I 6E9 606 
GSP 6S0°T 806'T GEP 9LL 61S 6Lg OFS*T 962'1 F9g Tél 
££0'1 1¥6'T PLOS OST'T VOLS 900°F P16 260° oes*s 60L 1Z8°T 
GEL LLO‘T PPOs 9€8 60L‘T ost GOL 808‘E 290° 099 GOP'S 
rOL'T 698° 03'S ELeT Lgs*l €FZ'E ore‘! 868°T 0636'S 1Z0°T 661‘T 
GEL'T 6EL‘S o6o°F 9L6'1 616s | 009 169°T 60L‘F OFLF 6L9°T L90°E 


ne | RD | | NS |S | a | Ts fT S | NS | A | a ne sacs Gb 


ee | | | fC | NN | | ac 


“Of61 AONV ‘6Z6I ‘8Z6I *LZ6I SUVAA ANOYT AHL NI GAHAALNA SUSVD JO SUVINOLLUVG 
‘SLHN00 SULVUaLSIOVA 


213 


EXPENDITURE OF THE CiviL CoURTS AND THE Suaria’ COURTS FOR THE Four YEARS 
ENDING 3lsT Marcu, 1930. 





Year. Civil Courts. | Sharia‘ Courts. Total. 


£P. £P. £P. 
Ist April, 1926 to 31st March, 1927 13,989 -403 2,942-109 16,931-512 
Ist April, 1927 to 3lst March, 1928 16,954 - 954 3,024 ° 369 19, 143-323 
Ist April, 1928 to 3lst March, 1929 15,945 - 299 3,091 - 400 19,036 - 699 
Ist April, 1929 to 3lst March, 1930 15,047 -670 _ 3,538: 691 18,586: 363 





V.—EDUCATION. 


The Government provides four secondary and 48 elementary boys’ 
schools, 6 elementary schools for girls; and an arts and crafts 
school with 50 pupils, of whom two have been sent to Jerusalem 
to obtain instruction, as future teachers, in weaving and cane-chair 
making. 

2. There are four Government scholars at the Beirut University 
and two students in the Women’s Elementary Training College in 
Jerusalem, all under contract to teach in Government schools after 
completing their course. 


3. All schools are in towns or villages; special arrangements 
cannot yet be made for the education of Beduin children, who do, 
however, to some extent, attend the nearest village school. 


4. Low rates of salary in the past and lack of trained personnel 
made it difficult to staff the schools adequately, but, as financial 
circumstances permit a gradual increase in pay, the standard of 
teaching is being raised, and the inspectoral staff is also being 
augmented. No fees are charged in Government schools, and in 
the arts and crafts institution, board and lodging are also free. 


5. There is no special feature to report concerning the schools 
Maintained by private organizations in Trans-Jordan. 


VI.—HEALTH. 


In spite of limited funds and attendant difficulties in a backward 
territory, public health and medical services continue to be satis- 
factorily conducted, and steady progress is achieved. 


2. General Health and Infectious Diseases.—On the whole, the 
general health has been good, and no serious epidemic occurred. 

he epidemic of measles continued, but in a much milder degree, 
affecting 1,433 cases with a mortality of 128, compared with 2,360 
cases and 278 deaths in the previous year. 59 cases of typhoid and 
para-typhoid were notified, five being fatal, and 546 cases of in- 
fluenza, of which 17 were fatal. 


214 


Sixteen persons were treated with the anti-rabic vaccine, but 
no cases occurred of hydrophobia. 


Other Infectious Diseases. 


1930. 1929 

Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
Pneumonia ... re ee se 106 24 109 40 
Dysentery... ie aes Sate 122 2 119 3. 
Whooping Cough _... sa ae 467 35 111 0 
Diphtheria... es bas ie 5 1 3 2 
Chicken Pox . aus se wits 32 — 32 — 
Mumps eas ae eal 82 — 87 — 
Puerperal Fever ise _ 2 4 — 13 5 
Small Pox... eee one cue — — 7 l 
Tuberculosis ... dies ess aes 226 56 202 69 
Syphilis ae ies oe ste 192 3 164 1 


The Government Department vaccinated or re-vaccinated 23,228 
persons against smallpox. 


3. Vital Statistics.—10,340 births were registered, compared with 
9,845 last year, and 6,661 deaths, compared with 6,573. 


Comparative Table. 
Year. Estimated Number of Birth rate Number of Death rate 


Population. Births per 1,000. Deaths per 1,000. 
Registered Registered. 
1926 ... 305,584 3,483 11-4 2,939 9-6 
1927 ... 305,584 5,800 19-0 3,968 13-0 
1928 ... 305,584 8,400 27-4 5,009 16-3 
1929 ... 305,584 9,845 32-2 6,573 21-5 
1930 ... 305,584 10,340 33-8 6,661 21°7 


Infantile Mortality 
(Deaths under 1 year of age) 
sd 1,000 Births. 


1926... ae ey bie gis 131.5 
1927... es ile sds st .. 163.2 
1928... sige oe ee ef: .. 184.8 
1929... me os Se fas ... 205.8 
1930... eat be ee ve .. 222.3 


These statistics, which include the nomadic tribes, should be 
accepted with reserve, in the absence of reliable data as to the popu- 
lation and in view of the recent introduction of a system of registra- 
tion of births and deaths. 


4. Malaria.—The incidence of malaria continues to decline and in 
most places the results of the campaign against this disease are 
gratifying ; only 1,183 cases, with two deaths, were reported, com- 
pared with 1,760 in 1929 and 2.492 in 1928. 


215 


Of 6,191 children who were examined by Government Medical 
Officers 6.6 per cent. were found to suffer from enlarged spleen. 
The percentage was 9.5 in 1929, 14.9 in 1928, 19 in 1927, and 
25.3 in 1926. 


5. Hospitals and Dispensaries.—The bed strength at the Italian 
Hospital, Amman, has been increased from 28 to 40. The doctor 
of the Church Missionary Society Hospital at Es-Salt held occasional 
clinics at Kefrinji and Sweileh; the Mission’s hospital receives a 
Government grant-in-aid of £P.240 a year. 

Exclusive of school clinics, attendances at Government clinics 
reached a total of 97,786, and at private clinics a total of 14,047. 

533 patients were treated in Government hospitals and detention 
posts and 980 in private institutions. 


6. Other Medical Services.—Three licences were issued to medical 
practitioners and one was issued to a pharmacist. 


7. School Services.—With the help of the Department of Educa- 
tion, it has been possible to effect marked improvement of hygienic 
conditions in schoolbuildings and in treating eye diseases, particu- 
larly trachoma, and other infectious diseases. The health of the 
children is consequently much better. 

260,911 children received eye treatment and 1,360 were vaccinated 
against smallpox. 3,121 were found on examination to be tracho- 
matous. 


8. Laboratory Work.—1,821 specimens were examined at the 
Government Laboratory, Amman, and routine bacteriological tests 
carried out of the Amman water supply and of samples of water 
from the Districts. 

Butter, milk, and oil analysis is also undertaken. Gerber’s appa- 
ratus 18 in use in the Districts of Irbid, Es-Salt, and Kerak for the 
control of the milk supply. 


9. Municipal Sanitation.—Except at Amman, scavenging in 
municipal areas 1s carried out by contract. 

The Amman scheme, which provides a supply of piped water to 
all quarters of the town, was completed in June. A scheme for 
Madeba, bringing water by conduit from a spring some ten kilo- 
metres away at an estimated cost of £P.5,400, was begun. A 
beginning was also made at Jerash. 


10. International Opium Convention.—During the year, 18 im- 


port certificates were granted for dangerous drugs, originating 
mainly from Palestine and England :— 


Imports in 19380. Grammes. 
Medical opium and its preparations ... ... 1566.30 
Morphine, its salts and preparations ... ... 155.80 
Cocaine, its salts and preparations cae ... 601.00 
Heroin out ae sh 30.00 


Tinct. Cannabis Tudicn at 2s re sate 8.30 


216 


11.—Infant Welfare.—The Amman Infant Welfare Centre con- 
tinued and extended its work; there were 4,229 attendances at the 
clinic and the Nurse paid 2,646 visits to children’s homes. 


The Centre conducted by the Church Missionary Society at 
Es-Salt was closed owing to lack of staff. 


12. Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments.—The Depart- 
ment of Health issued 1,034 licences in municipal and 752 licences 
in extra-municipal areas during the year. 


VII.—POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS. 


In spite of the economic depression, the business of the Depart- 
ment displays progress. 


2. Foreign mails, except for Syria, are sent a découvert through 
Palestine, but from the beginning of 1931 the mails for Great 
Britain will be despatched in closed bags by that route. 


3. Two new sets of postage stamps were issued; a provisional 
set of the 2 to 500 mils values of the previous issue overprinted 
with the word ‘‘ Locust Campaign ’’ in Arabic and English, and a 
set containing the addition of the word ‘‘ Mils’’ in English and 
Arabic to the lettering of the previous issue, in compliance with 
the provisions of the Universal Postal Convention. 


4, The high increase in the Inland Parcel Post service shown in 
the appended statistics is due to its displacing in popular and official 
favour the previous practice of sending parcels by motor-car under 
private arrangement. 

There is an appreciable increase in the Money Order Service but 
the traffic is mainly outwards. 

The increase in the Inland Telegraph Service results from the 
newly erected lines. 


5. Negotiations are proceeding with the Syrian Postal Adminis- 
tration with a view to an agreement for the direct exchange of 
telegrams on the Irbid—Deraa route. 


6. The telegraph and telephone system consists of 2,383 tubular 
iron and 4,684 wooden poles extending over 535 kilometres. The 
Trans-Jordan Government uses 225 kilometres of the trunk lines 
belonging to the Hejaz Railway, paying £P.231 annually for 
maintenance. 


7. Construction in 1980 comprised the connection of the Ajlun 
and Husn trunk line to the Jerash—Irbid route, distances of 8 and 3 
kilometres respectively, a telephone line from Amman to the Police 
Post at Sahab, a distance of 12 kilometres, and a line from Amman 
to the Police Post at Jiza, a distance of 30 kilometres. 





217 


STATISTICS. 
Increase or 
1929. 1930. Decrease per 
cent, 

Letters... Sex eda ses sis ee — 258,756 — 
Postcards... ue ea see — 11,748 — 
Printed Matter and Samples a wes ine — 67,056 sai 
Parcels, Inland ... ae ees aes 916 2,577 + 181 
Parcels, Foreign— 

Despatched ... a oie oe _ 340 359 + 6 
Received... eae see eae sae 2,223 2,233 — 
Telegrams, Inland 7 an ee 8,761 9,429 + 7 

Telegrams, oe 

Despatched .. A ae sae aie 4,025 4,428 + 10 

Received _... - Bet She sts 5,300 4,668 — 12 
Telephone Subscribers— 

Number ws A sas sos a 285 321 + 12 

Kilometres . ee ie wes ses sais 240 265 + 10 
Telephone Stations =... sakes 39 40 + 2 
Telephone Trunk Lines... =... wea 1,081 1,129 + 4 
Telephone Trunk Calls ... ate ee .. 44,000 59,433 + 35 
Money Orders Inland— 

Number _... se ies “es ve 2,560 3,083 + 20 

Value ae ee ee an 8,698 9,705 + 12 
Money Orders, Foreign— 

Number issued «gg see 2,871 2,539 — 12 

Value iis ae ae .. 10,050 10,931 + 9 
Money Orders, Foreign— 

Number paid ee =r rr eee 116 168 + 45 

Value ies ae eee ees 1,244 1,751 + 4) 
Postal Orders (Imperial) — 

Number paid or as wee si 156 196 + 26 

Value Sus sis ee zie 101 149 + 48 
Postal Orders (Palestine) — 

Number paid ee2 ees aie wat 1,161 1,240 + : 

+ 


Value eee eee ves sie vee 1,091 1,323 


ViITI.—_ AGRICULTURE. 


The anti-locust campaign fully occupied all the personnel and re- 
sources of the Department of Agriculture for six months, as well as 
many officers of other Departments and practically all the able- 
bodied cultivators of the threatened areas. 


2. In the summer, the Department undertook operations against 
a plague of field mice in the Ajlun District, and succeeded in de- 
stroying 70 per cent. of the swarms. 


3. The crops of 1930 were above the average, but until the 
autumn no markets could be found for cereals. Ultimately, how- 
ever, considerable quantities were exported to Palestine and to the 
Hejaz, although at a low price. The resumption of trade with the 
Hejaz after a stoppage of several years, is, nevertheless, satis- 
factory. At the end of the year, approximately a fourth of the 
harvest remained. 


218 


Acclimatized seed corn was distributed free to certain villages in 
Tafileh District and as an encouragement to nomadic tribes in the 
Ma’an area who show an inclination to adopt agriculture seriously. 


4. Vegetable cultivation has increased greatly, and Trans-Jordan 
not only supplies its own requirements but exports to Palestine 
certain varieties grown in the Jordan Valley. 


5. Horticulture, too, is growing in popularity and many trees 
were imported for private cultivation and for the production of grafts 
in Government nurseries. The Government Department dis- 
tributed gratis, 47,500 fruit and 98,000 ornamental trees, and 
farmers were allowed to remove 176,000 wild olive suckers from 
Government forests for cultivation and grafting. 

A set-back was caused to growers of banana and citrus in the 
Jordan Valley, who were extending their plantations, by restrictions 
imposed on the importation of these fruits into Palestine, as a 
measure of protection against black scale. 

The importation of plants from Syria which are known to be 
carriers of scale insects was prohibited. 

1,090 dunums of vineyard at Es-Salt were successfully dusted 
with sulphur to destroy Oidium. ‘The service was rendered free of 
charge by the Government Department. 


6. Forest conservation proceeds satisfactorily but funds for the 
purpose are limited. To save expense and to prevent illegal felling, 
charcoal contractors are allowed to prune prescribed forest areas at 
their own cost under the supervision of Forest Officers. 

Offences under the Forest Law are becoming much less numerous 
as the people realize the benefits of afforestation. 


_ 7. Foot-and-mouth disease, contagious pneumonia, scabies, rabies, 
and some minor animal diseases made their appearance, but all 
outbreaks were localized and suppressed without serious casualties. 

Farmers are being encouraged to start dairy farming; better 
breeds of goats are being imported from Damascus and cattle are 
fattened for slaughter. 

8. The contractor for the Aqaba fisheries lost heavily and relin- 
quished the enterprise. Desultory fishing continues, the catch 
being marketed in Palestine for the most part. 


IX.—LANDS. 


1. Survey.—The demarcation, survey, and valuation of Irbid 
District were completed in September, and were nearing com- 
pletion in Jerash at the end of the year. Work has begun in 
Madeba District. Thus, in 1931, statistics will be available for 
comparison of the fixed land tax of Irbid and the tithe estimation 
of Madeba, and it will be possible to form an opinion regarding 
the inequalities of this dual system inherited from the Turkish 
regime. 


219 


2. Settlement of the lands of the Beni Hassan tribe, comprising 
an area of 600 square kilometres and a population of 150,000, is in 
hand. For reasons of security, each section of the tribe has 
squatted on a separate reservation, spread over several blocks at 
varying distances. The completion of survey will enable the 
Government to allot a specific area to each section, to stabilize the 
settlement by law and to issue new title-deeds. 


3. The output of the Demarcation Service since the commence- 
ment in 1928 is shown below :— 


1928. 1929. 1930. Total. 
Villages sey ane 29 78 93 201 
Area (Dunums) <u 239,940 773,590 1,675,458 2,688,988 
Marks erected sat 1,326 5,304 6,238 12,868 


The cost per dunum is 6 mils which includes Headquarters 
expenses, iron marks, area extraction, and reproduction. ‘The 
daily output of a surveyor is 735 dunums. Output increases as 
the terrain becomes more open and junior surveyors acquire expe- 
rience. With the exception of supervisors, all the surveyors were 
selected from the students of local secondary schools and their 
training has necessarily been protracted. 


4. Land Registry.—Owing to the war and a period of unstable 
administration, inheritance to property was not generally regis- 
tered. A purchaser of land can only register therefore if the 
succession transactions are performed. SBesides the sale fee, he is, 
in the circumstances, often required to pay the succession fee 
as the heirs are no longer interested in the property. A law was 
therefore enacted which provides that no fees shall be collected 
on succession transactions for a period of a year. 


5. 849 transactions passed through the Land Registers and 
£P.3,109 was collected in fees, compared with 560 and £P.2,16, 
respectively, in the previous year. 

The large increase in transactions is probably due to the enact- 
ment of the law mentioned in the preceding paragraph and to the 
general knowledge that the Government intend to improve the 
conditions of land tenure. 

382 transactions, verified and approved as far back as 1925, were 
found to be unregistered. The parties were therefore notified 
that unless registration was concluded by the 31st December, the 
approval would be cancelled. In this way, 164 of the transactions 
were registered and the rest cancelled. 


6. State Domains.—64,301 dunums of State Domain were sur- 
veyed and the boundaries determined. Rent of leased State 
Domains was hitherto collected on the basis of crop estimation. 
15,478 dunums of the surveyed area are now leased on a fixed 
annual rent of £P.962, whereas on the previous rental basis the 
average revenue, from 1926 to 1930, was only £P.656. 


220 


7. The state ownership of an area of 6,673 dunums in the 
Jordan Valley had been disputed since 1920, and no revenue could 
be collected. To avoid expensive litigation, an agreement was 
concluded this year with the cultivators who thereby admit the 
Government title and that title is transferred to them on payment 
of a redemption price of 300 mils a dunum. 

8. Various small holdings of State Domain, mostly uncultivated, 
were sold to encourage cultivation or facilitate building. 

The resulting revenue was £P.1,332, whereas the annual 
revenue from rents in respect of these properties from 1926 to 1929 
was the negligible amount of £P.32.071 mils. 

9. Only four claims by cultivators to ownership of State Domains 
were instituted. The facility for the disposal of such lands given 
by the Law of 1929 (see Annual Report for 1929, page 153) 
encourages cultivators to purchase from Government, in preference 
to embarking on costly and prolonged litigation. 


X.—PUBLIC WORES. 


Three hundred and sixty-one kilometres of road were fully main- 
tained and 469 kilometres overhauled after the rains. As a means 
of economy, the maintenance men hitherto assigned to road-sections 
were replaced by small gangs each working under a headman. 

Three kilometres of the Amman-Salt road were re-aligned. to 
eliminate an awkward length, and metalled; and the road from 
Amman to and through the railway station was re-surfaced and 
tarred. 

A subsidiary road has been constructed so that traffic from Salt 
to the railway station need not pass through Amman. 

The Ma’an-Petra road was extended to the village of Wadi Musa, 
for the greater convenience of visitors. 

In the Ajlun District, 122 kilometres of new roads joining 30 
villages to the main highway, and in the Belqa Distrct 13 kilo- 
metres, were opened by the villagers, working under the super- 
vision of foremen on the staff of the Public Works Department, 
which provided the necessary tools and blasting powder. 

2. All Government buildings were inspected twice during the 
year and necessary maintenance and minor new works carried out. 
Extraordinary works included the building of stables for the Arab 
Legion at Amman, and the conversion of the former barracks at 
the same place into a prison. 


XI.— ANTIQUITIES. 


Financial stringency made it necessary to confine conservation at 
Jerash to care and maintenance. 

The lower part of the great gate in the Temple of Artemis was, 
however, consolidated up to the cornices and the centre of the 
Nymphaeum temporarily supported to prevent further deterioration. 


221 


2. The inspectoral staff of the Government Department of Anti- 
quities has been reorganized in such a way as to ensure due respon- 
sibility for control, inspection, and exploration in each District. 

The Antiquities Law is about to be amended on the lines of the 
Palestine Antiquities Ordinance of 1929. 


3. Yale University Associates and the American School of 
Oriental] Research were given a permit to excavate at Jerash, and 
the Pontifical Institute of Jerusalem continued work at Tel El 
Ghassul in the Jordan Valley, on exploration of early neolithic 
culture. 

The Italian Oriental Mission is engaged on the site of the ancient 
Rabath Ammon. 


XII.—_THE ARAB LEGION. 


The Arab Legion is primarily responsible for public security but 
includes Prison and Passport Sections. It consists of town foot 
police, rural police both foot and mounted, and prison guards. A 
special section mounted in motor cars or on camels, for patrolling 
and policing the Beduin area, is being formed. 

There are five police areas and a special Beduin area. Hach 
police area, corresponding to an Administrative District, is governed 
by a Mutessarrif or Kaimakam. 

The policing of the Beduin area will be entrusted to a special 
force recruited from the Beduin tribes, under the command of a 
British officer (see Introductory Section, paragraph 3). 

All cases of crimes and raids in this area are tried by a special 
tribunal known as the Beduin Control Board, which is directly 
responsible to the Amir. 


2. There is a steady improvement in the sanitation and hygiene 
of the prisons and the scale of diet has been increased. The 
general health of prisoners was satisfactory. 


3. Public security was well maintained throughout the year, 
except in the Beduin area; roads have been free from brigandage 
and no attempt was made to interfere with the telephone lines. 


4. The installation of telephones in Police Posts is being 
gradually carried out, and in a twelvemonth no post will be 
without telephone or wireless. 


5. There is little indication of any traffic in drugs in Trans- 
Jordan : their use is unknown to the great majority of the popula- 
tion. The minute quantities of hashish seized from time to time 
were found in the possession of foreigners. Pharmacies in which 
drugs are sold are vigilantly controlled by the Police and Public 
Health Department. 





222 


APPENDIX I. 


REGULATION DEFINING THE CONSTITUTION OF AND SYSTEM OF ELECTION TO THE 
ELECTED ASSEMBLY OF THE JEWISH COMMUNITY. 


(Made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 12 of the Jewish 
Community Regulations, 1927.) 


1. The number of members of the Elected Assembly shall be seventy-one. 


2. Not later than one month from the date of the approval of this 
Regulation, and thereafter, not later than three months from the date of | 
the expiry of the term of the Elected Assembly, the General Council (Va’ad © 
Leumi) shall set up a Central Electoral Committee to conduct the election 
to the Elected Assembly throughout Palestine. The General Council (Va’ad 
Leumi) shall appoint to the Central Electoral Committee such number of per- 
sons as they shall deem fit from among the persons entitled to vote in the 
election to the Elected Assembly, due regard being paid to the various 
parties in the Jewish Community. The Centra] Electoral Committee shal] 
appoint in each Local Community a Local Electoral Committee, from among 
the persons entitled to vote in the election, due regard being paid to the 
various parties in the Local Community. 


3. The General Council shall determine the date of the election which | 
shall last one day only and shall be held on the same day throughout 
Palestine. 


4. The election to the Elected Assembly shall be general, direct, equal, 
secret and proportional. 


5. For the purpose of this Regulation, Palestine shall be deemed to be one 
electoral area. 


6. Every Jew of either sex whose name is included in the Register of the 
Jewish Community and who has attained the age of twenty years completed 
shall be eligible to vote in the election to the Elected Assembly, provided 
that no person shall be registered as a voter in more than one Local 
Community. 


7. Every Jew of either sex whose name is included in the Register of 
the Jewish Community, who has attained the age of twenty-five, has been 
resident in Palestine not less than one year, and can read, write and speak 
Hebrew shall be eligible to be elected as a member of the Elected Assembly. 


8. Every Local Electoral Committee shall, within one month from the 
date of its appointment, prepare a list of persons eligible to vote in the 
election to the Elected Assembly. A copy of such list shall be published bv 
being affixed to or by the door of the office of the Local Community or Local 
Council, or of such synagogues and other public buildings as the Local 
Electoral Committee shall determine. The list shall remain affixed for a 
period of at least three weeks prior to the date of the election. The list 
shall contain the name and surname of the voter, his father’s name and his 
address. The list shall be prepared in the alphabetical order of the surnames 
of the voters and to the name of each voter shall be allotted a serial 
number. 


9. Any person who is entitled to be included in such list or who claims to 
be so entitled may, within eight days from the date on which the list was 
affixed, lodge an appeal in writing with the Local Electoral Committee 
against the wrongful inclusion of a name in such list or its wrongful omission 
therefrom. Within five days from the date on which it was lodged, the Local 
Electoral Committee shall hear such appeal in the presence of the appellant 
and the person whose name was alleged to have been wrongfully included in 
or omitted from the list, and, on being satisfied that the appeal is valid, 


ASS eee, eee ee 


eS tee 


223 


shall amend the list accordingly. If the appellant fails to appear before 
the Local Electoral Committee on the date appointed for the hearing 
of the appeal, the appeal shall be determined by the Local Electoral Com- 
mittee in default. Seven days prior to the day of the election the list 
of voters shall be signed and copies thereof sent to the Central Electoral 
Committee. No appeal shall be accepted after the list has been signed 
and no changes shall be made therein. The election shall not be invalidated 
by reason of the inclusion or omission of a voter’s name in contravention 
of the provisions of this paragraph. 


10. Not later than three days prior to the day of the election, the 
Local Electoral Committee shall provide every voter within its area with a 
voter’s card bearing the serial number allotted to his name which shall 
entitle him to vote in the election to the Elected Assembly. A voter’s 
card shall not be transferable. Any person whose name is included in 
the signed list of voters who has not received a voter’s card shall apply 
to the Local Electoral Committee for a card prior to the completion of 
the election, and the shall be furnished therewith by the Committee. 


11. Any group of not less than 3 voters shall be entitled to submit a 
list of candidates for election to the Local Electoral Committee, not 
later than one week before the day of the election. The list shall be 
accompanied by a letter or telegram from each candidate expressing his 
consent to be nominated for election. If all the candidates in a list are 
eligible to be elected members of the Assembly, the Local Electoral Com- 
mittee shall allot a serial number to such list. Any list of candidates so 
numbered may then be published. At the top of each list of candidates 
shail be inscribed the name of the group of voters or party, or the serial 
number of the list, or both name and number. The Local Electoral Com- 
mittee shall forward to the Central Electoral Committee all the serially 
numbered lists of candidates. Any candidate may stand for election in more 
than one place, and his name may be included in more than one list. Each 
party shall supply the Central Electoral Committee with a statement of 
its candidates in all places in Palestine. 


12. The Central Electoral Committee shall determine in which places 
polling stations shal) be provided and shall publish a notice containing a 
list of such places. Not less than one member of the Local Electoral Com- 
mittee shall be in attendance at each polling station. Any candidate may 
be present or represented at the polling station. 


13. The following articles shall be available at each polling station during 

the whole day of the election :— 

(a) a copy of the list of voters of the town, village or quarter; 

(b) a ballot-box provided with a lock and key; 

(c) an adequate supply of the printed lists of candidates; 

(d) a supply of envelopes bearing the mark of the Local Electoral 

Committee; and 

(e) a table for use by voters. 
Copies of the lists of candidates shall be placarded in conspicuous places 
in each polling station. 

14. Every voter shall bring with him, or shall obtain at the polling 
station, a copy of the printed list of candidates for which he desires to 
vote or a blank sheet of paper. The printed lists of voters shall be on white 
paper and of dimensions and size prescribed by the Central Electoral 
Committee. 


15. A voter who uses a printed list of candidates may delete the name 
of one or more candidates, but he shall not add any name to the list. A 
voter who has not used a printed list of candidates may write on a blank 


224 


sheet of paper the name or names of a candidate or candidates and indicate 
at the top of the sheet the name or number of the list of candidates for 
which he desires that his vote should be counted. 


16. On admission to the polling station each voter shall deliver his 
voter’s card and shall state his name and surname, his father’s name and 
his address. The number of the Local Electoral Committee in attendance 
shall place a mark against the name of such voter in the signed list of 
voters. The member of the Local Electoral Committee shall then deliver 
to the voter an envelope bearing the mark of the Local Electoral Com- 
mittee. The voter shall put in the envelope the printed list or written 
names of candidates for which he wishes to vote and shall place it in the 
ballot box in the presence of the member of the Local Electoral Committee, 
who shall thereupon endorse the voter's card with the word ‘‘ voted ”’ 
and shall retain it. 


17. As soon as practicable after the close of the election, but not later 
than the day following the day of the election, the ballot box shall be 
opened by the Local Electoral Committee at its office. The total number 
of all used printed lists of candidates (or votes) and the numbers of votes 
received by each party shall be counted, as well as the number of voters’ 
cards which were retained by the members of the Local Electoral Com- 
mittee in attendance at the polling stations. If the counting of the votes 
has not been completed in one eitting, the Local Electoral Committee 
shall take the necessary steps to ensure the safe keeping of the votes 
during the interval. Any candidate may be present at the opening of the 
ballot-box and at the counting of the votes. 


18. Any list of candidates not enclosed in an envelope bearing the mark 
of the Local Electoral Committee shall be void and not counted. If more 
than one list of candidates be enolosed in an envelope all of them shall be 
void and not counted. If any names have been added to a list of candidates 
the whole list shall be void and not counted. 


19. A report on the results of the election signed by all members of the 
Local Electoral Committee shall be forwarded within two days to the 
Central Electoral Committee together with the used lists of candidates 
and a statement of the total number of all votes cast, the number of 
votes cast for each party, and the number of deletions of the name of 
each candidate. 


20. When all the reports have been received from all Local Electoral 
Committees, the Central Electoral Committee shall proceed to the com- 
putation of the grand total of the votes cast. This total shall be divided 
by 71. The number of votes cast for each party list of candidates shall 
be divided by this quotient, and the integral number in the result shall 
be the number of the candidates elected from each list to be members of 
the Elected Assembly. Any seats in the Elected Assembly left vacant 
after such distribution shall be allocated in order to those parties which 
retained the largest remainder of votes after division of the number of 
the votes cast for the party by the quotient. The leaders of any party 
may come to an agreement with those of any other party regarding the 
combination of remainders of votes. The details of such agreement shall 
be notified by the parties concerned to the Central Hlectoral Committee 
not less than three days before the day of the election. 


21. On each list of candidates the candidate whose name appears higher 
in the list shall be regarded as elected in preference to a candidate whose 
name appears lower in the list; provided that, if the name of a candidate 
has been deleted in more than half the lists of candidates, he shall take 
priority after candidates whose names have been deleted less often without 


225 


regard to the place occupied by his name in the list. The Centra] Elec 
toral Committee shall compute the total number of votes received by each 
candidate in all lists of candidates in all Local Communities in Palestine. 


22. Not later than one week from the day by which all reports were 
received from all Local Electoral Committees, the Central Electoral Com- 
mittee shall determine the number of members elected from each list of 
candidates and at each place, and shall publish the names of al} members 
Indicating at which place each was elected. A member who has been 
elected in more than one place shall notify the Central Electoral Committee 
of the place for which he chooses to be a member. 


23. Any candidate who considers that the conduct of the election or the 
distribution of seats in the Elected Assembly is in contravention of the pro- 
visions of this Regulation may lodge an appeal in writing with the Central 
Electoral Committee within five days from the date on which the list of 
elected members is published. If the appeal concerns the conduct of the 
election by a Local Electoral Committee, the Central Electoral Committee 
shall send a copy of the appeal to the Local Electoral Committee for tts 
report within two days from the date on which it receives a copy of the 
appeal. Within one week from the date of the receipt of the appeal or, if 
it has been referred to the Local Electoral Committee, within one week 
from the date of the receipt of the report of the Local Electoral Committee, 
the Central Electoral Committee shall determine whether the appeal is 
accepted or rejected. If the appeal be accepted, the Central Electoral 
Committee shall determine whether the appeal should be referred to the 
Elected Assembly for a decision on the action to be taken, or whether a 
fresh election shall be held in general or in a particular place. If the Central 
Electoral Committee decides to hold a fresh election in a particular place, 
it shall notify the Local Electoral Committee concerned, which shall hold a 
fresh election within one week from the date of the receipt of notice from 
the Central Electoral Committee. 


24. The Central Electoral Committee shall provide each member of the 
Elected Assembly with a certificate that he has been properly elected, indi- 
cating the place at which he has been elected. There shall be a right of 
appeal from the decision of the Central Electoral Committee in this matter 
to the Elected Assembly whose decision shall be final. 


25. If a seat in the Elected Assembly is vacated by reason of the death or 
Tesignation of a member, it shall be filled by the candidate whose name 
appears next on the list of candidates in which the name of the former 
member is included. 


TRANSITORY PROVISIONS. 


(The following provisions shall apply only in the first election of members 
to the Elected Assembly held after the approval of this Regulation.) 


26. Notwithstanding any provision in the preceding paragraphs of this 
Regulation, the Central Electoral Committee shall allocate a number of 
seats in the Elected Assembly to Sephardic and Yemenite candidates in pro- 
portion to the total numbers of Sephardim and Yemenites respectively on 
the Register of the Jewish Community, irrespective of the numbers of votes 
cast for Sephardic and Yemenite lists of candidates. 


27. The lists of Sephardic and Yemenite candidates shall contain only 
the names of Sephardim and Yemenites respectively, and shall be prepared 
in accordance with all the provisions of this Regulation. The lists shall 
either be passed at general meetings of the Sephardic and Yemenite Com- 
munities respectively convened by the Committee of each community, or 
drawn up by members of the respective communities who do not attend the 
general meetings. 


10086 H 


28. The distribution of seats allotted to Sephardic members in the Elected 
Assembly between different lists of Sephardic candidates shall be determined 
by the relative number of votes received by each of the different lists of 
Sephardic candidates; and similarly with the distribution of seats between 
different lists of Yemenite candidates. 


99. The leaders of any Sephardic party may come to an agreement with 
those of any other Sephardic party, but may not come to an agreement with 
those of any non-Sephardic party, regarding the combination of the re- 
mainder of votes to which paragraph 21 of this Regulation refers; and 
similarly with the leaders of any Yemenite party. 


On behalf of the General Council 
(Va’ad Leumi) 
13th February, 1930. 
J. Ben-ZEvIE 
J. MEYUHAS 
Cu. SaLoMon 


Approved. 
J. R. CHANCELLOR, 
15th February, 1930. High Commissioner. 
APPENDIX II. 
CoNcESSIONS. 


(i) Dead Sea Concession. 


(See Appendix XIV on pages 222-223 of Annual Report for 1929.) 


In 1930, about 80 hectares of the clay flats were converted into evaporat- 
ing basins. Pumping engines and other plant were installed and a light 
railway was constructed. Several thousand tons of carnallite were pro- 
duced; and some bituman, collected from the shores of the Dead Sea, 
was exported to Germany. The majority of the skilled workers are Jews 
and the unskilled workers are Arabs from Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


The Directors of the Company are the following :— 


The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Lytton, P.C., G.C.S.I., G.C.I.E., British. 
Ernest William Dalrymple Tennant, British. 
Lieut.-Col. Harold Josiah Solomon, O.B.E., M.C., 
Lieut.-Col. David Lyell, C.M.G., C.B.E., D.S.O., 
Mr. Bernard Flexner, U.S.A. 

Mr. Felix Warburg, U.S.A. 

Mr. Israel Benjamin Brodie, U.S.A. 

Mr. Edward Friedman, U.S.A. 

Major Thomas Gregorie Tulloch (late R.A.), M.I.A.E., British. 
Mr. Moise Novomeysky, M.Inst.M.M., Palestinian. 


Tire text of the Concession was printed in Appendix II to the Report 
for 1929. 


F.R.G.S., British. 
British. 


(11) Huleh Concession. 


A Concession for draining the marshes around Lake Huleh in the Safad 
Sub-District within a period of six vears was granted in 1914 by the 
Ottoman Government to Selim Bey Salam, a notable ot Beirut. The area 
involved is roughly 12,000 acres. 


227 


The War intervened to prevent the execution of the drainage works. 
After the War, the Concessionaires applied to the Administration in 
Palestine for the recognition of the Concession, and it was recognized. 

Negotiations then took place with a view to the grant of a readapted 
Concession, having regard to the change in economic and general con- 
ditions in Palestine. An agreement for the grant of an amended Conces- 
sion was signed on the 29th February, 1924, but the Concessionaires failed 
to carry out the terms of this Agreement within the period prescribed. 
They accordingly re-asserted their rights under the Ottoman Concession. 
These rights were admitted by the Government of Palestine and the Con- 
cessionaires were given possession of the Concession area on the Ist January, 
1929. 

The preparation of plans by the Concessionaires for the preliminary 
measures of drainage took a considerable time, and many chanyes had to be 
made in them before the plans were ready to be approved by the Govern- 
ment. Approval was given to the plans on the 16th January, 1931. The 
period of six years within which the whole of the drainage works must be 
completed runs from that date. 


Directors :— 


Selim A. Salam Bey, Syrian. 

Haj Zakarivah Eff. Nsouhi, Syrian. 
Abdul Rahman Bevhun Bey, Ottoman. 
Mohammad Ali Beyhun Bey, Ottoman. 
Amin Beyhun Bey, Ottoman. 


(i111) Afavrommatis Concession. 


In 1925, the International Court of Justice at The Hague decided that 
the pre-War Ottoman Concessions held by Euripides Mavrommatis, a Greek 
subject, for the generation and supply of electricity, supply of water, and 
construction of tramways in the Jerusalem area, were valid, but should be 
adapted to the changed economic conditions in accordance with the Conces- 
sions Protocol attached to the Treaty of Lausanne. Experts were accord- 
ingly appointed by Mr. Mavrommatis and by His Majesty’s Government for 
the purpose, and the modification of the Concession was accomplished at the 
end of 1925. 

The new forms of Concessions were signed in February, 1926. 

The Electricity Concession was assigned to the Jerusalem Electric and 
Public Service Corporation, a Company with a capital of £P.500,000 regis- 
tered under the laws of Palestine, which fulfilled the financial and technical 
conditions set by the Government. The Company started work in 1928 on 
the construction of the power station and the laying out of the underground 
cable distribution system. In 1929, the power station was completed; and 
current was distributed in November of that year. At the end of 1930 the 
number of consumers supplied had reached 2,800. 


Directors (all of British nationality) :— 


William Shearer, Esq., 66, Queen Street, London, Chairman. 

L. Le Bouvier, Esq., Ottoman Bank, Jerusalem. 

Sir Archibald B. Bovd-Carpenter, M.P., Riverhouse, Walton-on- 
Thames. 

Sir John H. B. Noble, Bart., Ardkinglass, Inverary. 

John G. B. Stone, Esq., 27, Old Broad Street, London. 


(iv) Concession for the Transit of Mineral Oils through Palestine. 


A Convention between the Palestine Government and the ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company was sigred on the 5th January, 1931, for the laying by the Com- 
pany of a pipeline from the ‘Iraq oilfields across Palestine to a point on the 


10035 H 2 


228 


Palestine coast. The text of this Convention is given in Appendix III to this 
Report; an identical Convention was entered into by the Company with the 
Trans-Jordan Government. 

The fulfilment of these Conventions is contingent on the Company’s reach- 
ing similar agreements with the Governments of ‘Iraq and Syria; and the 
Conventions may be cancelled if such agreements are not reached avithin 
three years or the pipeline is not Jaid within eight years. 


Directors : — 
Sir John Cadman, G.O.M.G., British. 
Husain A. Afnan Beg., ‘Iraqi. 
Andrew Agnew, Esq., C.B.E., British. 
Robert Cayrol, D.S.O., D.S.C., French. 
Sir H. W. A. Deterding, K.B.E., Dutch. 
W. Fraser, Esq., C.B.E., British. 
C. S. Gulbenkian, Esq., British. 
Sir John B. Idoyd, British. 
Ernest Mercier, Isq., C.M.G., French. 
Montagu Picrre, Esq., British. 
H. G. Siedel, Esq., U.S.A. 


(v) Rutenberg Concessions. 


In 1921, an Agreement was signed for the grant by the Palestine Govern- 
ment of a Concession for the generation and distribution of electricity 
throughout Palestine to Mr. Pinhas Rutenberg, an electrical engineer, who 
had prepared, after prolonged investigation, a scheme for the utilisation for 
this purpose of the water-power of the upper waters of the Jordan and its 
tributary, the Yarmuk. He was to form a Company with a capital of not 
less than £1,000,000. The subscription of a minimum of £200,000, stipu- 
lated as a condition of the Concession, was made within the period specified. 
The Concession was eventually signed on the 5th March, 1926. 

A second Company, known as the Jaffa Electric Company, with a capital 
of £100,000, also formed by Mr. Rutenberg, and operating under a parallel 
Concession limited to the Jaffa district, constructed a fuel-power station at 
Tel-Aviv, which began working in June, 1923. The capacity of this station 
is 2,625 h.p.; the distribution system extends to the Jewish colonies north 
and south of Jaffa and the Royal Air Force cantonments at Ramleh. Under 
the Jaffa Concession, a beginning has also been made of distributing water 
for irrigation from the Auja river: some 6,000 dunums are already 
irrigated. 

The larger Company, known as the Palestine Electric Corporation, pro- 
vided similar stations at Haifa and Tiberias in 1925. When the Jordan 
supply becomes available these stations will be maintained as reserves in 
case of emergency. The first hydro-electric station will produce 24,000 h.p. 
for 24 hours a day, and others can be added in future, as the conditions 
may demand, up to a total output of 300,000 h.p. 

In 1927, the Palestine Electric Corporation acquired the Jaffa Electric 
Company’s rights, and granted it a licence to continue its operations. 

The rights were transferred to the Palestine Electric Corporation on terms 
which assure the discharge by the Corporation of all the obligations and 
responsibilities, technical and financial, of the Company under its Concession 
vis-d-vis the Palestine Government. ; 

The High Commissioner in December, 1930, approved of the voluntary 
winding-up of the Jaffa Electric Company and the transfer of all its assets 
and liabilities, together with the surrender of its licence, to the Palestine 
Electric Corporation. Separate books will continue, however, to be kept 
of the accounte of each Concession Area, so long as the Concessions remain 
separate. The question of amalgamating the Concessions is mow under 
consideration. 


! 
| 


i 


229 


Rapid and éatisfactory progress has been made at the works of the 
Palestine Electric Corporation at Jisr el Majamie on the Jordan hydro- 
electric scheme; the Yarmuk dam, the Penstock sluices and power house, the 
Jordan-Yarmuk and head-race canals and the gathering basin were com- 
pleted by the end of 1930. Road and railway bridges span the head-canal, 
a transmission line passes from the works to the village of Degania on Lake 
Tiberias, and high tension lines have been erected to carry current. 

Under its Concession, the Corporation was due to supply current from the 
Jordan works on lst March, 1931. On the 13th February, 1931, however, a 
flood of unprecedented violence descending the Yarmuk river broke through 
the right bank of the head-race canal and caused serious and extensive 
damage to the transformer house and plant. It therefore became necessary 
for the High Commissioner to grant the Corporation twelve months’ exten- 
sion Of the period within which current is to be supplied from the Jordan 
Works. 

For the same reason, the Corporation has applied for permission to in- 
crease its capital by £P.300,000. 


The following dividends have been paid by the Jaffa Electric Company :-— 


1925 6 per cent. on the ordinary shares. 
1926 6 per cent. on ordinary and 8 per cent. on preference shares. 
1927. 6 per cent. on ordinary and 8 per cent. on prefererce shares. 


1928 
1929 > Nil. 
1930 

The Palestine Eiectric Corporation has not yet declared a dividend. 


The Directors of the Palestine Electric Corporation during 1930 were :— 
The Most Honourable the Marquis of Reading, G.C.B., G.C.S.I., 
G.C.I.E., G.C.V.O., Chairman, British. 
Pinchas Rutenberg, Managing Director, Palestinian. 
Sir Louis B. Baron, Bt., British. 
M. Henry Franck, French. 
Dr. Georg Halpern, Polish. 
Sir Hugo Hirst, Bt., British. 
The Right Honourable Lord Melchett, P.C., LL.D., F.R.S8., British. 
Mr. I. A. Naiditch, French. 
Mr. M. O. Nassatisin, Lithuanian. 
Dr. A. H. Railing, British. 
The Honourable James de Rothschild, M.P., British. 
Mr. Harry Sacher, Britieh. 


The Directors of the Jaffa Electric Company were :— 


Pinchas Rutenberg, Palestinian. 
Harry Sacher, British. 
Siegfried Hoofien, Dutch. 
Solomon Horowitz, British. 
G. Shapiro, Palestinian. 
Dr. Georg Halpern, Polish. 
The terms of the Jordan and Auja Concessions are set out in the Schedule 


to the Electricity Concessions Ordinance, No. 9 of 1927, of which the text 


| 
| 
| 


is to be found in the Annual Volume of Ordinances for that year, page 33. 


(vi) Tiberias Baths Concession. 

The proposed Concession is a readaptation of a Concession for the ex- 
ploitation of the mineral springs at Tiberias granted in 1330 A.H., by the 
Ottoman Government to certain Ottoman nationals. 

The rights under the Turkish Concession were acquired in January, 1928, 
by the ‘‘ Hamei Tiberia ’’ (Tiberias Hot Springs) Company, Limited, with 
the directorate mentioned below. 


10035 H 3 


230 


On the 17th April, 1929, the Government made a preliminary Agreement 
with the Company, which provides that the Concession, as amended, should 
be granted for a period of 40 years, provided that within eighteen months 
the Company should form a limited Company registered in Palestine with 
an authorized capital of not less than £P.50,000, of which £P.10,000 shall 
be subscribed in cash. 

Under the lease then to be granted, the Company will be required to 
construct and equip, in accordance with plans to be approved by the High 
Commissioner, a thermal bath establishment at Tiberias at a cost of not less 
than £P.40,000. 

The Company will have also the right, if it so wishes, to erect a hotel. 

Owing to the difficulty experienced in raising its capital on account of the 
prevalent financial depression, the Company was granted an extension, 
until the lst October, 1931, of the time during which it is required to 
implement the terms of the Agreement. 

The text of the Agreement appeared as Appendix III to the Report 
for 1929. 


Directors :— 
Mr. Bernard A. Rosenblatt, U.S.A. 
Mr. Joshua Suprasky, Palestinian. 
Mr. Louis Rosenblatt, U.S.A. 
Mr. Jacob Gesundheit, British. 
Mr. Isaac Rokach, Palestinian. 
Mr. Bernard Joseph, British. 


(vil) Lighthouse Concession. 


The Directors of the Administration Générale des Phares de Palestine 
are the following :— 


MM. Collas and Michel, 12, Rue Gaillon, Paris, French. 
Comte Pierre de Vauréal, Paris, French. 
M. Laferriére, Constantinople, French. 


APPENDIX ITI. 


CONVENTION REGULATING THE TRANSIT OF MINERAL O1Ls or ‘IRAQ PETROLEUM 
Company LIMITED THROUGH THE TERRITORY OF PALESTINE. 


Tis CONVENTION made the fifth day of January, 1931, BETWEEN the High 
Commissioner for Palestine (hereinafter called ‘‘ the High Commissioner ’’) 
of the one part and ‘Iraq PETROLEUM Company LIMITED a company incorpo- 
rated in Ergland whose registered office in England is situate at King 
William Street House, Arthur Street, in the City of London (hereinafter 
called ‘‘ the Company ’’) which expression wherever used shall be deemed 
to include its assigns or any duly constituted subsidiary or associated com- 
pany or any other company which may be recognised under Article XXVI 
as being formed or emploved ‘by the Company for the purpose of constructing, 
maintaining or operating pipe-lines, refineries or works ancillary thereto 
which form the subject of this Convention, of the other part. 


‘WHernas the Company was incorporated on the 3lst day of January, 1911, 
under the Companies (Corsolidation) Act, 1908, under the style of African 
and Eastern Concessions Limited, which style with effect from the 23rd 
October, 1912, was changed to Turkish Petroleum Company Limited, which 
stvle with effect from the 8th June, 1929, was changed to ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company Limited. 


231 


AND WHEREAS on the 14th day of March, 1925, a Convention (hereinafter 
called ‘‘ the ‘Iraq Concession,’’ which expression shall include any extension 
or modification thereof) was entered into between the Government of ‘Iraq 
of the one part, and the Company of the other part, whereby the said 
_ | Government granted to the Company the exclusive right to explore, prospect, 
drill for, extract and render suitable for trade petroleum, naphtha, natural 
gases, ozOokerite and the derivatives thereof, upon the terms, and subject to 
-he conditions and provisions in the ‘Iraq Concession described or contained. 


AND WHEREAS the Company, in connection with the exploitation of the 
‘Iraq Concession, is desirous of laying a pipe-line or pipe-lines from ‘Iraq to 
~fatermiral port on the Mediterranean coast, the said pipe-line traversing the 
territory of Palestine, and for the purposes of this Convention of erecting 
- fand maintaining within that territory offices, pumping stations, workshops, 
- |swres, storage tanks for oil and water, bridges, residences for employees, 
rail and tram lires, aerial ropeways or telferage, roads, rolling stock, over- 
' [head or underground cable lines, ferries, road, water and aerial transport, 
}zerodromes, electric cables (whether overhead or underground), telegraph 
ard telephone lines, wireless installations, refineries, tank farms, hospitals, 

power schemes, oil, gas and water lines, either exposed, buried, or sub- 
merged, ard other works (whether of the kind aforesaid or not) appertain- 
ing or auxiliary thereto (all of which works are hereinafter collectively in- 
cuded in the expression ‘‘ the undertaking ’’). 


AND WHEREAS the High Commissioner, in consideration of the benefits 
which the country will derive from the undertaking, is desirous of facili- 
tating the undertakirg by the means prescribed in this Convention. 


Now IT Is HEREBY AGREED between the High Commissioner and the Com- 
pany in the manner following : — 


ArrTIoun I. 


The High Commissioner grants by these presents to the Company 
the right (hereinafter called ‘‘ the concession ’’) to corstruct, maintain, 
and operate one or more pipe-lines and all the works ancillary thereto, 
and to do all things necessary for the undertaking, cn the following 
conditions. 


ARTICLE IT. 


The duration of the concession shall be for seventy years from the 
date of signature hereof. 


Before beginning the laying of the pipe-line the Company shall 
submit to the High Commissioner plans showing the lands in which the 
pipe-line is to be laid and the lands on or over which any pumpirg 
station, refineries or other works of the undertaking are to be erected, 
such plans to be of a character which will enable the High Commissioner 
to cause the ownership of the said lands to be ascertained. 


The pipe-line shall terminate im Acre Bay, provided that if it be 
found impracticable for the pipe-line to terminate in the locality afore- 
Said it shall terminate at such point on the coast of Palestine as may 
be agreed between the High Commissioner and the Company. 


If the Company desire to lay more than one pipe-lire, the pipe-lines 
laid by the Company shall be contiguous, provided that the Company 
may, if it be found necessary to lay pipe-lines which are not contiguous, 
lay such pipe-lines after having first submitted such plans as aforesaid 
and obtained the consert of the High Commissioner to lay pipe-lines 
in accordance with the said plans, such consent not to be unreasonably 


withheld, or delayed. 
10035 H 4 


+ 
‘ te 
— ee = 


Rights granted 
to Company. 


Duration of 
Concession. 


Submission of 
plans, 


Pipe- line to 
terminate in 
Acre Bay. 


Pipe-lines to 
be contiguous. 





‘urrender of 
roperty at 
xpiration uf 
‘oncession. 


-bandonment. 


‘oly Places. 
ntiquities. 


xemption 
‘om tax on 
roducts. 


ocal 
arketing. 


ustoms’ 
ities. Import 
1es and 
cilities. 


232 


At the expiration of the Concession the rights granted to the Com- 
pany under this Corvention shall determine and all the immovable 
property of the Company and all fixtures in Palestine, which property 
and fixtures are part of the undertaking, shall become the property 
of the High Commissioner free of charge, provided that on or before 
the expiration of the Concession, should the Company so desire, the 
High Commissioner undertakes to corsider sympathetically an extension 
or renewal of the Concession on terms to be agreed, and provided 
further that the High Commissioner may require the Company to 
remove on the expiration of the Concession any of the said fixtures, 
other than the pipe-line or pipe-lines, which the High Commissioner 
may reasonably require the Company to remove. 


The Company shall have the right to abandon permanently to the 
High Commissioner all rights hereunder, upon giving three monthe’ 
notice in writirg of its intention so to do, and this Convention shall 
absolutely determine on the date fixed for such determination in such 
notice, and if such notice be given not later than 25 years after the 
date of this Convention the Company shall be ertitled, on such deter- 
mination, to remove, free of all taxes and duties, all plant, buildings, 
stores, material and property of every sort, provided that for a period 
of three months from the receipt of such notice the High Commissioner 
may purchase the same at the price equal to the replacement value at 
that date, less depreciation, which price shall be agreed or, failing 
agreement, settled under Article XXIV. 


ARTICLE III. 


No works of the undertaking may be erected within the precincts of 
cemeteries, places used for religious worship and places of antiquity as 
echeduled or as defined in the Antiquity Laws or Regulations. 

Works of art and antiquities discovered during construction shall 
be subject to the regulations relatirg thereto. 


ARTICLE IV. 


No import tax, transit tax, export tax or other tax, or fiscal charge 
of any sort shall be levied on petroleum, naphtha, ozokerite, natural 
gases, whether in a crude state or any form of derivatives thereof, 
whether intended for consignment in transit or utilized for the industrial 
operations of the urdertaking. 


If the said products, crude or refined, are marketed locally for con- 
sumption in Palestine or if they are utilized for requirements other 
than those of the undertaking they will be subjected to the same duties 
and fiscal charges, including import dues, as are leviable on similar 
products in Palestine. 

The conditions of the sale of such products in the local market will 
form the subject of an arrangement between the High Commissioner 
and the Company. 


ARTICLE V. 


The Company shall be entitled to import into Palestine free of 
Customs’ duties or other importation dues (which duties and/or dues 
are hereinafter collectively referred to as “import dues’’) all stores, 
equipment, materials and other things whatsoever which may be neces 
sary for the works of the undertaking and for its transportation put- 
poses, including all equipment for offices, houses, hospitals or other 
buildings, which will be the property of the Company and used for 
its operations (all which stores, equipment, materials and other things 
whatsoever are hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘‘ materials ’’). 


233 


Materials imported free of import dues if they should be sold by the 
Company for use in Palestine shall be liable to the import dues leviable 
at the time of such sale on similar materials. 

The Company shall be entitled to re-export free of dues materials 
imported free of import dues. 

In view of the exceptional nature of the undertaking, the High 
Commissioner will cause special facilities to be granted to the Company, 
if necessary, for the import of materials at points convenient to the 
Company, and will permit the loading and unloading of ships and the 
import ard export of cargo at all times, whether by day or night, and 
on public holidays. The Company for its part undertakes to erect and 
maintain any special buildings that may be necessary for this purpose 
and to pay the additional fees of Customs officials prescribed by 
Regulations. 

All things and materials imported or exported by the Company’s 
employees for their personal use, or imported by the Company for sale 
to its employees, shall be liable to the import dues im force. 

No refund of the duties paid on materials purchased locally by the 
Company will be made, but orders placed by the Company with local 
merchants for materials which under this Convention are exempt from 
import dues shall, on importation, be likewise exempted from import 
dues; all such orders must be notified to the Customs authorities and 
must be supported by a certificate signed on behalf of the Company 
and approved by the Customs authorities, declaring that such orders 
have been placed for the account of the Company, and for the require- 
ments of the undertaking. 


Artiote VI. 


The High Commissioner will cause steps to be taken to ensure that 
the Port Authorities of the Port of Haifa or of such other port as may 
be used by the Company shall afford every facility to the Company 
and ite contractors for the unloading and handling of cargo. 

The Company shall be entitled to use its own lighters, launches, 
and other craft in the Port of Haifa or such other port as may be 
used by the Compary for the purposes of the undertaking, and in 
agreement with the Customs Authorities to store the materials required 
for the purposes of the undertaking in its own enclosures and sheds. 

Ships owned or specially chartered by the Company shall pay port 
dues and the Company shall pay cranage, wharfage, lighterage and 
other harbour dues on schedules of special rates to be agreed between 
the High Commissiorer and the Company in the compilation of which 
schedules regard shall be had to the large tonnage of materials to 
be handled. 


ArTIcLE VII. 


The High Commissioner will cause to be given every facility for 
the construction, maintenance and use by the Company, should it so 
desire, for the purposes of the undertaking but not for purposes of 
general trading, of a port or ports in the zone adjacent to the pipe- 
line terminal, to be fixed in agreement with the High Commissioner. 

The Company may, within the limits of any such port or ports, 
in agreement with the High Commissioner, lay mooring, guiding and 
lighted buoys, establish shore marks ard lights, breakwaters, jetties, 
wharfs, submarine loading lines, and may generally undertake dredg- 
ing works and such works of arrangement, conservancy, sanitation, 
and maintenance as the Company may deem necessary for the efficient 
working of such port or ports by day or by night. 


Port, Harbour 
and other 
dues. 


Company's 
Port: con- 
struction of. 


Railway rates. 


; 
Construction 


of railway by 
Company. 


234 


The plans for the construction of such port or ports shall. before 
the work of construction is begun, be submitted to the High Com- 
missioner and approved by him, such approval not to be unreasonably 
withheld or delayed. 

The right of entry or access to such port or ports shall be at the 
discretion of the Company. 

The Company alone shall have the right to levy port, harbour, 
light, wharfage, cranage, or other dues, on ships entering or leaving 
the Company’s ports. These dues shall be fixed in agreement with 
the High Commissioner. 

Ships using the Company’s port or ports shall pay any lighthouse 
dues which may from time to time be payable. 

The appropriate Government Departments, under arrangement with 
the Company, shall discharge the necessary customs, quarantine, 
immigration services, and police supervision. 

For these, and any other special services rendered, the Company, 
or vessels using the Company’s ports, shall pay on a scale to be 
agreed with the High Commissioner. 

The High Commissioner shall cause anchorage near the Company's 
dolphins, submarine or submerged loading lines to be prohibited. 


ARTICLE VIII. 


In connection with the construction, maintenance and operation 
of the undertaking, the Company may use the existing railway system 
in Palestine and extensions thereof on a schedule of rates to be agreed 
between the High Commissioner and the Company on the basis that 
ordinary rates will, during the period of laying the pipe-line or 
pipe-lines, be specially reduced in view of the large tonnage and 
passenger traffic of the Company expected to be carried in so far as 
such a reduction is consistent with existing international obligations, | 
and further may provide its own rolling stock during the said period 
if the Railway Administration is unable to provide suitable rolling 
etock or to carry the Company’s traffic without unreasonable delay. 


ARTICLE IX. 


The High Commissioner grants to the Company the right to corstruct 
any system of railways required for the undertaking if the existing 
railway system and extersions thereof do not meet the Company's 
requirements. 

The Company undertakes that before proceeding to any such con- 
struction, other than the construction of a portable service line, it 
will deposit with the High Commissioner, and obtain his approval 
of, a scheme for the construction, maintenance and working of the 
railway, and that it will construct, maintain and work the railway 
im accordance with the said scheme. 

In the event of the Company exercising the right of constructing 
a railway, the railway shall not be used for the public conveyance 
of passengers, animals or goods and the Company shall not, therefore, 
have the rights, nor be subject to the liabilities, of a common carrier 
in respect of the railway, but Governmert stores and personnel may be 
carried under arrangements and on terms and conditions to be agreed 
with the High Commissioner. . 

The High Commissioner shall have the right, if the interests of 
the public so require, to purchase at a price to be agreed, or failing 
agreement, fixed under Article XXIV hereof, any railway of a gauge 
exceeding 0.762 metres constructed by the Company, but on ary 
railway so purchased the High Commissioner shall cause all the goods 
and passenger traffic of the Company to be carried on terms to be 
agreed between the High Commissioner and the Company. 





235 


ARTICLE X. 


The Company shall have the same righta as the general public to Roads: use by 
use the system of roads censtructed in Palestine. Company. 


The Company shall not be entitled to any contribution from the Construction 
public revenue towards the cost of construction or maintenance of re ae 
any roads constructed by the Company for the purposes of the under- ae ca 
taking. 


ARTICLE XI. 


The Company undertakes to employ local labour for the purposes Labour. 
of the undertaking in Palestine, provided that if the supply of 
suitable local labour is insufficient, the High Commissioner wiil cause 
special facilities to be granted for the admission into Palestine of 
labour for the purposes of the undertaking, upon the condition that, 
if any euch labour is admitted for a temporary purpose, the Company 
undertake to repatriate, when such purpose is accomplished, any 
persons so admitted who may not have obtained the corsent of the 
High Commissioner to remain in Palestine. 

The Company shal] have the right so to arrange its labour shifts 
that construction, maintenance and operation of the undertaking may 
proceed by day, by night, ard during public holidays. 

During special construction or repair work when large quantities 
of labour may be required as a temporary measure, the High Com- 
missioner will cause special facilities to be granted for the free and 
unhampered movement of the Company’s employees, vehicles and 
materials, whether by day or by night, over certain frontier points 
to be agreed. 


Having regard to the special requirements of the undertaking which Frontier 

call for uninterrupted operation, the High Commissioner will cause to Crossings. 

be granted at all times euch facilities for the movement of the 

Company’s staff, employees and materials at the agreed frontier points, 

and will favourably consider, and if at all possible will cause to be 

adopted, ary measures of reciprocity in this respect which the Company | 

may arrange with the Governments of adjoining territories. 
Any extraordinary expense incurred by the Governmert Departments 

in facilitating such movements at the agreed frontier points will first 

be agreed between the High Commissiorer and the Company and will 

be paid by the Company. 


The High Commiésioner may prohibit, in the interests of public Restrictions. 
security, any person employed by the Company from entering into, or 
remaining in any specified area. 


ARTICLE XII. 


No property tax, income tax, or any levy or fiscal charge of any sort Taxation. 
shall be imposed on the Company in respect of its property, employees, 
the income or the turnover of the Company or the operation of the 
undertaking, save in respect of any profits accruing from sales of the 
Company’s products for local re-sale or consumption im Palestine outside 
the requirements of the undertaking, provided that exemption shall 
not extend to any of the Company’s dividends distributed to taxable 
inhabitants of Palestine or to salaries of employees in so far as they 
may be taxable iz Palestine. 

No stamp duty shall be charged on the present Convention or the 
documents annexed thereto, nor on any supplementary Conventions, 
plans, specificatiors or similar instruments executed with, or submitted 
to, the High Commissioner. 


Communica- 
tions. 


Transport. 


Buildiog and 
‘onstruction 
naterial. 


236 


The Company shall be liable to stamp duty and registration fees fot 
all transactions other than those for which exemption is granted under 
this Article. 

To the extent to which the Company shall provide at its own cost 
adequate services within the precincts of the areas acquired for its 
termiral ports, refineries, tank farms, pumping stations, and similar 
works of the undertaking, in connection with and for the purpose of 
education, police, sanitation, water, light, and other services ordinarily 
provided by a local authority, the Company shall be exempt from hability 
to be assessed to rates in respect of services 60 provided, but nothing 
im these presents shall impose on the Company any obligation whatever 
to provide any such service. 

On the other hand, in respect of any installation by the Company in 
Palestine, or of any operations which it may carry out in Palestine, 
which shall not be for the purpose of the working of the urdertaking, 
or shall not be justified by the operation of the undertaking, it shall be 
subject to all obligations to which the general public is subject, and 
shall be liable to all taxes applicable under the laws for the time being 


in force. 
ARTIOLE XIII. 


The Company shall have the right to set up, maintain and operate 
a telegraph and telephone system (whether overhead or underground) 
or wireless installation, providing communication between the various 
pumping stations, offices and other establishments of the Company's 
undertaking but so that the said telegraph and telephone system and 
wireless installation shall be used exclusively for the purpose of the 
undertaking and shall be subject to the supervision of the High Com- 
missioner and shall not be so constructed or worked as to interfere with 
the working of any telegraph or telephone system or wireless installation 
of the Postal and Military Authorities in Palestine or of any person or 
Company for the time being working a Concession for telegraphs, tele- 
phones or wireless installations. 

A reasonable use of such installations shall, in case of need, be 
permitted to the Government officials responsible for the public safety. 

The Company shall be entitled to use for the purposes of the under- 
taking any public services functioning in Palestine, even if not speci- 
fically provided for herein, on payment of the charges, if any, ordinarily 
imposed upon other industrial undertakings for the like use of such 
services. 


Artictgs XIV. 


The Company shall have the right to use any form of transport, 
whether by land, water or air for the movement of its employees or 
materials, subject to the due observance of the laws and regulations 
governing the use of such transport. 


ARTICLE XV. 


The Company shall have the right (subject to existing rights) to use 
for the purposes of the undertaking, free of charge, available soil, 
clay, ballast, lime, gypsum, stone, and similar substances vested in 
the High Commissioner, subject to the payment of such licence fecs 
for quarrying as may be in force. 

Timber, wood and brushwood necessary for the purposes of the under 
taking as far as they may be available ard subject to existing rights 
and having regard to the maintenance of the forests may be cut in 
Government forests on the terms and in accordance with the regulations 


telating thereto. 


237 


ARTIOLE AVI. 


In agreement with the High Commissioner, the Company shall have 
the right, subject to existing rights, to sink wells, make dame, catch 
and conserve surface water, and otherwise to take such measures as 
are necessary to provide water for the purposes of the undertaking 
without fee or charge other than the cost of any land acquired for the 
purpose in accordance with the provisions of Article XVII. 


The Company shall have the right with the consent of the High 
Commissioner to take such quantities of water from rivers and lakes 
vested in or under the control of the High Commissioner in Palestine 
as may be agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the undertaking, 
provided that, in so doing, rights acquired or already granted shall 
first be satisfied and the Company shall not, in any case, deprive the 
local inhabitants of a reasonable supply of water, for household, in- 
dustrial and agricultural purposes and for the watering of animals and 
the irrigation of land. 


‘Water in respect of which special rights of user have been granted 
or acquired shall, if the High Commissioner agrees that such water is 
required for the purposes of the undertaking, be expropriated in the 
manner provided by law and at the expense in all things of the Com- 
pany, provided that such expropriation shall not, in any case, deprive 
the local inhabitants of a reasonable supply of water for household, 
industrial and agricultural purposes and for the watering of animals 
and the irrigation of land. 


The Company will take all reasonable steps to make available for 
local use any waste water from its plants and installations. 


Nothing in this Convention shall exempt the Company from liability 
to pay water rates for water supplied to the Company by any local 
authority. 


ARTICLE XVII. 


The High Commissioner will grant to the Company, for periods which 
shall not be greater than the duration of this Convention, leases of 
State lands which the High Commissioner agrees are required for the 
purposes of the undertaking. 


The Company shall pay a nominal rent in respect of any such land 
which is leased for the purpose of laying therein the pipe-line or pipe- 
lines or of erecting thereon pumping stations, tank farms, refineries 
and other terminal facilities, or for any accommodation works required 
during the construction period. In all other cases, the Company shall 
pay a rent based on a value of the land leased which is not greater 
than the value of similar land in the immediate vicinity of the land 
leased. 


Lands required for the undertaking and not vested in the High 
Commissioner shall be acquired by agreement between the Company and 
the owners thereof. Failing agreement, if the High Commissioner 
regards the acquisition of such land as being necessary for the purposes. 
of the undertaking, such Jands will be expropriated in accordance with 
the provisions of the ‘“ Expropriation of Land Ordinance, 1926,” or 
such other Expropriation Law as may be substituted therefor, and at 
the expense in all things of the Company. 


Lands acquired compulsorily shall be registered in the name of the 
High Commissioner and shall be leased to the Company at nominal 
rente and for periods not greater than the duration of this Convention. 


W ater. 


Lands: Sta: 


Lands: 
Private. 





ecurity. 


hare 
articipation. 


ompany to 
mmply with 
ompanies 
rdinance, 
129. 


eneral 
reration. 


‘otection by 
»vernment. 


Mages. 


»roe majeure. 


238 


ArTIcLE AVITI. 


The High Commissioner will cause suitable measures to be taken to 
secure the normal protection of the undertaking and of the Company's 
employees. 

The Company undertakes to construct at its own expense accommo- 
dation for police forces at points where the High Commissioner agrees 
with the Company that such accommodation is a necessary measure of 
protection owing to the absence or insufficiency of police forces at such 
points. ° 

During the construction period of the undertaking the High Com- 
missioner in agreement with the Company and with the Company’s 
co-operation will cause such special protection measures to he taken 
as may appear to be necessary. 


ArTicLe XIX. 
Whenever an issue of shares is offered by the Company to the genera! 
public, for the purpose of the undertaking, subscription lists shall be 
opened in Palestine simuitaneously with lists opened elsewhere. 


ARTICLE XX. 
The Company shall within three months from the date of this Con- 
vention comply with Section 248 of the Companies Ordinance, 1929. 


ARTICLE XXI 

So soon as the Company shall have come to agreement with the 
Governments of the other territories in which the Company desires tw 
lay the pipe-line or pipe-lines, the Company shall take all reasonable 
measures to carry out the objects of this Convention, but if the con- 
clusion of the said agreements be delayed to a date beyond three years 
from the date of signature of this Convention or if the Company shal! 
have failed subject to the provisions of Article XXIII to complete 
the laying of the pipe-line or pipe-lines indicated on the plans sub- 
mitted under the provisions of Article II, by the expiration of eighi 
years from the conclusion of the said agreements, then the High Com- 
missioner shall have liberty and power to cancel this Convention. 


The High Commissioner will cause all reasonable measures to be 
taken to facilitate the carrying out of the objects of this Convention 
in the area in which the undertaking is operated, and when entering 
into, granting or confirming any agreement, licence or concession other 
than this Convention, the High Commissioner will protect the rights 
of the Company acquired hereunder. 

The Company undertakes to take every precaution necessary for 
the purpose of preventing the pollution of the soil, air and water 
in the vicinity of its installations. But the High Commissioner recog- 
nises that, in certain circumstances, a degree of pollution is inevitable 
by reason of the nature of the operations of the oil industry, and wil! 
not, therefore, require the Company to undertake any measures for 
the prevention of such pollution which the Company cannot reasonably 
be required to undertake. : 


ARTICLE XAII. 


The penalty for any breach of this Convention shall be damages. 
which shall be fixed by agreement, or under Article XXIV hereof. 


ArtictE XXIII. 

No failure or omission, whether by the Company or by the Hig! 
Commissioner or any public officer, in the observance or performance 
of any of the stipulations, agreements, or conditions herein contained 
and on the part of either party to be observed or performed shall 


"939 


give rise to any claim or demand against either party or in any manner 
operate to the prejudice of such party or be deemed a breach of this 
Convention, if it be shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the other 
party that the default has arisen from any of the following causes, 
namely, Act of God, insurrection, riots, war, strikes or lock-outs of 
workmen, or any other extraordinary or unforeseen circumstances which 
may be reasonably considered to be beyond the control of either party 
to this Convention. 
ARTICLE XXIV. 

If at any time within the duration of this Corwvention or thereafter 
any doubt, difference or dispute shall arise between the parties hereto 
concerning the interpretation or execution hereof, or anything herein 
contained, or im connection herewith, or the rights and liabilities of 
either party hereunder, the same shall failing any agreement to settle 
it by other means, be referred to two arbitrators, one of whom shall 
be chosen by each party, and an umpire who ehall be chosen by the 
arbitrators before proceeding to arbitration. Each party shall nominate 
its arbitrator within thirty days of being requested in writing by the 
other party to do so. In the event of the arbitrators failing to agree 
upon an umpire, the parties hereto shall, in agreement, appoint an 
umpire, and in the event of their failing to agree they shall request 
the President of the Permanent Court of International Justice to 
appoint an umpire. The decision of the arbitrators, or, in the case 
of a difference of opinion between them, the decision of the umpire, 
shall be final. The place of arbitration shall be such as may be agreed 
by the parties, and, in default of agreement, shall be Lordon. 


ARTICLE XXV. 

Thie Convention shall not be construed so as to impose on the High 
Commissioner any obligation which conflicts with any obligation imposed 
on him by any international convention nor shall this Convention or 
any Article hereof be construed so as to prejudice, or derogate from, 
any rights or privileges created by any existing concession or agreement 
by which the High Commissioner is bound. 


ARTICLE XXVI. 

The Company shall have the right to assign or otherwise dispose 
of this Convention or any interest herein or any of the powers con- 
ferred hereby, provided that the previous consent in writing of the 
High Commissioner shal] first have been obtained, such consent not 
to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 


ArticLe XXVIJI. 
The Marginal notes of the contents of this Convention are for con- 


venience of reference only and shall not affect the construction or 
interpretation of the Convention. 


Done in duplicate at Jerusalem om the fifth day of January, 1931. 

Signed by the High Commissioner 
for Palestine in the presence f J. R. CHANCELLOR. 

DunEpiIn (Viscount, London) 

Signed by J. Skliros on_ behalf 
of ‘Iraq Petroleum Company 
Limited, in virtue of a power of 
attorrey dated the 30th day of 
October, 1930, in the presence of 


C. T. Evans Assistant Secretary, 
Palestine Government. 


J. SKLIROS. 


Arbitration. 


International 
conventions 
and existing 
concessions 
and agree- 
ments to 
prevail. 


Power to 


assign 
Convention... 


Marginal 


Notes. 


240 


APPENDIX IV. 


AN AGREEMENT made the Sixth day of December, 1930, between His 
Majesty’s High Commissioner for Palestine (hereinafter referred to as the 
High Commissioner) for and on behalf of the Government of Palestine of the 


one part and the Administration Générale des Phares de Palestine of 12, rue— 


Gaillon, Paris (a French ‘‘ Société en nom collectif ’’ registered in Palestine) 


(hereinafter reterred to as ‘‘ the Concessionaires ’’ which expression shall , 


where the context so admits include their successors), operating under the 
style of Messieurs Collas et Michel of the other part. 


WuEkzAS by an Agreement dated 20th August, 1860, made between the : 


Ottoman Government of the one part and Messrs. Collas et Michel of the 


other part, the Ottoman Government granted a Concession to Messrs. Collas - 


et Michel for the erection and maintenance of lighthouses on the coasts of 
the Ottoman Empire in the Mediterranean Sea and elsewhere. 


AND WHEREAS the Concession was renewed from time to time with certain | 


modifications by Agreements dated respectively 8-20th August, 1860, 
30th June-12th July, 1879, 13-25th October, 1894, and by an Agreement dated 
1-14th April, 1913, was renewed for a period terminating on _ the 
4th September, 1949. 


AND WHEREAS the benefit of the said Agreements (which are hereinafter - 
referred to collectively as ‘‘ the recited Agreements ’’) and of the said Con- . 


cession is now vested in the Concessionaires. 

AND WHEREAS the lighthouses which have been erected by the Con- 
cessionaires or their predecessors on the Coast of Palestine pursuant to the 
recited Agreements are set forth in the First Schedule hereto and are herein- 
after referred to as the ‘‘ said lighthouses.”’ 

AND WHEREAS by the Protocol signed at Lausanne on the 24th of July, 
1923, relating to certain Concessions granted in the Ottoman Empire (herein- 
after referred to as “‘ the Protocol ’’) the recited Agreements and the said 
Concession are maintained. 

AND WHEREAS pursuant to the Protocol the Government of Palestine is 
subrogated as regards the rights and obligations of ‘Turkey towards the Con- 
cessionaires under the recited Agreements in so far as they relate to the 
lighting of the Coast of Palestine. 

AND WHEREAS by the Protocol the recited Agreements are by agreement 
and as regards both parties to be put into conformity with the new economic 
conditions. 

AND WHEREAS it is desirable that the recited Agreemente (so far as they 
relate to the said lighthouses) shall be maintained in a consolidated form. 

AND WHEREAS this Agreement is entered into to conform with the stipula- 
tions of the Protocol for re-adaptation and with the object of effecting such 
consolidation as aforesaid. 

Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed between the parties that the recited 
Agreements shall be deemed to be and be so far as they relate to the said 
lighthouses in the following form and effect, that 1s to say. 


AKTICLE 1. 
The Concessionaires shall continue to have the right to administer the said 
lighthouses until the expiration of the concession and hereby undertake to 
administer the same. 


ARTICLE 2. 


Where any of the said lighthouses are erected on land of the Government 
of Palestine, the land shall continue to be lent by the Government free of 
charge. The Officers of the Government in the places where any of the said 


wot 


”~ 


241 


lighthouses have been erected shall have the right to enter such lighthouses 
whenever Police measures or reasons of a public character require their 
presence. 


ARTICLE 3. 


Materials intended for the renewal or the repair of the towers and lights, 
the stocks of tools, the supplies necessary for the lighting, in short, all 
articles which may be necessary for the administration of the said light- 
houses, shall be exempt from Oustoms Duties. 

The articles shall be consigned to the Administration which shall give an 
undertaking that they will be used exclusively in the service of the said light- 
houses. The Concessionaires shall take every precaution to prevent abuses 
on the part of their servants. 


ARTICLE 4. 


Subject to the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement, the Con- 
cessionaires shall be responsible at their own expense for the lighting and the 
upkeep of the said lighthouses during the duration of the Concession. 


ARTIOLB 6. 


The Concessionaires shall have the entire management of the said light- 
houses under the supervision of the Palestine Government. 

The management of the works, the organisation of the services and of the 
working, the selection of the staff, the removal thereof, the rates of salaries, 
. the allotment of duties, shall be vested solely in the Concessionaires. 

The Concessionaires shall make it a rule to employ as many Palestinian 
citizens as possible or persons resident in Palestine. 


ARTICLE 6. 


Whenever the Concessionaires make default in carrying out their obliga- 
tions under this Agreement on account of negligence, they shall be liable, on 
proof of such negligence, to such penalty not exceeding £P.50 as the High 
Commissioner may impose provided that the Concessionaires shall have the 
right of submitting an explanation of their default and if the High Com- 
missioner is satisfied that default was caused otherwise than by the 
negligence of the Concessionaires, no penalty shall be imposed. 


ARTICLE 7, 

The Government of Palestine shall have full right of inspection of the said 
lighthouses and shall be entitled to appoint one or more inspectors who may 
visit any of the said lighthouses at any time in order to ascertain that the 
lighting service ie carried out in a satisfactory manner. 


ARTICLE 8. 


The Concessionaires shall be responsible for keeping in good condition ali 
masts, lights, lighthouse towers, and keepers’ houses, and shall bear all 
charges of carrying out the lighthouse services, provided that the repairs of 
damages caused by earthquake or other Act of God or force majeure shall be 
a first charge on the gross receipts of the service until] the full amount 
thereof is covered, and before any division of such receipts between the 
Government of Palestine and the Concessionaires. 


ARTICLE Y. 


In order to remunerate the Concessionaires for the cost of construction, of 
the annual upkeep, of the employees, and of the supplies, in short, all the 
disbursements of the service, they shall be allowed, until the expiration of 
the Concession, 50 per cent. of the gross receipts derived from the collection 
of the lighthouse dues free of all taxes. The balance shall, subject to any 
directions given by the Government of Palestine, be handed over to the 
Government of Palestine. 


242 


ARTICLE 10. 


Lighthouse dues shall as from Ist June, 1930, be collected in accordance 
with the Second Schedule hereto. 

The following classes of ships shall be exempted entirely from payment of 
lighthouse dues :— 

(a) Warships.—It being understood that this exemption from light- 
house dues is allowed only to warships in the strict sense and is not 
allowed to subsidized or privileged ships or to ships of the State which 
are allotted to postal, commercial or other similar services. 

(b) Any vessel of less than 5 tons register. The assistance of the 
Government shall be given to the Concessionaires to protect the collection 
of the dues. 

The Concessionaires shall collect the lighthouse dues in the name of the 
Government of Palestine: provided that the Concessionaires shall not op 
that account have any right to claim any indemnity from the Government. 


ARTICLE 11. 


The Government of Palestine shall place at the disposal of the Conces- 
sionaires free of charge any premises already appropriated to the light- 
house service and the collection of dues which are the property of the 
Government. 


ARTICLE 12. 


The share of the receipts accruing to the Government of Palestine shall 
be accounted for to the said Government every week or every month at its 
option, in accordance with regular accounts which must be kept by the 
Concessionaires. The Government of Palestine shall have the right to check 
the gross receipts of the Concessionaires. 


ARTICLE 13. 


The Concessionaires shall appoint an Agent who shall reside in Palestine 
after appointment to carry out the management and administration of the 


lighthouse service. 
ARTICLE 14. 


On the expiration of the Concession, the towers, lighthouses, keepers’ 
quarters, masts, stocks of tools, accessories, etc., in short, the whole of the 
plant without exception, in a good state of repair, and in accordance with 
the inventories of the Concessionaires, which shall be duly inspected in that 
connection, shall become the property of the Government of Palestine, 
without the Concessionaires being entitled to claim any compensation for 
such transfer. 

ARTICLE 15. 


In the event of a war between the Mandatory Power for Palestine and 
any Other Power, or in the event of any grave emergency within the man- 
dated territory of Palestine (of the existence of which the High Commis- 
sioner shall be the sole judge and which he shall duly cause to be proclaimed 
by public proclamation), the Government of Palestine shall take over the 
Administration of the said lights until the end of the war or state of emer- 
gency, when they shall be restored to the Concessionaires subject to an 
indemnity payable to them for any damage attributable to the said war or 
state of emergency. 


ARTICLE 16. 


Two years before the expiration of the Concession the Government of 
Palestine shall appoint a Commission charged with the duty of examining 
the condition of the said lighthouses. When this Commission is appointed, 
the Concessionaires must give a valid guarantee for the payment of all the 


| 


| 


{ 


243 


expenses necessary for putting the said lighthouses into good repair. If 
ihis guarantee should not be supplied the Government of Palestine shall 
have the right to seize the proceeds of the said lighthouses during the 
remainder of the period, in order to guarantee the execution of such repairs 
by itself. 


ARTIOLE 17. 


The Concessionaires shall continue to have the right and to be subject to 
the obligation until the expiration of the Concession to construct, maintain, 
and administer upon the terms and conditions set forth in the recited 
Agreements such new lighthouses as the Government of Palestine shall 
consider necessary for lighting the Coast of Palestine; and shall submit 
the plans and the estimates of expenditure of any such new lighthouses for 
the approval of the Government of Palestine. The Government shall repay 
to the Concessionaires the expenses of and in connection with the construc- 
tion, maintenance and administration of such new lighthouses, provided 
they are constructed in accordance with the plans and estimates approved. 


ARTICLE 18. 


If at any time hereafter any dispute, difference or question shall arise 
between the Concessionaires and the Government of Palestine touching the 
construction, interpretation or effect of this Agreement or any clause or 
thing therein contained or the rights or liabilities of the parties or their 
successors respectively under this Agreement or otherwise howsoever in 
relation to the subject matter thereof, the same shall be referred to an 
Arbitral Commission composed of three persons appointed one by the Gov- 
ernment of Palestine one by the Concessionaires and the third by agreement 
between the parties or in default of such an agreement by the President 
of the Institution of Civil Engineers of England and the decision of the 
Arbitral Commission shall be final and binding. Any proceedings before 
the Board shall be conducted in accordance with any Ordinance concern- 
ing Arbitration for the time being in force in Palestine. 


ARTICLE 19. 


The Concessionaires being a ‘‘ Société en nom collectif Francaise’ their 
successors shall be ascertained in accordance with the principles of the 
Jaw of France but in other respects this Agreement shall be construed 
according to the laws of England. 


Signed on behalf of the Govern- 
ment of Palestine: J. R. CHANcELLOR, 


High Cammissioner. 
in the presence of : 
AROHER Cusr. 
Private Secretary. 


Signed on behalf of the Adminis- 
tration Générale des Phares de 
Palestine: 


Cotuas Et MicHen. 
In the presence of: 
A. J. Barry, 


2, Queen Anne’s Gate, 
8.W.1. 


244 


THe First ScHEDULE. 


List of the Lighthouses erected on the Coast of Palestine under the 
Ottuman Government Agreement. 


1.—St. Jean D’Acre or Akka. 
(15th June, 1864). 
On the ramparts of the town. 
Latitude 32° .54’ North—Longitude 35° .04’ East of Greenwich. 
1 Red Fixed Light. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . . 154 metres. 
Range: 10 miles. 


2.—Haifa (Khazfa). 
(25th April, 1864). 
On the fortress of the town. 
Latitude 32° .49’ North—Longitude 35° .00’ East of Greenwich. 
1 Red Light with red flashes every three seconds. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . . 17 metres. 
Range: 6 miles. 


3.—Mount Carmel. 
(Built 20th July, 1864, rebuilt 28th January, 1928). 
On the terrace of the Ries aaa 
Latitude 32° .48 55” North—Longitude 35° .02’ .01” East of Greenwich. 
1 White Light with ‘white flashes every five seconds. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . . 145 metres. 
Range: 26 miles. 


4.—Jaffa (Yafa). 
(5th October, 1864). 
South-West of the town about 90 metres from the sea. . 
Latitude 32° .03’ North—Longitude 34° .44’ East of Greenwich. 
Alternating red and white flashes every minute and total eclipses. 
Height of the light above sea level . . . . 28 metres. 
Range: White flashes 18 miles. 
Red flashes 14 miles. 





Ture Sreconp SCHEDULE. 
The tariff of Lighthouse Duee is fixed on a gold basis as follows :— 


| Mils. 
Per registered ton up to 800 tone ... ; ee cde see 4 
Per registered ton on the excess of 800 tons sis ie oe 3 


Provided that :— 
(a) the total payment on account of light dues in respect of any 
one vessel shall not exceed £P.50; 
(b) no dues shall be payable by. ships of war and vessels of less than 
5 tons registered tonnage. 


APPENDIX V. 

OBSFRVATIONS UPON AN ARTICLE ENTITLED ‘' THE ABSENTEE LANDLORD ”’ 
PUBLISHED IN THE New Palestine (New York) on tHE 3lsr JaNnvarRY, 
1930. 

This article appears to be a reprint of that which appeared over the 
initials Z.W. in the English weekly supplement of the Palestine Hebrew 
daily Davar of the 13th December, 1929. 

2. It is not clear whether the references are to metric dunums (1,000 
metres?) or Turkish dunums (919 metres’). 


245 


3. The writer suggests that the area of the Jiftlik estate in the Jordan 
Valley is about 600,000 dunums. Presumably, he alludes to the lands 
affected by the Ghor Mudawwara Agreement of 1921. This is comprised 
within the boundaries of the following villages and tribes:—Ashiret el 
Sugr, Ashiret el Ghazawieh, Ashiret el Beshatweh, Baisan, Sirin, Samakh, 
Kefr Misr, Tireh, Denna, Kefra, Kawkab el Hawa, Mutilleh, Jebbool, 
Yubla, Beereh, el Murassas, Samrieh, Farwaneh, Tel el Shok, Jisr el 
Mejame’, Ghor el Fara’a, Ashrafieh. 

The total area thus comprised is 4)5,421 old Turkish, or 381,772 metric 
dunums (about 95,443 acres) and includes cultivable and uncultivable land. 


4. The writer affirms that the Jiftlik is sparsely inhabited. In the Census 
of 1922, the population of the villages and tribes in the Agreement Area 
was returned as 9,227, including 3,894 Beduin of the Sagr, Bashatweh, 
and Ghazawieh tribes. Sections of the Bashatweh and Ghazawieh tribes 
live on each side of the Jordan, and it was known that many tribesmen 
escaped enumeration (which is suspect to oriental peoples) by crossing 
into Trans-Jordan. The Census figure is therefore probably an under- 
estimate. 

The rights of 2,647 transferees have been admitted in the Area. Gen- 
erally speaking, these are heads of families. There are in addition not a 
few heads of families who claimed unsuccessfully to be transferees. 

It would thus appear that the density of the population of the Agreement 
Area is on the average the same as in many rural areas in Palestine. 


5. The writer states that the Government came to the conclusion that 
although the transferees had no legal claims to ownership, it was no more 
than right and proper that they receive titles for the land which they 
had been tilling. It is not knowrm on what authority this statement is made. 
The position of the cultivator tenants of the Jiftlik Estate, vis-d-vis the 
Sultan and, after his abdication, the State, was in some degree analogous 
to that of owners of ordinary Miri land. The ancestors of the cultivator 
tenants were on the land long before the Turkish Land Code was enacted. 
The cultivator tenants were the descendants of the original owners of the 
lands which they or their ancestors had been cultivating for generations 
and from which they had not been ousted when the Sultan acquired the 
ownership. The cultivator tenant could and did sell his tenancy rights, and 
his rights were transmitted by inheritance to his descendants as in the 
case of ordinary Miri land. There are other instances in Palestine of 
villages which were similarly held and acquired by the Sultan and in which 
this system of tenure still prevails, for example, Muharaka and Kafakha 
in Gaza Sub-District and Zeita in Hebron Sub-District. No suggestion 
has, however, been made that the State has power to dispossess the in- 
habitants of those villages, and lease or sell their lands. 


6. The writer contends that an agreement was concluded between the 
Government and the representatives of the ‘‘ squatters ’’ for the transfer 
of the Jiftlik land to private ownership. Article 7 of the Agreement 
reads : — 


‘* Each head of a family who has purchased or acquired by succession 
or has exercised for ten years or more successively cultivation rights 
shall be entitled to a transfer of the land so held, and to have regies- 
tered in his name as Miri property the whole of the area on which 
he has cultivated summer and winter crops during the last two years 
whatever such area might be. 

Each adult married person at the date of this Agreement is pacepniced 
as the head of a separate family for the purposes of this Agreement, 
and a woman who is the head of a family shall have the same rights as 
the male head of a family.”’ 


246 


It is evident therefore that the Government did not conclude an agree- 
ment with representatives of the ‘‘ squatters ’’ or agree to transfer land to 
‘« squatters.’’ 


7. According to the writer, every applicant whose claim was endorsed 
became a transferee for an area of land not to exceed that which he had 
cultivated for the previous two years eS cg no matter how large 
it was. This deliberately omits the terms in Article 7 of the Agreement 
which constitute a transferee: ‘‘ Each head of a family 
whatever such area might be.’’ 

The Ottoman Land Code provides that individuals who possess Miri 
land for 10 years or more, without opposition, acquire prescription right 
to that land, and that Miri land may be acquired by succession or purchase. 


8. It is true that the extent of land for each family was fixed at not less 
than 150 dunums, but the Agreement was based on the Turkish unit, and 
150 Turkish dunums represents only 137.850 metric dunums (about 34 acres). 
Inquiry was made by an official commission in 1920 as to the minimum 
area on which a family of five persons could be maintained. Jewish as well 
as Arab authorities testified to the Land Commission at the time that it 
should be not less than 150 dunums. 


9. In arriving at a transfer price of £E.1.500 per dunum for irrigable 
land, and £E.1.250 for non-irrigable land, the Government was guided by 
an estimate of 50 milliemes as the rental value per dunum which was 
furnished by Jewish and other authorities in 1920. For the purpose of the 
transfer a slightly higher rental value was taken and capitalized at 20 
years’ purchase price. 


10. It was only reasonable to spread the payments of transfer price under 
the Agreement over 15 years. The Government realized that the cultivator 
tenants could not possibly pay the price of the minimum plots allotted to 
each family in a single instalment, namely, £E.225 for irrigable land, and 
£E.187.500 for non-irrigable land. 


11. The following sentence occurs in the article: ‘‘ Such was the arrange- 
ment whereby a Joint Commission . . . proceeded to the allocation 
of the Baisan lands.’? The exact terms of the Agreement should be kept 
in view. It was not limited to peasant cultivators; it included any and all 
kinds of cultivators. The Tell el-Shok and Ashrafiyeh lands were formerly 
of the Bedu Sagr area, but before the Agreement was made various non- 
tribesmen had acquired the cultivation rights and many were actually 
residing on the land. The area was malarious, and most of the persons 
who had acquired the cultivation rights suffered badly from malaria. It 
was not possible, in the conditions then prevailing, for them to live all the 
year in Tell el-Shok and Ashrafieh; some partners in fact did not reside 
there at all, because of the unhealthy conditions, but that does not deter- 
mine whether they were or were not legitimate transferees. 


12. The writer suggests that the way the principle, that the land should 
belong to those that work it, was carried into practice lays the Settlement 
open to very severe criticism . . . and-claime that there is irrefutable 
evidence to show that in many instances the actual distribution of the land 
is in glaring contradiction to the real aim of the scheme. But no specific 
instances are given by him of the ‘“‘ irrefutable evidence’ in proof of this. 
The Government is not aware of any case in which distribution of the land 
by the Demarcation Commission was not in accordance with the terme of 
the Agreement. 


13. It is not the case that in Baisan . . . a great part, in many sec- 
tions practically all, of the land is irrigable. Actually, of a total area of 
415,421 Turkish, or 381,772 metric dunums (about 95,443 acres), only 
121,567 Turkish, or 111,720 metric dunums (about 27,930 acres) are irrigable. 


247 


14. The writer declares that the new owners, incapable of tilling the large 
areas in their possession, found themselves unable to meet their obligations. 

The inability of .the transferees to pay the annual instalments of the 
transfer price did not result solely from incapacity to cultivate their plots, 
but also from the circumstance that the annual instalment proved to be 
beyond their resources after discharge of the annual family expenditure, 
the annual cost of cultivation and the cost of seed for the following year’s 
sowing. In 1928, the Government recognized that difficulty and agreed to 
extend the period of payment from 15 to 25 or 30 years, thus reducing the 
amount of the annual instalments. (See Statement of Policy on pages 
74-75 of the Report for 1928.) 


15. It is true that before the terms of the Agreement were modified in 
1928 the transferees were precluded from transferring land so long as the 
whole amount of the transfer price was not fully paid up. This provision 
was inserted deliberately so as to ensure the object of the Agreement, which 
was to give the cultivator tenants an interest in the development of their 
plots, not to provide them with land for speculative ends. 


16. The writer alleges that the change brought about by the Statement 
of Policy in 1928 discriminates grossly against the Jewish National Fund. 
To this allegation, the reply is that the transferees had irrefutable rights 
of what amounted to practically perpetual tenancy in the Jiftlik Estate, 
and were therefore entitled to special consideration in regard to the method 
and the period of payment. 

The Jewish National Fund, however, had no rights, yet received indul- 
gence, in that it was not required to pay in a single instalment for any 
land which it purchased, but was given 6 years in which to pay. 


17. The Fund was called upon to mortgage the land with the Government 
as a security against default in payment of the instalments, in accordance 
with the universal practice whereby a mortgage is held in favour of the 
vendor of land until the purchase price is fully paid. There would not 
appear to be any reason why an exception should be made in the case 
of the Fund, which is not allowed in the case of the transferees themselves 
in respect of the lands allotted under the Agreement. 


18. The writer refers to the purchase, on what is alleged to be unduly 
favourable terms, of 6,000 dunums from the transferees by two private 
persons for purposes of capitalistic exploitation. 

In 1921, Mr. J. G. Ross, a British resident, and Suleiman Bey Nassif, 
a Palestinian citizen, were negotiating with the Government to obtain a 
long lease of certain lands in the Sub-District of Nablus known as Ghor-al- 
Fara’a, for the purpose of reclamation and development. 

These lands were, however, found to be part of the Jiftlik State land 
which is comprised by the village and tribal areas scheduled to the Ghor 
Mudawwara Agreement of 1921. 

In order, therefore, to enable Messrs. Ross and Nassif Bey to carry out 
their plans, the realization of which was considered to be of importance to 
agricultural development in that region, the Government, as a special case, 
permitted the transferees concerned to make over to Messrs. Ross and Nassif 
Bey the rights which they had acquired under the Ghor Mudawwara Agree- 
ment, provided that:— 

(a) the area or areas transferred did not exceed a total of 6,000 
dunums, and 

(b) all instalments of the purchase price due to the Government by 
the transferees on the lands were first paid. 

Owing to financial embarrassment, it has not yet been possible for Messrs. 
Ross and Nassif Bey to acquire the whole area of 6,000 dunums. To date, 
only 3,030 dunums have actually passed into their ownership, but trans- 
actions in respect of a further area of 1,357 dunume are proceeding. 


248 


Further, Messrs. Ross and Nassif have been regarded, exceptionally, as 
original transferees under the Ghor Mudawwara Agreement for the pur- 
pose of the extension of the period for payment of outstanding instalments 
of purchase price which was granted by the Statement of Policy of 1928 
(see Annual Report for 1928, pages 74-75). 

It is the case thas to relieve their immediate pecuniary difficulties Mesers. 
Ross and Nassif have sold 1,000 dunums of the transferred land to the 
Jewish National Fund. The Government has no reason, however, to believe 
that the remainder of the transferred land will not be put by them to the 
use of intensive agricultural development. 

19. The writer makes the sweeping statement that not only did the 
scheme of the Agreement work out otherwise than was originally intended, 
but the Demarcation Commission deemed it permissible in many instances 
to deparf from the scheme altogether. This statement is entirely unfounded 
and it is significant that no facts are advanced in support of it. 

The writer goes on to accuse the Commission of acting in utter dis- 
regard of the conditions imposed as regards the allocation of land, de- 
liberately setting up absentee landlords and paving the way for fuather 
exploitation of agricultural labourers by these landlords. Article 7 of the 
Agreement defines a transferee as a person who has purchased, or has 
acquired by succession, or has exercised for 10 years or more successively 
cultivation rights . . . It gives such transferee the right to the transfer 
of the land so held, and ta have registered in his name the whole of the 
area on which he has cultivated summer and winter crops during the last 
two years whatever such area may be 

A person who did not happen to reside in the village in which he had 
purchased land, or acquired land by succession, or had exercised cultivation 
rights on land for 10 years or more was not excluded from his rights in 
any of the Articles of the Agreement, and it is not apparent how his rights 
could have been taken from him. 

The Demarcation Commission did not set up any absentee landlords, but 
allotted land under the terms of Article 7 to certain persons, although 
they did not actually reside in the Jiftlik area or in the village in which 
they had rights. 

20. The writer contends that the Agreement . . . restricts the grant 
of land within the limits of the area actually cultivated in the course of 
the two previous years, and he suggests that if this condition had been 
observed if would have prevented the Demarcation Oommission from dis- 
sipating State resources. The Commission did nothing more than allot to 
transferees, who had rights as specified in Article 7 of the Agreement, the 
areas which they had cultivated with summer and winter crops, during 
the past two years, or a minimum area of 150 Turkish dunums, as specified 
in the Agreement. 

It is to be observed that no instances are given by the writer in support 
of his suggestion that the Commission had not adhered to the conditions of 
the Agreement. 

21. The writer complains that the Demarcation Commission might have 
inquired into the number of inhabitants, or of working animals, or the 
amounts paid in tithe, or rent for the two years preceding the transaction. 
In point of fact, the Commission ascertained on the spot by public inquiry 
what area had been cultivated during the two previous years, and took 
precisely those steps which the writer suggests. 

22. The reference to Arab lawyers thriving on the exploitation of their 
tenants appears to be an attempt by the writer to mislead hig readers. 
There is no lawyer among the transferees under the Agreement. 

23. It is unnecessary to refute the vague and unsupported implication 
of the writer’s statement to the effect that a full account of the activities 
of the Commission would disclose further unsatisfactory features. 





e Huleh Safad das 52,000 | Subject to pre-War Ottoman Concession. 
ir as Safad ee 418 | Let to Arab tenant. 

waniyeh ... Safad Ses 8,200 | Disputed. No revenue collected by Govern- 
ment. 

shnuneh and | Safad Lis 780 | Leased to Jewish Agricultural Co-operative 

tbarakeh, Society ‘‘ Ayelet Hashachar ” for 50 years 
from Ist October, 1921. 

xsourah .. Safad i 2,500 | Occupied by Arab cultivators who pay 

10 per cent. rental tithe. 

‘harab and | Tiberias... 360 | Antiquity Site. Uncultivated. 

Awameed. 

makh Tiberias... 20,416 | Allotted under Ghor Mudawwara Agreement. 

ilamieh Tiberias... 12,049 | Handed over to Arab cultivators in 1925 in 
pursuance of judgment of the Courts. 

theih Nazareth ... 9,548 | Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. rental 
tithe. Portion taken for Government 

Kadoorie (Jewish) Agricultural School. 

Bakab Nazareth ... | 30,000 | The State owns 3/24 shares only. Area over- 

estimated. 

pb Alti Acre... —... 2,500 | Building plots are being sold under a decision 

| of Ottoman Government. Portions are 

reserved for various public buildings. 

Kayak. Acre... — 1,600 | Leased to a Jewish settler. 

th Sand Dunes Acre 12,225 | Reserved for exchange and lease with the 
(Jewish) Haifa Bay Development Com- 

pany. Uncultivable. 

mhon Lands Haifa ie 450 — 

wehmi ‘sais Haifa ae 3,385 | Litigation establishing State ownership just 
completed. Application for lease to the 
Jewish National Fund is under considera- 
tion. 

thlit t, Haifa ais 1,500 ) | Subject to concession to Palestine Jewish 

adbara Haifa Se 8,655 | Colonisation Association. Disputed. 

area, Haifa vat 31,440 J Largely uncultivable. 

Burj Tantura Haifa ss 145 | Antiquity Site. Leased annually. 

kag. Haifa ous 95 | Leased to Palestine Jewish Colonisation 

Association. 

Weidoun Haifa is 600 | Leased to Palestine Jewish Colonisation 
Association. (Now under litigation). 

ihfieh Jenin ue 2,700 | Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. rental 

. tithe. 

NEI Dahab Jenin ie 2,400 | Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. rental 
tithe. 

trGhazaleh =... | Jenin ste 2,700 | Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. rental 
tithe. 

tan Jiftlik ... | Baisan --- | 302,000 | Subject to Ghor Mudawwara Agreement. 





i a shown are as registered but are only approximately correct as they have not been 
Trey 


Name of Property. | Sub- District. Dunums.* 


Toubas Lands 
Akrabanieh 


Mazra’a El Hamra 
El Farush 
Basset el Yaraki 


Ghor El Fara’a 
Basset El Mulabbis 


Jaffa Sand Dunes ... 


Sajad 
Hamadieh ... 
Anata 
Jiftlik Land... 


Ain Feshka ... 
Es Suwaideh 
Gharabeh ... 
Jahayyer 
Zeita 

Tel Arad 
Jaladieh 
Kofakha 
Moharraka, ... 


Rafa 


Gaza Sand Dunes ... 


Nablus 
Nablus 


Nablus 
Nablus 
Nablus 
Nablus 


Jaffa 
Jaffa 


Ramleh 
Ramleh 


250 


APPENDIX VI.—continued. 


State DomaIn.—continued. 


Jerusalem ... 


Jericho 


Jericho 
Jericho 
Jericho 
Jericho 
Hebron 
Hebron 
Gaza 

Gaza 


Gaza 


Gaza 


Gaza 


41,700 
960 


11,300 
1,656 
2,500 

75,000 


2,418 
35,000 


7,000 


1,300 
17,000 
108 
20,000 
5,350 
37,000 
4,143 
9,200 
4,580 


90,000 


6,000 


! 





a NT, 





Remarks. 


In dispute. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. re 
tithe. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. re 
tithe. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. re 
tithe. 

Leased annually. 

Subject to Ghor Mudawwara Agreement. 

Leased to Colony of Petach-Tikvah. 

Subject to litigation. 21,000 dunums 
reserved for lease to Colony of Rish 
le-Zion. Largely uncultivable. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. rer 
tithe. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. re 
tithe. 

Disputed. Uncultivated and most unfit 
cultivation. 

Part cultivated by Arab cultivators 
payment of 10 per cent. rental tr 
Balance uncultivable at present owin; 
lack of water. 

Part salty and useless. Surplus under « 
cussion with Jewish Agency as to } 
sibility of irrigation. 

Uncultivable.. Leased for a year. 

Uncultivable. 


Uncultivable. Sometimes let on ann 
lease. 

Uncultivable except for small area n 
spring. 


Leased to Arab cultivators. 

Leased to Arab cultivators. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. 
tithe. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. 
tithe. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. 
tithe. 

Arab cultivators pay 10 per cent. 
tithe. 

About 70,000 dunums uncultivable sa 
dunes. 

Site of New Gaza. Part disputed and unc 
litigation. Mainly uncultivable. 


reo 


rep 


ren 


ren 


* Areas shown are as registered but are only approximately correct as they have not be 


surveyed. 


"ssONPNY ‘sruvpunoooy posousDYO ‘OS6l ‘aun y76 9Y7 ‘Dho 
“OO 9 TIHSSOAA ‘getting 9q9 JO SFOOg oy} Aq MMOS S¥ PUB EN 0} TOATS SUOMVUY[dxo 04} PUB UO}BULIOJUT 
INO JO 490qQ 94} 0} Buyppi0008 suyeye s,Auvdu10y 04} JO 974848 019 JO M2JA 4901100 put 9NI} B MOTE 07 8B oe dn uameip Ajiodoid gs] qa0yg soULTeG EAOGY oY} 7BIT} WOsUIdO 94} JO oIB OM 
AIVUsl BujOBs10} oy} 04 qoofqng -amyyjpuedxa JO SBuspysy snopiVA Jepun pauopIodds syuNODDY 9AOQB oY} Ul papnpouy uvaq savy yuNoVDe UO Briaquyny “dq “I 0} psouvaps 
HUNHOWe UjszI99 YSNoYs ‘porwzpuel soojalas JOJ POUPULIOAOP 9q 07 494 Bloquayny “d “IK 0} AM[QVl] puBzs}no UL sUleMD] aLoyy ‘pelMbsal savy 9M YOM sTO]QVUYTdxe puE 
UOfFBULIOJUY otf} [TB PIU¥IGO SAVY 9M "YRIOJ 498 OAOQV 8B 6Z6T “JVQUIVIIG ISTE WW peyup “‘poyrmuyy UojzBIOdIOD o}14Q99/q ouTysa]¥q 944 JO JOYS GUBVY BY} POUPNS Vasey 9M 
‘yupzunosoy fay) ‘NADOANAIANAOVH ‘£ "“sopong” budounpW ‘OUAANALAA SVHNId ‘upmsiny) DNIGVAH 








9 € 23° ‘820° I ELT FSS'820'T } 9 § ¥32'8l0'I | SLI'FSS 820. | 
2g 116'26 6S3'T16'26 puDy ui pun syuDg qD YysD) | 
00 iT 000°T : 4809 9B ‘worssaoUo,) vinp 
0 0 og2't 000°0S3‘T Yoo 1 "d3 Jo salvyg AIvUjpsoO 063'T 
F ; -"PYI (0D 988107;48]T BUH o"u"LL 
0 0 O00L9 000°002'9 SRG ‘dn pyvd sym ¢¢ Youve 
000°00S'§ BTU Og JO saIBVYS pI1J9J9q 000 OOT 
; ; ‘dn pyed syja 002 
000°09T $ Yoee [ ‘dZz jO Salvyg AIvUlpIO 00S‘ 
' * pyed Aymny 
000°0¢ youve T “dF JO sarvyg AIVUIPIO OS 
: : 2"PYT (OD Voesjuy] einy sy 
0 0 00S 6FT 000°009 6FT 
{ove TF JO sereys 
000‘000‘'09 eouelIjalg sAneNuny %8 000‘De 
000°009‘66 yoeve [F JO sorvysS AIVUIPIO O0C‘66 
‘ - "PIT “OD OL00/, VPVE ety, ‘Ho pred cous ‘0¢g‘g' Iz 0} Buppunowe 
G LI OZ8‘IT 898°0Z8 IT —— —: #809 WD “syuawjpsaauy ‘PIT ‘0D woes efny og} Uy 
PLP'S69 ‘DT 09 uouwhissy DINE oy, Play selsys 943 JO YOvdsar Uy ABTTIQST] 
P68 LETT nee ** suonged Aapung quosu]}U0D BV SUlVUlUI 3104 — ELON 
8 IT 83ar'o 98° Sor‘ IOUDAPD UI asnpipUusedx jy 
; ; ‘UoTpEPeIdap sso] G QI LO8‘TZ OLL" 408° 13 uno 8807 pun pifosd 
= 8 ¢ 8009 ¥86'800 9 }809 9B ‘sdoysy40 44 AY -L puv ofwyA 0 0 939‘8T 000°SZ9‘ST ; "0g “Wa7}8A8 UOTNGLIABSTp 
a} Il OT 169°S3 L493 169 &% a szuIpIMq puv syuvd supwousd 
cs 616°20S T 4809 4B ‘jeu. us Spoof) SBLIOGLL, put BjjVH Jo Uop}Bpooidap J0J 
' : 839°S80'°3S 7809 4B ‘puny uo $340)9 —U018 99 IU0/) 
2 3 Sse Sal SOT'SSE SI 3809 ae "a ‘vffor ‘opin ut puvT | 8Z¥'°F89‘'99 ——————, Unpsoe, YIkn dnDpsorD Uh aasasay 
L L 8¥0'2 O88" EF0'S 4809 48 ‘sasunijddy pun sannuing || 2, 6 P89'99 90L'S9L'SS "py Aundwog 214)99)4 offor oy.L 
Il 3 619'002 EFIT619'090L —— °099 “‘BABMIIVIT JO TO]ZBIBLIa]0 oLL 188'eh “SUD DT pas) pun ssoppasy Aapungy 
REG OFO'Z ‘UONVSLLI ‘SUMO) JUVIIJIP JO} 8}90folg 9 OT 620‘9T GZ9°620‘OT sain(T suopsng passafacy 
LOVTVO'SIL = |———— 0 0 000'0S3 000°000‘092 a syaseu 8,"di0;) oy Uo aBIeYo . 
860°096'ST “" SBIoqg)LL | kq PoInIes sounqueqe] peazuvsons) %9 
690° 180° 46 ws : UIeH 
‘Ha w078A8 wong} 4s8}p 0 8 2L20°S0Z 00%°L20°S0Z 
‘squuld suljywouas ‘sBulpling ‘puwy] ———$——_——_—— 
—: SULoq|y, pus eye | 009‘S20‘S “** JVOITS Uy S[BO—: s#oT 
"83.1048 000° TST ‘802 
poysooyTvun pus 93a ‘sasuodxo ————_—___—— 
[B19UES ‘UOTZVIZSTUJWpB ‘Bupo9013 000°062‘OT YOBVs [F JO SaIByY_ vousI9ajo1g 06% ‘OL 
sue ‘auly UolssTtusues) ‘AIQUPYOCUl 000°198'269 Yes TF JO saiByg ATeulps1oO T98 469 
‘SHIOM opmuspAy “‘SsHIOM IO} QUUTd — pense] 
vLT'962'909 | ‘sBuypING ‘purl ‘sqom Asvupufarg | 
—. ono JeMOd Ueplor IIT 0 0 000‘000‘T 
‘Mo ‘saBIVyo [VBI] 
¥26'SSI‘'SS ‘900} UO}BIVEBo1 ‘sosuedxa [woUIp 0 0 0000S qove [ZF JO solVvyg souarlejorg 000° os 
000°T UWOyssoOUO/ 943 JO UOMjeMboy 0 0 000'096 Yove [F JO SVU ATBuyP1O 000 096 
—? O48p 07 aing;puedxa [eqjd¥p —! poroymy 
i ce —: UOLSSIIUOY) UDpLos wndvy) evys 
P ‘s 3 “STFU “dF “STU “dF “SLESSy “STU * dF “STU “dz SAILIMAVTT 





252 





=o 


Il 


rc ee 


; "O86T ‘Av #1 oy) ‘Dv 
‘tsonpn y ‘stumunos0y pesouvy) 


‘(00 GNV TTH8S8NF 
‘AUBdWIOY) 9Y} JO sYOOg ey3 Aq 
UMOUS SB puY ‘SN 0} TOATS sUOPVUY[dxXo 04} PUY TOsBULIOJU] INO JO 489q OG} 07) Buypi000v sujeye 8,ATVduloy 94} JO 03479 OY} JO MOTA 4991100 PUB ONLI} GY MOUS 07 SV O8 dn 
uawip Aj19doid g 490g COULTEG OAOGS oY} UOFUJdO Mo Uy ‘BuyoZalo} oy} 07 Qofqng ‘“puspfalp ¥ aIvfoep 07 4OU UaYVQapUN alOJaI0y) suyY ATBdMOD 044 pus ‘4QUeUFSNipy 
4 Qafqns oq ABU BAOGE coor SB JUNODDW S80] PUB BYOIg jO a01.u/8gq ‘I9}{VUl SPY UO poyoval eq UOC[sPep Bw Sujpusg “4USUIUIVAOH) 04} YIM UOTseNdEyp Jo 
300fqns 04) are Aueduio) o q Pl2y 9ous0;'T 03 JO BuyqsOM 0Y 07 BIQuOFdde UL[g [BUVULY 94} JO SULIE} OY, = ‘pornbel casy OM YO(YM sUO;eUB{dxe puv UO; WULIOJU, 
04} [Te pousejqo savy puT “4710; 708 sAOgY se ‘6ZEI ‘FEQUIZ}d9g YIN SY} Pozep pPoyywWyT Auvdu0D opyVOO[Y Vyve oy) Jo yooyg COUNTY Of} PozIPNe Cav OM 


"spend Oujsouny pun upusoy) “s0pOLHT "yuoqunosoy fetyD 


‘OUAANALNA SVHNId ‘NHYIAOOH ‘8 ‘NHDOGNATANAOVH ‘£ "OS6T ‘YOY YIST 9D 
*10} poydde A]Tsuo;A;puod seivys jo 
qoodsel UI—"000'9 “dF JO AQMQuy] qUeBUTQUOS 8 Hy8}xX9 GIO [—"970 NV 





PIS P80 ‘09S $ 9 re9'0cs | FI8'¥80‘0SZ 
"s1Bvak Z 10} [UqIdeQ 
aIBYS souelejeaIg 24} UO 
, ; PusplAIP 04/7 8[NUMd 0} 0fqng 
It 6 698 19 969°698 I9 
HEP 0} IV9A O44 10} ren 
30q} UO FOVQ u9yWaAM puny 
*spolosd puss UOJ} BBjIOUIV [BIA Bo poysmMUlL 
0 2623'S L00°L63'8 -dopasg snoisoa uo ssnnpusdry “noe 368'§66'8 Rt Suypnyjo 
*sosued -UJ) 8Z6I ‘Jeqmezdeg 4408 
vo Asvusuapsy 49470 pun fund O€Z Z6Fr'1g | UO pPIUMIOJ BYZNOIQ sOULTYG 
“U0 ay] fo uormszeibayy ‘uW018890 —:JUN0IIW 8807 pun jifos] 
0 1926 LEO'1T#S‘6 -U02 9Yy}2 UO sesusdre pobeT ‘seaq 0 UV 000'tF 000°000‘F¥ ee “"uorpwesdog sof dasavoy 
61 80S‘S6T £56'899'261 ——_—_—___—_ "920UD 
€06'F8F 6 8 sTuroId SIOMINSUOD UO sIezOW y OL ZEI‘S 618° Z81'S “0g pipes) pun esonpesp Aspuns 
892 836'FF UleysAQ Conn ysiqd Uopsuey, Moy 0 O ZL89‘6FT 000°289‘6FT i 
“suoT}eys “pred 
IOULIOJSUBI} PUY BIUT] PeITIIAO : A][QJ Goes [F JO Sorvyg ous 
896 09F'SF puv punomiepun uorsue}, [sy 000°000‘0S -19J9Ig 9apgemnumMmy %8 0000S 
Z00'221'8S ‘+ gyred ereds puv Arourouyy ‘p Ayjoy yovea 
LES L89‘0E + “" “Ojo ‘soulpying “puey 000°L89°66 TI} jo savyg TIO 189'66 
38090 40 MOMPITOMUT Dijvr “SB, ]UL “d3 — pense] 
“HOTPUPel vp SB8u] ——<—— 
0 00S 000°009 98090 38 saounijdd y puv 77h 0 0 000‘09T 
So Z6l'S SSI'Z6L‘S se “** gouDapYp Ui eanpipusdxzy $$$ "YBa [F JO sarvyuyg eoue 
; Pi 0.0 000‘09 -19jaiq sapyeynumy %8 000°09 
wt 122 &S SSL TLL'&s UOIWDLOd LON Népoly ourjsa7Vd 3y.L "Gove 
ST 998'9T 0F6 S98 ST a el “** 840790, flspung 0 0 000‘00I IZ Jo sorvyg AVvUsPIO 000‘OOT 
OT 9Se& bID'9SS $ aa SyUog_ 7D pup puvy us YsDD —: Pesrsoymny 
0 Tt 000°T — ba “8 JUNODDY FUT —pmydog avys 
‘8 3 “Sa “dF “STU “dF “BLASS V "Pp 8 3 ‘’p Ss 3 “S{[U dF *SELLITIGVIT 


‘626 ‘4aquiajdag YING 9Y47 7D Sv yaayg aoun[Dg 
‘aLINIT ANVdWOD OLULOPIQ VaAVE AH], 


253 


“STUDTUNOOOY POsejsoyH 
“OO > Trassoy 


“O86T “soquiesiog YT 
‘moqpense ( 
‘Amweduios) 943 Jo sH00q oy) Aq mMO eae se pue en UaAys SuO;suYdxe 313 
aide UOMVULIOJUT M0 jo 489q OG} 07 Buypicoow syuye s,AusdwMoy oy} JO 978739 94} JO MOJA 4021100 pu¥ On} B 4IGQITxXO 07) sB Os dn UMBIp Ajlodold g] 4o0qNg sOUY/ SG 
ons uojujdo mo uy ‘pelmbel oavy om suopvaedxe PUB UOMVULIOFU] O43 [TB POUTeIqQoO oABY PUB YAIOJ 498 GAOGY SB JOONg SOUL[TYG oY} Poy[PNE eavy OM 


“B40 POLUT 
‘AZLINEGUVO-a40q ‘q WIVEIHORY 
‘aHUVEHS AVITTM 








900°090'F18' dF 900°9F0'F IS dF 
*qOBIPUOD 9G} JO JUGUIO[}}08 [VUY 
OY} UO JOJ PozJUNOSOB oq [TJM YT ‘“sUNODDYW FIT} 
OG} Pepnypouy 7OU G1OJaIOY} GF PUB PoUfSpPs08u U9I0q 
490A 400 S¥y UOT BI0dI0Z ou Of onp onuEsA2y ou, 
"UOTPJBIOMIOZ 9Y4 0} IOAO Suppusy Buypued yuvyyg 
oy} Bupwredo ors g10}08TU0D 94) ‘QUOWIIAIZYy 
TOPONYEUOZ) eT} JO SULIO} 049 lOEpuQ—'saoW 
v0'Ssl I —— 
6L0°F46'T rer. oe O78p 07 omNgzpusdxy eso7T 
3oL'L99'S 
o0o'r ed * "** go0q IOJSUBIT, 
3ot'999 & “qumoooy qisodaq uo 3801030] 
0L9°9L8°S =e . ; —junoony snusacy 
$88°98 wolsenser 892'3L6'93 ss uoy}ON.ysu0D Jepun 
G89°88S'Z eS" UOpuoy egmoo onp uy or a1ae wd oouured npout) 
es oe  SSOTUDT 3D YEDD —Ss4onpesy) hspuns 
000°S8T ae “** 9800 3V . 
ounqusng 92{f[0 PUD 400 4090, ; 000‘82T 
$¥9'800°S8S —— 002°096 986 Se 
999°0L0‘SI oe ; oyep 0} PUSPIAIT 002°846 OF 
rerwuaropea "40199 rod ¢ 943 jO UoPpovysiyes p “‘go80 T as p coreug iwaqpiQ 866'S0 
- Uy o[quAed JO pred ‘OSE ‘YOIVAL IST g OF Servyg 000°200°S9 pred 
, souslojald uo umnuuUY J 1 "qu90 od | g 3v 4Sar0}0T : Array qoee TdF JO salvyg Asenpio Z00‘S9 
000°S89‘03s eS) 000°000‘08T * pusplHAld [BpjpUo1gjaIg SAT eMUIN) *9U90 
8 ,10cUpsuy Suymsuog puv ‘siejeur ‘“soo]Asos zed ¢ € 0} poMUe oup 4eq4 Suppued puv 
‘suyeut Ayouiypovur pues  4yuryd ‘eBuIpIMA ‘Osel ‘Ame pig WOly SB PUSPfAp Yons 10} 
‘gpue, SuTpPLjou! JowNUOD WoPMonsysuog Jepun Suyyuel ‘pred Army ‘youve Dds 7° saIvyg 
—asnypipus ede ppv) sUGIIJIaIg VA]ZBVNUMYD “4Ue0 Z 000 O81 
099°688'9T es sasvys fo ¢ mss] uo UoLssMuUwmoD 1 
OF8°S61'F sasuadng AsvUrulypese 000°000'00¢ ts s porsoymny 
000°000‘09 ““* uorseaquoy fo 180) —nndey) sswys 
“Sa “dz “ST * ds “STU * dF “SFA “ds 
“*SLESSY “SHLITIGVIT 
Ok6L ‘Y24DW ISTE 247 7D JaaYg aoun]DT 





"AULIWNITT ‘NOILVvAoOdHOoO ‘AOIAUDHA Orang ANY OTHLOaIA Waivsaywae (rrr) 


eg Se a ee eee pe ris temas CCCCOIOEE I = 


254 


(iv) LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 
, 
Administration Générale des Phares, 


12, RuE GAILLON, PARIS. 


DROITS DE PHARES PERGUS EN PALESTINE 
PENDANT L’ANNEE 1980. 


Livres Palestiniennes. 


ces gps es 
I 











Droits Palestiniens Percus Droits 
Année, 1930. em Karestane, iapea atin Total 
ercus hors 

Caiffa. | Jaffa. ‘ de la Palestine. 
£P.Mils. . £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils 
Janvier 172.795 | 213.597 0.421 386.813 
Février 341.620 262.440 eee 604.060 
Mars 399.938 + 256.446 0.979 657.358 
Avril 233.066 , 234.481 0.450 467.997 
Mai 251.382 | 270.718 9.131 524.181 
Juin 283.153 367.984 1.664 652.801 
Juillet ... 306.819 461.116 3.176 771.111 
Aoiit 296.055 » 407.729 4.420 709.204 
Septembre 309.748 , 362.015 2.592 | 674.350 
Octobre... 336.503 ° 431.456 0.416 | 768.375 
Novembre 312.267 | 371.118 5.081 688.466 
Décembre 369.673 367.286 0.308 | 787.267 
Total 3.613.959 aE 4,006.386 21.638 7,641.983 


—— eee a me ee eee 


APPENDIX VIII. 
OtTroMaN LAW OF STRIKES. 
22nd Rajab 1327 A.H.—27th July, 1909. 


1. Where a dispute in respect of the conditions of work occurs between 
@ service of public utility formed by virtue of a permit or by a concession of 
the Imperial Government such as railways, tramways, ports ard lighting, 
and its employees and workers, the employees and workers will elect three 
representatives who will expose the nature and cause of the dispute in a 
memorandum to be sent in duplicate to the Minister of Commerce and 
Public Works. 


2. The demands of the employees and workers must not it. any way 
involve any intervention in the operations of the service nor any control over 
the administration and regulations thereof, save in matters which concern 
the pension and sick funds ard the rights of the personnel. 


3. The Minister shall, within three days of the submission of the memo- 
randum, forward to the service concerred a copy of the memorandum. The 
Directorate of the service shall, within a week, nominate three repre- 
sentatives and forward to the Minister their names and qualifi- 
cations. If om the expiration of the period the representatives have 
not been nominated and the Minister has rot been notified thereof, the 
claims of the employees and workers will be considered as unreservedly and 
unconditionally admitted. 





255 


4. The Minister shall also within the week mentioned iz the preceding 
article nominate an official who shall, within the three days from the date 
of the receipt of the notification by the Minister, invite the representatives 
of the two parties to meet under his presidency as a committee of recon- 
ciliation. If without army reasonable excuse the representatives of the 
parties do not respond to the invitation, the party whose representatives 
default shall be considered as opposed to reconciliation. 


5. If the terms of reconciliation have been arrived at by mutual agree- 
ment, a procés-verbal shall be drawn up indicating the basis thereof and 
courntersigned by the representative of the Government. 


6. If the two parties fail to arrive at an agreement, the employees and 
workers will be at liberty to leave the service, but all demonstrations, acts, 
or deeds contrary to the freedom of work are prohibited. 


7. The procés-verbal of the committee of reconciliation shall be binding 
upon both service and the employees and workers thereof. In case the 
Directorate of the service refuses to apply bona fide the clauses of the 
proces-verbal, the Minister shall serve upon it a summors calling upon it 
to comply therewith. The service shall, on the expiration of eight days from 
the date of notification of the summons, pay for each day in which it 
makes default :— 


If it has a nominal capital less than £T.50.000 ... we doe 
- ‘5 33 £T.100.000 ... .. £7.50 

- 53 a £T.200.000 ... we  £T.100 

5 3 << £T.500.000 ... .. £T.150 

- ss ” £T.1000.000 ... .. £T.200 

‘s more than £T.1000.000 .. £T.300 


99 . eee 

These amounts will be paid into the pensions and sick funds of the 

employees ard workers, and in the absence of such funds they will be 

distributed among the employees and workers pro rata to their emoluments 

and salaries. In case the Directorate of the service does not pay of its 

own will these damages, it shall be coerced thereto by judicial means. 
Every worker shall have the right to eue for the whole of these damages. 


8. The formation of unions ‘‘ Syndicats’’ in connection with services of 


public utility is prohibited. Whoever forms a union ‘‘ Syndicat ’’ in con- 
nection with the service of such category, impedes the work, causes the 
suspension of the service either by provocations and by fraudulent means, 
or by threats or by the use of force and violence, shall be, if he has formed 
@ union ‘‘ Syndicat ’’ and impeded the work or caused the suspension of 
the service by provocation and fraudulent means, liable to imprisonment 
from one week to six months and to a fine from £T.1 to £7.25; if the 
suspension of the service was caused by threats or by the use of force and 
violence, he shall be liable to imprisonment from one month to a year 
and to a fine from £T.1 to £T.50. 

The amount of the damages which may result from such acts to the 
Properties will be borne by the doers. Whoever commits an offerce re- 
quiring a penalty severer than that prescribed above shall be liable to the 
punishments provided for in the Penal Code. 

The services of public utility which form a union ‘“ Syndicat ’’ among 
themselves will be liable to'a fine from £T.50 to £T.300. 


9. The persons who take part in the suspensiom of public service without 
first applying for reconciliation, or without waiting for the result thereof, 
or after reconciliation has been effected in accordance with the provision 
of Article 5, shall be liable to imprisonment from 24 hours to one week and 
to a fire from £7.25 to £T.100. 


10. The public force may, if need be, be used to protect and continue the 
Public service. 


256 


The Ottoman Government has the right to delay or suspend the examina- 
tion of the demands of the employees and workers in the event of war or 
where war is threatened. 

11. The unions ‘‘ Syrdicate’’ which have been formed before the promul- 
gation of the present law either by the employees and workers or by the 
capitalists of any service of public utility shall be dissolved with effect 
from the promulgation of the present law. 

12. All disputes which occur between services of public utility in the 
provinces and their employees and workers shall be settled, if need be, 
by a committee of reconciliation constituted im accordance with the pro- 
visions above stated. The duties of the Minister of Public Works shall 
be accomplished by the highest Administrative Official of the locality. . 

13. The Ministers of Interior, of Justice, and of Public Works are 
charged with the execution of the present law. 





APPENDIX IX. 
Hory Days. 
Moslem Festivals. 
New Year . 1 Muharram. 


Yom ‘Ashura (date of Noah leav- 
ing the Ark, and of the death 


of Husein at Kerbela) . 10 Muharram. 
Mawled al Nabi tohammed’s 

birthday)... eee 12th Rabi’ al-Awal. 
Lailat —_al- -Raghaib- (night of 

Mohammed’s conception) Eve of first Friday in Rajab. 
Lailat al-Mi‘raj (night of Moham- 

med’s miraculous journey) : 27th Rajab. 


Lailat al-Baraat (‘‘ Night of De- 

crees,’’? when the guardian angels 

received from the Almighty 

tablets recording the fate of 

their charges in the coming 

year) a oy me ish 15th Sha‘ban. 
Ramadhan re 1-30 (Ramadhan. 
Lailat al-Qadr (‘‘ Night of Power,’ 

on which the requests of 

worshippers are believed to be 


granted) ae 27th Ramadhan. 
‘Id_ al-Fitr (Shaker Bairam, 3 
days) ae 1-3 Shawal. 
‘Id al-Adha (Qurban Bairam, 3 
days) 10-12 Dhu al-Hijja. 


Descent of Holy Banner (Sanjaq Ae 
Sherif) from Jerusalem to Nebi 
Musa en sae eh age Friday before Orthodox Good 
Friday. 
Return of Banner from Nebi Musa Orthodox Maundy Thursday. 


Christian Festivals. 
Orthodox Festivals. 

Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Epiphany or Thephania, Purification, 
Annunciation, Palm Sunday, Good Friday, Easter Day, St. George, 
Ascension, SS. Constantine and Helen, Whit-Sunday, SS. Peter and Paul, 
Transfiguration, Assumption, Nativity er the Blessed Virgin Mary, Exalta- 
tion of the Holy Cross, St. James, St. Nicholas. 

















PALESTINE HAIFA HARBOUR Roa al 
: eZ, Se -NAVIGAT 
GENERAL PLAN. se 


P Metres50 0 190 | ee ago 400 500 $00 Metres WS ; ff a 3 p 
Feet ae ; 200 75 0 a0 50 1000 «1200S 400—s«1600 1800 —- 2000 Feet ASY .— . ke 
LN AU J / ; 
anne ‘ <> tA \ ~~ 
_—_IN~ 4 ws C/A YS 
REFERENCE GENERAL PROGRESS PLAN. Po eer Se 











ae Te Fs a ‘ “SG & // ey 
ee rene nL Railway 1435 (4-82) Gauge. 2a io rd NS BIR IS 6 7S 


_— y we ey : y 
ae a ey JLN™> f . ~S y 
a5 RS ry Ae ene ”? 1@O5 Gauge . Mea. Pion BX ? ey BOS // ~ ~c / 


r ; — ARS Of a \ 
| Sibamsguannaenneateeeeee » Combined Gauges /"435 &1"05, ASI / % 


—-— /0m 
pe, ; LR /, ‘. ; 
6m All Depths expressed in metres below mean sea level. ie ff \ 


= ra 
i Se 








2 —NAVIGATION LIGHT 


i January /Om Xs en a Fi af - Ser « Poa ic Pat oi es 
—] February NSH ; 

1 March 

—J April 

ps} May 
somal NE : 5s | / ia 
fp] August he 

September . 




















~~ —— ee 








os 


gee eee OS ee oe eS emake 


5, 


ue ~ Vf 

. 

. 
rai iy e 
*. — 


BERM 7.5 WIDE (MIN) 


cad 
o — 
>is 





— 
ea _ 


3m 












aa . : — ee Ck WALL_ON 










\\ 


— 
es ee + ere nee = 7 “i et a ee 


p—_MAN Y~WHARE _. $1000 _uefite 
Ns AN SSS ee 
=i S 


TRANGE 
| 
SHED | 








YE 31.12 .30 


——$—— 
. - — = : = 











- 
so0g «2° 


— —— 





\ 


2 AUR ae ay or\: oe SG (OciewaLL ON a ew =: = PRAT Ep a 
OP gc dane a | een aa wows =O RUBBLE “DYKE™ = Sante gah Se 


. ot sR BBE “DYKE Dee. : = ns ao 
ee qeere Slee A ROE 


re a\M. is 







a ‘ ‘ MOLE - os $3 *ee 40h tee mes 90d) oer, te 
s+ ,*[eubmerged)) Hn 






sees seen 8 86tene 





~ 
o** 







be 


lib ey ats STORM _. wen en ee HAIFA Os, 


ane H = 4 1GH HOUSE Pn 


' ; i 
ee Post Office | 


, “Saal es ag _____ CHRISTIAN 
oa = aos : 10-0 ee EEE: CEMETER 
See Sale 


O 
- 


. 
ey Se tee ee or 












eT 
-_——<-- 







1 
‘ wa 
yas 


————S-" 


= 
= 


er 





a COLIN 










= Aug 30 
=e ‘ Rail 
SynehY 
JEWISH 

CEMETERY 






“EL INSHIRAH™ 


ee ed 













hve we oom 
p> Tool - 


RMEL S 














A 


- 
—_ 


Digitized by 





AO po 


a) 


aA =? 


257 


Roman Catholic and Western Churches. 


New Year’s Day, Epiphany, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension 
Day, Whit-Monday, Christmas Day. 


Jewish Festivals. 


The Jewish festivals are divided into three categories:—(a) days of 
rest; (b) festivals on which work is permissible; (c) feasts. 


Date. Category (a). Category (b). Category (c). 

Tishri 1-2 ... ... Rosh ha-Shana -— — 
(New Year) 

Tishri lO ... ... Yom Kippur — ome 
(Day of Atonement) 

Tishri 15... ... Ist Day Tabernacles — — 
(Sukkoth) 

Tishri 16-21 als — 2nd—7th Day — 

Sukkoth. 


Tishri 22... ... 8th Day Sukkoth — aos 
(Simhat Torah) 
Kislev 25 to Tevet 2 — Hanukka(Maccabeans) — 
Tevet 10 ... sie — — ’*Asara be-Tevet (Siege 
of Jerusalem), 


Shevat 15 ... sas —- Tu be-Shavat (Tree — 
New Year). 
Adar 13... ae — — Ta‘anit Esther (Fast 
of Esther). 
Adar 14... Sit — Purim — 
Adar 15... oe -— Purim (in Jerusalem — 
only). 
Nisan 15... ... Ist Day Passover — — 
| Nisan 16-20 sd — 2nd-6th Day Passover — 
| Nisan 21... ... 7th Day Passover ~~ — 
Tyar 18... ai — Lag Baomer (Outdoor —— 
Day). 
Sivan 6... ... Shavu‘oth (Pentecost) — — 
Tammuz 17 ee — — Shiv‘a ‘Asar be-Tam- 
- muz (Capitulation of 
Jerusalem). 
Ab 9 ste sae — — (Destruction of the 
Temple). 


APPENDIX XI. 
Prormorrion oF CULTIVATORS ORDINANOE. No. 27 oF 1929. 


An Ordinance to provide for the Protection of Agricultural Tenants. 


BE IT ENACTED by the High Commissioner for Palestine, with the 
advice of the Advisory Council thereof :— 


1. Short Title——This Ordinance may be cited as the Protection of 
Cultivators Ordinance, 1929. 
, 2. Definitions.—For the purposes of this Ordinance :— 


| ‘“Tenant’’ means a person who cultivates a holding under an agree- 
ment express or implied with a landlord, and pays the landlord a rent 
fixed either in money or in kind or a portion of the produce of the land. 


10035 I 


258 


It includes a person who is hired by the landlord to do agricultural work 
and receives as his remuneration a portion of the produce of the holding 
which he cultivates, but not— 


(i) a person who is hired by the tenant to do agricultural work on 
those terms, or 

(ii) a person hired to do agricultural work who receives as remunera- 
tion a money wage or a portion of the produce but does not cultivate 
a holding, or 

(iii) a person who has been a tenant or has been hired by the land- 
lord to do agricultural work for less than two years, or 

(iv) a person who has obtained by auction a lease of State Domain 
for a period not exceeding two years. 


It includes, also, the heirs of a tenant dying during the period of the 
tenancy; and where the tenant has acquired a holding by succession from 
his father or other ascendant or descendant, includes such ascendant or 
descendant. 

‘¢ Landlord’? means any person entitled for the time being to receive 
the rents and profits of any land. 

‘Holding ’’ means a plot of Miri land cultivated by a tenant; and 
where the land of a village is held in undivided ownership or tenure, 
includes any portion of land so cultivated within the area of the village. 

‘* Board ’? means a Board constituted under this Ordinance. 

‘Rules of good husbandry ’’ means, so far as is practicable, having 
regard to the character and position of the holding :— 


(a) the maintenance of the land clean and in good condition; and 
(b) such rules of good husbandry as are generally recognized as 
applying to holdings of the same character and in the same neighbour- 
hood as the holding in respect of which the expression is to be applied. 
‘¢ Miri ’’ includes Miri Wagaf land. 


3. Termination of tenancy invalid without certain notice.—(1) Notwithsetand- 
ing any provision in any contract to the contrary, a landlord of Miri land 
shall not be entitled to terminate the tenancy of a tenant who has been 
cultivating a holding for a period of two years or more, unless he shall 
have given to the tenant in writing notice to quit not less than one year 
from the Ist day of October following the date of the notice: Provided that 
nothing herein shall extend to the case where the tenant has failed to 
pay the rent at the rate payable during the year preceding the notice 
within a reasonable time from the due date of payment; or has failed 
to cultivate the land in accordance with the rules of good husbandry; 
or where under any Law of Bankruptcy in force an order of bankruptcy 
has been made against the tenant. 


(2) In case of dispute, a Board appointed under this Ordinance shall 
determine, after consultation with the local Inspector of Agriculture, what, 
having regard to all the circumstances, is a reasonable period for the 
payment of rent due, and whether the tenant has failed to cultivate the 
land in accordance with the rules of good husbandry. 


(3) If a landlord gives notice in writing to the tenant to terminate 
the tenancy on account of the failure of the tenant to pay the rent in 
due time, or to cultivate the land in accordance with the rules of good 
husbandry, the tenant shall be liable to eviction unless within 15 days 
of the receipt of such notice he applies in writing for reference of the 
question to the Board. If such application is made, the Board shall give 
its decision within 15 days of the receipt of the application. The landlord 
shall send a copy of the notice to the District Commissioner. 


259 


4. Provision as to increase of rent.—(1) The landlord shall not increase 
the rent of a holding unless he has given the tenant notice in writing of 
the proposed increase; and the increased rent shall not come into force 
before one year from the first day of October following the date of the 
notice. 

(2) If the tenant is not willing to pay the increased rent, he shall, within 
three months of the date of the notice, notify the landlord, who may 
thereupon give him notice to quit expiring on the date when the increased — 
rent would come into force. 


5. Compensation for disturbance and improvements.—(1) Where atenant has 
received a valid notice to quit, the landlord shail pay to the tenant com- 
pensation for disturbance in accordance with the provisions of this Section: 
Provided that he shall not be liable to pay compensation in any case 
where notice to quit is not required under Section 3 hereof. 

(2) The compensation shall be a sum representing such loss or expense 
directly attributable to the quitting of the land as the tenant may un- 
avoidably incur in connection with the sale or removal of his movable 
property: Provided that compensation shall not be payable in respect of 
the sale of any such property unless the tenant has before the sale given 
the landlord a reasonable opportunity of making a valuation thereof; and 
provided, also, that no compensation shall be payable under this Section :— 

(a) where the landlord has made the tenant an offer in writing +o 
withdraw a notice to quit, and the tenant has unreasonably refused or 
failed to accept the offer; or 

(b) if the claim for compensation is not made within three months 
from the date at which the tenant quite the land. 

(3) ‘Where a tenant of a holding has made thereon any improvement 
comprised in the Schedule hereto, he shall, subject as hereinafter mentioned, 
be entitled on the termination of the tenancy, whether by a notice to quit 
or otherwise, to obtain from the landlord as compensation for the improve- 
ment such sum as represents the value of the improvement to an incoming 
tenant: Provided that in ascertaining the amount of compensation pay- 
able, there shall be taken into account any benefit which the landlord has 
given or allowed to the tenant executing the improvement, whether expressly 
stated in any contract of tenancy or not. 

(4) Consent of landlord to tmprovements in Part I of Schedule.—Com- 
pensation under this Section shall not be payable in respect of any improve- 
ment comprised in Part I of the Schedule hereto unless the landlord nas 
previously to the execution of the improvement consented in writing to the 
making thereof, and any such consent may be given by the landlord uncon- 
ditionally, or upon such terms as to compensation or otherwise, as may be 
agreed upon between the landlord and the tenant, and, if any such agree- 
ment is made, any compensation payable under the agreement shall be sub- 
stituted for compensation under this Section. 

(5) Notice to landlord as to tmprovements in Part II of Schedule.—Com- 
pensation shall not be payable in respect of any improvement comprised in 
Part II of the Schedule unless the tenant has given to the landlord not less 
than two months’ notice in writing of his intention to execute the improve- 
ment, and of the manner in which he proposes to do the work: Provided 
that— 

(a) if the improvement consists of application to the land of farmyard 
manure, it shall be sufficient for the tenant to give notice to the land- 
lord once in each year; and 

(b) if the improvement consists of repairs to buildings which are 
necessary for the habitation of the tenant or the proper cultivation or 
working of the holding, the tenant ehall not execute the repairs uniess 
the landlord fails to execute them within a reasonable time after such 
notice. 


260 


‘Where notice is given under this subsection the landlord and tenant 
may agree on the terms of compensation or otherwise on which the improve- 
ment is to be executed; and if such agreement is made, compensation pay- 
able under the agreement shall be substituted for compensation under this 
Section. 


(6) Outgoing tenant to prepare or allow landlord to prepare land.—If the 
landlord desires that a tenant who has received notice to quit in accordance 
with Section 3 hereof shall prepare the land for cultivation in the following 
year, he shall give notice to the tenant in writing to that effect, and if the 
tenant complies with the notice shall pay compensation to the tenant for 
the preparation of the land. If the tenant is unwilling to prepare the land 
he shall inform the landlord within one month of the receipt of the notice, 
and the landlord shall be entitled during the year of notice to prepare for 
cultivation in the following year any land of the tenant which is not under 
crop. 


(7) Board to decide disputes as to compensation.—If any question arises 
whether compensation for disturbance or compensation for an improvement 
made by the tenant is payable, or as to the amount of any such compensation, 
the question shall be referred to a Board: Provided that no claim for 
compensation shall be heard by a Board unless particulars of the claim have 
been given by the landlord to the tenant or by the tenant to the landlord 
within three months from the termination of the tenancy by a notice to 
quit, or from the date at which the tenant quits the land where there has 
been no notice to quit. 


(8) Where a tenancy is terminated by the Jandlord on account of the 
failure of the tenant to pay the rent due on the holding, such rent may be 
deducted from any compensation payable by the landlord to the tenant under 
this Section. 


6. tight of tenant of long standing to receive further compensation.— 
(1) Where a tenant has cultivated a holding for a period of five years or 
more, the landlord terminating the tenancy, in addition to giving notice 
to quit and paying the compensation prescribed in the preceding Section, 
shall pay to the tenant a sum equal to one year’s average annual rent paid 
by the tenant during the five years preceding the termination of the tenancy, 
whether such rent was paid in money or in kind, or a portion of the produce 
of the holding. 


(2) The amount of compensation due under this Section shall, in default 
of agreement, be determined by a Board. 


7. Constitution of Board.—A Board shall consist of a District Officer, as 
President, nominated by the District Commissioner, and two members 
nominated, with the approval of the District Commissioner, by each of the 
landlord and the tenant. The two members shall be persons skilled in 
agriculture. The decisions of the Board in any matter referred to them 
under Section 3, 5 or 6 hereof shall be subject to the confirmation of a 
District Commissioner, and when confirmed by him shall be final. 


8. Land not to be transferred until provisions of Ordinance satisfied.— 
({) Where application is made to register a transfer of Miri land on which 
there are tenants who have received notice of termination of tenancy in 
accordance with this Ordinance, the Director of the Department of Lands 
shall not record the transfer in the Land Registers unless he is satisfied that 
security has been given by the landlord for carrying out any obligations 
to the tenants under this Ordinance, or unless the purchaser agrees that he 
will take over the obligations of the former landlord, and that any com- 
pensation that has been or shall be found due to the tenants shall be charged 
on the land. 


261 


(2) Compensation charged on land.—Any compensation agreed to be due 
or found by a Board to be due to a tenant under this Ordinance shall be 
charged on the land until the whole of such compensation has been paid. 


9. Regulations.—The High Commissioner may make and, when made, may 
vary or revoke Regulations as to:— 


(a) the procedure of a Board; 
(b) the fees payable to the members of a Board; 
(c) any other matter herein requiring regulation. 


10. Repeal.—Section 2 of the Transfer of Land Amendment Ordinance 
No. 2, 1921, is hereby repealed. ) 


SOHEDULE. 
Tenant’s Improvements for which Compensation ts payable. 


Part I. 
Improvements to which consent of landlord is required :— 


(1) Erection, alteration, or enlargement of buildings. 

(2) Making or improvement of roads or bridges. 

(3) Removal of tree-roote, boulders, stones, or other like obstructions 
to cultivation. 

(4) Making or improvement of works of irrigation, water courses, 
ponds, wells or reservoirs, or works for the application of water-power 
or for supply of water for agricultural or domestic purposes. 

(5) Making and renewal of permanent fences and walls. 

(6) Planting of orchards, vineyards, wind-breaks and hedges. 

(7) Erection and installation of prime-movers, steam, oil and gas 
engines, turbines, rams, and windmills and water-wheels. 

(8) Erection and installation of power-driven mills or machinery for 
the grinding, crushing or treatment of agricultural products. 


Part II. 
Improvements in respect of which notice to landlord is required :— 


(9) Drainage. 

(10) Embankments and sluices against floods. 

(11) Application to land of farmyard manure. 

(12) Application to land of purchased artificial or other purchased 
manure. 

(13) Repairs to buildings, being buildings recessary for the habitation 
of the tenant, or the proper cultivation of working of the holding, other 
than repairs which the tenant is himself under obligation to execute: 

Provided that the tenant before beginning to execute any such repairs 
shall give to the landlord notice in writing of his intention, together 
with particulars of such repairs, and shall not execute the repairs 
unless the landlord fails to execute them within a reasonable time after 
receivirg such notice. 


H. C. Luxkg, 


Oficer Administering the Government. 
J1lst July, 1929. 


(100356—21) We. 1012—2636/31 1260 & 180 6/31 P.St. G.7/ 8 


Digitized by Google 


Digitized by Google 





UNIV TY OF MIN 


fl ea 














a — a — S 





we nen a 























yaes4 ai beer 


TR 
"£31951 DOO 636 009 J 


£__3 1951 D00636009/ 
















= = eh hUre 












~ 
~~ 
= 
a 
_ : 
at < 
" : : 
: é 
ef . jy 
» Ae 


=a e 





ti * & a a ‘| AD SSO 


_—_— 


, Dy a a ale Pr. | 


TEN 


| eons 












™o 


oe 
'aEaE Ss: 


= 











Fs 


7 
y 





2a oe 












———————— 


2 ie + va 
karen ath ¥ 
et a ae ~ 





