This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 





Issued by The Colonial Office 


REPORT 


a His Majesty’s Government in_the United Kingdom 
ae of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 

on the Administration of 





Palestine and ‘Trans-Jordan | 


For the Year 1935 


Reports for 1933 and 1934 see Non- Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 94. (1934) and Colonial No. 104 (1935); 


price 11s. 62. and SJ. od. respectively 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON : 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses : 
Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W,C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 


Wy . - ; . : 
, ee York Street. Manchester 1; 1 St: Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff; 
rr, 80 Chichester Street, Belfast; 
ke | or through any Bookseller 
1936 


Price 6s. od. Net 
Colonial No. 112 


A SR - a 


igit ACO DY NX 





THE LIBRARY 


caass 956.9 
BOOK GIS& r 





Digitized by Google 





Digitized by Google 


Gt. 3+ i oe 
limed by The ‘Colonial Office 
REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and ‘Trans-Jordan 


For the Year 1935 


For Reports for 1933 and 1934 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 94 (1934) and Colonial No. 104 (1935), 
price 115. 6d. and 55. od. respectively 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 
To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses : 
Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 25 
York Street, Manchester 1; 1 St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff ; 
80 Chichester Street, Belfast; 
or through any Bookseller 


1936 
Price 6s. od. Net 
Colonial No. 112-713 


Ls 
be 


r 


CONTENTS 


Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission ... 354 es san iv 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Seventh Session... ele ix 


Notefregarding arrangement of the Report a Cn en ee xil 
PALESTINE. 
Introductory a wie ae sees =“ = sas _ 1 
I. Jewish National Home a se i ies a bet 32 
II. Autonomous Administration... noe re sas sae ee 36 
III. Jewish Agency... a oe oo oe an ae aus 40 
IV. Immigration and Emigration ... se ee aes Sey Ss 43 
V. Land Regime bee dee dies se ne ie “ae aoe 50 
VI. Nationality... re eae Pr ha sta St ie see 68 
VII. Judicial System 2.000. TB 
VIII. Economic Equality uae ahs box ond at wea bes 84 
IX. Holy Places... 00 keenest tee eee 90 


X. Freedom of Conscience ... sen suis aS ak we rae 91 
XI. Military Clauses ... ste Ses ae aa ben are ale 95 
XII. International Agreements, Conventions, and Treaties... jan -. 104 


XIII. Antiquities cor = ae bey re Yue miata -.. 110 
XIV. Official Languages ‘ae re as ae ia ae im 114 
XV. Holy Days eas sae was oe ve sau eas «. 115 
XVI. Trans-Jordan er ox wise ses ar ive “a3 ... 116 
XVII. Labour _... te oes sae ae ts — sere .. 116 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs, Arms and Liquors age ... 125 
XIX. Education Shue ae ie ae ve sy ae ... 182 
XX. Public Health... es iw aes eee int son ... 148 
XXI. Public Finance... se aus oii sue, | ee oa .-. 166 
XXII. Demographic Statistics ... ie cas sive Sex ie ... 214 


XXIII. Customs, Excise and Trade... baie igs fox hs w. «©6218 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones er see sue sae w. 285 


XXV. Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries... Bis siis cen .. 2438 
XXVI. Public Works and Geology san wes ee ae a we «= 257 
XXVIII. Railways ... ae wae Std ive bes ee ae ... 265 
XXVIII. Co-operative Societies... sais abs one set = ... 268 


XXIX. Civil Aviation See eal ies — ses aie ee we «B72 


Lisa y 


wor fl 


Are iQ ve 


-2- 5-0-0 - fen 2-6-2 2-2 


ill 


TRANS-JORDAN. Page 
Introductory 278 
Lands wee ae ... 282 
Legal and Judicial . 290 
Freedom of Conscience ... 802 
Arab Legion bus sas 803 
International Agreements, penvaniions and Treaties ... 808 
Antiquities . 818 
Labour... 315 
Education 816 
Health 821 
Finance... wee ioe 3828 
Customs, Excise and Trade 341 
Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 345 
Agriculture 850 
Publie Works 852 
APPENDICES. 
Palestine. Page 
I, Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 2 356 
(li) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation Limited .. 360 
(iff) Palestine Potash Limited ee 362 
(iv) Palestine Land mahi tania company (ile Gua: 
cessionnaires)... in 364 
(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues acliated in 1985 364 
Il. Report of Committee on conditions of Service of unclassified 
Government employees in technical Departments .. 365 
Ill. Official Communiqué regarding Railway employees . 377 
IV. Agreement relating to the circulation of motor vehicles caw 
Palestine and Syria . bar 380 
V. Amendment of the Silestine “syria Customs Reicemene 1929 388 
Diagram— Monthly variations in the levels of the Dead Sea and 
Lake Tiberias. (Facing page 62.) 
Map of Palestine. 
34931 A 2 


941966 


1V 
Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


1. @.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the establishment of the national home of the Jewish 
people? 

What are the effects of these measures ? 

2. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country under 
such political, administrative, and economic conditions as will secure 
the development of self-governing institutions? 

What are the effects of these measures? 

3. @.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants 
of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion ? 

What are the effects of these measures ? 


II.—Autonomous Administration. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


IlI.—Jewish Agency. 


1. Q@.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency been 
officially recognized ? 

2. Y.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administration 
in the past year? , 

If so, in what form and in what connection? 

3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of this 
Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, social 
and other matters? 

4. Q.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 

5. Q@.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of all 
Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the Jewish 
National Home? 


IV.—Immigration and Emigration. 


1. @.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 

2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the rights 
and position of other sections of the population? 

3. @.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with the 
Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews on the 
land (give figures) ? 


Vv 


4, 0.—What are the effects of these measures? 

Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, pro- 
lesion, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 

Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Régime. 
1. Q.—How have State lands been defined and delimited ? 
2. @.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration of 
real property ? 


VI.—Nattonality. 
1. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality law? 


2. Q.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as to 
facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judicial System. 

1. Q@.—When did the new judicial organization begin to operate ? 

2. @.—What special features does it contain with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee of 
their rights as laid down in Article 9? 

3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure respect 
for the personal status of the various peoples and communities and 
' for their religious interests? 


4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs been 
assured ? 


5. @.—What extradition agreements have been made between the 
Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into force 
of the Mandate? 


VIII.—Economic Equality. 


1. Q@.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the develop- 
ment of the country in respect of public ownership or control of 
any of the natural resources of the country or of the public works, 
services, and utilities? 

2. Q.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country— 
and if so, under what circumstances? ' 

3. Q.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names and 
nationalities of the concession holders. 

4. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings and 
the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such reports and 
balance sheets are not available, give all information relating to the 
subject, particularly the rate of interest and the uses made of profits. 

34931 A8 


vl 
5. @.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality 
as regards :— 
(a) Concessions ? 
(b) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to 
prospecting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 

6. Q.—What regulations has the Mandatory Power made for 
the application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of transit under 
equitable conditions ’’? 

7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? 

If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken for the assumption by 
the Mandatory of responsibility in connection with the Holy Places 
and religious buildings or sites, including the responsibility of pre- 
serving existing rights and of securing free access to the Holy 
Places, religious buildings and sites, and the free exercise of 
worship ? 

2. Y.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the immuni- 
ties of which are guaranteed ? 


X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom of 
conscience and religion? 

2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free exercise 
of any form of worship in the interest of the maintenance of public © 
order and morals? 

What are the effects of such restrictions? 

3. Q@.—What measures have been taken to ensure the nights © 
of communities to maintain their own schools for the education 
of their own members? 

What educational requirements of a general nature are imposed 
by the Admunistration ? 

What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of such 
supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all faiths or 
nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance 
of public order and good government? 


XI.—Military Clauses. 


1. Q.—What is the form of military organization and training? 

2. Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory? 

What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 

Racial and religious composition of these two forces? 


Vil 

3. Q.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
Palestine to contribute to the cost of maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 

If so, to what extent? 

4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its rights to use the roads, 
railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed forces 
and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 

If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged? 


XII.—International Conventions. 
1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration ? 
2. Q.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against disease, 
including diseases of plants and animals? — 


XIII.—Antiquities. 
Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities according 


to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


XIV.—Official Languages. 

1. @.—Have the three official languages been used simultane- 
ously and on an equal footing in legislative and administrative 
documents and in the Courts? 

If not, what languages are used? 
2. Y.—To what observations does the application of this system 
give rise? | 


XV.—Holy Days. 
Q.—What days are recognised as holy days by the various 
communities ? 


XVI.—Trans-J ordan. 
1. Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimited and organized? | 
2. @.—In what way does the political and administrative 


regime established in this territory differ from the regulations laid 
down for Palestine? 


X VII.—Labour. 

1. Q-—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accord- 
ance with Pari XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the consideration 
of conventions or recommendations of International Labour 
Conferences? 


2. Q.—Are these conventions or recommendations being carried 
} into effect? 


3. Q.—What other regulations are in force in regard to labour? 
34931 


; 


vill 

4. Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling 
labour contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both 
on the part of employer and employed, and what powers does it 
possess to prevent any abuses in this respect? 

5. Q@.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 
of such legislation ? 


X VIII.—T rade tn and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or the 
contro! of the importation, of the production, and the consumption 
of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX.—Education. 


1. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 

Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it 
free? 

2. Y.—What measures have been taken for higher education ; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 

3. Q.—In what languages is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


XX.—Public Health. 


1. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health and 
sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases ? 

2. Q.—What is the regime for medical assistance? 

3. Q.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution and 
what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XXI.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of the 
territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature and 
the assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statistics. 


Q.—SBtatistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, emigra- 
tion, and immigration. 


1X 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations of 
the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Seventh 


_ Minutes. 
Page 48. 


Page 48. 


Page 51. 


Page 51. 


Page 52. 


Page 52. 


Page 53. 


Session, June rd to 18th, 1935. 


Information regarding the number of Trans-Jordanians 
who entered Palestine and left after seasonal work 
was done. 


(Chapter IV, paragraph 21.) 


Information regarding the entry by the Jewish Agency 
of only bona fide labourers on the labour schedule. 
(Chapter IV, paragraph 16.) 


Information regarding the Arab Zubeidat incident, 
with particular reference to the question whether 
the Arabs who were evicted received any com- 
pensation in the form of the granting of fresh lands. 
(Chapter V, paragraph 98 et seq.) 


Copies of the 1 : 250,000 map of Palestine have been 
sent to the Permanent Mandates Commission : 
this map is too large for inclusion in the Report 
itself. The Commission has already been supplied 
with copies of a motor-map on the scale of 1 : 500,000. 


Information as to the date when the Commission 
might expect to receive the revised edition of the 
Laws of Palestine. 

(Chapter VII, paragraph 36.) 


Information regarding the alleged refusal of a Japanese 
vessel to hoist the British flag on entering the port 
of Haifa in spite of the insistence of the local 
authorities. 


(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 29.) 


Information as to whether a person who had acquired 
Palestinian citizenship by birth could, on coming 
of age, opt to revert to the original nationality of 
his parents. 

(Chapter VI, paragraph 8.) 


Information regarding the purpose of the Passport 
Ordinance, 1934. 


(Chapter VI, paragraph 15.) 


Information regarding the divergence between the 
imports and exports of Palestine. An explanation 
of the economic situation was promised. 

(Chapter XXIJ, paragraph 29.) 


Statement of the reasons for the Government decision 
to adhere to its original point of view regarding 
the Jewish community’s claim for a subsidy for 
Rabbinical Courts. 

(Chapter X, paragraph 6.) 


Information regarding the alleged discovery of 
. Unlicensed arms near Nablus and at Safad. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 4.) 


Page. 
50 


48 


65 


83 


230 


69 


72 


20) 


94 


126 


Page 61. 


Page 67. 


Page 68. 


Page 68. 


Page 68. 


Page 69. 


Page 70. 


Page 70. 


Page 72. 


Page 226. 


Page 226. 


Page 226. 


x 


Description of the Southern and Eastern boundaries 
of Palestine. 
(Introductory Chapter, paragraph 1.) 


Information regarding the new definition of unem- 


ployment. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 2.) 


Information regarding the suggestion that a factory 
inspectorate should be established in Palestine. 
(Chapter XX, paragraph 13.) 


Further information regarding the report of the Com- 
mittee appointed to study the labour conditions 
in the Railways and various other Government 
Departments. 

(Chapter XVII, paragraph 34.) 


Information regarding the dispute between the ‘ Iraq 
Petroleum Company and certain of its workers. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 38.) 


Fuller information regarding the question of making 
a single authority responsible for labour. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 25.) 


Further information in connection with the new 
Order under the Customs Ordinance authorising the 
importation on certain conditions of essences 
intended or suitable for use in the manufacture of 
spurious or imitated alcoholic beverages. 

(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 8.) 


Information regarding anti-narcotic measures taken 
by Government. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 12.) 


Information regarding assistance given by Govern- 
ment to the Jewish community in the matter of 
ophthalmic services. 

(Chapter XX, paragraph 21.) 


Further information regarding squatters’ rights on 
land sold by owners. 
(Chapter V, paragraph 97.) 


Information regarding the reasons for which imports 
of products of a State which has ceased to be 
a Member of the League of Nations are admitted on 
an equal footing with the products of States 
Members of the League. 
(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 30.) 


Information regarding the steps which are in con- 
templation in the matter of factory inspection and 
a weekly day of rest, with special reference to dock 
labour. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 29.) 


116 


152 


123 


124 


12] 


129 


131 


155 


231 


121 


Page 226. 


Page 64. 


Page 65. 


Page 65. 


Page 67. 


Page 68. 


xl 


Information regarding the scheme of housing Arab 
workers. 


(Chapter XX, paragraph 28.) 
Points relating to Trans-Jordan. 


Fuller information regarding the administration of 
Trans-Jordan. 
(Chapter XVI.) 


Information regarding the number of persons 
amnestied on the occasion of the marriage of the 
Heir Apparent. 

(Chapter III in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 21.) 


Further information regarding the last elections to the 
Legislative Council of Trans-Jordan and protests 
alleged to have been made to the British Resident. 
(Introductory Chapter in Trans-Jordan Section, 


paragraph 7.) 


Information regarding seizures of drugs in Trans- 
Jordan. 
(Chapter V in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 4.) 


Further information regarding the employment of 
children in Trans-Jordan. 
(Chapter VIII in Trans-Jordan Section, para- 


graph 2 ef seq.) 


Page. 
163 


116 


300 


275 


305 


315 


xll 
NOTE 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Commission 
of the League of Nations specially requested that the Sections of 
this Report might be arranged in the order of subjects adopted by 
the Commission for its annual examination, that is, in the order 
of the questions in its Questionnaire on the Palestine Mandate, 
namely :— 

I. Jewish National Home. 


IT. Autonomous Administration. 
Ii{. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XI. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
_ XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 


2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, — 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been | 
removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and placed — 


at the end of the Report. 

An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise and 
Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, Co-opera- 
tive Societies and Railways are also included in the Palestine portion 
of the Report. The Section relating to Development has been 
included under Chapter V., Land Regime. 

A new Section has been added on Civil Aviation under 
Head XXIX. 

There are no specific headings for these matters in the Question- 
naire. 


. 


a 
| 
“ 


| 
‘ 


| 
| 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
\reland to the Council of the League of 
Nations on the administration of Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan for the Year 1935 


PALESTINE 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, etc. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia be- 
tween latitude 30° N. and 33° N., longitude 34° 30° E. and 
35° 30° EB. 

On the south-west it 1s bounded by Egyptian territory, on the 
south-east by the Gulf of Aqaba, on the east by Trans-Jordan, on 
the north by the French Mandated territories of Syria and the 
Lebanon, and on the west by the Mediterranean. 


The boundaries are as follows :— 


South-west.—From a point on the Mediterranean coast 
north-west of Rafa, passing in a south-easterly direction to the 
south-west of Rafa, to a point west-north-west of Ain Maghara ; 
thence to the junction of the Gaza-Aqaba and Nekl-Agaba 
roads, from whence it continues to the end of the boundary line 
at the point of Ras Taba on the western shore of the Gulf of 
Aqaba. 


South-east.—From Ras Taba, the Gulf of Aqaba to a point 
two miles west of Aqaba, thence up the centre of the Wadi 
Araba, the Dead Sea, and the Jordan, to the junction of the 
latter with the River Yarmuk, thence up the centre of the 
River Yarmuk to the Syrian frontier. 


North.—The northern boundary was laid down by the 
Anglo-French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, and 
its delimitation was ratified in 1923. Stated briefly, the 
boundary runs from Ras el Naqura on the Mediterranean east- 
wards to Metulla and across the upper Jordan valley to Banias, 
thence to Jisr Banat Yaquil, thence along the Jordan to the 
Lake of Tiberias and on to E] Hamme station on the Samakh- 
Deraa railway line. - | 


West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


2 
Area and Climate. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north 1s about 
160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less than 70 
miles, the total area being approximately 10,100 square miles in- 
clusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead Sea, Lake 
Tiberias and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore comparable with 
Wales or Belgium. 

38. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring 
deserts of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate zones, 
is characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not excessively hot 
summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical rainfalls accom- 
panied by high, cold winds; frost is rare. But the typical 
climate is varied by the diverse topography of the country. In the 
south and south-west there are wide expanses of sand dunes and 
desert. The remainder of the country falls naturally into three 
longitudinal strips—the maritime plain, the mountainous regions 
(or central highlands), and the Jordan valley. Each of these strips, 
which are more closely described below, is climatically distinct. 

The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the 
heat of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by the 
westerly winds from the Mediterranean. In the central highlands 
there is a greater range of temperature both daily and seasonal, 
and the maximum temperature is a few degrees lower than in the 
coastal plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in Jerusalem and 
Hebron, and the winter storms are accompanied by penetrating 
winds which necessitate the use of clothing suitable for a cold 
English climate. 

I'he Jordan valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most oppressive con- 
ditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 

The maritime plain and the central highlands are both healthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity, is relaxing in its 
effects, while the other, through sudden changes of temperature, 
predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 

4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones :— 


Maritime Central Jordan 
Plain Highlands Valley 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberras. 
Mean temperature Summer i aa 70° F. 83° F 
Winter 60° F. 52° F. 62° F 
Mean daily maximum tempera- Summer — 83° F. 95° F 
ture. | Winter — 60° F. 72° F 
Mean daily minimum ... Summer — 60° F. 71° F 
Winter — 44° F. 54° F 
Absolute maximum temperature Summer 104° F. 102° F. 114° F 
Absolute minimum temperature Winter 35° F. 21° F. 34° F 
Relative humidity Summer 69 55 5] 
, per cent. percent. per cent 
Winter 70 68 64 
per cent. per cent. per cent 


3 


_ 9. Rainfall is of vital importance in Palestine and any reduction 
In its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agriculture and 
water conservation generally. The mean volume of annual rain- 
fall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east of England. 


There are two well-marked periods of precipitation. The 
‘former rain ’’ in October and November is not usually large; 
during December, January and February, the rainfall steadily 
increases ; in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended 
in Apnl. The characteristic winds are the moist west and south- 
west of winter and the dry north and north-west of summer. 
Desert heat is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the 
south or east generally in April and May and occasionally in 
September and October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the south this plain 
has an average width of about 20 miles, but it gradually narrows 
to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the hills approach 
to within a few hundred yards of the sea. Beyond Carmel the 
plain widens again, but in this area it is marshy and malarial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the plain of Esdraelon. To the north of that 
plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the Syrian 
frontier and rising to Jebel Jermak to a height of 3,934 feet above 
sea-level; to the south are the mountains of Samaria and Judea, 
which in places reach heights little less than those of Galilee. 
Most of this second strip of country is desolate and stony, but at 
irregular intervals there occur stretches of fertile land capable of 
deep tillage. 

The plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture than 
that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile and is 
especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan valley, a 
natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the extreme 
north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 1,300 feet below 
that level at the Dead Sea, about 100 miles to the south. 


7. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, situated in the midst 
of the hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, with its 
modern harbour, in the north at the entrance to the plain of 
Esdraelon ; Jaffa, a second port which lies some 40 miles west- 
north-west of Jerusalem; Tel Aviv, which is contiguous to Jaffa; 
and Nablus, the ancient Sichem, in the hills of Samaria. Jerusa- 
lem has a majority of Jewish inhabitants ; in Haifa the Arab and 
Jewish elements are now- approximately equal in numbers; Tel 
Aviv 18 an entirely Jewish township of 130,000 inhabitants. In 

Jaffa a large majority of the people are Arabs, and in Nablus, 


4 


apart from a small community of Samaritans, all the people are 
Arabs. 

Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem; 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee; and Safad, 


a remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north of 
Palestine. 


The High Commissioner. 


8. It was announced on the occasion of the New Year, 1936, 
that His Majesty the King had been pleased to approve the extension 
for a period of five years of the term of office of Lieut.-General Sir 
Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., C.I.E., D.S.O., 
as High Commissioner for Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


Changes in Personnel 1935. 


9. Government lost the services of two valuable officers by death 
during the year, namely, Mr. F. G. Lowick, the first Registrar | 
of Co-operative Societies, to whose zeal is due the successful 
establishment of thirty Arab Societies, and Mr. C. Lambert, a 
distinguished numismatist, who was the Departmental Assistant 
in the Department of Antiquities. 

Major A. Saunders, O.B.E., M.C., Deputy Inspector-General — 
of Police, was transferred from Palestine on promotion to fill the 
appointment of Inspector-General of Police in Nigeria. 

Mr. A. Abramson, C.B.E., Commissioner of Lands, Mr. L. G. 
A. Cust, Assistant District Commissioner, and Mr. A. G. Turner, 
Chief Horticultural Officer and Citrus Fruit Specialist, retired 
from Government Service. 

Mr. D. G. Harris, C.S.I., C.I.E., formerly Consulting Engineer 
and Chief Adviser to the Government of India and Provincial 
Governments on all matters relating to irrigation in India, was 
appointed as Irrigation Adviser in January. 

Mr. Murray M. Jack, formerly Registrar of the Supreme Court 
of Kenya, joined the Palestine Service in July in the capacity of 
Chief Registrar. 

Mr. W. H. Chinn, formerly Probation Officer at Birmingham, 
was appointed as Probation Officer in Palestine in April. 

Mr. D. Edwards joined the Palestine Service as a Relieving 
President of a District Court, from Kenya. 

Mr. R. O. Williams, formerly Assistant Director of Agriculture 
in Trinidad, was appointed Chief Horticultural Officer. 

Mr. J. M. Taylor, formerly of the South African Citrus Ex- 
change, was appointed Chief Fruit Inspector. 

Mr. §. A. Cudmore, of the Canadian Government, assumed duty 
as Government Statistician. 

Mr. H. Kendall, formerly in the service of the Federated Malay 
States, was appointed as Town Planning Adviser. 


3D 


Mr. J. A. O’Connor, formerly of the ‘Iraq Government, was 
appointed additional Settlement Officer. 


Mr. G. C. Kenworthy, formerly Director of the Marconi’s 
Broadcasting Station at Nairobi, was appointed as Deputy Pro- 
gramme Director in September. 


Mr. R. A. Rendall, formerly West Regional Programme 
Director to the British Broadcasting Corporation, was seconded 
to act as Programme Director and Adviser to the Palestine Broad- 
casting Service. 


Mr. A. K. Barry, of His Majesty’s Customs and Excise, was 
appointed as Drawback and Claims Officer. 


Mr. G. E. L. Lord, formerly of the Gold Coast, was appointed 
as Assistant Auditor in July. 


Miss S. M. Young took up duties in November as a Lady Medi- 
cal Officer. 


Mr. K. W. Blackburne, on transfer from Nigeria, was appointed 
Assistant District Commissioner. 


Mr. G. T. Farley and Mr. C. M. Pirie Gordon were appointed 
Cadet Officers in the District Administration. 


Public Security 


10. ‘To the usual internal causes of political disquiet were added 
during the autumn certain external causes ; so that, although public 
security has been well maintained, the latter part of the year has 
not been free from tension. The discontent among the Arabs arising 
from Jewish immigration and purchase of land has been constantly 
manifested in vehement speeches and strongly worded press articles ; 
a certain restlessness was engendered by the Italo-Abyssinian War, 
and a new contagion of unrest came from Egypt. 


The announcement by the High Commissioner at the end of the 
year of the intention of His Majesty’s Government to establish a 
Legislative Council, though received unfavourably by Jews, was 
received with satisfaction by Arabs and exercised a tranquilizing 
effect. 


11. Two breaches of the public peace arising from agrarian ques- 
tions must be mentioned. In January tribal Arabs who were being 
evicted, by order of the Courts, from land at Hartiya near Haifa 
purchased by Jews attacked the Execution Officer and the party 
of police accompanying him with stones. The police were obliged 
eventually to open fire: one Arab was wounded and died a few 
hours later. In the same neighbourhood in August ploughmen 
working at night on disputed lands were interrupted by a party of 
Arabs, and in the course of the ensuing quarrel a Jewish watchman 
shot and killed an Arab with a shotgun. He was sentenced to ten 


years penal servitude, and three of his companions to two years 
imprisonment each. 


6 


12. A large quantity of arms and ammunition smuggled in a 
consignment of cement from Belgium was discovered in the course 
of removal from Jaffa Port in October. This discovery caused much 
alarm and agitation. It was assumed by Arabs generally (in view 
of the name of the consignee, who disappeared) that Palestinian 
Jewry was extensively arming itself, and their fears and indignation 
found an outlet in a vehement press campaign against the Govern- 
ment and the Jews, in representations to Government and excited 
speeches, and in a widespread one day’s strike of protest on 26th 
October. At Jaffa the strike was accompanied by considerable 
feeling, and an Arab-Jewish clash was narrowly averted on the 
boundaries of Jaffa and Tel Aviv. Another Arab strike, less general 
and of shorter duration, was declared on 13th November. This was 
mainly due to incomplete and misleading reports of speeches made 
a few days before at the Anglo-Palestine Club in London by the 
Secretary of State and the High Commissioner. There was also the 
usual strike on *‘ Balfour Day.’’ 


13. Rumours of the formation of terrorist bands, inspired by 
political and religious motives, had been rife for some time, and on 
7th November a police sergeant, following up a case of theft in 
the hills of Nazareth sub-district, was shot dead by unknown 
persons. This event quickly led up to the discovery of the existence 
in that neighbourhood of an armed band under the leadership of 
Sheikh Izzed Din al Qassam, a political refugee from Syria, 
possessing no little reputation as a man of religion, and already 
strongly suspected of being concerned in terroristic acts a few years 
ago. A few days later a police patrol fell in with one of the band, 
who, after an exchange of shots, was killed. On 20th November 
a sudden shot fired at a post of police searching the hills a few 
miles west of Jenin led to the discovery of the main band; in the 
ensuing fight four of them were killed and five captured, another 
being arrested some days later. One British constable was shot 
dead and another wounded. The band was well supplied with arms 
and ammunition. The funeral of Sheikh Izzed Din at Haifa was 
attended by a very large concourse, and in spite of the efforts of 
leading Moslems there to maintain order a certain amount of 
demonstration and stone-throwing occurred. 


The death of Sheikh Izzed Din sent a strong wave of sentiment 
through political and other circles in the country, and the Arabic 
press united to pay him the tributes of a martyr in articles charged 
with patriotic emotion. 


14. After a certain exacerbation of inter-party feeling in the 
first half of the year, efforts were made towards party union, and in 
the latter part of the year the five organized political parties, the 
Palestine Arab Party, the Defence Party, the Reform Party, the 
National Bloc, and the Arab Youth Party, were acting together. 


7 


15. On the occasion of the birthday of His late Majesty in June, 
the High Commissioner announced his decision to extend a generous 
_ measure of clemency to those still serving sentences of imprisonment 
as a result of the 1929 disturbances. Fourteen prisoners were 
immediately released, and life sentences on those who had been 
sentenced to death but reprieved were so reduced as to bring about 
their release in 1936. At the same time the High Commissioner 
remitted the whole of the outstanding amount of the collective 
fines imposed on account of the 1929 disturbances upon certain 
Arab villages and town-quarters in the Jerusalem, Gaza and Hebron 
sub-districts. General satisfaction was shown by Arabs and Jews 
throughout the country at these acts of clemency. 


16. A number of minor accidents occurred in Tel Aviv in the 
summer and autumn in which passing Arabs were assaulted by Jews 
or Arabs forcibly prevented from working for Jews. The Municipal 
Council of Tel Aviv published an appeal to the populace to be of 
good behaviour and the General Federation of Jewish Labour co- 
operated. To these measures and to exemplary sentences passed 
by the Courts may be attributed the fact that there was a marked 
diminution in the number of these incidents. 


17. Crime (other than agrarian crime) showed on the whole a 
distinct rise. In particular there was a large and disturbing increase 
of petty theft and housebreaking in Tel Aviv, and also in Jaffa. 
Three police officers of Tel Aviv were discharged during the year for 
aiding and abetting criminals or suppressing evidence of crime. 

An Ordinance, entitled the Gaming Ordinance, 1935, was passed 
to replace the provisions of the Ottoman Penal Code on the subject 
of unlawful gaming and in particular to enable the authorities to 
control the growing tendency to instal ‘‘ gambling machines "’ in 
hotels and cafés. 


18. Thanks to the special measures taken to improve frontier 
control, illegal immigration has been considerably reduced. It was 
discovered that an organization for smuggling Jewish immigrants 
had accomplices in the Department of Migration, and appropriate 
action has been taken against them. 


19. Agrarian crime diminished. The damaging of trees has long 
been rather a speciality of the Samaria District, but even there it is 
being gradually suppressed. The number of cases in 1935 was 230, © 
compared with 340 in 1934, 559 in 1933, and 906 in 1932. 

The Police dogs have frequently been used in detecting the per- 
petrators of agrarian or other crimes, with an efficacy which has 
established their value as an aid in the apprehension of offenders and 
has created a very useful deterrent impression in the minds of 
villagers. 

20. The Traffic Section of the Police Force has been considerably 
strengthened during the year and its system of road patrols ex- 
tended. It has had the co-operation of the Automobile Association 


8 


of Palestine, which has supplemented the road signs erected by the 
Department of Public Works. Crossing places and islands, particu- 
larly at dangerous turns, have done much to diminish road accidents. 
Both drivers and pedestrians seem to be learning to use greater 
care, but accidents are still too frequent. A by-pass from Tel Aviv 
to the Jaffa-Jerusalem main road has considerably decreased the 
congestion of the approach to Jaffa; and some relief has been given 
to the Latrun-Jerusalem section by the opening of a good second- 
class road from Latrun to Ramallah, which now takes part of the 
north-bound traffic from Jaffa and Tel Aviv. 


21. Stimulated by a series of events in the autumn, the chief of 
which have been mentioned above, the Arabic newspapers reached 
during a period of two months an exceptional degree of vehemence. 
No newspapers were prosecuted during the year, but three Arabic 
and one Hebrew newspaper were suspended (for periods varying 
from one to three months) and two Arabic and one Hebrew news- 
paper warned, under the provisions of the Press Ordinance. Three 
foreign newspapers were excluded from Palestine for varying 
periods. 


Policy. 


22. In last year’s Report will be found the text of a declaration 
made by the High Commissioner in December of that year fore- 
shadowing the presentation of proposals for the establishment of a 
Legislative Council. Before leaving for England in August he held 
a series of preliminary conversations on this subject, and during his 
leave continued the study and discussion of it with the Secretary of 
State for the Colonies. 


By December the scheme had taken shape, and on the 21st and 
22nd of that month the High Commissioner announced successively, 
and in detail, to the Arab and to the Jewish leaders Government’s 
proposals for the Legislative Council. Those present on the first 
occasion were the representatives of the five organized Parties, 
namely Ragheb Bey Nashashibi, Jamal Eff. al Husseini, Ishaq Bey 
al Budeiri, Abdul Latif Bey Salah, Yakub Eff. Ghussein, Yakub 
Eff. Farraj, and Alfred Eff. Rok: and on the second occasion, 
Dr. Chaim Weizmann, Mr. David Ben Gurion, Mr. M. Shertok, 
Mr. I. Ben Zvi, Mr. A. Almalech and Rabbi M. Blau. 


The following is the text of the High Commissioner’s announce- 
ment :— 

‘‘ Before explaining Government proposals as to the estab- 
lishment of a Legislative Council for Palestine, in accordance 
with the pledge given by His Majesty’s Government, I wish 
to recall to your minds that ever since the statement I made 
at Geneva some three years ago, I have given much thought, 
and sought the opinions of others, before deciding the lines 
on which a Legislative Council should be formed. 


9 


‘“ I said at Geneva that before forming a Legislative Council 
I wished to see the working of Municipal Councils under the 
Municipal Corporations Ordinance. 

‘’ These Municipal Councils are now, in my judgment, work- 
ing satisfactorily, and I feel confident that if Government 
proposals for a Legislative Council are put into force, the Coun- 
cil will work for the general good of the people of Palestine. 

‘* The intention of His Majesty’s Government in amending the 
Constitution of Palestine by introducing a Legislative Council 
i8, In accordance with its long established tradition and common 
practice, to secure the advice and assistance of the people of 
the country in carrying on the government of the country. It 
18, a3 you know, one of our obligations to secure the develop- 
ment of self-governing institutions. 

‘“ In order to secure these objects, we propose to throw open 
to the Council a wide field for debate and to impose on its 
deliberations such restrictions only as are essential to enable 
the High Commissioner to discharge his responsibilities and 
to fulfil the international obligations of His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment. 

‘" I feel convinced that the Council will approach its duties 
with a real sense of responsibility, and will appreciate the 
difficulties of many of the problems which will come before it. 

** Consequently I am confident that the occasions for apply- 
ing these restrictions will be rare, and will not detract from 
the fundamental motive underlying our proposals, namely, that 
of securing through the Legislative Council the welfare and 
advancement of the people of Palestine. 


‘* Good order and security of person and property are essential 
to the welfare of every State, but goodwill is the basic element 
of well being : it is my belief that by means of this Legislative 
Council we shall find the road whereby good order may be 
ensured and goodwill enhanced. 

‘* Much of the history of Palestine of the next few years 
may well depend.on the statesmanship and sense of responsi- 
bility which you leaders show towards the working of this 
Council. 

** In to-day’s meeting I shall go through the main proposals 
which have been approved by His Majesty’s Government. 

‘* T shall ask your advice on certain points which still remain 
undecided until I have heard your opinion. 

‘“ As I go through the main proposals I shall be glad if 
gentlemen will raise questions on any matters which are not 
quite clear. 

‘" If the answer is simple, I will give it to-day : otherwise I 
will send it in writing. 

‘ The first matter which I will explain is the composition 
of the Council. 


10 


Composition of the Legislative Council. 


‘“ The Legislative Council will consist of 28 members made 
up as follows :— 


5 official, 

11 nominated unofficial. 

12 elected. 

Elected. Nominated. Official. 
Moslems bak bie 8 3 (including 1 Bedu). 
Jews ae als 3 4 
Christians... ve 1 2 
Commercial ... F 2 
Officials 5 
12 ll 5 


‘* The allotment of the seats in the Council as among elected 
members is based upon the number of the different communities 
in the total population of Palestine : no revision of that distribu- 
tion is contemplated within the five years’ term of the Council. 

‘* The person presiding over the deliberations of the Council 
will be called the President (Arabic—Rats ; Hebrew—Y oshev- 
Rosh), and will be appointed from outside Palestine. 

‘In the event of an equality of votes a casting vote will be 
exercised by the senior official member. 

‘“ A quorum will consist of six members. 

‘* The High Commissioner will have the right to open any 
session of the Council or may address the Council or send a 
message thereto. 

‘“The normal life of the Council will be five years. The 
normal Sessions of the Council would cover three months and, 
if found convenient, may be divided. into two Sessions of six 
weeks each, the Sessions being held at periods convenient for 
the discussion of public business. 

‘‘ If any community refuses to take part in the Election, 
the High Commissioner will have the power to nominate either 
British officials or such persons as he may think fit, to their 
seats in the Council. 


Powers of the President. 
‘* The President will be some impartial person unconnected 
with Palestine, probably with judicial experience. He will 
neither debate nor vote. 


Method of Election. 


‘* Klected members will be elected by direct election. 

‘The question whether the number of constituencies will 
be equal to or fewer than the number of the elected members 
will be settled by the High Commissioner in consultation with 
leaders. 


11 


‘© Qualification of Voters. 
‘ (a) No literary test and no money test. 


‘“‘ (b) Hither Palestinian citizenship or legal residence in 
Palestine for twoor three years preceding the date of registration 
as voters. ‘T’his provision will apply to the first election and 
to any by-election of the first Council only. It is proposed that 
in any future elections only Palestinian citizens should be 
allowed to vote. 


‘* (c) 25 years of age. 


‘* (d) It is left for each community to decide whether it 
wishes its women to have the right to vote or not. 


‘* Qualification of Members other than Official Members. 


** (a) No person can be elected as a member of the Council 
who js less than 30 years of age. 


‘“* (b) An electéd member must be a Palestinian citizen. 


** Payment of Members. 


“* Members other than official members will be paid. 


‘“ The amount of the salary I suggest is £P.200 or £P.300 per 
annum. 


‘* Powers and duties of the Legislative Council. 


““ Subject to securing the fulfilment of the international 
obligations of His Majesty’s Government and the High Commis- 
sioner’s powers to maintain law, order and good government, 
the Legislative Council will have the following rights and 
duties :— 

‘“ ) to debate on all Bills introduced by Government, 
to amend and to pass them for assent or dissent by the 
High Commissioner ; 


‘ (ii) to introduce Bills, except Money Bills, subject to 
the consent of the High Commissioner ; 


‘‘ (1) to consider and debate on the annual budget; 
there would be a general debate and then the Estimates 
would be passed asa whole, after examination in Committee. 
There would be a limit set to the number of days during 
which the Estimates could be discussed. Any member 
moving a reduction of a vote would be required to state his 
reasons for doing so; 


‘“ (iv) to propose any question of public interest for 
debate, provided that no vote for the expenditure of public 
money or thé imposition of taxation may be proposed ex- 
cept by the direction of the High Commissioner, nor any 
resolution which in the opinion of the High Commissioner 
is likely to endanger the public peace; 


12 


“(The Council will have an opportunity of débating 
when dealing with the budget or in reply to the Address or 
on resolutions) ; 

‘" (v) to ask questions of the Executive relative to the 
administration of government. 


‘“ The Powers and Duties of the High Commissioner. 


‘“ The powers and duties of the High Commissioner under 
the new Constitution must be of such a nature as to enable him 
to carry on the work of Government and to fulfil the inter- 
national obligations of His Majesty’s Government. 

‘‘ After a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Council 
it will not become a Law until it has been assented to by the 
High Commissioner. 

‘‘ If the High Commissioner shall consider that it is ex- 
pedient in the interests of public faith or good government that 
any measure should have effect, then if the Council fail to pass 
any such measure within such a time as the High Commis- 
sioner may think reasonable and expedient, the High Commis- 
sioner may cause any such measure to be introduced, and, if 
it is not then passed within a time specified by the High 
Commissioner, he may declare that any such measure shal! 
have effect. It shall thereupon be an effective law. 

‘““ If in the opinion of the High Commissioner urgent neces- 
sity shall arise when the Council is not sitting for measures to 
be taken for the maintenance of public order and security or 
for urgent expenditure or otherwise in the interests of good 
government, the High Commissioner in Executive Council 
may, with the approval of the Secretary of State, pass Ordi- 
nances directing the necessary measures to be taken. 

‘* He will have the power to prorogue or dissolve the Council. 

‘* The High Commissioner will also have the power in excep- 
tional circumstances and with the approval of His Majesty’s 
Government to postpone the holding of general elections after 
dissolution beyond the normal interval of twelve months. 

‘‘ The determination of Labour immigration schedules will 
rest as heretofore with the High Commissioner ; but it will be 
open to any unofficial member of the Legislative Council to 
move a resolution of objection or criticism in respect of any 
schedule. 

‘* No resolution or amendment to a Bill shall be moved in the 
Council which, in the opinion of the President, 

‘* (a) calls in question the validity of the Mandate 
accepted by His Majesty in respect of Palestine or suggests 
that the Mandate should be abolished or ought to be 
disregarded ; or 

‘* (b) would be offensive to the Ruler or the Govern- 
ment of any neighbouring territory, or any foreign State, 
in friendly relations with His Majesty. 


13 


‘' Standing Orders will in the first instance be drawn up by 
the High Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary of 
State and thereafter may be amended by the Legislative Council 
subject to the approval of the High Commissioner. 

‘' The draft Standing Orders are now with the Secretary of 
State and will be shown to you as soon as they are approved.’ 


After some minor points had been elucidated by discussion, the 
Arab leaders said that they would deliberate upon the proposals and 
present their observations in due course. At the end of the year 
they still had the proposals under consideration. 

The Jewish leaders made it clear that the proposals for the estab- 
lishment of a Legislative Council in Palestine had already been 
rejected by the Zionist Congress at Lucerne in August, and they 

, Were now resolved to reject the scheme uncompromisingly and to 
* tefrain from participation. 

23. The Legislative Council proposals were critically received by 
the Arabic Press. Almost all the newspapers expressed dissatisfac- 
tion with the limitations of the scheme for a Legislative Council; 
arguing that too much power was left to the High Commissioner ; 
that the proportion of nominated members was excessive and that of 
Arab members deficient. There are, however, strong indications 
that Arab public opinion is generally in favour of participation. 
The Hebrew press unanimously supported the attitude of the 
Jewish leaders, and it is probable that the contrary opinion is only 
held by but a few individuals in the Jewish community. 


Jewish Immigration into Palestine. 


24. A total of 61,854 Jewish immigrants was registered. Of these 
6,309 were capitalist immigrants, whose dependants numbered 
5,694, while the Labour Schedule accounted for 27,729. Govern- 
ment has continued to regulate immigration in accordance with the 
estimated economic absorptive capacity of the country. 


25. Government has employed every means at its disposal, both 
through the agency of His Majesty’s Consular Officers abroad and 
by the employment of a special preventive force on land and sea, 
as well as through the usual control arrangements at ports and 
frontiers, to prevent illicit settlement. Deductions corresponding to 
the number of illicit settlers who it is estimated will enter and 
remain in the country during the following period of six months 
are made from the number of certificates authorized for distribution 
by the Jewish Agency under each Labour Schedule. 


26. One thousand five hundred and fifty-seven persons (including 

' 565 Jews) who, having made their way into the country surrep- 
‘ fitiously, were later detected, were sentenced to imprisonment 
for their offence and recommended for deportation. 1,079 such 
deportations were carried out in the year, including 245 Jews and 834 
other persons. Twelve Jewish and two non-Jewish travellers were 
also deported for overstaying their period of permitted stay in the 


14 


country. In addition, 1,354 persons, of whom 38 were Jews, were 
summarily deported to Syria and Egypt. Wherever possible 
bail is allowed on substantial security to illegal immigrants 
who have completed their sentence of imprisonment and are merely 
being detained until the arrangements for their deportation are 
complete. Often, however, they refuse to give particulars for identi- 
fication and have to be detained until travel documents are dis- 
covered in one of the countries through which they passed on their 
way to Palestine. A number of women released on bail have quickly 
contracted marriages with Palestinian nationals and thus evaded 
deportation. 


27. Several instances occurred among illicit immigrants awaiting 
deportation in prison of combined hunger strike, a method of protest 
introduced into Palestine by Communist prisoners by way of press- 
ing their claims to preferential treatment. They were warned after 
three or four days that they would be artificially fed at the end of 
the next twenty-four hours if they continued to starve themselves, 
but except in one case the warning did not need to be carried out. 


28. Jewish immigrants still gravitate for the most part to the 
towns, where they are attracted by higher wages and by urban 
amenities. But towards the end of the year unemployment 
increased in Tel Aviv and Haifa, and there was a slight movement 
of labour into the agricultural settlements. From September onward 
the following were the estimates of Jewish unemployment: 
September 2,600, October 3,500, November 5,050, December 6,000. 


29. Success has attended the arrangements made by the special 
department of the Central Bureau for the Settlement of German 
Jews (see paragraph 29 of the 1934 Report, Introductory Section), 
for training Jewish children from Germany between the ages of 15 
and 16 years in agricultural settlements and suitable educational 
institutions. 700 immigration certificates were issued for German 
Jewish children in 1933-34 and 1934-35, and on the application of 
the Jewish Agency, which accepts financial responsibility for these 
children, 200 certificates were granted at the end of 1935, and the 
grant of a further number of certificates is to be considered at a 
later date. 

It is estimated that by the end of 1935, 30,000 German Jewish 
immigrants had entered Palestine. 


Arab Affairs. 


30. The various Arab political organizations tended to crystallize 
during the year into regularly constituted Parties, of which there 
are now six in existence. These are :— 

(a) The Palestine Arab Party under the leadership of Jamal 
eff. Husseini. 

(b) The National Defence Party under the leadership of 
Ragheb Bey Nashashibi (formerly Mayor of Jerusalem). 


15 


(c) The Reform Party, with no president; of which one 
member of the Committee is Dr. Khalidi (Mayor of Jerusalem). 

(d) The National Bloc under the leadership of Abdul Latif 
Bey Salah of Nablus. 

(e) Congress Executive of Nationalist Youth, led by Yakub 
eff. Ghussein. 

(f) The Istiqlal (Independence) Party under the leadership 
of Auni Bey Abdul Hadi. 


31. The year opened in an atmosphere of rivalry between the 
parties as they then were. 
At length a protracted Press attack on the party leaders for 
forgetting the national interest in the pursuit of their own quarrels 
resolved itself into appeals to them to sink their differences. Mean- 
_while the new parties were formed, and under the stress of public 
criticism, and more particularly of events which seemed to em- 

phasize the unity of Arab interests in the country, sufficient 
_ harmony was established to enable the parties, with the exception 
“ of the Istiglalists, to unite in approaching the High Commissioner 
~ with certain national demands. 7 


~ 32. The Istiqlal Party had for some time been inactive and 

- disorganized; one of their principles was non-co-operation with the 
Mandatory Government. Such energy as they displayed was mainly 
individual, and consisted in attacking the other party leaders on 
the ground that they were self-seeking and unrepresentative ; but 
towards the end of the year members of this party became more 
active, and associated with certain independent extremists, in 
denouncing, by means of speeches and newspaper articles, the 
acts of Government and the policy of the Mandatory Power. 


33. The representatives of the united Parties were received by 
the High Commissioner on the 25th November, when they pre- 
sented a memorandum setting out three main demands :— 

(1) The establishment of democratic government in accord- 
ance with the Covenant of the League of Nations and Article 2 
of the Palestine Mandate. 

(2) Prohibition of the transfer of Arab lands to Jews, and 
the enactment of a law similar to the Five Feddan Law in 
Egypt. 

(3) (a) The immediate cessation of Jewish immigration and 
the formation of a competent committee to determine the 
absorptive capacity of the country and lay down a principle 
for immigration. 

(6) Legislation to require all lawful residents to obtain and 
carry identity cards. 

_(c) Immediate and effective investigation into illicit immigra- 
tion. 

In the course of his reply the High Commissioner stated that 
he was intending in the near future to announce proposals for 
the setting up of a Legislative Council, which would have the 


16 


effect of associating the people more closely with the government 
of the country ; and that he would submit to His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment the demands relating to the transfer of land and to immigra- 
tion. Continuing, the High Commissioner said :— 


‘* As we are here together, there is one other matter which 
I wish to mention. It is connected with that subject in which 
I have always taken the greatest interest, namely the well- 
being and good administration of the country people. The 
Local Government Bill as it affects the urban municipalities 
is now in working order. The second part dealing with rural 
administration will be published before very long and I shall 
value any considered views you gentlemen may have to suggest 
to Government now or later on. I have always been anxious 
to improve the welfare of villagers in Falestine and certain 
measures we have recently taken will help to that end. Two 
of these measures are the new rural property tax and _ the 
improvement of village water supplies. We have also lately 
decided to give every mukhtar a fixed annual salary. The 
title of village tax collectors will also be changed to that of 
village officers and we shall give these officers other duties 
in connection with the villages; so that they can help in the 
welfare of villages in co-operation with the District Officers. 
These may seem rather small changes but, collectively, I think 
they will be of great help to the country people and therefore 
are of great importance. Also I hope to go further and make 
the connection closer between Government and the rural popu- 
lation. For example, I think it might prove to be practicable 
to form committees among the elders of the villagers in each 
sub-district (or each half of every sub-district) to deal in con- 
junction with the District Officer with such questions as village 
water supplies and other matters that so deeply affect the 
welfare of villages. Just as I believe that the establishment 
of a Legislative Council will benefit the country as a whole. 
so I believe that the measures affecting rural areas which | 
have touched on this morning, and perhaps others by means 
of new legislation, will benefit the country people, and bring 
them into closer contact with Government. I shall be very 
glad if any of vou gentlemen care to give me your opinions 
on the remarks I have just made on the subject.’’ 


34. The Palestine Arab Party made certain representations to 
the Hich Commissioner in May regarding the state of agriculture 
in Palestine. and the needs of the Arab peasantry due to repeated 
droughts and the absence of extensive schemes of irrigation. While 
expressing appreciation of certain activities of Government, they 
drew attention to the indebtedness of the Arab fellahin, and stated 
that Arab interests were inadequately represented in and served 
by the Department of Agriculture and the various Standing Com- 
mittees concerned with agricultural matters. Thev asked for very 


17 


large expenditure on irrigation, exemption from all taxation of 
land planted with trees, the free issue of seedlings to cultivators 
and loans on easier terms. 


35. The High Commissioner in reply, while doubting the justifica- 
tion in any circumstances of so large an expenditure on irrigation 
in Palestine as that asked for, pointed out that the Government had 
recently appointed a highly-qualified Irrigation Adviser, with the 
intention of promoting irrigation development, and had made and 
was proposing to make further considerable grants, on extremely 
favourable terms, for the provision of water to villages all over the 
country. Tithes had on many occasions been remitted (to an 
amount of £P.130,000 in 1934 alone) : and by recent legislation the 
rural population would be relieved of a considerable burden of direct 
taxation and the poorest classes entirely exempted: an Agricultural 
Mortgage Company had been formed and the co-operative movement 
had been encouraged and was spreading slowly but satisfactorily. 
Land newly planted with trees was now lightly taxed: numbers 
of forest tree seedlings were issued free of charge; and grafted and 
budded fruit trees in great quantities at cost price or less. The 
statement that the Department of Agriculture and the Standing 
Committees inadequately represented and served Arab interests did 
not, on close examination, appear to be justified. 


36. A vigorous campaign has been conducted against Arabs 
accused of facilitating the transfer of Arab lands to Jewish posses- 
sion. They have been denounced in the Press, at meetings and in 
Mosques as traitors to their nation, deserving boycott and 
excommunication. A number of small landowners have been 
persuaded to register their lands as family waqfs to save their falling 
into alien hands. In one case the sale of 5,000 dunums in the 
Ramallah district to Jews was cancelled at the instance of the 
Supreme Moslem Council. 


37. A significant factor of the Arab national movement has been 
the promotion of Arab boy scout groups and sports clubs and 
generally the stimulation of organizations of young men under one 
name or another. Towards the end of the year the younger 
elements had evidently gained ground, and wére becoming a factor 
which might challenge the influence of the older Arab leaders. 


38. The establishment of an Arab Bureau in London to repre- 
sent and propagate the Palestinian Arab cause was under discussion 


by the Arab leaders, but had not materialized by the end of the 
year. 


39. An Arab athletic meeting was organized for the first time ; it 
was successfully held at Jaffa on 14th July, some 200 competitors 
taking part. 


40. Interesting economic developments among the Arab com- 
munity are the progress of the Arab Bank, which increased its 


18 


capital, and the formation of an Arab Agricultural Bank. Another 
bank was also formed for the exploitation of Arab land or its 
exclusion from alien purchase, with a capital of £P.60,000. 


Jewish Affairs. 


41. Negotiations continued during the early part of the year 
between the Vaad Leumi and the Agudath Israel with a view to the 
incorporation of the latter body within the recognised Jewish com- 
munity. Some progress was made in an exchange of views and the 
finding of formulas, but conversations were interrupted by the 
sudden death of one of the Chief Rabbis of Tel Aviv and of His 
Iiminence Chief Rabbi Kook of Jerusalem. The preoccupations of 
the Zionist Congress then intervened and by the end of the year 
discussions had not yet been resumed. It is however expected early 
in 1936 to inaugurate further negotiations. Meanwhile, the differ- 
ences between the two bodies have been notably less acute. The 
Agudath Israel has opened a school for girls in Jerusalem where 
Hebrew is the medium of instruction. There has been complete 
harmony between the two groups in the municipal elections and in 
the discussions and declarations of the Jewish community and the 
Jewish Agency in regard to the Legislative Council. Political and 
economic unity may without much difficulty be achieved between 
them. A modus vivendt has been discovered in the matter of the 
immigration of Agudath members into Palestine. It remains to 
resolve the religious differences, which may perhaps be done by 
establishing a Religious Council within the Jewish community 
which will be responsible for administering all affairs of a religious 
character or bearing, such as the election of rabbis, ritual slaughter, 
burial, etc.; provided that the Council should be composed of and 
elected by observing Jews and without the participation of women. 


492. In March a referendum was taken among the,ymembers of the 
General Federation of Jewish Labour (Histadruth) with a view to 
deciding whether the provisional accord which had been concluded 
between the Jewish Labour leader, Mr. Ben Gurion, and Mr. 
Viadimir Jabotinsky, on behalf of the Revisionist Organization, 
should be validated. The result showed a substantial majority 
against validation and this attempt at harmony has had to be 
abandoned. Nevertheless differences between the Revisionists and 
the Histadruth have been much less marked during 1935; nor have 
there been repetitions of the assaults upon Revisionists by members 
of the Labour Union which characterized the previous year. 


43. The state of uneasiness regarding Jabour conditions which 
began with the orange-picking season of 1934 continued during the 
first few months of 1935. Party feeling in the Sharon settlements 
of Hertzhya and Kfar Saba continued to te high and to cause 
anxiety to the authorities. 


19 


44. The Zionist Congress took place at Lucerne in August and 
September. The discussions ranged over the topics of land sales, 
immigration, the grant of additional subventions from Government 
funds towards the cost of Jewish educational, health and other 
services and the increase of Jewish officers in Government service, 
and the adjustment of the tariff with a view to the encouragement 
of Jewish trade and industry. Reference was also made to the 
question of settlement of Jews in Trans-Jordan. 


45. In brief, the resolutions of the Political Commission, which 
were carried unanimously, reviewed the adverse conditions of Jewish 
life in the Diaspora, considered that Jewish achievements in 
Palestine, the only country at present open to Jewish immigration 
on a large scale, had proved that immigration and settlement could 
proceed far more rapidly than hitherto, and proclaimed the firm 
resolve of the Zionist Organization to focus the energies of the 
Jewish people on the extension and acceleration of its re-settlement 
in Palestine. The Congress, while appreciating the part played 
by the Mandatory Power and re-affirming the readiness of the 
Zionist Organization to co-operate, appealed to the Government 
to fulfil its obligations by an active and systematic policy of further- 
ing the Jéwish National Home on a scale and at a pace demanded 
by the position of Jews in the world and possible with active Govern- 
ment assistance. Expressing its grave concern at the intention 
of the Mandatory. Government to establish a Legislative Council, 
@ step which it regarded as contrary to the spirit of the Mandate, 
the Congress re-afirmed its opposition to the establishment of a 
Legislative Council in the present stage of the development of 
Palestine, and reluctantly expressed its categorical rejection of 
the scheme. The resolutions further urged upon the Government 
to adopt a policy of systematic encouragement of local industries, 
and to facilitate the observance of the Sabbath and Jewish Holy 
Days as days of rest by Jewish officials and Jews employed on 
public works. 


46. One hundred and ten thousand shekels were sold in Palestine 
as qualifications for voting in the election of delegates to Congress 
and 90 delegates were duly elected out of a total of 400. These 
represented in the order of majority of votes the Labour Party, 
General Zionists, Yemenites and Mizrahi. The following now form 
the Executive of the Jewish Agency :— 


Dr. Ch. Weizman—President of the Zionist Organization and 
of the Jewish Agency. 

Mr. D. Ben Gurion—Chairman of the Executive of the 
Jewish Agency in Jerusalem. | 

Mr. M. Shertok—Political Department. 

Mr. E. Kaplan—Treasurer. 

Dr. W. D. Senator—Department of Immigration. 

Mr. I. Gruenbaum—Department of Labour. 

Dr. F. Rottenstreich—Department of Trade and Industry. 


20. 


Dr. M. B. Hexter. 
Rabbi I. L. Fishman. 
Prof. S. Brodetsky will continue to direct the Political . 
Department of the Jewish Agency in London. 


47. The Revisionist Party held separate elections and a separate 
Congress in Vienna in September. 


48. The Conference of the Women’s International Zionist 
Organisation took place in Tel Aviv on the 24th March. About 
400 delegates representing 45 countries were present, and some 2,000 
guests. 


49. On the same date the General Zionist Conference opened its 
annual meeting in Jerusalem, when a lengthy survey of the situa- 
tion was made by Dr. Weizmann. 


50. On the 1st April was celebrated the tenth anniversary of 
the establishment of the Hebrew University on Mt. Scopus. 


51. Beginning on the 2nd April the Maccabee World Organiza- 
tion held its games, with great success and amid much enthusiasm, 
in the Stadium of the Levant Fair grounds at Tel Aviv, under 
the presidency of Lord Melchett. 

Soon after an athletic meeting was held by the local branches 
of the Hapoel Organization, which is the sports section of the 
General Federation of Jewish Labour. 


52. In November the High Commissioner laid the foundation 
stone of a new theatre at Tel Aviv, which is to be devoted to the 
production of the Habimah group, famed for its presentation in 
Hebrew, in dramatic form, of biblical and mediaeval Jewish legend 
as well as of modern plays by Jewish and non-Jewish dramatists. 


53. Dr. Weizmann, Chairman of the Executive and President of 
the Zionist Organization, has taken up his residence in Palestine 
where, in addition to his presidential duties, he is responsible for 
the Daniel Sieff Research Institute at Rehovoth. He has also 
undertaken the office of Dean of the Faculty of Science at the 
Hebrew University. 


54. Chief Rabbi A. I. Kook, C.B.E., died on the 1st September 
at the age of 70. He had given a life of devoted service to his 
co-religionists and was a universally beloved minister noted for 
his kindness and erudition. His funeral in Jerusalem was attended 
by about 20,000 people. 


55. Dr. Shmarya Levin died in June. He was a world famous 
preacher, propagandist and philosopher as well as an author, and 
high in the counsels of the Zionist Organization. 


56. There was on the part of the Jews, particularly at Tel Aviv, 
a persistent campaign for the boycott of German goods and all 
shops displaying German goods for sale. Another manifestaton of 
this feeling was the criticism launched against the Haavarah, which 
is a financial institution established under official Zionist auspices in 


21 


order to facilitate the transfer of Jewish capital from Germany in 
the shape of German goods. The Revisionists were the mainstay of 
this campaign and of the slogan ‘‘ Support Local Manufacture ”’. 


Economic Affairs. 


57. The revised estimate of revenue for the financial period 
Ist April, 1985, to 3lst March, 1936, is £P.5,739,270 as compared 
with the original estimate of £P.5,436,087. The principal in- 
creases Occur under Customs Duties, Licences, Taxes etc., Fees of 
Court, Posts and Telegraphs Receipts, Miscéllaneous and Land 
Sales, while decreases are expected to occur under Revenue from 
Government Property and Interest. The largest single increase 
occurs under Land Registration Fees, namely £P.135,000. The 
gross revenue for the Posts and Telegraphs Department is likely to 
be £P.66,000 in excess of the estimated revenue. It is estimated 
that the surplus of revenue over expenditure for the year will be 
approximately £P.1,520,000 which will bring the accumulated 
surplus balance of Government at the 3lst March, 1936, to a figure 
approximating £P.6,250,000. 


58. During the calendar year 1935 a total of 64,147 immigrants 
entered Palestine as compared with 44,143 in the previous year. 
The total value of imports increased from £P.15,426,211 in 1934 
to £P.17,906,000 in 1935, while the total value of exports in- 
creased from £P.4,351,768 to approximately £P.4,681,000. |The 
number of dunums of land sold in 1935 is estimated at 187,000 
valued at £P.11,720,000 as compared with 156,000 dunums valued 
at £P.8,378,000 in 1934. The estimated value of investments in 
buildings in 1935 was £P.7,000,000 as compared with £P.6,000,000 
in 1934. The increase in the area planted with citrus trees was, 
however, 28,000 dunums only as compared with 50,000 dunums 
in 1934. 


During 19385 new companies registered totalled 298 with a 
registered capital of £P.3,120,000, as compared with 227 new com- 
panies in 1934 having a registered capital of £P.2,180,000 while 
‘> companies increased their capital from £P.1,182,000 to 
£P.2,952,000, as compared with the year 1934, when 35 com- 
panies increased their capital from £P.1,737,000 to £P.4,141,000. 
At the 31st December, 1935, the currency in circulation amounted 
to £P.6,561,134 as compared with £P.4,738 964 at the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1984. Deposits with the leading local banks at the 31st 
December, 1935, amounted to approximately £P.16,000,000 as 
compared with approximately £P.14,000,000 at the 31st December, 
1934, and £P.12,300,000 at the 3lst March, 1934. 


Local industries continued to develop during the year, especially 
at Haifa and in and about Jaffa-Tel Aviv, though two factories, 
a silk factory and a shoe factory, were forced to close down tem- 
porarily. At the beginning of 1936, however, under the protection 


of the new industrial tariff and customs exemptions which were 
34931 B 


22 


brought into force in January of that year, these factories restarted 
work. The local production of goods increased from £P.64 millions 
to £P.7 millions. Among interesting new enterprises are the 
establishment of a brewery at Rishon-le-Tsiyon, which has already 
put its beer on the market, and the building of a rice mill at Haifa, 
which is now nearly completed. 


59. Towards the end of 1935, revenue receipts began to reflect 
the prevailing uneasiness provoked by the unsettled political out- 
look in Europe. That uneasiness manifested itself in a run on 
the smaller local banks in September and some decline in the 
volume of imported commodities and in receipts from other sources 
of revenue dependent on trade conditions. Until November, in- 
clusive, the receipts from Customs Import Duty maintained an 
average of £P.245,000 a month, but they fell to £P.205,000 in 
December. Much of this decrease, however, is seasonal. In 
previous years the receipts increased again from March onwards, 
but they are not expected to do so in 1936 as traders have curtailed 
orders for goods from abroad. There was a marked reduction in 
the tourist traffic. The revised estimate of revenue from Import 
Duties, which in November was placed at £P.3,075,000, was later 
revised to £P.2,750,000 and the earlier revised estimate of revenue 
under other Heads was reduced from £P.3,074,120 to 
£P.2,989 ,020. 


60. The immediate situation 1s not of a nature to excite undue 
alarm, but it requires careful attention in view of the many projects 
involving recurrent and extraordinary expenditure in 1936-37 and 
in subsequent years for which budgetary provision has already 
been made or is contemplated. The present feeling of uneasiness 
acts as a deterrent to further investments, and speculation in 
immovable property, which was rife during ‘‘ boom ’’ conditions, 
is tending to subside. : 

In September the uneasiness to which reference has been made 
above led to abnormally large withdrawals from certain banks. 
The situation was met by joint action on the part of Govern- 
ment and the larger foreign banks and the prompt supply of new 
currency, of which additional quantities had been obtained by the 
Currency Officer. A certain restriction of credit facilities is still 
apparent and this has contributed to a slackening of building 
activity, with repercussions on allied occupations and commerce. 


61. The opportunity of investment afforded by Palestine’s favour- 
able financial circumstances continued to attract investing cor- 
porations abroad, and members of the boards of directors of some 
of the largest English banks and insurance companies visited the 
country during the year to investigate its possibilities and to 
negotiate arrangements for the financing of local schemes. 

62. The improved financial position enabled the Government to 
reduce considerably the duties on tea, coffee and sugar (by 50 per 
cent.). 


—— = 


23 


Valuable work was accomplished by a Delegation which visited 
Egypt in the months of May and June to negotiate a Trade Agree- 
ment with that country. As a result of its representations the 
Egyptian Government agreed to reduce the import duty on olive oil 
soap and to extend the period within which Palestine oranges and 
melons might be admitted into Egypt on a preferential tariff. In 
summary the Trade Agreement brought the following benefits to 
Palestine: water melons duty was reduced between the main 
season of July and August from £P. 14 to £P.1 per ton; the duty 
on grapefruit was reduced between the Ist August, 1935, and 
dlst July, 19387, from £P.24 to £P.14 per ton, and the season of 
low duty of £P.2 a ton for oranges was extended from the lst May 
to the 30th September. In return Egypt will benefit from the 
reduced duty on sugar, of which it is the largest single importer 
into Palestine, and from certain reciprocal concessions in respect of 
Egyptian vegetables. | 


63. A Committee was appointed to investigate the question of 
transportation and marketing of citrus fruits, with particular refer- 
ence to the regulation of consignments of oranges by rail and sea, 
and the need of the establishment of a Shipping Board. The Com- 
mittee was engaged in the preparation of its report at the end of 
the year. 

The excessive competition of various products manufactured in 
countries with low wage levels and where export bonuses are 
afforded was found to affect detrimentally the conduct of certain 
local industries. A special enquiry into this matter was conducted 
by the Treasurer as Chairman of the Standing Committee for 
Commerce and Industry, as an outcome of which additional protec- 
tion was afforded to certain classes of goods, while exemption from 
duty was granted on certain raw materials. 

In paragraph 45 of this section in last year’s Report mention was 
made of the Road and Rail Transportation Committee which was 
set up in 193838. Among the recommendations of this Committee 
Were proposals that experts should be invited to visit Palestine with 
a view to the reorganisation of the Railway in regard to its tariff 
and general lines of development and to its accounting and store- 
keeping methods. The reports of these experts have now been 
submitted to and considered by Government and steps are being 
taken to implement many of their recommendations. 


64. The rapid increase in the citrus crop has led the trade to seek 
an expansion of the market for Palestinian citrus fruit abroad. 
During 1934 the Jaffa Citrus Exchange made representations to 
the authorities in various countries abroad with a view to securing 
the removal of trade and currency restrictions which were an 
obstacle to the Palestine trade in oranges and grapefruit (see para- 
graph 44 of the Annual Report for 1934, Introductory Section). 

These representations were followed up during the summer of 
1935 by the General Manager of the Exchange who visited the 

31932 B 


24 


United Kingdom, Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, 
France, Germany, Hungary, Italy and Switzerland for the 
purpose. Simultaneously the Palestine-Roumanian Chamber of 
Commerce in Tel Aviv initiated negotiations through its Chairman 
with the Roumanian authorities with a view to an increase in the 
imports of Palestine produce and manufacture into Roumania. 
Valuable results were achieved, which are summarized below :— 


Austria.—Reduction of the duty on grapefruit by 50 per 
cent., that 1s, from six gold crowns to three gold crowns per 
100 kilos; and an allowance of 13 per cent. on the duty of 
oranges on account of the tare. 


Czechoslovakia.—Reduction of the duty on oranges packed 
in boxes by 13 per cent. and exemption of citrus shipments from 
Palestine from phytopathological examination and from pay- 
ment of the inspection fee which is equivalent to about 27 mils 
per box of fruit. 

Denmark.—Allocation of a quota for imports from Palestine 
of citrus fruit corresponding to about 65,000 boxes. 


Germany.—Negotiations initiated for the purpose of obtain- 
ing sterling in payment for citrus shipments. 


Hungary.—Allocation of an import quota for Palestine of 
1,500 tons of oranges, equivalent to about 45,000 boxes ; reduc- 
tion of the duty on grapefruit by 80 per cent. (from 15 shillings 
to 3 shillings per box); issue of sterling currency to importers 
of citrus shipments from Palestine at a premium not exceeding 
the premium paid by the National Bank when purchasing 
sterling banknotes. 

Switzerland.—Reduction of the duty on grapefruit by 70 per 
cent., that is, from ten Swiss francs to three Swiss francs per 
100 kilos gross weight ; reduction of the duty on oranges packed 
in boxes by 10 per cent., that is, from ten Swiss francs to nine 
Swiss francs per 100 kilograms. 

Roumania.—Increase of the quota of Palestine exports from 
£P.60,000 in 1934-35 to £P.130,000 for 1935-36. The principal 
articles affected are citrus fruits to a value of £P.100,000, olive 
oil to a value of £P.10,500, and synthetic and essential oils 
and perfumery to a value of £P.10,000. 


Agriculture and Land. 


65. A visit was paid to Palestine in the spring by Mr. F. A. 
Stockdale, C.M.G., C.B.E., Agricultural Adviser to the Secretary 
of State for the Colonies, who, in a tour lasting several weeks, made 
a careful enquiry into the various agricultural developments and 
activities both on the part of Government and private institutions, 
in Trans-Jordan as well as Palestine. His report has been placed 
at the disposal of the Permanent Mandates Commission and the 


25 


two Governments concerned are engaged now in considering the 


extent to which Mr. epee: s recommendationg can be carried 
out. 


It has been decided, on his advice, to separate the Forest Service 
from the Department of Agriculture, to which it has hitherto been 
attached, and to establish a new Department for the promotion of 
Government afforestation and the protection and acclimatisation of 
new species. The importance of this matter is evident: Palestine 
is almost totally dependent on imported timber both for building 
purposes and for the manufacture of furniture, not to mention 
packing cases for citrus and a variety of agricultural uses. It is 
also intended to provide bark for local tanneries. The necessity of 
re-afforesting the hills of Palestine so as to prevent further degra- 
dation of the soil and to recreate the possibility of cultivation where 
to-day there is only bare outcrop needs no emphasis. 


One branch of arboriculture to which the new Department will 
in particular apply itself is the propagation of carobs, a tree which 
is too rare in Palestine and which can be turned to considerable 
advantage both as a local fodder crop for animals and for purposes 
of export. 


66. The benefits conferred upon the rural population by the 
Imprisonment for Debt Ordinance of 1931 and the Usurious Loans 
Ordinance of 1934 are becoming more and more apparent. Money- 
lenders have circumscribed their activities and the fellahin can 
turn to other sources of credit on equitable terms, such as Barclay’s 
(D.C. and O.) Bank, the General Mortgage Company , and the Arab 
Bank of Co-operative Societies. 


There has thus been a mitigation of the burden of debt under 
which farmers had laboured for many years past; and to this im- 
provement the provision of relief works and the remission of rural 
taxation by Government have contributed not a little. In the 
Northern District alone it is said that the debts of the cultivators 
have been reduced by at least 60 per cent., and it will be remem- 
bered that the change from tithe and werko to rural property tax 
has meant a diminution in the taxation payable by average culti- 
vators of cereals by as much as 70 per cent. This measure has 
been received with general satisfaction in the villages. 


67. In order to supplement other credit facilities, Government 
decided in September to make available a sum of £P. 50, 000 for long 
term credits to fellahin in the hill districts, the main objects being 
to encourage :— 


(a) fruit and vine growing (including terracing and fencing) ; 

(b) animal husbandry (including purchase of sheep, goats 
and poultry) ; 

(c) water conservation for irrigation (including dams, reser- 
voirs, canalisation and wells) ; 


3493] B 3 


26 


(d) purchase of agricultural machinery and implements (such 
as grain cleaners, threshing machines and spraying machines) ; 
(e) sheep and cattle dips. 


Loans will be made for periods varying from 3 to 17 years accord- 
ing to the nature of the object for which the loan is granted, the 
period of the loan in no case exceeding the life of the asset created 
thereby. Individuals, collective bodies and co-operative societies 
will be eligible for loans. In general, they will be issued on the 
security of title deeds (or, in their absence, deeds of inheritance) 
in the case of individuals ; and on the security of collective or joint 
and several guarantees in the case of collective bodies and co- 
operative societies. It will, of course, be a condition of a loan to 
@ co-operative society that the society shall not cease its activities 
during the term of the loan. 

The fund will be administered by a Board, consisting of the 
Director of Agriculture, the Development Officer and an Assistant 
Treasurer. While no hmit of the amount of any loan is laid down, 
loans will not usually exceed 50 per cent. of the present value of any 
land accepted as security, less existing mortgages. It is antici- 
pated that loans to individuals will not exceed £P.250 nor those to 
collective bodies exceed £P.1,000 save at the discretion of the Board. 

Applications for loans greatly exceeding the amount available 
were received within a short space of time and were under examina- 
tion at the end of the year. 


68. In April, in a speech to the farmers of Palestine, and others 
interested in farming, the High Commissioner reviewed the actual 
achievements of the Government in the improvement of farming 
under the following heads :— 


(a) provision of seed of good quality from agricultural stations 
for distribution to farmers ; 

(b) production of fodder for live-stock ; 

(c) improvement of live-stock ; 

(d) reduction of ticks and tick fever; 

(e) development of poultry farming and beekeeping ; 

(f) citrus research and demonstration ; 

(g) encouragement of fruit-crowing ; 

(h) expansion of the work of the forest service ; 

(1) increase in number of school gardens ; 

(j) Kadoorie agricultural schools. 


69. The early rains were well distrituted and intense, but the 
latter rains were rather sporadic, and a long and severe sirocco 
burnt the fields in May and did considerable damage to citrus 
groves. In view of the consequent failure of the summer crops 
in certain parts it was necessary in September to undertake 
measures of relief. 720 tons of seed were distributed in Beersheba 
in loans costing £P.5,000; £P.5,000 were spent on road works in 
Beersheba and £P.1,000 in Ramallah and 260 tons of graded wheat 
and barley costing £P.2,600 were distributed. In general District 


Zi 


Commissioners provided work in affected rural areas by judicious 
distribution of a vote of £P.15,000 which was set aside in the 
annual budget for the construction of minor village roads. 

The rains were so heavy in some regions as to cause floods which 
did much damage. At Nablus the inundation ruined a large area of 
the fruitful gardens surrounding the town. 


70. In the Huleh Concession area Government surveyors com- 
pleted the demarcation of the 15,000 dunums of land which the 
new owners of the concession have agreed, at the instance of the 
High Commissioner, to place at the disposal of Arab cultivators. 
The next step will be the distribution of plots within that reserve 
to claimants. 


71. It was announced in August that imports of wheat would 
cease for the last quarter of the year in order to save the local 
market for the local farmer. It had been established that there 
were ample stocks in the country to meet all anticipated local 
demands. The prices obtained by the local cultivator for his crop 
were satisfactory. 


72. The tobacco crop in 1935 was better than usual. The local 
factories bought it at fairly high prices and there was even a certain 
amount of export. 


73. The bee farmers continued to receive practical help from 
Government in the development of what promises to be a steady 
source of income. The installation of modern hives is encouraged 
by the grant of loans for the purchase of better equipment, and sugar 
for feeding bees is distributed at cost price free of duty by Govern- 
ment in seasons when natural food is lacking. 


74. Reference was made in last year’s Report to the assistance 
granted by Government to the Citrus Fruit Advertising Committee 
ty an advance of £P.8,000, to be refunded next season, to meet 
the cost of the intensive campaign of publicity in the United 
kingdom and on the Continent. 

For the following season the Committee found it necessary to 
increase expenditure on the campaign, which was extended to 
countries outside Europe; and to enable the larger scheme to be 
carried out Government agreed to defer repayment of one half 
of the previous advance for a year, on the condition, to which 
the Committee agreed, that the advertising fee should be increased 
from 2 to 3 mils per case. 


Miscellaneous. 


75. The Silver Jubilee of His late Majesty King George the 
Fifth was celebrated in Palestine and Trans-Jordan with all due 
ceremony. There was a full parade of troops at Jerusalem, in 
which the High Commissioner took the salute, and similar local 
parades in Haifa and Jaffa. The High Commissioner received all 
Bntish residents of Jerusalem at Government House in the after- 
noon and in the evening there were fireworks displays. In the 

34931 B4 


28 


morning there were thanksgiving services in all places of worship 
and entertainments were provided at public expense to troops and 


police. 

76. On the 9th December the High Commissioner planted a tree 
which had been presented by His late Majesty King George the 
Fifth to mark the beginning of the Jubilee Forest established by 
contributions from Jews throughout the British Empire as a last- 
ing memorial of Their Majesties’ Silver Jubilee. 

Eight months before, His Excellency had planted the first tree 
in the forest established by the Jewish National Fund in memory 
of the late King Alexander of Yugoslavia. 


77. On the 22nd January the High Commissioner formally 
opened the terminal at Haifa of the Mosul-Mediterranean pipeline 
of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. Within the year a total of 
1,824,083 tons of crude oil had been shipped from Haifa. 


78. Units of the Mediterranean Fleet remained in Pulestinian 
waters from September onwards. In April the High Commissioner 
laid the foundation stone of a British Sailors’ Institute which has 
been set up in the port area of Haifa for the benefit of crews of 
visiting vessels. 

79. In July the High Commissioner entertained to luncheon at 
Government House a number of Jewish agricultural workers and 
farmers from every type of Jewish settlement, as in the previous 
year he had entertained Arab farmers. This mark of friendliness 
and interest was greatly appreciated by all those who attended. 


80. Special measures had to be taken against malaria owing to 
the heavy rains in the early part of the year which brought about 
conditions favourable to the breeding of the anopheles mosquito. 
Happily all danger was averted by vigorous activity prosecuted by 
the Department of Health with the willing co-operation of Arab 
and Jewish villages and landowners concerned. 


81. The Palestine Broadcast Transmitting Station at Ramallah 
had been finished by the end of the year and the testing of apparatus 
was about to begin. The masts were erected by local workmen, 
who were paid a special allowance for their arduous and dangerous 
work. 

An Advisory Programme Committee was appointed by the High 
Commissioner, presided over by the Director of Education, with 
official and non-official members, Temporary studios have been con- 
structed, pending the completion of the Jerusalem Post Office 
where they will ultimately be established. 

The Broadcasting Service is being organised with the advice and 
assistance of an expert seconded by the British Broadcasting 
Corporation. 


82. A Government Printing Press was opened near the Railway 
Station at Jerusalem on the 1st December, equipped with the latest 


29 


type of machinery, including linotype machines for Arabic and 
Hebrew. Hitherto all Government printing had been carried out 
by private firms. 


83. The difficult and costly problem of town-planning in Jerusa- 
lem, and the preservation of the Old City and its eastern environs 
continues to engage the attention of Government. A beginning 
is being made towards removing the encumbrances which have 
grown up in the past against the City Walls and the road along- 
side the moat in the neighbourhood of the Damascus Gate is being 
_ widened. The authorities of the Hebrew University and the pro- 
posed new Jewish Hospital are co-operating with Government in 
the preservation of a portion of the north-western part of the 
Mount of Olives. 


84. The construction of a Boys’ Elementary School in the Tal- 
bieh Quarter, Jerusalem, was well advanced by the end of this 
vear. This school, which will cost approximately £P.12,300 in- 
clusive of land, is the first of a number of schools to be built from 
the sum of £P.106,000 allocated in the proposed new Loan for 
town schools. Sites have been acquired or chosen for the other 
schools to be erected in Jaffa, Haifa and Jerusalem, and building 
at Jaffa is to begin early in 1936. 

The High Commissioner has approved the design for the Govern- 
ment Trade School which is to be established at North Haifa, 
and building began in Apmil. 

The school, which will provide Arab boys with urgently needed 
facilities for learning trades, is designed to accommodate, at first, 
90 pupils (70 boarders and 20 day-boys); and the estimated cost of 
_ the building, to be defrayed from the new Loan, is £P.43,500, 
including the provision of playing fields and all necessary 
_ equipment. 
 &5. Early in 1935 the Central Prison for Women in Palestine 

was installed in large premises near Bethlehem. There is a good 

garden attached, in which the women work and take exercise. 
‘The administration of the prison is in the hands of a British 
' Inspector and the prisoners are looked after by a British Matron. 
The prison is inspected weekly by the Government Welfare In- 
‘ spector. Prisoners due for release are helped to re-establish them- 
selves in life. There is a staff of ten wardresses, of whom six are 
' Arabs and four Jewesses. It is intended to establish a similar 
- institution near Jerusalem. 
A further improvement in the arrangements for the detention of 
’ female delinquents will follow the transfer of the Girls’ Reformatory 
Home, conducted under the auspices of the Palestine Social Service 
_ Association, into a more spacious building at Haifa, where there will 
be ample dormitories and class-rooms, with playgrounds and garden. 
The Government Welfare Inspector is empowered in cases of need 
to afford the shelter of the Girls’ Home to women who are home- 
less or awaiting repatriation from Palestine. 


30 


86. With the consent of the appropriate authorities of all com- 
munities the marriageable age of girls was raised to fifteen years 
completed. | 


87. Water-boring operations have been in progress for some time 
past, and are being carried out by the Department of Public Works 
according to the advice of the Underground Water Investigation 
Committee. Three sets of plant are in use, and a fourth is on order. 
Wells have been or are being bored on twelve sites, with varying 
results. Four of the bores have produced good supplies and others 
are promising. 

88. With a view to the most favourable development of the 
Reclaimed Area at Haifa, and in order to deal with the passenger 
traffic from the important commercial enterprise which will be 
carried on there, it was decided to establish a new passenger station 
in the central plot of the area, known as Plumer Square. The con- 
struction of the passenger station, which will simplify connections 
with outgoing and incoming steamers, was put in hand in the 
summer. 

Further plots for warehouses, etc., in the Reclaimed Area at 
Haifa were auctioned. The annual revenue to Government from 
rental of the plots already leased is in the region of £P.40,000. 


89. Expansion at Haifa has outstripped house accommodation, 
and in certain areas a large number of overcrowded and insanitary 
hutments have sprung up. The same is true of Jaffa. Schemes are 
being considered to enable the occupants of these hovels to be 
transferred to healthy areas and provided with a reasonable degree 
of sanitation and simple housing. 


90. Several serious floods occurred during the year. Rainstorms 
of extraordinary violence caused raging torrents from Mounts Ebal 
and Gerizim to inundate Nablus from both sides. Several lives 
were lost, and great damage done to houses, roads, drains, water- 
pipes, orchards and gardens. A grant of £P.5,000 was made from 
public funds to the municipality of Nablus for temporary relief, 
food and shelter, and clearance of débris, for the repair of roads, etc., 
and for the assistance of poor persons who had entirely lost their 
means of livelihood. Grants were also made as well as loans to 
help the townspeople to clear their lands and reconstruct their 
irrigation system ; where trees were swept away in the flood, saplings 
were granted without charge from Government nurseries. In 
Bethlehem and Beit Jala storms caused considerable losses, and 
there, too, public funds were distributed to help the local authorities 
in the work of restoration. 

At the end of the year a violent denabueet eccarced | in the north 
of Palestine and overwhelmed the villages of Khalisé and Buwiziya. 
These villages received the necessary immediate assistance from 
Government and steps were taken to enable the inhabitants to 
rehabilitate themselves. 


31 


On the 20th October there was a small flood at Tiberias which 
damaged some of the shops and also the foreshore. Any real danger 
was averted by the remedial and preventive works carried out follow- 
ing the more serious floods of 1934. The sum of £P.19,000 was 
paid out in Tiberias during the year as compensation to the owners 
of houses which had to be demolished. The reconstruction carried 
out in this connection has considerably improved the plan and 
amenities of the town. 

On the 31st October there were heavy rains in the south and 
the town of Khan Yunis was particularly affected. Several houses 
collapsed, and bridges in the neighbourhood were destroyed, and a 
child was drowned. 


91. The experiment of appointing cadet Palestinian District 
Officers has given good results. There are now nine such officers, 81x 
Arabs and three Jews, serving in the three Districts, drawn from the 
educated classes and for the most part young men with English 
or other European University education and specially fitted by their 
studies of economic and administrative subjects. ‘These cadets are 
selected by a committee of senior Government officers and from 
_ tbe list thus prepared the High Commissioner makes the final 
selection. All these Officers are showing good promise and keen 

interest in their work, and it is hoped by this means to build up 
‘a personnel of local officers fitted in due course to hold directive 
posts in the District Administration. 


92. At Bath Galim, a Jewish suburb near Haifa, there was opened 
_ in April the first open-air swimming-pool in Palestine of inter- 
national standard dimensions. It was inaugurated with the swim- 
ming events of the Maccabee games. The pool is a boon to bathers 
' on a dangerous coast, and it is expected that this example will be 
followed at Tel Aviv. 


93. The Palestine Shipping Company, with passenger ships of 
local register, has started a fortnightly service to Trieste. 


94. The tourist season of 1934-35 was unusually good. Un- 
fortunately its profits have disappeared in the slump of the present 
season, caused by the troubled international situation. 7 


95. Their Royal Highnesses Prince and Princess Arthur of 
Connaught made a brief stay in Palestine in February. 


96. In the late summer, His Royal Highness Amir Saud of 
Arabia, accompanied by Fuad Bey Hamza, visited Palestine. They 
were the guests of the Officer Administering the Government, 
and paid visits to Jerusalem, Nablus, Haifa, and Jaffa, afterwards 
staying with His Highness the Amir Abdullah in Trans-Jordan. 
Sheikh Ahmad Jaber Sabbah of Kuwait also visited Palestine and 
later stayed with the Amir Abdullah in Trans-Jordan. 


97. His Highness Abbas Hilmi Pasha, ex-Khedive of Egypt, 
arrived in his yacht at Haifa in January, and for a day or two 


Semmens 


32 


was the guest of the High Commissioner at Government House. 
He afterwards entertained on board his yacht the High Commis- 
sioner as well as the Amir Abdullah. 


98. A party of Members of the British Parliament, representing 
all parties in the House, visited Palestine in the spring, and were 
given opportunities of seeing all phases and sections of Palestinian 
life and activity. 


I.—JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


The prosperity enjoyed by the Jewish community during 1934 
was sustained during 1935 and manifested itself in a widening 
of its activities and influence, until, towards the end of the year, 
the uncertainty communicated by the international situation led to 
a general restriction of credit and a contraction of investment 
in -Euilding and industry. There was then a rise in the number 
of Jewish unemployed, and in December these numbered 6,000. 


2. During 1935, 61,854 Jews were registered as immigrants, of 
whom 27,729 were working men and women and 12,003 persons 
(including dependants) of the capitalist category (persons with 
£P.1,000 and upwards). 

Among the measures taken during the year to facilitate Jewish 
immigration the following may be particularly mentioned :— 

(a) Admission of two hundred single able-bodied relatives 
of Palestine Jewish farmers as temporary labourers. 

(b) Special provision to facilitate the entry of Jewish 
refugees from Germany. 


3. During the year, 72,905 dunums of land were purchased by 
Jews from non-Jews at a total cost of £P.1,699,121. 


4. The following grants-in-aid were made by the Palestine Gov- 
ernment towards the expenditure of the Jewish community upon 
various services of a public character during the year 1935-36. 


Education : £P. 
Grant-in-aid to schools of Jewish Agency... 38 ,000 
Health : 
Contribution to Jewish Health Services— £F. 
(a) Technical Services Tel Aviv Maas uae 5 841 
(b) School Hygiene ... ; ste 1,763 
(c) Infant Welfare... 1,038 
(d) Construction of Kupat Cholim Hospital 
Petah Tiqva re 4,300 
(e) Construction of T hysician’ 8 s House, Emek | 
Hospital... 1,300 


(f) Construction of Tuberculosis Hospital, . 
Safad — .... oe an ee ns 1,700 


33 


Grant to Hebrew sais for Anti-Malarial £P. 
work — ? 163 
Agriculture and oresia: | 
Grant for Citrus Research by the Experi- 
mental Station of the Jewish Agency _... 3,000 
Grant to Jewish Agency Experimental 
Fruit Growing at Hillside Station Kiryat 


Anavim ; 300 
Grant to Jewish peney ‘for Intense: 

Farming Experiments bia oe 300 
Grant to J ewish Agency for Research sek 2,950 
Grant to Hebrew University for Field 

Mice Investigation ... 200 
Grant to Hebrew University for Spiro. 

chaetosis Research . se 150 


A series of similar ants atl with peopotionate increases 
taking into account the growth of the Jewish population, is under 
consideration for next year. 


The Government has made a capital grant of £P.6,200 towards 
the cost of constructing the projected Rothschild Hadassah Uni- 
versity Hospital on Mount Scopus. This sum is to be devoted to 
the construction of a Radium and X-Ray Institute with the 
hospital : there is no Institute of that kind at present in Palestine. 


The following capital grants were paid during 1935 to Jewish 
educational and agricultural institutions as part of the programme 


of the Palestine Government for the encouragement of technical. 
education :— 


ee 

Hebrew Technical Institute oe sat siaee 10,000. 

Agricultural School, Mikveh Israel _... ate 4,500 

Children’s Village, Ben Shemen sa abe 1,250: 

School for Arts and Handicrafts, Jerusalem ... 1,500 
Professional School of the ‘Workers Organisa- 

tion, Tel Aviv ... es or ae ve 750 

Total aes oat ue . £P.18,000 


These subventions are designed i assist oe institutions con- 
cerned in the construction of new school buildings, workshops and 
laboratories and for the provision of new equipment, machinery and 
tools. In co-operation with the Department of Education, the 
Public Works Department gave advice and assistance, as necessary, 
on various matters connected with these grants. In the case of the 
Trade School in Tel Aviv a grant of £P.2,000 has been proposed. 


A capital grant of £P.300 was made to the Trade School for the 


Children of Oriental Jews near Rehovot towards the construction of 
a school building. 


34 


Extensions to the Central Emek Hospital at Affula and the con- 
struction of the Kupat Cholim Hospital at Petah Tiqva (both in- 
stitutions of the Sick Fund of the General Federation of Jewish 
Labour) from grants made by Government were approved by the 
Public Works Department and the grants paid after inspection. 


5. The Jewish Community suffered a very severe loss in the 
death of Chief Rabbi A. I. Kook, C.B.E., who had shared with 
Chief Rabbi Jacob Meir the spiritual leadership of the official 
Jewish Community since 1920. Chief Rabbi Kook was a distin- 
guished Jewish scholar and his deep learning and piety brought 
him the esteem of his Jewish co-religionists all over the world. 

Rabbi 8. Aaronsohn, the much revered spiritual head of the Tel 
Aviv Jewish Community, also died during 1935; and in his place 
the community has elected Rabbi Amiel, Chief Rabbi of Antwerp. 


6. Government has granted exemption from import duty on 
handwritten talismans (Mezuzot), phylacteries and Scrolls of the 
Law which are used for Jewish ritual or liturgical purposes. 


7. The budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
Jewish Community of Palestine for the year ending the 30th Sep- 
tember, 1935, was approved by the High Commissioner, with an 
Order of the Elected Assembly prescribing the rates and fees to be 
levied by local committees on their members and the methods of 
assessment. 

The budget provided for an estimated revenue of £P.117,620 and 
an estimated expenditure of £P.117,430, the main heads of expendi- 
ture being Education, £P.97,975, Health £P.5,905, Social Service 
£P.3,237, Administration £P.5,198, Repayment of Loan £P.4,500. 

The High Commissioner approved Regulations made by the 
General Council (Vaad Leumi) under the Jewish Community 
Regulations, 1927, prescribing the system of elections and appoint- 
ment of the Rabbinical Council and Rabbis of the local committees. 
Government has under consideration a number of proposals by the 
General Council (Vaad Leumi) for amendment of the Regulations 
of 1927 to facilitate the holding of elections to the Elected Assembly, 
and the compilation of the Registers of members of the Community. 


8. The arrangements made between the Jewish Agency and the 
Jewish Farmers Federation through the intervention of Govern- 
ment for the nomination, under. the Labour Schedule, of four 
hundred agricultural workers of not less than three years’ experi- 
ence by the Federation were successfully carried through. The agri- 
cultural labourers were selected in the agricultural centres of Central 
Kurope by a representation of the Federation sent from Palestine, 
the nominees being approved by the local Palestine officer of the 
Jewish Agency abroad. 

Some difficulty has, however, been experienced by the Jewish 
Farmers Federation in regard to the housing of these immigrants. 
The majority of the immigrants selected had large families, this 


30 


qualification being adopted by the Federation in the hope that men 
with large families would be less liable to drift to the towns.. 
The number of dependants has complicated the problem, and the 
Federation are now considering the initiation of a scheme to provide 
for the permanent accommodation of these newcomers in the 
agricultural settlements. 

In May the High Commissioner (see para. 2 (a) above) authorized 
the admission as an experimental measure of two hundred 
single able-bodied relatives of Palestinian Jewish farmers 
as temporary labourers under Regulation 14 of the Immigration 
Ordinance, 1933. The arrangement provided for the admission of 
these farm labourers for one year in the first instance, subject to 
extension of the period to three years, if the labourer remained on 
the farm. At the end of this period the labourer, if still employed 
by the farmer who applied for him, will be registered as an 
immigrant under the labour schedule. 


9. A number of important changes in the administration of the 
Hebrew University of Jerusalem were made as a result of the 
annual meeting of the Board of Governors in September. These 
changes included the abolition of the post of Chancellor of the 
University, and its replacement by a post of President, the setting 
up of a Senate with a Rector as Chairman for the conduct of 
academic matters, and the vesting of the conduct of the generaf 
administration of the University in an Executive Council with: 
an Administrator. 

Dr. J. Li. Magnes, formerly Chancellor of the University, was: 
appointed President, Professor Bergmann of the Institute of Jewish 
Studies was elected Rector, and Mr. S. Shocken became: 
Administrator. 

The Board of Governors also decided that the time had arrived to. 
establish a Faculty of Science in addition to the existing Faculty 


of Humanities and appoined Dr. Ch. Weizmann as the first Deam 
of the new Faculty. 


10. A number of local industries which are entirely or largely 
in the hands of Jewish manufacturers were assisted by the grant of 
exemption from import duty on certain raw materials and by the 
increase of import duties for protective purposes on certain manu- 
factured articles. 

The raw materials exempted from import duty included : metal 
waste and scrap iron, brass, copper and tin fit only for recovery 
of the metal waste ; paper ; chemical pulp; mechanical pulp; lime of 
animal origin; casein and china clay used in the manufacture of 
paper ; waste pearls ; rough diamonds; moulding powders; fireproof 
blocks and bricks and sand and sodium sulphate used in the manu- 
facture of glass; petrolatum and vaseline used in the manufacture 
of pharmaceutical products; and linseed oil varnish. The locally- 
manufactured articles for which additional protection was given 
included : omnibus bodies ; cigars ; sliding metal fasteners ; tomato 


36 


Juice and other tomato products; pickled cauliflowers and cucum- 
bers; toys; bentwood furniture; and (as already stated) hand- 
written scrolls of the Law, phylacteries and mezuzot. 


11. Government participated in the cost of drilling operations 
carried out at Rosh Pinna by the Palestine Jewish Colonization 
Association with a plant owned by the Association. : 


IIl.—_AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


The Municipal Councils have continued to perform their work 
satisfactorily and, with experience of public affairs and procedure, — 
urban administration is tending to improve. Much good work has — 
been done by the Councils in the betterment of roads, water, light | 
and power supplies, drainage and scavenging services. Public 
spirit and civic pride are beginning to show themselves, and the — 
advice and assistance of District Commissioners are sought and — 
appreciated. The wide and varied activity of Municipal Corpora- . 
tions for the governance of different forms of urban requirements — 
is evidenced by the following list of by-laws passed during the | 
year : 

Increment Tax (Rishon-le-Tsiyon). 

Footways and Pavements (Jaffa). 

Payment of Rates (Tulkarm). 

Building and Alignment of Roads (Rehovoth). 
Construction of Streets (Jaffa). 

Prevention or Abatement of Nuisances (Tel Aviv). 
Prevention of Encampment of Labourers (Haifa). 
Construction of Footpaths (Ramat Gan). 
Sidewalks (Jerusalem). 

Zones and Maximum Rent (Tel Aviv). 
Regulation of Stationary Vehicles (Jaffa). 
Prevention of Accumulation of Refuse or Filth (Tel Aviv). 
Rateable Value of Buildings (Tel Aviv). 

Street Trades (Jerusalem). 

Advertisements (Tel Aviv). 

Entertainment Fees (Tel Aviv). 

Bathing (Tel Aviv). 

Slaughter house and Fees (Tel Aviv). 

Licensing of Bicycles and Tricycles (Majdal). 
Prevention of Begging (Tulkarm). 

Prevention of Nuisances (Majdal). 


2. As the towns develop, open spaces are being kept fenced and 
planted, and it is hoped that in course of time these open spaces 
will be pleasant gardens with amenities for the public, and will 
thus contribute not only to the appearance of the towns but also 
to the health of their inhabitants. 

A sum of approximately £P.100,000 has been set aside by 

‘Government to be divided in grants among the Councils of the four 


37 


principal Municipal Corporations, namely Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel 
Aviv and Haifa, as contributions towards the cost of executing 
major schemes for the preservation and development of public 
parks in each centre, on the following conditions :— 


(a) that the central Government shall not in any case bear 
the full cost of the acquisition of the land required ; 

(b) that lability for development and maintenance of the 
areas acquired will be assumed by the Councils themselves. 


The high cost of suitable plots and the prior claims of urgent 
water supply and drainage projects are factors which have hitherto 
been effective in preventing Municipal Councils from undertaking 
any amenity works of this nature, although commendable initiative 
has been shown at Jaffa and Tel Aviv, where schemes on a modest 
scale have already been undertaken. Consequently, in view of 
the rapid urban development which is proceeding and the limited 
resources of Municipal Councils, it was thought desirable that 
Government should associate itself with local authorities in acquir- 
ing as quickly as possible expanses of land large enough for trans- 
formation as public parks. The areas to be acquired will be on 
the outskirts of towns at their present stage of development and 
along directions of urban expansion. The advantage of open spaces 
to the health and pleasure of citizens, particularly of those of the 
poorer classes, in these four large and expanding towns does not 
require emphasis. 

District Commissioners are now discussing details with the 
Mayors. These detailed proposals will indicate the plots which 
it is proposed to purchase, the estimated cost of their development, 
the proportion of the total capital cost which Municipalities can 
provide from municipal funds, and the amounts which they intend 
to set aside for annual maintenance. 


3. In all Municipalities it has been necessary to make provision 
for enlargement of boundaries in order to include in the jurisdiction 
of the Council recent and prospective urban development. 


4. At the opening of the year strong local interest was still being 
taken in the Jerusalem municipal elections, which resulted in pro- 
tracted proceedings before the District Court. In addition to the 
new Moslem Mayor, Dr. Hassan al Khalidi, the High Commis- 
sioner appointed a Jewish and a Christian Deputy Mayor. At a 
luncheon party given by the High Commissioner to the new Coun- 
cil, the Mayor outlined the major works to be undertaken during 
the year by the Municipality and declared his determination to 
follow a policy of co-operation without racial bias. | 


). Elections for the new Municipal Council of Tel Aviv took 
place in December and resulted in the election of two independent 
members (one of them the former Mayor, Mr. M. Dizengoff), 
seven representing the Right under the leadership of the former 
vice-mayor Mr. I. Rokach, and six members representing the 


38 


Labour Party. There were 108 candidates for 15 seats. Of 
25,000 voters on the official register 21,000 voted. The High Com- 
missioner re-appointed Mr. Dizengoff as Mayor and appointed two 
Deputy Mayors, namely, Mr. Rokach, the leader of the Right 
Party and Mr. Dov Hoz, leader of the Labour Bloc. 


6. Tel Aviv Hospital was enlarged by 50 beds. A new hospital 
to accommodate four hundred patients is contemplated. 


7. Steps are being taken to prepare water and drainage schemes 
for Jaffa and Tel Aviv with the assistance of Consulting Engineers 
and at Jaffa also plans are being made for the construction of a 
vegetable market. 


8. At Haifa a bank loan of £P.28,000 for the construction of a 
new abbatoir has been negotiated. 


9. Government granted exemption from Import Duty in respect 
of traffic lights apparatus imported by Municipal Corporations for 
use a8 a measure of public safety in congested streets and areas. 


10. Satisfactory reports have been received of the working of 
the new Councils—some of them stimulated by energetic and 
determined Mayors—at Acre, Jenin, Safad, Nazareth, Nablus, 
Beisan, Gaza, Ramle and Majdal. The Beersheba Council is doing 
as well as could be expected with its very limited resources, but 
depends much on the constant supervision and encouragement of 
the District Officer. 

11. Owing to delays in obtaining judgments on election petitions 
from the District Court, the Khan Yunis Municipal Council had 
not an opportunity of functioning during the year. 


12. At Nazareth there are signs of economic revival in the estab- 
lishment of tobacco and tile factories and a factory for making 
cardboard boxes. The town is now electrically lit by supply from 
the Palestine Electric Corporation; its water supply has been 
improved. . 

13. At Gaza the Municipality has built Municipal stables; a new 
suburb is slowly taking shape between the old town and the sea, 
on land which has been sold in cheap building sites for the purpose ; 
a road is being constructed to the sea to promote the trade of the 
port and Government contemplates improving the road from the 
town to the station and in due time building a new station. 


14. Rents in Acre are rising owing to the increasing popularity 
of the place as a residence for persons engaged in business or work 
at Haifa, where rents are even higher. The progress of this town 
is manifested also by its factories for sweets and cigarettes estab- 
lished by Syrian capitalists, for mineral waters and soap and by 
its modern laundry. Electric light is provided by the Palestine 
Electric Corporation. . 

15. Among other towns to which electric light has been supplied 
or for which it is keing negotiated are Jenin, Nablus, Safad, and 
Beisan. 


39 


16. Tulkarm was successful in raising a bank loan of £P.4,800 
for the installation of a town water supply. 


17. The Hebron water supply is proceeding satisfactorily towards 
its conclusion. 


18. A new reservoir for the Ramle water supply and a new 
hospital are contemplated as well as a drainage scheme for Gaza. 


19. Education Committees were formed under the Education 
Ordinance, 1938, in Gaza, Majdal and Khan Yunis. 


20. Juydda Municipality has dug a new well for its town water 
supply and installed an engine and pump. 


21. The Local Councils in the Jewish. Settlements of Petah 
Tiqva, Rehovoth, Ramat Gan and Rishon-le-Tsiyon have displayed 
some disregard of financial responsibility in their attempt to keep 
pace with the amazing expansion of these settlements. In spite 
of this, however, these four local authorities are now carrying 
out effectively many improvements and reforms within their areas 
of jurisdiction. 

22. During the year efforts have been carried on, which finally 
proved successful, for the establishment of some form of local 
administration in the Sharon settlements. After many and pro- 
tracted meetings, first with individual leaders and later with repre- 
sentatives of all parties, forms of constitutions for Local Councils 
in several of these settlements have been accepted in principle 
and are now under consideration by Government. The need of 
legislation for control in rural areas has become urgent owing to 
the lack of any organization or authority for the control of buildings, 
the alignment of roads and the supervision of health and sanitary 
conditions, which is causing serious inconvenience in the rural 
areas neighbouring the large urban settlements of Jaffa, Tel Aviv, 
Petah Tiqva, Rehovoth and Ramat Gan. 

Government has decided in principle to enact legislation which 
will enable Local Councils to be constituted not only in established 
villages, but also in rural areas which do not at present fall within 
the jurisdiction either of lLLocal Councils or of Municipal 
Corporations. 

The main purpose of the amendments is to render possible the 
raising of funds by means of contribution or levy of rates upon 
landowners in such rural areag towards the construction of necessary 
communications, more particularly in the orange-growing belt, and 
also towards the construction of school buildings and the mainten- 
ance of’ educational services both in Local Council and rural areas. 


_ 23. Petah Tiqva, hitherto a Local Council, has so far increased 
in population and importance that the inhabitants petitioned for 
its elevation to the status of a Municipality. The petition was 
granted and the change will come into operation early in 1936. 


40 


24. At Hedera, hitherto governed ty a non-statutory Committee 
only, a new Local Council came into being in January, 1936, with 
full rating and taxing powers under the Local Councils Ordinance, 
1921. 


25. The Government Auditor has been appointed as Auditor of 
Municipal Accounts under the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 
1934. 


26. Safad is continuing to be popular as a summer resort. On 
the Jebel Canaan a hotel of 45 rooms has been built and was ex- 
tensively patronised throughout the season. The proprietors of 
boarding houses all earned good profits. The amenities of the town 
will, it is hope, soon be further improved by a better water supply 
and electric lighting. 


27. At Tel Aviv and Jaffa progress is being made towards the 
provision of plant for the disposal of refuse. In Jaffa a British © 
engineer has been engaged to take charge of the major works which 
it is proposed to undertake from Loan Funds. 


Itll.—_ JEWISH AGENCY. 


The representations of the Jewish Agency in the matter of Govern- 
ment proposals for legislation centred round the Rural Property Tax 
Ordinance, the Damages Bill, the Medical Practitioners (Amend- 
ment) Ordinance and the Town Planning Bill. 


The Agency pressed for a lower rate of Rural Property Tax on 
citrus and banana plantations, for the exemption of land under 
intensive development during the initial stages, and for the im- 
position of liability to pay the tax upon long-term tenants of land 
owned by Jewish companies of a public utility character instead of 
those companies themselves, on the theory that they were only in 
form the ‘‘ owners ’’ of the land for the purpose of the law. The 
Government intends to consider these changes after a reasonable 
period of experience of the working of the Ordinance. 


The Damages Bill had not been enacted at the end of the year, 
and the views of the Jewish Agency will be taken into account 
before its promulgation. 


The Medical Practitioners (Amendment) Ordinance, which limits 
the number of persons admitted to practise medicine, was criticised 
by the Agency mainly on the score that the operation of economic 
forces was sufficient to achieve the end which Government had in 
view. 


% 
The Agency argued that a large number of immigrant physicians 
apply for licences without having the intention to practise. If this 
were 80, it appeared to Government that no particular hardship was 
hikely to be caused by the new Ordinance, nor would such physicians 
be debarred from settling in Palestine as immigrants. 


41 


The Agency further suggested that the establishment of a closed 
profession of medicine tends to lower the standard of efficiency. 
This is not. borne out by experience elsewhere ; in most Continental 
countries legislation of a similar kind exists to protect the local 
practitioners. In the majority of cases, citizens of foreign countries 
are debarred from practice. 


The Town Planning Ordinance was still under consideration at 
the end of the year. The Agency in particular advocated the addition 
of non-official members to District Town Planning Commissions, 
but it is doubtful whether this would be a desirable innovation 
in the early stages of the working of these new bodies. The question 
might be reviewed after the Ordinance has been in force for some 
time and the Commissions are firmly established. 


2. After consideration of applications made by the Jewish Agency, 
the following labour immigration was authorised by the High Com- 
missioner :— 


(a) In February an advance of 1,000 certificates, chargeable 
to the substantive labour schedule for the period of six months 
beginning on the Ist April. 

(b) 150 certificates, also in February, under Immigration 
Regulation No. 9. 


(ec) 8,000 certificates (including the advance under (a) ) for 
the six months beginning the Ist April, the Jewish Agency 
having applied for 19,160. 


(d) In October an advance of 1,000 certificates on the next 
schedule, for the most part for agricultural workers in Germany. 


(e) In December, a schedule of 3,250 certificates for the six 
months beginning the 1st October (including the advance under 
(d)), the Agency having applied for 10,900. Of this 
schedule, 1,200 certificates were for agricultural workers. 


3. A new form of immigration certificate has been introduced 
which enables certificates to be transferred by the Jewish Agency 
from one country to another without the necessity for the duplicate 
copies to be similarly transferred by His Majesty’s Passport Control 
or Consular Officers concerned. 


4. In August, Government granted to the Jewish Agency 100 
certificates for skilled artisans each in possession of £P.250. 


5. During the year, 550 special certificates were issued to render 
possible the admission to Palestine of Jewish children from Ger- 
many, to be trained in agricultural pursuits in Palestine. 


6. The Arabs of the southern section of the Wadi Hawareth tribe 
have been successfully resettled by arrangements made by the 
District Authorities with the co-operation of the Jewish National 


42, 


Fund, which provided on exchange 240 dunums of cultivable land 
for the tribesmen. The Arabs will supplement their income by 
working in the neighbouring Jewish settlement of Hedera and will 
cultivate their own lands in the neighbouring Kabbani zone. 


7. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish Community 
made representations to Government on various occasions on the 
subject of the computation of the grant-in-aid to Jewish education, 
urging a return to the earlier formula, which has been based on 
the relative proportion of the Jewish to the Arab population of the 
country. 


8. The provision of hospital accommodation continued to be a 
difficult problem. It is true that in the main it was possible to 
find hospital space for sufferers from typhoid fever; but for the rest, 
there continues to be a great scarcity of hospital beds. This applies 
especially to Tel Aviv and its environs and also to Haifa; but 
schemes for improving the facilities at both these towns are now 
under consideration. (i 


The co-operation between the Department of Health and the 
Jewish health bodies in anti-malaria work was satisfactory. The 
Government Department and the Jewish Settlements carried out 
jointly extensive works of sanitation. 


9. The Jewish Agency submitted, as occasion arose, the claims of 
various manufacturers for the exemption of certain raw materials 
from import duty and for the imposition of protective tariffs against 
competing imports (see Chapter I, paragraph 10) ; and made repre- 
sentations on the subject of the trade relations between Palestine 
and Egypt on the one hand* and Palestine and the Levant States 
under French Mandate on the other. 


10. The Jewish Agency continued to co-operate through a special 
liaison officer with the authorities concerned in all matters relating 
to the defence and security of Jewish settlements ; and to take steps 
to secure suitable Jewish candidates for service in the Police Force, 
special care being taken to recruit candidates from among the agri- 
cultural communities. At the same time, the Municipality of Tel 
Aviv undertook the recruitment of new policemen for service in 
that city. The Agency provided teachers in the three official 
languages to the Jewish recruits in the Police Training School. 


A comprehensive map of the Jewish settlements, which was 
accepted as a reference basis by the authorities, has been published 
by the Agency. 


11. Assistance was granted to Jewish Settlements by the 
Geological Adviser of the Government. 





* Information regarding the Trade Agreement with Egypt is given in paragraph 62 
of the Introductory Chapter. 


43 


IV.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 
1. The persons recorded as having entered or left Palestine during 


1935 belonged to the following races :— 


Arrivals. 
Total. 
(a) Residents returning after a period 


exceeding one year.. eae 1,927 

(6) Residents name after & period m not 
exceeding one year 62,175 
(c) Immigrants... 59,430 
(d) Exempted persons 288 
(e) Temporary visitors 90,936 
(f) Transit travellers 15,887 
Total 230,643 

Departures. 

(a) Residents departing for a period 
exceeding one year... 783 

(b) Residents departing for a period not 
exceeding one year... ... 67,678 
(c) Temporary visitors ... 82,029 
(¢) Transit travellers 14,286 
ory ater Total . 164,776 

Net increase of aa due to recorded 
immigration .-. 65,867 


Jews. 
1,089 
21,961 
58,046 
4 
34,875 
1,253 


117,228 


396 
24,811 
25,892 

1,066 


52,165 


65,063 


Arabs. 
722 


214 


Others. 
116 
6,870 
768 
284 
33,387 
11,471 


52,896 


590 


2. Of the persons oie eg Palestine in 1935 as travellers, 


4,429 were registered as immigrants. 
and 625 were “non-J ews. {:: 


Of these, 3,804 were Jews 


3. The volume of Jewish immigration and emigration in 1935 


and previous years is as follows :— 





Approved 
ammugrants 

Year. arriving. 
1920 oo esa 5,514 
1921 : 9,149 
1922 7,844 
1923 7,421 
1924 12,856 
1925 33,801 
1926 13,081 
1927 2,713 
1928 2,178 
1929 5,249 
1930 4,944 
1931 4,075 
1932 9,553 
1933 30,327 
1934 er 42,359 
1935 ae 61,854 

Total 252,918 





Persons recorded 
as leamng 
permanently. 


No figures are available for Jewish emigration in 1920, 1921, 1932, 


1988, and 1934. 


44 


4. The countries of previous abode of immigrants registered in 
1935 (1.e., of persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers 
and subsequently registered as immigrants) were as follows :— 


Country of previous abode. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Europe : 
Austria ae oa oe eee 1,390 1,376 — 14 
Belgium ee ae nas seh 407 395 — 12 
Bulgaria ies a es ss 470 468 — 2 
Czechoslovakia — nee Sid 1,561 1,545 — 16 
Danzig a dee os eins 153 153 — — 
Denmark aoe ve nee ae 12 11 — 1 
Esthonia ore we ae sue 44 44 — — 
Finland 166 es ae ia 10 10 — — 
France... wae des is sek 1,327 1,254 l 72 
Germany ain oa a ue 8,761 8,630 — 131 
Great Britain... bes des en 702 317 — 385 
Greece... ae jae oes Sass 2,206 2,171 — 35 
Hungary aa ae sale Ni 387 383 — 4 
Italy ... ave wae ade ae: 278 170 — 108 
Latvia... ie see oid ms 1,151 1,151 — — 
Lithuania _.... ees ps re 2,139 2,137 — 2 
Netherlands ... De ees wt 457 456 — ] 
Norway ae ee = sis 7 2 — 5 
Poland a be aes ... 27,847 27,843 — 4 
Portugal a ae cf 34 34 — — 
Roumania ... bass ve ... 93,899 3,890 2 7 
Russia... ae £6 bes re 641 641 — — 
Spain ... sii sus ee as 63 38 ] 24 
Sweden ee eae sia bee 23 23 — — 
Switzerland ... dee ee oe 187 181 — 6 
Yugoslavia... se dics 56 341 338 — 3 
Total ... ... 64,497 53,661 4 832 
Asia: 
Afghanistan . 243 243 — — 
China ... : 35 34 — l 
India . 37 31 — 6 
‘Iraq . 810 787 10 13 
Iran ... phe a ae ‘ae 557 556 — l 
Japan... ses is8 nae — 11 11 — — 
Syria and Lebanon ... ee sis 940 417 424 99 
Trans-Jordan... seis sak bs 4 — 4 — 
Turkey ae ies ie tb 1,445 1,403 25 17 


Yemen and Aden ... oe aaa 1,455 1,455 — — 
Total ... oi 5,537 4,937 463 137 


Africa: 
Egypt... ve ate wats ane 755 391 177 187 
Tripoli... hoe Gus eae os lll 111 — — 
Sudan... Gok ee si he 3 l ] 1 
Union of South Africa ee Ste 131 128 — 3 


Other countries of Africa ... acs 86 71 — 15 
Total ... — 1,086 702 178 206 


Country of previous abode. 
America : 
United States of America ... 
Central and South America : 
Argentine... aie 


Mexico 


Other countries of Latin America 


Total 


Australia... 


Briih Dependencies not openifed above 


Undefined ... 
| Grand total 


45 


Total. 


145 
1,892 


107 
107 

58 
343 


2,652 
70 
179 
126 


64,147 


Arabs. 


Others. 


0. The comparative figures for 1934 and 1935 of J ewish immi- 
grants by nationality from the principal countries of emigration are 
as follows :— 





6. Persons granted visas for Palestine are liable to be refused 
admission on arrival at the frontier if the immigration officer is not 
satisfied that they are persons who may lawfully be admitted to 


Palestine. 


The numbers of persons so refus 


and previous years are as follows :— 


Total 
Year. entranis. 
1930... --. 94,576 
1931... -. 90,334 
1932... --- 100,679 
1933... --» 141,478 
1934...  .... 176,681 
1935... 230,643 


No figures are available prior to 1930. 


Number 


refused 


admission. 


Number refused 
admission per 
1,000 entrants. 


| 
Ol = 69 m DO 


ed admission in 1935 


46 


7. The sex of immigrants registered in 1935 (1.e., of persons 
arriving as immigrants, or of persons arriving as travellers and sub- 
sequently registered as immigrants) 1s as follows :— 





Male. Female. 

Total ... 30,199 33,948 

Race, eee 
Jews sae eis sets ome 29,104 32,750 
Arabs... Ape dak sue 397 506 
Others ... aa 698 692 


These figures indicate that Jewish women formed 53 per cent. of 
the Jewish immigrants arriving in 1935 as compared with 48 per 
cent. in 1934. According to the 1931 census, Jewish women 
formed 49-5 per cent. of the Jewish population of Palestine. 


8. The age groups of immigrants registered in 1935 (1.e. of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or of persons arriving as travellers 
and subsequently registered as immigrants) are as follows :— 


Age groups. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
0-4... pes 3,834 3,562 156 116 
5-9... ee 4,201 4,011 126 64 
10-14 ... ves 4,712 4,518 - 132 62 
15-19 ... ee 5,919 5,627 144 148 
20-24 ... nat 11,505 11,095 120 290 
25-29 ... a 9,252 8,980 69 203 
30-34 ... iat 6,433 6,230 51 152 
35-39 ... me 3,916 3,771 29 116 
40-44 ... as 2,652 2,543 ' 27 82 
45-49 ... acs 2,089 2,024 18 47 
50-54 ... - 2,335 2,283 43 
55-59 ... = 2,700 2,663 13 24 
60-64 ... ies 2,137 2,112 4 21 
65-69 ... ae 1,378 1,362 2 14 
70-74 ... ae 689 685 — 4 
75 and over ... 395 388 3 4 


Total ... ag 64,147 61,854 903 1,390 


9. The change in the relative proportions of Jewish immigrants 
over and under the age of thirty-five years during the last five 
years 1s indicated by the following figures :— 


Under 35 years. Over 35 years. 


Year. Per cent. Per cent. 
1931 ...00 6a 76-6 23-4 
1932 2.00. 74-6 25+4 
1938 2.0.00. 79-9 20:1 
1934 0.000 ee 15-7 24-3 


1935... ei sie 71°2 28-8 


47 


10. The conjugal condition of immigrants registered in 1935 (1.e., 
of persons arriving as immigrants, or arriving as travellers and 
subsequently registered as immigrants) is as follows :— 








Conjugal condition. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Males : 
Persons ... ee ... 29,104 397 698 
Unmarried 13,431 324 560 
Married ... 14,927 71 131] 
Divorced... 61 — ] 
Widowed 685 2 6 
Females : 
Persons aoe ... 32,750 506 692 
Unmarried eee ... 13,968 239 393 
Married ... une ... 16,410 255 269 
Divorced... Lis i 195 2 3 
Widowed 2,177 10 27 


ll. Immigrants registered in 1935 (i.e., persons arriving as im- 
migrants during the year, or persons arriving as travellers and 
subsequently registered as immigrants) belonged to the following 
categories defined in the regulations made under the Immigration 


Ordinance, 1933 :— 


Categories. 
A (i) Persons with £P.1,000 
upwards... 
Dependants of persons in ‘category 
A (i) be 
A (ii) Members of liberal professions 
with a capital of not ve than 
£P.600 ... 
Dependants of persons in ‘eatagoey 
A (ii) 
A (iii) Skilled artisans with a capital of 
not less than £P.250 
Dependants of enn in category 
A (iii 
A (iv) Persons of minimum income of 
£P.4 a month re 
A (v) Persons with a capital of not leas 
than £P.500 wae 
Dependants of persons in category 
A(v) ... 
B (i) Orphans coming to institutions... 
B (ii) Persons of religious occupations... 
Dependants of persons in cats 
B (ii) 

B (iii) Students whose maintenance is 
Persons coming to employment. 3 
Dependants of persons in category 

C 


and 


D —Dependants of residents of Pales- 
tine 
Persons exempted from the provi- 


sions of the cesvaciaais Ordi- 
nance 


Total 





Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
6,398 6,309 56 33 
5,741 5,694 39 8 

10 7 2 1 

3 3 — — 

303 301 2 — 

470 470 — = 
127 113 3 1] 

14 14 — — 

15 15 — == 

4 — 4 a8 
1,056 743 22 291 
1,878 1,871 — 7 
2,071 1,964 54 53 
14,972 14,653 79 240 
13,135 13,076 14 45 
17,629 16,610 624 395 
321 1] 4 306 
64,147 61,854 903 1,390 





48 


12. The increase in the number of Jewish immigrants with a 
capital of £P.1,000 and upwards during the last five years is shown 
by the following figures :— 

Proportion per cent. of 


Year. Number. total Jewish immigration. 
1931 ie ou 233 6 
1932 aes ee 727 8 
1933 ies we. = 3, 280 1] 
1934 soe ... 6,124 12 
1935 bas ..- 6,309 10 


13. The increase in the number and proportion of dependants | 
among Jewish immigrants during the last three years is as 
follows :— 

Proportion per cent. of 


Year. Number. total Jewish immugration. 
1933 wes .. 15,653 52 
1934 oi .. 24,472 58 
1935 sie w. ° 37,852 61 


14. The numbers of Jewish immigrants, apart from dependants, 
authorized under labour schedules during 1935, as compared with 
previous years, are as follows :— 


Schedule pertod. Immigrants 
April-September, 1933... ie ae ies 5,500 © 
October, 1933-March, 1934... ine Sis 5,500 
April-September, 1934... ii ee es 6,200 
October, 1934—March, 1935... ied is 7,500 
April-September, 1935 = sa sie 8,000 
October, 1935-March, 1936... oe 3,250 


15. The immigration certificates andee the Labour schedules 
approved during 1935 were issued with the following specifica- 
tions :— 


April- October- 
September. March. 

Total... 8,000 3,250 

Specification. —— — 

By sex.—Men — sats 5,435 2,050 

Women... xa6 sae oe “ee ae 2,165 850 

Hither sex via Say ss wate ak 400 350 

By age.—18-—35 age group jos aisle sae 6,600 2,225 

18-45 age group ats de — ve 750 475 

Any age ieee 4a Say ee 650 260 

By method of selection.— 

Skilled workers nominated by individual employers 

(part A)... 600 250 
Skilled workers required by individual employers 

(part B)... 1,650 150 
Skilled workers, relatives BE residents of Palestine 

(part CC)... 1,750 700 

Workers selected by the J ewish Agency (part D)... 3,600 1,800 
Workers selected by the Pere of Migration 

(part E) nk | 400 350 


16. At the Twenty- Seventh Gomsion of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission the question was raised of the steps that might be 
taken to ensure that only bona fide labourers are entered on labour 


49 


schedules by the Jewish Agency.* It must be explained that 
persons in category C admitted under the labour schedule are re- 
quired to have definite prospects of employment in Palestine, but 
that there is no legal requirement that they be labourers. Some 
immigration certificates are ‘allocated to highly-skilled artisans, 
ithers to school teachers, chemists, etc. Of the remaining immi- 
gration certificates issued under the labour schedule, one per cent. 
is now reserved for persons of any age; four per cent. to five per 
cent. for persons up to forty-five years of age and the remaining 
proportion for persons under thirty-five years of age, of whom all 
are able-bodied men and women and nearly all are labourers. 


17. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers have 
standing instructions to facilitate the return of any Turkish citizen 
of Palestinian birth who wishes to come back to Palestine. Among 
the facilities given are the grant of visas for Palestine, without refer- 
ence to the Department of Immigration, to these persons and to 
their wives and minor unmarried children, and of affidavits in the 
place of the passports ordinarily required, if these latter are not 
available. In short, these persons and their dependants are not 
obliged to carry out the formalities and to satisfy the conditions 
normally imposed upon foreign travellers or immigrants to 
Palestine, or to pay immigration fees. 

18. The numbers of travellers recorded as entering and leaving 
Palestine in 1935 and previous years are as follows :— 


Travellers Travellers 
recorded recorded 


Year. as entering. as leaving. Difference. 
1931 Ses ee 54,764 52,790 1,974 
1932 ~ sul 63,253 53,873 9,380 
1933 ny aie 79,833 66,804 13,029 
1934 pas diel 91,823 82,230 9,593 
1935 — --- 106,823 96,315 10,508 


19. The numbers of persons entering Palestine as travellers for 
limited periods who remained illegally in Palestine in 1935 and 
previous years beyond the period authorized are as follows :— 















Proportion of 
Number of travellers | Number of travellers travellers remaining 
entering. remaining illegally. illegally. 
Year. Per thousand. 
Non-Jews. Jews. Non-Jews. Jews. Non-Jews. 
1933 17,943 2,321 989 340 55 
(from 
lat Sept.) 
fe det 65,423 2,907 3,022 110 46 


70,695 4,618 






* Page 48 of Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session. 


50 
20. The numbers of persons deported in 1935 for immigration 


offences are as follows :— Total ... 2.448 
Jews os eo she Bat 293 
Non-Jews ... Gs sin “2108 


21. At the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission a question was asked as to the number of Trans- 
Jordanians who enter Palestine and leave after the seasonal work 
is done.* No reliable statistics are available, but it is believed that 
few remain in Palestine permanently. Most seek to make a little 
capital in Palestine with which to return to Trans-Jordan and to 
assist their livelihood there. 


Office of Statistics. 

Mr. S. A. Cudmore, Government Statistician, arrived in Pales- 
tine in November, 1935, on secondment from the Bureau of Statis- 
tics of the Government of Canada, and active steps are being taken - 
to set up the new Office of Statistics for Palestine. The Office is 
a separate office under the general supervision of the Commis- 
sioner for Migration and Statistics, and will in due course perform 
the functions set out on page 45 of the Annual Report for 1934. 


V.—LAND REGIME. | 
1. On 1st March, 1935, the Department of the Commissioner of 
Lands, which deals with land settlement and the general control 
of land taxation, was combined with the Department of Surveys 
and with the Department of Lands, which deals with land regis- 
tration, expropriation and state domains. The unified Departments 
are now under the Commissioner for Lands and Surveys and the 
title of Director of Lands has been changed to that of Director 
of Land Registration. 
2. The Land Settlement Law has been amended to make it clear 
that a Settlement Officer has power to make, vary or rescind an 
interim order for possession of any land in a settlement area. 


Land Settlement. 
3. Notices of settlement were published during the year in six 
new villages. The Ordinance has now been ee to 167 villages : 


Jaffa Settlement Area . oe ee . 42 villages. 
Ramle Settlement Area ee |. RBS ... 46 villages. 
Gaza Settlement Area ... a me ... 86 villages. 
Haifa Settlement Area fea ies ... 14 villages. 
Tulkarm Settlement Area... as ... 23 villages. 
Jenin Sub-District ... ve su ... 2 villages. 
Safad Sub-District ... ae ve ... 2 villages. 
Jerusalem Sub-District ar set ... 1 village. 

Jericho Sub-District ... ... 1 village. 


* Page 48 of Minutes of the inca. -Seventh Session. 


51 
4. The following table illustrates the stages of progress reached :— 








Settlement Area. 


Jericho. 
Total 


LS |S |S | | ED | eS | NS | peepee | sarees | <eSSSOT 
‘ 


Villages in which 
settlement work 
has been entirely 


completed we 107 
Villages in which 
land disputes are 
being heard prior 
to completion of 
settlement — 38 
Villages in which 
final stage of 
investigation is in 
progress ... ve — 13 
Villages in which 
preliminary field 
lhe is in 
I 9 
Total , | 1 | 167 
0. The following is a summary of the work completed in 1935 :— 
Claims Recorded :— | 
In Mafruz In Masha’ Total 
land. land. number. 
Number of Claims, original ... ... 11,045 186 11,231 
Number of Counterclaims ...... 911 9 920 
Total ... ee 11,956 195 12,151. 


Schedules of Claims Published :-— 
In Mafruz In Masha’ 


land. localities. 
Number of registration blocks ve a0 ies 319 — 
Number of Parcels... rr set Py atts 13,030 — 
Covering an approximate area a 6 ak 194,919 1,200 
Total area ... me 196, 119 metric dunums. 
Disputed Claims :— 
In Mafruz In Masha 
land. land. Total. 

Number of disputed claims oulniendins 

at the end of 1934 ... me 2,227 18 2,245 
Number received during 1935... ... 3,156 120 3,276 
Number settled during 1935 . 7155 — 7156 


Number outstanding at the end of 1935 4,628 138 4,766 














Land Cases :— 
Total number of actions outstanding at end of 1934 1,139 
Total number of actions added during 1935 1,329 
2,468 
Total number of actions decided during 1936 : 
(a) by judicial settlement of disputes .. 582 
(6) by amicable agreement implemented by 
judicial decision 252 
; 834 
Number of actions outstanding at the end of 1935 1,634 
Number of actions referred to the Land Courts on 
appeal ae sue she see aig 48 
Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules published :— 
Covering 
No. of No. of total area 
Schedules published. Registered Blocks. Parcels. Metric 
dunums 
Mafruz land: 
Schedules of rights 446 20,268 272,326 
Masha land: 
Schedules of partition ... ae 42 1,188 26,223 
Total number of Schedules published 488 21,456 298,549 


6. The following is a comprehensive statement of the area com- 


pleted under settlement operations to date :— 





Preliminary Investigation. 


Period. 


Final Investigation. 


Recording of claims and | Settlement of claims and 


publication of Schedules of | publication of Schedules of 


Claims. 


Metric dunums. 
June, 1928, to ere 


Rights and of Partition. 


1930 212,992 142,799 
During 1931 255,947 138,387 
» 1932 358,303 167,293 

» 1933 479,195 334,139 

» 1934 355,732 283,464 

» 1935 196,119 298,549 
Total 1,858,288 1,364,631 





Metric dunumes. 


7. During 1935 there has been a marked decrease in the area over 


which preliminary investigation was carried out. 


8. Since the value of land has gone up, the number of claim; 
submitted and the amount of litigation have increased enormously. 


53 


9. The process of prevailing upon disputants to come to an agree- 
ment without taking the matter to the Settlement Court has been 
successful and has prevented the lists of arrears from becoming 
swollen. 


10. Nevertheless the growing tendency to dispute every claim 
where there 1s a shadow of a case, and often where there is not, has 
sowed down settlement, and the detachment of staff on urgent 
special cases has also interfered with progress. The slowing down 
has, however, made it possible to ensure more careful and thorough 


work in the preliminary stages. 


11. Where unrest is produced by land disputes, the appearance 


_of a Settlement Officer in the area sometimes has a quietening effect, 


' 
. 


} 


J 
A 


—_ 


m 


because the summary nature of settlement proceedings is known to 
ensure a reasonably quick decision. 


12. Land Settlement Fees.—The following is a statement of 
Tegistration, survey and court fees arising out of settlement :— 
(a) During the year 1935 :— 
Payable. Collected. 
£P.5,011 £P.4,375 
(b) From. commencement of settlement, 1928 to end of 
December, 1935: 


Payable. Collected. Outstanding. 
£P.49,595 £P.27,179 £P.22,416 


Urban Property Tax. 


13. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance was renewed so as to 
exempt new buildings for three years; where an addition is made 


to an existing building which increases the net annual value by 


£P.20 or more, the reputed owner is not now liable to pay any in- 
creased tax in respect of the addition for three years. By the same 
amending Ordinance the Commuted Tithe and Muiqata’ Tara 


_ Zamin were abolished in urban areas, as from the 1st April. 


14. Revision and assessment operations begun in 1934 in respect 
of the tax-year 1935-36 were carried out as follows :— 

Annual Revision operations were completed this year in the 
following 23 towns :— 

Jerusalem, Jaffa (including Tel-Aviv and Sarona), Gaza, 
Beisan, Tulkarm, Ramle, Lydda, Nazareth, Beersheba, Safad, 
Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala, Ramallah (including 
Bira), Haifa, Acre, Rishon-le-Tsiyon, Rehovot, Petah Tiqva, 
Majdal, Shefa Amr and Khan Yunis; 


Quinquennial Revaluation was completed in Tiberias and 
Nablus; and 


Initial Assessment operations were completed in Hadera, Beit 


’ Sahur and Ramat Gan. 


34931 C 


54 


15. The Urban Areas of Jerusalem, Nazareth and Beisan were 
extended during 1934-35 and the tax became applicable in the 
extended areas as from Ist April, 1935. 


16. The following rates of the tax were prescribed in respect of 
the financial year 1935-36 :— 
Per cent. 
On house property, including the site, except house 
property constructed and used solely for the pur- 
pose of an industrial undertaking in which 
mechanically driven machinery is used ... nee 10 


On house property, constructed and used solely for 
the purpose of an industrial undertaking in which 
mechanically driven machinery is used including 


the site 7 ee ae oa - er 10 
On land other than the site of house property and 
land which is used for the cultivation of crops ... 10 


which allow a reduction on the rate of tax for house property 
prescribed for the financial year from 124 per cent. to 10 per cent. 


17. Exemption from payment is granted in respect of house pro- 
perty occupied by registered owners of which the net annual value is 
less than :— 

£P .20—in Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa. 

£P.13—in Tulkarm, Tiberias and Nablus. 

£P.10—in Acre. 

£P. 7—in Beisan, Gaza, Ramle, Lydda, Nazareth, Beer- 
sheba, Safad, Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Petah Tiqva, Rishon- 
le-Tsiyon, Rehovot, Majdal, Hadera and Ramat Gan. 

£P. 4—in Beit Jala, Ramallah, Khan Yunis and Shefa ‘Amr. 

£P. 2—in Beit Sahur. 


18. Quinquennial revaluation for the tax year 1936-37 was in 
progress at the end of the year in Nazareth, Beersheba, Safad. 
Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala and Ramallah; and annual 
revision for the tax year 1936-37 was started in several of the re- 
maining 20 towns in time to permit of completion by 31st March, 
1936. 


19. The total amount of tax payable in the 28 areas during the 
tax year 1935-36 is £P.267 ,282 distributed as follows :— 
£P 

On house property, including the site, except 

house property constructed and used solely 

for the purpose of an industrial undertaking 

in which mechanically driven machinery is 

used i See - So oe ee 205 ,225 
On house property, constructed and used solely 

for the purpose of an industrial undertaking 

in which mechanically driven machinery is | 

used including the site re ae a8 2,916 


55 


On land other than the site of house property £P. 
and land which is used for the cultivation of 
crops... ve - | 59,141 


20. The annual revision of the distribution of Commuted Tithes 
was carried out in the whole of the Beersheba Sub-District, in that 
part of the Gaza Sub-District which previously formed part of 
Beersheba and in the Huleh Concession area. 


21. The total aggregate commuted tithe payable and collected 
was a8 follows :— 


Assessment. Collection. Outstanding. 
£P. : £P. 
Beersheba Sub-District (including 
part of the Gaza Sub-District) ... 9,027 187 8,840 
Huleh Concession Se 942 18 924 
Total ... a 9,969 205 9,764 


22. The arrears of ordinary and Commuted Tithe (including 
Treasury, Waqf, Rental Tithes shares and Bad! Tabu) outstanding 
at Ist April and the amount collected from them until the end of 
the year are as under :— 





SP. 
Outstanding a fae ve is obs 171,021 
Collected... sae os Se 22 — 19,750 
Balance outstanding as at Ist January, 1936 sy 151,214 





Rural Property Tax. 


23. The Rural Property Tax Ordinance replaced the Ottoman 
House and Land Tax (Werko) Law and the Commutation of 
Tithes Ordinance as from the Ist April throughout the rural areas 
of Palestine with the exception of Beersheba Sub-District and the 
Huleh Concession Area. 


24. In the summer of 1929, the then Commissioner undertook a 
humber of experiments to test the practicability of certain pro- 
posals for a land tax which should replace the Ottoman system of 
oe taxation, namely, the House and and Tax (Werko) and 

e Tithe. 


25. The tests included the survey of 190 village lands comprising 
an aggregate area of just over 2,500,000 dunums and the assessment 


of their market, capital, relative productivity and gross annual 
Values, 


26. The Rural Property Tax Ordinance of 1935 was the outcome 
of these tests and of subsequent reports by Government Com- 
mittees, which put forward, on that basis, proposals for adjusting 
the inequitable incidence of taxation on agricultural land. 

34931 Cz 


56 


27. The survey and assessment operations were completed, mean- 
while, towards the end of 1934, the main stages being :— 


(1) survey of the land; 

(11) preparation of plans showing topographical features 
and types of cultivation ; 

(11) valuation of the land and its classification into fiscal 
blocks ; 


(iv) computation of the areas in the fiscal blocks and of 
the area of ** cultivation divisions ’’ within the blocks ; and 


(v) preparation of classification schedules by block and 
by type of cultivation. 


28. Later came the allocation of the land in each block to its 
proper tax category and the compilation of Rural Property Tax 
Rolls in English with Arabic and Hebrew translations ; and instruc- 
tions as to administrative procedure were compiled for the guidance 
of District Officers and their clerical staff. 


29. The Sub-Districts in which the new system of taxation was 
applied were divided into 9,198 blocks, in such manner as to 
comprise cultivable ground crop land of a uniform tax category 
in each block. Tax categories were also allocated to the land 
planted with trees and to any uncultivable land in the block. 


30. As a large number of villages owned detached areas of land 
situated within the boundaries of other villages, the Tax Rolls 
were not compiled for each village as a whole, but a separate roll 
was compiled for each (parent) village and for each detached area 
of the village. Rolls were thus compiled for a total of 1,211 entities. 


In each roll was stated by entity and by block the area of each 
tax category of land in each block. 


31. Copies of the rolls, with maps descriptive of the lands of the 
entities and indicating their boundaries, were posted in the (parent) 
villages and their detached areas and also in the District Office 
to facilitate the submission of objections and appeals. 


32. Industrial buildings in rural areas were assessed, and those 
found to be of taxable net annual value exceeding £P.20 per dunum 
were entered on Valuation Lists. These lists were posted with 
the Tax Rolls in the villages concerned and in the District Offices. 
Fourteen days from the date of posting were allowed for objections 
to be submitted. The objections were heard by the Official Valuer 
and appeals against his decisions lay to a District Appeal Com- 
mittee. 1,542 objections were submitted, of which 3854 were 
admitted and 1,188 rejected by the Official Valuer. Seventy-nine 
appeals were then submitted against the decisions of the Official 
Valuer, 55 being admitted and 24 rejected by the District Appeal 
Committee. 


57 


33. The aggregate area of all the tax categories was 13,552,667 
dunums. The aggregate gross yield from the tax categories on land 
amounted to £P.220,376 and on industrial buildings to £P.1,318. 


34. While the sum of £P.220,376 might be considered as approxi- 
mating to the present paying capacity of the rural population of 
the country because, in the absence of credit facilities, most of the 
land-owners are unable to cultivate their land intensively, it should 
be borne in mind that, as credit facilities are provided and methods 
of agriculture improve, many of the lands which are now exten- 
ively cultivated would come under intensive cultivation and the 
greater margin of profit which would result from intensive cultiva- 
tion would improve the paying capacity of the owners. 


3). With a change from extensive (ground crop) to intensive 
tree) cultivation, the lands affected by such change would become 
subject to the higher rates of tax per dunum prescribed in the 
Schedule to the Ordinance and the aggregate amount of rural 
froperty tax payable annually would correspondingly increase. 


36. Where the land was held in separate parcel (Mafruz) owner- 
ship, the tax was allocated on the area of each tax category in the 
parcel. Where the land was held in common (Masha’) ownership, 
lle ageresate amount of tax on the block was distributed, pro- 
fortionately, among the shareowners of Masha’ on the basis of 
the shares in the land held by each person. 


37. On the completion of the distribution operations, Tax Distri- 
bution Lists were compiled, by block, separately for each ‘‘ entity.’’ 
These lists were made available in the villages and in the District 
Uiices for 14 days to allow of objections. The objections in 
respect of the lists for settled land were decided by the District 
Uthcer and those in respect of the lists for non-settled land by the 
committee which distributed the tax. Appeals against the decision 
in either case were decided by the District Commissioner. 


38. Some 7,000 objections were received, of which 2,000 were 
admitted and 5,000 rejected. There were 600 appeals, 350 being 
admitted and 250 rejected. 


39. On the determination of the Tax Distribution Lists, all the 
parcels owned by each person in an ‘“‘ entity ’’ were grouped by 
block, in order to facilitate the compilation of the Tax Payers’ 
register, and, on the completion of that operation, the Tax Payers 
Register of the village including its detached areas was compiled. 


4). The Ordinance was applied in sixteen sub-districts over a 
total area of 18,552,667 dunums, comprised in 963 villages or 1,211 
entities, divided into 9,198 blocks. 


41. The tax was distributed on 774,829 parcels of divided 
(Mafruz) land, and among 34,035 owners of shares in Masha’ 
land. 


3493] C 3 


58 


42. The entire change of system of rural taxation, which was 
completed during an over-all period of five months, was made 
_ with little or no dislocation of the ordinary routine work im the 
sub-districts. 


43. The Rural Property Tax (Amendment) Ordinance No. 26 
enacted on the 2th June, provided that where no Rural Propert 
Tax 1s payable upon any land by reason of its being of a categors 
upon which no such tax is payable under the provisions of the 
schedule to this Ordinance, the non-payment of such tax 1n respect 
of such land shall not be deemed to affect, or to be evidence of. 
the rights of any person in respect of such land. This Ordinance 
was enacted to allay the apprehensions of villagers, accustomed 
to see in tax-receipts tangible evidence of ownership, that ex- 
emption from Rural Property Tax might mean that the exempted 
lands were being withdrawn from them. 


Land Registration. 


44. The first half of the year 1935 was characterized by un- 
exampled speculation, and there were sharp rises in prices, in 
both urban and agricultural land. Toward the end of the year 
there were definite signs that agricultural land was falling in value. 
Generally speaking, urban areas were steady, except in the case of 
Jerusalem where the tendency is for a slight rise, which may be 
partly attributed to the completion of the water supply. The 
number of small transactions, especially in urban and suburban 
building plots, again showed a substantial increase. As in 1934 
this increase was mainly due to the larger demand by immigrants 
with capital. A notable feature of the latter half of the year 
was the unusually large number of estates which were sub-divided 
for building plots. 


45. Acquisitions of land by Jews during the year include 24,550 
dunums of land in the Sub-District of Beersheba and a block of 
6,066 dunums in Mucqeib village in the Sub-District of Tiberias. 


46. 49,133 transactions were registered during the year as against 
36,555 for the year 1934. 


47. 72,905 dunums of land were purchased by Jews from non- 
Jews at a total cost of £P.1,699,121 ; the corresponding figures for 
1934 were 62,114 dunums at a total cost of £P.1,647,837. 


48. Fees amounting to £P.455,146 were collected by Land 
Registries as compared with £P.330,481 in 1934. 


49. Eleven applications were dealt with under the Correction of 
Land Registers Ordinance, 1926, and two new applications were 
received. 


50. In addition to the original entries derived from the Schedule 
of Rights deposited by Settlement Officers, 20,686 transactions were 


59 
recorded in the New Registers based upon settlement. The corres- 
ponding figure for 1934 was 15,557. No case of an unregistered 
disposition of property recorded in the New Registers has come 
dticially to the knowledge of the Department, but it is reason- 
ably certain that the fellahin, in some of the settled villages, are 


exchanging land in order to obtain more consolidated and economic 
parcels. 


dl. The policy of assigning areas of economically uncultivable 
State Domain to the Department of Agriculture for afforestation 
bas been continued. | 


2. Demarcation, survey and registration of State Domain were 
continued during the year. During the year, 358 properties were 
leased and the sum of £P.3,980 was collected in rent. 


Surveys. 


3. Twenty-eight students were given appointments during the 
year. 


o4. The classified officers are distributed as follows :-— 


Office. Field. 

British Officers—Ilst Division 3 3 
Palestinian Officers—2nd Division — 1 
British Officers—2nd Division ... = 7 — 
Palestinian Clerks and Storekeepers 8 — 
Palestinian Computers Ne A 8 — 
Palestinian Draughtsmen > “a a 51 = 
Palestinian Surveyors... sid we 10 124 
Printers a dee ae iy 3 2 an 

Total ... ee oe 89 128 


59. Triangulation.—The major network was extended to include 
Bir Asluj, about 30 kilometres south of Beersheba, and a special 
chain of major figures was marked from Beersheba to the southern 
end of the Dead Sea, for the purpose of incorporating the triangu- 
lation executed by Palestine Potash Company. A certain amount 
of 8rd Order work was also carried out in the neighbourhood of 
Beersheba to incorporate certain private surveys, prepared for 
registration, in the Government system. | 


56. For the control of block plans a large number of traverse 
and intersected points were fixed. 


o7. A certain amount of restoration of 3rd and 4th Order points 
Was again found necessary owing to shifting sand, and removal 
of marks by unauthorized persons. 


34931 C4 


60 


58. Owing to the continual difficulty experienced in sand dune 
areas, it was decided to introduce a special beacon, which will, 
it is hoped, provide a stable control for these areas. 


Trig. and Traverse Progress. 







































Inter- 
Major. 3rd Order. | 4th Order. Traverse. section 

_ _ Try. 
No. of | Area No. of | Area No. of | Area No. of | Length. | No. of 
Potnts.| Km.* | Points. | Km.? | Points. | Km? | Points. | Km. Points. 
8 362 20 333 160 3,145 362 3,806 






59. Precise Levelling.—During the year, the first circuit 
Tulkarm-Haifa-Jenin-Tulkarm, 166 kilometres in length, was 
closed with an error of 27-4 mm. This circuit has 83 sections of 
approximately 2 kilometres each. 


60. Work is now proceeding from Jerusalem to Jaffa, and a new 
party is being trained in the use of the two Zeiss levels just 
received. 


61. Fundamental Bench marks were fixed at Jerusalem (2), 
Jericho, Gaza, Beersheba, Beisan and Jenin. 


Precise Levelling Progress. 





Bench marks Marked. | Kilometres. 








type. | 
Fundamental ... 7 3 
A ae Me 60 420 19 140 
B ea sis 130 42 
Tolal ... a 197 — 64 — 





62. Topographical Surreys.—For the 1 :100,000 scale topograph- 
ical series, contouring, and revision of old detail, were carried out 
on the 1 : 50,000 scale over an area of 3,195 km’ at a cost of 465 mils 
per km’. 


63. Miscellaneous topographical surveys on the 1:50,000, 
1: 20,000 and 1: 10,000 scales were carried out in the Hebron and 
Tiberias Sub-Districts and in the vicinity of the Hydro-Electric 
Power Station on the River Jordan. 


64. Cadastral Surveys.—During the year 728 blocks covering 20 
area of 360,660 dunums were examined and completed. A further 
535 surveyed blocks are ready for examination in the coming yea. 


61 


65. Nine hundred and fifty-six Preliminary Block Plans together 
with schedules of areas and claimants were prepared for Land 
Settlement Officers. These blocks cover an area of 507,119 
dunums and represent 34,696 separate parcels. 


66. Settlement decisions were applied to 417 blocks, represent- 
~ Ing 259,924 dunums and 18,477 parcels for which Final Block 
_ Plans were prepared and issued for registration. . Survey Fees 
’ chargeable on final registration of these parcels amount to 
£P.4,500. 


67. The following table indicates the details of the area surveyed 
and completed for Settlement purposes. 


Progress of Cadastral Survey. 





Average cost per 


Category of No. of |Area in| No. of |Average dunwm. 


land. Scale. | blocks. |\dunums| parcels.| area. 
Field. | Office. | Total. 


cs cn | ecm | ener | emcee | at a | a ED 


£P. mls./£P. mls.\€P. mls. 
- Mafroz ... | 1/2,500 606 | 343,700] 20,553 16°7 40 014 054 





eS | enc | ene | ecm eeeew | mecca | te fe | RTE 








Built-on _—vil- 
lage area... | 1/625 60 62 1-0 794 279 | 1-073 
Hawakir ... 1/1,250 16,900} 3,928 4:3 104 037 141 
Total ... 258 728 | 360,660} 24,543 14-7 


_ 68. Urban Area Surveys.—Seventy-five blocks of the extension 
_ of the Urban Area of Jerusalem for the purposes of the Urban 
Property Tax Ordinance, covering 12,120 dunums, were surveyed. 
Plans of these blocks on scale 1/1250 with areas and lists of 
claimants to 3,696 parcels have been issued to Assessment 
- Committees. 

69 In Nazareth and Jenin for a similar reason, 15 new blocks 
' covering 3,490 dunums were surveyed or revised for assessment 
purposes. 

10. A re-survey of the town of Haifa on scales 1/1250 and 
1/625 was commenced at the end of 1934. Sixty-seven blocks 
covering an area of 8,100 dunums have been completed and plans 
are ready for field examination. 


“1. A complete revision of the urban surveys of Petah Tiqva, 
Rishon-le-T'siyon and Ramat Gan was carried out. These areas 
comprise 37 registration blocks totalling 284,791 dunums, the field 
cost being 33 mils per dunum. 


72, During the year, 457 assessment plans of other urban areas 
were revised and issued to Assessment Committees. 


62 


73. A quinquennial revision of the 1/1250 scale urban 
ment plans was carried out on the ground in the fe 
towns :—Beersheba, Hebron, Bethlehem, Ramallah, N: 
Jenin. 


74. Special Surveys.—Large-scale surveys of the lay-ou 
ports at Haifa and Lydda were carried out and plans submi,, 
registration. 


75. Water Resources Survey.—During the year, 1,287 w 
89 springs, covering an area of 2,427 km.", were investigat |" | 


76. A total of 2,426 wells and 133 spnnee have now beet 
with, the area covered being 4,400 km.’ : 


77. Water levels.—The monthly ee in the levels 
Dead Sea and Lake Tiberias are shown in the diagram. ve 


78. Land Registration Surrveys.—The number of plans exert 
and dealt with at Headquarters is 3,068, covering an aT" 
240,179 dunums. These include the checking of 2,658 plait 
pared, by licensed surveyors, covering an area of 235,613 dh —. 
the balance of 410 plans, covering an area of 4,566 dunums, 
prepared by Government surveyors. 


79. During the year, 999 mutations in settlement areas 
dealt with, bringing the total up to 2,555. 


80. Mapping and Publication —The first sheet (No. 8) “* 
lem ’’ of the 1:100,000 scale topographical series, drawn ini: : 
was printed and the following sheets were drawn and put!" 
during the year :—Jaffa-Tel Aviv (sheet 7), Haifa (sheet 1M-iuu 

81. These sheets were printed in two editions, the ‘‘ Ful 
six colours, and ‘“‘ Grey,’’ with outline in grey showing cof fterr 






ae 








\ 


and wadis only. oe 
82. Safad (sheet 2) was in course of printing at the end THE 
year. pe 


83. A map of Jaffa-Tel Aviv on the 1 :10,000 scale, reduced at nN 
large-scale surveys, was published in two sheets, North and a 
84. During the year, 44 sheets of Tel Aviv and Jaffa ot Lt 
1 :1,250 scale were published. ort 
85. The Motor Map 1 :500,000 was completely revised aro 
drawn, being published as a fifth edition. Copies have been, 
plied for the use. of the Permanent Mandates Commission. waant 
86. Sales of maps to the public amounted to £P.1,570. "1 


iH 


Tr i nn es a nr ce ae 2 Clear anes Seer e 


Development. 

87. Up to the 3lst December, 1935, the Development Office Wise 
received 3,271 applications for admission to the Register of Lan. 
Arabs. Dans 
So far, 664 heads of families have.been admitted to the Regi7+- 
In all, 2 ,607 claims were disallowed. Only 35 new claims 77 


HM 


wt duly 
vu 


LAKE-LEV 


LL ELS OR LIME TEER A ROLE LLY TELL LE LIAN 8 NR EM ON 


= 


% 


er 
4 





TIO} 


VARIAT 


Betow 


Metres 


LAKE TIBERIAS 


a 
ote 


i 
be 


ul 
ot 


' ! 
' ’ 
ee 
art ees 
Waa Uae 


me 
‘i 

' 

i 


DEAD SEA 


bed 
>) 
(38) 


392 


393 


394 





395 


8. of Pita, De0A93 5 


(2324) 3619A,1375.4/36 Gp 921,caRL2 


Digitized by Google 


63 


submitted during 1935, the claimants being Arabs who had been 
displaced from the land some years ago, but for various reasons had 
delayed the submission of their applications. ! 


88. No new purchases of land were made during the year. 


89. The Arabs of the Wadi Hawarith (North) who are settled 
1a State Domain in the Tulkarm sub-district, known as Bassat 
Stelkh Muhammad, have partitioned the area allotted to them 
among the 95 families of the tribe. Additional drainage and deep- 
ploughing was carried out this year and the tribesmen have ex- 
fresed their satisfaction with the improvement in cultivation 
prospects and health conditions. The former marsh is now under 
cultivation. 

The construction of permanent dwellings is being actively 
continued. 

The southern section of the Wadi Hawarith Arabs (109 families) 
are how camped on an area of 240 dunums of land taken over from 
the Jewish National Fund in exchange for a parcel of State 
Domain. The tribesmen continue to cultivate land in the neigh- 
bouring Wadi Qabbani and elsewhere. (See page 57 of the Annual 
Report for 1934, paragraph 34 (2).) 

0. The two experimental schemes, each for the settlement of 
fifty landless families, begun by the Department of Development at 
the Tall esh Shauk and Mugeibila estates in the Beisan and Jenin 
ub-districts are progressing satisfactorily. (See Report for 1934, 
page 08, paragraph 35.) 

As none of the remaining registered Arabs have signified their 
wilingness to take up holdings upon Government estates, no new 
«hemes have been put in hand this year. 

91. The main drainage of Birkat Ramadan in the Tulkarm sub- 
districts has been carried out successfully by the Department of 
Health, Subsidiary drainage and the filling up of certain depres- 
sons 18 now being undertaken, and experiments are being carried 
out Over an appreciable area by the Department of Development in 
laboration with the Department of Health with the object of 
‘ertaining the best and most economical method of reclaiming 
the marshes for cultivation. 

%. The number of observation stations established in the coastal 
Fain between Ras El Naqura and Rafa on private land and munici- 
bal wells (see Report for 1934, page 58, paragraph 37) has been 
teased to 26. The oscillation of the underground water level 
‘ties throughout the country but, with the exception of the area 
‘ishon-le-Tsiyon—Rehovoth, the level has remained stationary or 
7 ¥8 @ rise over that of 1929 of from 30 cms. to over a metre. In 
the Rishon—Rehovoth area the level is between 40 cms. and 1 metre 
lower than the maximum recorded in 1934. On the other hand 
at Migve Yisrael and at Jaffa there was a considerable rise in level. 


 feneral the position regarding underground water supply is 
“dtisfactory, ° 


64 


Regular readings have also been taken of the discharge of the 
Jordan and Auja rivers and various springs. 


93. The experiment in the conservation of flood water in the 
Beersheba sub-district by means of a dam (Abu Samara) across a 
wadi continues. (See Report for 1934, page 58, paragraph 37.) 
Owing to the poor rainfall only 14 per cent. of the basin capacity 
was filled. Correlation between rainfall and flood water has indi- 
cated a very low percentage of run-off from the catchment area and 
the water had a high chlorine content. Further investigation will 
be made this winter into the quality of the water, run-off, evapora- 
tion, seepage and silt deposit as factors determining the possibilities 
of this and similar schemes. 


94. The impermeable canalization carried out by Government in 
the Jericho area and Jordan valley and the introduction of control 
over water distribution have resulted in an increased use of the water 
for banana and other intensive cultivation. An extension of this 
canalization is now in progress and it is hoped that a complete 
change from field to garden cultivation will be effected in the near 
future. (See Report for 1932, page 6, paragraph 23.) 


4¢ ? 


95. Investigations into *‘ duty of water ’’ on various crops have 
been carried out in several stations of the Department of Agriculture 
and the investigations started in co-operation with a citrus planter 
in 1931 continue to afford valuable data in connection with irrigation 
practice. 


96. In paragraph 4 et seq. of Section VIII of the Report for the 
year 1934, a history was given of the concession granted by the 
Ottoman Government in 1914 for the drainage of Lake Huleh and 
the adjacent marshes, this history concluding with the transfer of the 
concession in November, 1934, from the Syro-Ottoman Agricul: 
tural Company to the Palestine Land Development Company. 
Early in 1935 the Jewish Colonization Association commissioned 
the firm of Messrs. Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, Consulting En¢- 
neers, to undertake a topographic and hydrographic survey of the 
concession area and to prepare a scheme for its reclamation and 
irrigation. The Government of Palestine has, for some years past. 
had under consideration the question of improving sanitary co- 
ditions in that portion of the Huleh basin which lies to the nort! 
of the lands included in the concession and, as any measures there 
taken would necessarily have to be co-ordinated with the reclama- 
tion scheme of the concessionaires, it was decided, in consultatior 
with the Jewish Colonization Association, that the terms of refer 
ence to the Consulting Engineers should be so extended that the 
survey and project to be prepared by them should cover the whol 
basin and not the concession area only. The work is still 1 
progress ; when it is completed, the Government will be in a positior 
to decide whether a scheme for the amelioration of conditions in th 
northern area is or is not technically and financially feasible. 


05) 

97. The Permanent Mandates Commission in its report to the 
League of Nations on the work of its Twenty-Seventh Session 
expressed a desire for some further information as to squatters’ 
rights on lands sold by the owners. 

Squatters’ rights on land sold by an owner are protected by 
Section 18 of the Protection of Cultivators Ordinance, No. 37 
of 1933. 

Under this section, provided the squatter has exercised the 
practice of grazing or watering animals or the cutting of wood or 
reeds or other beneficial occupation of similar character on the land 
whether by right, usage or sufferance for not less than five con- 
secutive years within a period of not more than seven years prior 
to the date when application is made to a Court, no Court or 
judge or execution officer may make an order for his eviction, 
unless the landlord satisfies the Court or judge or execution officer 
that the High Commissioner is satisfied that provision of equal 
value has been secured towards the livelihood of such person. 

Should there be any dispute as to whether any person has exer- 
cised continuously any practice of grazing or watering animals or 
cutting wood or reeds or other beneficial occupation of a similar 
character by right, custom, usage or sufferance, the squatter may 
refer his claim to a special commission set up by the High Com- 
missioner under Section 19 of the Ordinance. An appeal from a 
special commission on a point of law shall lie to the Land Court by 
leave of that court by case stated. 

Only in isolated cases so far have squatters made claims under 
the Ordinance. 


38. The question of the land dispute between Arab Zubeidat 
and the Palestine Land Development Company, to which reference 
was made at the T'wenty-Seventh Session of the Perinanent Man- 
dates Commission ,* may be summarized as follows. 

In 1925, the lands of the village of El Hartiya, near Haifa, ex- 
tending to some 12,000 dunums, and originally cultivated by the 
tribe of Arab Zubeidat, which numbers about 60 families, and other 
lellahin, were purchased by the Palestine Development Company 
from Alexander Sursock of Beyrouth. The land was sold with 
vacant possession and the tenants were paid by the vendors com- 
pensation amounting to about £P.1,800. 


99. The habitat of the tribe is the forest which borders the lands 
of the village of El] Hartiya; and the tribe claims an area of about 
8,000 dunums of land as masha’d (in common ownership of the 
whole tribe) in the Bersumi locality, Shefa ‘Amr, to the north of 
El Hartiya. 

100. The dispute between the Arab Zubeidat and the Jewish 
purchasers concerns boundaries and is not connected with the El 
Hartiya lands originally tenanted by the tribe. The Arabs admit 


* Page 51 of the Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. 


66 


signing the map on. which the limits of the lands were described and 
recelving compensation when transfer took place, but now con- 
tend that the transfer did not include an area of about 1,100 dunums 
of cultivable land and 3,000 dunums of forest, and that this area 
forms an integral part of the Beisoumi estate. They also claim 
ownership of two other areas, and 1,200 dunums of cultivable 
land and 2,800 dunums of forest, and this claim is not disputed 
by the Jews. 


101. Soon after the sale, the buildings of the E] Hartiya were 
demolished and the village ceased to exist. 


102. No dispute took place until the year 1927 when the Jews 
attempted to plough the area (1,100 dunums cultivable land and 
3,000 dunums of forest) claimed by the Arabs as having been ex- 
cluded from the transfer. A criminal action was lodged in the 
Magistrate’s Court of Haifa by the Jews against two Arabs who 
sought to prevent the ploughing in April of that year. As the 
Arabs claimed ownership of the disputed land, the criminal 
action was not heard by the Magistrate, who gave them six months 
in which to bring an action for ownership before the Land Court. 
The Court gave judgment in favour of the Jewish National Fund, 
to which the lands had been transferred by the original purchasers. 
The judgment was appealed by the Arabs and in 1929 the Court 
of Appeal returned the case to the Land Court for re-hearing. 
Eventually, in May, 1933, judgment was given again by the Land 
Court in favour of the Jewish National Fund, and during the 
hearing it was proved that the Arab claimants had themselves 
participated in the compilation of the map which was before the 
Court, had received compensation for disturbance, and had in 1925 
made a declaration before the Notary Public to the effect that 
they had no claim whatsoever to the lands in question, either as 
owners or as tenants. 


103. On the 14th March, 1934, the Court of Appeal confirmed 
the judgment of the Land Court, and an action was therefore 
brought by the Jewish National Fund in the following July before 
the Magistrate’s Court, Haifa, for eviction of the Arabs. The 
action was successful and eviction was ordered in November, 1934. 
The Execution Officer could not carry out the order until the 
30th January, 1935, when the incident in question took place and 
Saad Mohamed El Ali of Arab Zubeidat was mortally wounded 
by a shot fired by the police. 


104. The following is a summary of the incident :— 


(a) In accordance with the order of the Court the Execution 
Officer of Haifa proceeded to execute this order, accompanied 
by a strong police force, in view of the threatened opposition 
of the Arab Zukeidat. The sheikh and elders of the tribe 
had been warned in advance not to resist the orders of the 
Court and to seek redress through the legal channels. 


67 


(b) The procedure of handing over the land by the Execution 
Officer commenced at 10 a.m., but the Execution Officer and 
his escort were soon forced to retreat under a shower of stones 
flung by hand and from slings by Arabs distributed amongst 
the hills, who were resisting the order of the Court. Severe 
and repeated warnings were given to the Arabs to disperse 
but they refused and continued to hurl stones at the police, 
with the result that the position became very critical and the 
lives of the police were exposed to danger. 


(c) At about 11 a.m., after the police had given a final warn- 
ing to the Arabs to disperse, which was disregarded, the police 
fred one round of ammunition only, which struck the night 
leg of Saad Mohamed El Ali, who was hidden behind a tree 
throwing stones at the police. Immediately he fell first aid 
was given to him by a trained constable and he was then 
conveyed by motor-car to the Government Hospital at Haifa, 
but died on the way. 

(d) A post-mortem examination established that the cause 
of death was shock and haemorrhage from a rifle bullet. 


105. In 1931, thirty applications were submitted by memkers of 
the tribe for settlement as landless Arabs under the Development 
Scheme. Out of this number, fourteen heads of families were 
offered re-settlement at one or other Government Estates in Beisan 
and Jenin Sub-Districts but declined for the following reasons :— 


(i) that the conditions of life would be different from what 
they were used to; : 


(1) that in the Beisan Sub-District it is too hot for their 
children, and if the Arabs of Wadi El Hawareth, who are 
Beduin and supposed to be used to the life of the Jordan 
Valley, had refused to go to Beisan, the Government could 
not reasonably expect fellahin from the hills to live there; 
and | 


(iu) they preferred to return to their lands where they were 
born and reared. 


106. After the incident of the 30th January, 1935, proposals 
for the re-settlement were renewed, and 70 applications to be re- 
settled in the neighbourhood of their habitat were submitted by 
members of the tribes: these wiser counsels, however, did not 
iong prevail and this second attempt had to be abandoned. 


107. In November, 1935, the Jews again started ploughing on 
the disputed land and as a breach of the peace was imminent, 
it become necessary for the District Commissioner to apply the 
provisions of the Land Disputes (Possession) Ordinance. After 
a hearing which lasted some days the District Commissioner was 
undecided whether the original Court order was only operative 
against the two Arabs mentioned above, and also whether it re- 
ferred to the whole land or only to such shares as were the basis of 


68 


the action. He therefore appointed a District Officer as Manager 
of the area in dispute. 

The effect of applying the Lands Disputes (Possession) Ordin- 
ance is that if either party wishes to regain possession from the 
Manager they must apply to the Court. If the Jews should decide 
to take this course, it would then be possible for the alleged claim 
of the Arabs to prescription to be investigated once again. The 
Arabs themselves, however, are unable to initiate proceedings on 
this plea. 


108. In the meantime the Arabs refuse all offers of resettlement 
in any other part of Palestine. 


VI.—NATIONALITY. 


1. The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, and of a 
Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine amending 
Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the Report for 
1925 ; and the text of the amending Order in Council of 1931 was 
printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


2. The qualifications for naturalization are: two years’ residence 
in Palestine out of the three preceding application, good character, 
and the declared intention to settle in Palestine; knowledge of 
Hebrew is accepted under the lhterary qualification. In special 
cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant naturalization 
even if the period of residence has not been within the three years 
preceding application. The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. 


3. The total number of persons naturalized in 1935 compared 
with those in previous years 1s as follows :— 


Applications Certificates 


submitted. delivered. 

1925-26 ... re ee ae 7,281 3,599 
1927 oe ae ee oe 4,394 3,188 
1928 ae et oe ae 3,455 4,713 
1929 ae wee eon a 5,038 4,051 
1930 eee sie ees a 1,329 2,757 
1931 uae gee ner Ses 1,169 1,458 
1932 dake ss re sand 1,078 803 
1933 ee Bae es se 1,186 1,146 
1934 oe oe sen ies 3,216 2,794 
1935 bide sie aie ae 6,007 5,994 
Total... ioe 34,153 30,503 


4. Of the total of 6,007 applications submitted in 1935, 1,£22— 
were accepted by the Naturalization Field Officer from residents 1n — 
thirty-seven Jewish rural settlements. | 


69 


5. The increase in the number of applications in 1935 is due 
partly to the campaign of the several Jewish representative insti- 
tutions to encourage naturalization among members of the Jewish 
community and to the number of persons who, having entered the 
country as immigrants two or more years ago, now possess the 
requisite residential qualification entitling them to apply for 
naturalization. 


6. The race and nationality of the persons naturalized in 1935 
were as follows :— 


Per cent, 
Number. of Jews. 
Jews : 
Polish Le Mints ss 2,682 45-6 
Russian... vee sae 848 14-4 
Rumanian See wae 349 5-9 
German .... al me 252 4-3 
Other Pe ak ons 951 16°2 
Stateless ... ae one 799 13-6 
Per cent. 
of 
Non-Jews. 
Non-Jews : 
Turkish... 31 27°4 
Egyptian ... 23 20-4 
Syrian 5 4-4 
Other 54 47-8 


7. The applications for naturalization made in 1935 come within 
the following categories of the Order :— 


Submitted. Approved. Rejected. 


Article 7... bea ..- 5,987 5,943 44 
Article 7(5) ... we 15 15 = 
Article 9 (2)... ek 5 5 — 

Total ... sé 6,007 5,963 44 


8. At the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission a question was asked as to whether a person who 
acquires Palestinian citizenship by birth, may, on coming of age, 
opt to revert to the original nationality of his parents.* 


i ne a ae ck eae a i ae cee 


i Page 53 of Minutes of Twenty-Seventh Session of Permanent Mandates 
Commission. 


70 
Article 16 of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, reads :—- 


‘ Any person who after the coming into force of this Order 
has by birth become a Palestinian citizen but who at his birt 
or during his minority became under the law of any other 
State a national of that State and is still such a national may 
if of full age and not under disability make a declaration of 
alienage and on making such declaration shall cease to be a 
Palestinian citizen.’’ 


The question of such a person’s readmission to his origina. 
nationality or to that formerly held by his parents would be deter- 
mined by the provisions of the nationality laws of the State 
concerned. oO 

The age of majority according to sub-section (5) of article 21 of 
the Order is eighteen years calculated according to the Gregorian 
calendar. 


9. During 1935 and previous years the following number of 
cases occurred where citizenship was forfeited, certificates of 
citizenship annulled, and certificates of naturalization revoked, on 
the ground that :— 

(a) the holders of their own accord divested themselves of 
their Palestinian citizenship on acquisition of a foreign 
nationality ; or 

(b) the holders had been ordinarily resident out of Palestine 
for longer than three years and showed no disposition to 
return within the measurably near future ; or 

(c) the holders had shown themselves disloyal and dis- 
affected towards the Government of Palestine :— 


Revocation under Annulment under 
Art. 2 (1) of the Art. 2 (2) of the 
Palestine Citizen- Palestine Ctizen- 
Loss under ship (Amendment) ship (Amendment) 


Art. 15. Order, 1931. Order, 1931. 
1926 ... = ts = 
1927 ... = = = 
1928 ... 2 2 = 
1929 ... 8 5 7 
1980 ... 5 1 21 
193] ... 7 8 29 
1982 ... 54 38 46 
1933 ... 14 98 25 
1934 ... 5 32 QT 
1935 ... 10 6 4 
Total... 105 130 159 


The grand total is 394, which is 1.29 per cent. of the total 
number of certificates issued. 


71 


10. The services granted by the Passport Office in 1935 as 
compared with previous years are shown in the following table :— 





Service. 1927. | 1928. | 1929. | 1930. | 1931. | 1932. | 1933. | 1934. | 1935. 
Total. ... | 21,007} 18,040} 17,008) 16,378] 15,818] 15,704) 17,106) 21,249) 36,055 
Palestinian pass- 
porta issued ... | 11,633! 7,972) 7,671] 6,995) 5,874] 4,391| 4,492! 7,754 11,546 
Palestinian pass- | 
ports renewed| — 57 72| 310; 1,069} 2,283) 2,625) 2,947] 4,323 
Palestinian pass- 


porta endorsed 762; 1,150) 1,436) 1,402) 1,159 1,429 1,617| 1,334) 2,603 
Certificates of 

identity issued | 1,937| 1,786] 1,283) 993 839} 300) 326 237 380 
Return visas 

... | 5,996! 6,504) 5,964] 5,866] 5,845) 4,638} 4,928) 5,058! 12,139 
Other visas 
gran | — — — —_ — 1,207} 1,861| 2,728) 3,479 
Identity and 


Travel docu- 

Ments issued ... | — — — — — 284 168 330 383 
Identity and. 

Travel docu- 

ments renewed — — — — — — 44 25 25 


British and ‘Iraqi 
passports issued 200; 191; 201} 2382; 420) 574; +407; 337; 490 
British and ‘Iraqi 

Passports en- 

dorsed and re- 

newed ... — 359} 318} 268) 445) 594| 586) 522} 488) 649 
Registration of 
British subjects 
registered and 
retention of 
Canadian domi- 


ll. The increase in the number of passport services granted 
during 1935 is due to :— 


(1) The conditions of prosperity prevailing in Palestine 
which enabled many persons to take a holiday in Europe who 
would ordinarily not have been able to afford the journey. 

(11) The development of trade relations with other countries. 

(iii) The increase in the number of persons who applied for 
and were granted certificates of naturalization as Palestinian 
citizens and who subsequently applied for Palestiniam passports. 

(iv) The journey to Eastern Europe of young Palestinians 
for the purpose of contracting marriages of convenience with 
foreign women to enable them to evade the Palestine immigra- 
tion regulations. 


12. Since 1926, when Palestinian passports were first printed, 
some 70,000 have been issued. 


12 


13. In the early part of the year the Police authorities discovered 
that a number of illegal immigrants had, by misrepresentation, 
succeeded in obtaining, with the help of agents, Palestinian pass- 
ports on the ground of evidence based on Turkish records which 
purported to show that they were formerly Turkish subjects. Pro- 
ceedings were instituted against the parties to the offence and, on 
their conviction, sentences ranging from five months to four years 
imprisonment were inflicted on nine persons. 

14. There have been a number of other successful prosecutions 
under the Passport Ordinance of mukhtars and others who fur- 
nished false evidence in connexion with applications for passport 
services. Several mukhtars who were found guilty and convicted 
were subsequently dismissed from office by the District 
Commissioners. 

15. The Permanent Mandates Commission has asked for further 
information on the purpose of the new Passport Ordinance, 1934.* 

The main object of this Ordinance is to consolidate the legislation 
in regard to the issue of travel documents. 

The opportunity has been taken to insert certain amendments 
to improve the methods of control. These amendments empower 
the High Commissioner to issue a document of identity in lieu of 
a passport. A document of identity as defined in the Passport 
Ordinance, 1934, includes an Identity and Travelling Document. 
This form of document was brought into use in Palestine in con- 
formity with the recommendations of the Third General Confer- 
ence on Communication and Transport adopted by the Assembly of 
the League of Nations at Geneva on the 26th September, 1927. 
and is granted to stateless persons or to persons of doubtful 
nationality. 

The High Commissioner may also attach conditions to the grant 
of a travel document and impound or require the surrender of a 
travel document. It is also provided that a person who has been 
issued with a travel document under the Ordinance may enter 
Palestine only on such document. 

The offence of obtaining a travel document by personation or 
false representation is extended to obtaining the renewal of such 
a document or any other service under the Ordinance. 


16. With the appointment of an ‘Iraqi consular representative 
in Palestine, the Department of Migration has now ceased to grant 
visas for ‘Iraq and passport facilities to ‘Iraqi nationals as the 
agent of the Government of ‘Iraq. 


17. The following number of changes of names were registered 
in 1935 as compared with previous years :— 


1933 ae 34 be ont 211 
1934 ss ee au ae 412 
1935 oe oT 2 site 793 


* Page 53 of Minutes of Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission. 


73 
The majority of these changes are made by Jewish immigrants 


from Europe adopting Hebrew names on the acquisition of 
Palestinian citizenship. 


18. The fee for the registration of the change of a name was 
reduced in March, 1935, from 500 mils to 250 mils. 


VII. JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Legislation. 


The most important Ordinances enacted during the year are the 
following :— 

(i) Rural Property Tax Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides 
for the introduction into those parts of the country not being 
urban areas within the meaning of the Urban Property Tax 
Ordinance, 1928, of a tax on land and industrial buildings, 


which will replace in such parts the Ottoman House and Land 
Tax and Tithe. 


The Ordinance divides land into categories; the rates at 
which the tax will be levied on each category are set out in 
the Schedule to the Ordinance. The tax on industrial buildings 
shall be at such rate, not exceeding 15 per centum of the net 
annual value, as shall be prescribed by the High Commissioner. 


The High Commissioner is empowered to apply the Ordinance 
by order to specific areas ; the effect of such orders has been 
that this tax has replaced the old taxes as from the 1st April, 
1935, in areas in which they were hitherto collected. 


Provision is also made for the appointment of official valuers. 
The duties and powers of such valuers with regard to the 
preparation of the tax rolls and valuation lists and the assess- 
ment of industrial buildings are prescribed. Provision is made 
for any person aggrieved by a decision of an official valuer to 
appeal to committees appointed by the High Commissioner. 
These committees will determine all such appeals, and also the 
areas of the land in each category of the Ordinance. Such 
categories as are shown on the tax roll as finally determined, 
and the net annual value of industrial buildings as shown on the 
valuation list as determined provide the data on which the tax 
will be assessed, until such time as it 1s amended in the manner 
provided in the Ordinance. 


(ii) Companies (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
has been amended with the object of allowing companies 
recistered in Palestine to keep branch registers of their 
members in the United Kingdom. Provision has been made in 
England to enable a company registered there to keep a branch 
register in Palestine, and the Ordinance also provides that, if 


74 


the High Commissioner is satisfied that other countries give 
similar reciprocity, he may extend the provisions of this amend- 
ment to such other countries. 


(i) Statistics Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides for the 
setting up of an office of statistics in Palestine, under the control 
of a Government Statistician, for the purposes of collecting and 
compiling public statistics, and defines the powers and duties 
of the office, and the obligations of members of the public 
towards the office. 

(iv) Sale of Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
was passed as the result of the recommendations of a com- 
mittee set up to enquire into the sale of intoxicating liquor. 
It repeals and re-enacts, with amendments, the earlier 
legislation. 

No intoxicating liquor may be sold without a licence. 
Licences are of three categories and are annual. Provision is 
made that they shall not be granted by the licensing authorities 
without the certificate of a board, which is to be satisfied as to 
the qualifications of the applicant, the suitability of the 
premises and the needs of the locality, the board being given 
power to refuse to issue a certificate. The board may impose 
conditions as to the liquors which may be sold and the times 
at which the premises may be open, and special provisions are 
made for the employment of females. 

A fee is charged for licences, which varies according to the 
type of licence granted. Penalties are imposed for infringe- 
ment of the provisions of the Ordinance. 


(v) Medical Practitioners (Amendment) Ordinance.—This 
Ordinance amends the Medical Practitioners Ordinance with the 
object of controlling the number of persons who may practise 
medicine in Palestine. The High Commissioner is given power 
to prescribe the number of licences which may be issued in any 
year to persons who become Palestinian citizens, or who 
received permission to remain permanently in Palestine, at a 
date subsequent to the lst day of December, 1935. Special 
provisions are made to exempt persons who are to be employed 
solely in the practice of medicine in or on behalf of any medical 
or scientific institution. 

(vi) Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction Ordinance. Trial Upon 
Information (Amendment) Ordinance. The Courts (Amend- 
ment) Ordinance.—These Ordinances were passed in conse- 
quence of an Order of His Majesty in Council which repealed 
those provisions of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
dealt with the trial of foreigners. They amended the constitu- 
tion and jurisdiction of the Courts in order to ensure that 
foreigners, while being subject to the ordinary jurisdiction of 
the Courts, are not thereby adversely affected. Further informa- 
tion is given in paragraphs 3 to 6 below. 


75 


Companies. 


2. The total number of companies registered in Palestine at the 
end of 19385 was 1,158, of which 920 were Palestinian and 238 
foreign. During the year, 298 new companies were registered of 
which 277 were Palestinian and 21 foreign. The principal Pales- 
tinlan companies were :— 


The Agricultural Mortgage Company of Palestine Limited, 
with a capital of £P.400,000. 


Shimshon, Palestine Portland Cement Works Limited, with 
a capital of £P.250,000. 


Palestine Petroleum Company, Limited, with a capital of 
£P.200,000. 3 


Palestine Chemical Industries Limited, with a capital of 
£P.100,000. 


The Arab Land Investment Company, Limited, the Pales- 
tine *Distount Bank Limited, ‘‘ Zion ’’, the Palestine National 
Insurance Company, Limited, and Mercaz Missradim Be-Tel- 
Aviv Limited, each with a capital of £P.60,000. 


Among ‘the foreign companies registered was the Socicté Misr 
Airworks. 


A number of companies increased their capital during the year, 
notably the Nir Company, Limited, which increased its capital 
from £P.75,000 to £P.145,000; the Palestine Foundries Limited, 
from £P.75,000 to £P.100,000; the Palestine Mercantile Bank 
Limited, from £P.50,000 to £P.100,000; the Palestine General 
Insurance Company, Limited, from £P.50,000 to £P.125,000; and 
the General Mortgage Bank of Palestine Limited, from £P.250,000 
to £P.1,000,000. 


Changes in constitution and jurisdiction of the Courts. 


3. The Palestine (Amendment) Order in Council, 19385.— Under 
the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, Articles 59 to 63, safeguards 
were laid down for the benefit of foreigners of certain nationalities 
In court proceedings, allowing them the right (a) to have prelimin- 
ary investigations or trials conducted by British magistrates, (b) to 
claim that a British majority or a British judge alone should sit in 
the trial of criminal charges against them in the District Court or 
Court of Criminal Assize, and (c) to claim that in civil cases in the 
District Court at least one member should be a British judge, and 
in the Supreme Court that a majority of the judges should be 
British. This discrimination was resented both by Palestinian 
nationals and by those foreigners who were not entitled to the privi- 
leged position.: The Palestine (Amendment) Order in Council, 
1935, abolished the distinction. Under the amending Order in 


76 


Council (which must be read with the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdic- 
tion Ordinance, 1935, the Courts (Amendment) Ordinance, 1935, 
and the Trial Upon Information (Amendment) Ordinance, 1935) 
two changes were made: in the first place, and most important, the 
safecuards were extended to all persons irrespective of their 
nationality ; secondly, a certain reorganization of the judiciary has 
taken place and certain changes have been made in the safeguards 
themselves. The general effect of the safeguards remains the 
same : taken as a whole the conditions under which foreigners have 
the right to be tried either by a British judge or by a court composed 
partly of British judges are not narrower than they were previously. 


4. The Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction Ordinance newly pro- 
vides as follows: (a) The jurisdiction of Magistrates’ Courts in 
criminal matters is increased to cover offences for which the maxi- 
mum penalty does not exceed imprisonment for three years or a fine 
of £P.300 or both these penalties, provided that a magistrate, other 
than a British magistrate, is limited to the imposition of imprison- 
ment not exceeding one year or a fine of £100 or both such penalties, 
and that a British magistrate is limited to the imposition of 1m- 
prisonment not exceeding two years or a fine of £200) or both such 
penalties. (b) A person charged before a magistrate with a sum- 
mary offence for which the maximum penalty exceeds imprisonment 
for 15 days or a fine of £5 may elect to be charged before a British 
magistrate or by a District Court, and the Attorney-General or 
Solicitor-General has the same right of election. The District 
Court in hearing such cases, tries them summarily, and can impose 
the maximum penalty prescribed. (c) With regard to civil actions 
a magistrate, other than a British magistrate, has jurisdiction when 
the subject-matter does not exceed £P.150 and a British magis- 
trate has jurisdiction when the subject-matter does not exceed 
£P.250. (d) Appeals from magistrates to the District Court are 
heard by the British President and one Palestinian judge. 
(e) Magistrates’ Courts are no longer bound in passing sentence by 
any minimum penalty provided in the Ottoman Penal Code. A 
similar provision is already in force as regards Courts of Criminal 
Assize and District Courts. 


5. The Trial Upon Information (Amendment) Ordinance provides 
that the Attorney-General may direct that a preliminary enquiry 
should be conducted by a British magistrate. The object of this is 
to meet cases which formerly would have been covered by Article 61 
of the Palestine Order in Council, which is now revoked by the 
Palestine (Amendment) Order in Council, 1935. A magistrate who 
is holding a preliminary enquiry in respect of a criminal charge 
which is triable upon information may now deal with the charge 
summarily if the facts appear to justify it. 


6. The Courts (Amendment) Ordinance provides that the 


Supreme Court sitting as a Court of Appeal in civil cases shall 
normally consist of two judges, the presiding judge being British ; 


17 


and that the Supreme Court sitting as a Court of Criminal Appeal 
shall consist of two British judges and one Palestinian judge. The 
Court of Criminal Assize shall normally consist of two British 
judges and a Palestinian judge. Civil actions involving not more 
than £P.500 shall be tried by any two judges; those involving more 
than £P.500 bythe British President and one Palestinian judge ;and 
criminal trials upon information shall be tried by a British President 
and one judge; and civil or criminal appeals by a British President 
and one judge. The Chief Justice has power to change the place of 
venue of criminal trials in the Court of Criminal Assize or District 
Courts. 


7. The Summary Offences (Procedure) Ordinance amends the 
Ottoman Law relating to the trial of contraventions and mis- 
demeanours in Magistrates’ Courts and Municipal Courts. Under the 
Ottoman Law a magistrate was obliged to try an offender in default 
of appearance but the offender had the right to oppose the judgment 
by default. This procedure involved great delay in the execution 
of judgments, since defaulters had to be served with a notification 
of the judgment. They were then given five days’ grace in which 
to satisfy it; after this a warrant of commitment had to be 
applied for and issued by the Court, if the judgment was not satis- 
fied, and the offender had to be searched for and found and the 
warrant had to be executed. The new Ordinance empowers a 
Magistrate’s Court or a Municipal Court to issue a warrant on 
disobedience to a criminal summons and thus relieves the Courts 
from the obligation to try offenders in default of appearance, and 
abolishes the right of opposition to judgments so issued in such 
Courts, as had been provided for several years in the District 
Courts. 


Rules of Court. 


8. The following Rules of Court were made by the Chief Justice 
during the year :— 

Service out of Jurisdiction (Trans-Jordan) Rules, to imple- 
ment the agreement of 1924 regulating the service of judicial 
documents between Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 

The Advocates (Amendment) Rules aim at preventing ad- 
vocates from arbitrarily terminating the period of service of a 
clerk reading in their chambers and allow such termination 
to be effected only with the permission of the Chairman of 
the Legal Board. 

The Municipal Election Petitions Rules lay down the practice 
and procedure with regard to election’ petitions. 

The Court Fees Rules, 1935, revoke and repeal 11 pre- 
viously existing rules and reduce the system of court fees to 
order. 

The Land Courts (Procedure) Rules lay down that in cases 
before the Land Courts a plan, approved by the Department 


18 


of Lands and Surveys, should be attached to the documents 
of title in proof of a claim to registration in respect of any 
interest in land. 

The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules amend the Court Fees 
Rules, 1935, in certain particulars including the provision of 
a scale of fees in respect of municipal election petitions. 

The Court Fees (Temporary Provisions) Rules make provision 
for the performance of the duties of Registrars of District 
Courts pending the filling of these new posts. 

The Archives Rules make provision for the custody of court 
records and their consultation by properly approved persons. 

The Civil Procedure (Special Case) Rules lay down the 
practice to be followed in regard to the statement of special 
cases for the opinion of Courts on points of law, as provided 
for in a number of recent Ordinances. 

The Prisons (Special Treatment) Rules, 1935, under Sec- 
tion 4 of the Prisons Ordinance, 1921, provide generally speak- 
ing that special treatment should be accorded to prisoners only 
by direction of the Court of Trial. 

The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order allows 
Relieving Presidents equally with substantive Fresidents of 
District Courts to preside when necessary over Land Courts. 


Work of the Courts. 


9. Municipal Courts.—Municipal Courts continue to exist in 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Gaza, Tel Aviv, and Acre. In the last three 
towns they are presided over by honorary magistrates, and in the 
other two by one of the salaried magistrates in ‘Government service. 
No cases were taken before the Acre Court in 1935. 

Otherwise the number of cases entered shows an Increase over 
preceding years owing to the continued efficiency on the part of 
the Police and the Department of Health in prosecuting offences 
against the Road Traffic Regulations and the Public Health Regula- 
tions. 

The figures are :— 


Entered ... oes wok se sid 26 ,306 
Decided ... or ie iat ee 26 ,241 
Pending ... ee sia 242 


10. Magistrates’ Courts. —54 000 civil cases were entered in these 
Courts and 52,000 decided ; 3,694 were pending at the end of the 
year. 

It should be observed that the civil jurisdiction of Magistrates’ 
Courts has been enlarged; and that certain magisterial vacancies 
could not be filled until the middle of the year. 

The number of criminal cases entered was 50,310; no less than 
49,809 were decided, which is a record, and there were 1 3015 


pending. ' 


19 


There is again an increase in the number of criminal as well 
as civil cases heard at Tel Aviv and at Haifa and Jaffa; in 
Beersheba the cause list was lower than in any year since 1929. 

Indeed, in the great majority of the rural Magistrates’ Courts, 
there has been a decrease in the amount of cases entered ; in two 
or three the work has remained practically stationary and only in 
Acre and Nazareth has there been any marked increase. 


11. District Courts.—In general, civil cases entered in the 
District Courts were less this year and criminal cases considerably 
fewer. 


The statistics are :— | 
Entered. Decided. — Pending. 
Civil... was --- 2,300 2,169 643 
Criminal eas .-. 1,769 1,788 ll 

The number of pending cases is lower than in any preceding 
year, a result attributable to the policy of giving priority (in all 
Courts) to criminal cases, to avoid delay in disposing of them. 

The murber of civil cases disposed of must be considered 1n con- 
nection with the number of land cases decided by District Court 
Judges sitting as Land Courts. 

The major part of the serious crimes of this country is tried 
in the District Courts and taking this into account the figures are 
satisfactory. The criminal cases have substantially dropped in 
both Haifa and Nablus; they have remained stationary in Jaffa 
and it is only in the Jerusalem District that an increase has 
occurred. 


12. Land Courts.—One: thousand, three hundred and two cases 
were entered in these Courts (being nearly 400 more than last 
year), 1,044 were decided and there were 1,018 pending at the close 
of the period. 


13. Supreme Court.—Two hundred and ninety-seven civil appeals 
were lodged in the Supreme Court, 318 were decided, and the 
number of pending cases was 313. 

There were only 119 criminal appeals, and 110 were decided, 
only 24 remaining unsettled at the 3lst December. 


14. Court of Criminal Assize.—Sixty-seven persons were com- 
mitted for trial during the year on charges involving the capital 
penalty. The Attorney-General entered a nolle prosequi in respect 
of five, and in one case the accused committed suicide before trial. 

Of the 61 persons who stood their trial, 15 were condemned to 
death and 12 to imprisonment, two were sent to a :reformatory 
and 32 were acquitted. 

Of the 15 death sentences, ten were confirmed by the Court of 
Criminal Appeal, with recommendations to mercy in five cases; 
one was reduced to 15 years’ imprisonment, one to 10 years’ 
and in three cases the conviction was set aside. 

Of the ten death sentences confirmed by the Court of Criminal 
Appeal, four were confirmed by the High Commissioner in Execu- 


80 


tive Council, one convict had his sentence commuted to penal 
servitude for life, another to penal servitude for 15 years, and four 
to five years’ penal servitude. 
The Court of Criminal Assize decided 37 cases in the year, and 
only four were pending. 
15. High Court.—In the High Court 118 cases were entered, 
125 decided and 20 were left over. 
The 118 petitions entered may be classified as follows :— 
(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus proceedings 
under sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Courts 
Ordinance, 1924 


(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) in execution matters 62 
(3) Other petitions under sub-section (2) for orders 

directed to public bodies or public officers ei 42 

(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for change of venue 1 

(5) Petitions under the Contempt of Court Ordinance ... — 

(6) Not coming within the above heads ... ak 9 

118 


16. Special Tribunal.—This tribunal which is constituted under 
Article 55 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, and Section 8 
of the Courts Ordinance, 1924, to decide whether or no a case 
is one of personal status within the exclusive jurisdiction of 4 
religious Court, 1s constituted by two British Judges of the Supreme 
Court and the President, or a judge nominated by such President, 
of the highest Court in Palestine of any religious Court which 1s 
alleged by any party to have exclusive jurisdiction in the matter. 

One case was entered in this Tribunal in 1935 and two cases were 
pending at the close of the year. 

17. Revenue and Expenditure.—The revenue of the Courts was 
£P.165,240, chiefly derived from the Magistrates’ Courts and 
District Courts, and the expenditure was £P.77,000. 

18. Advocates.—Eleven advocates were reported to the Chief 
Justice for disgraceful, fraudulent, or unprofessional conduct under 
Section 15 of the Advocates Ordinance, 1922. In one case only 
were the charges sufficiently substantiated to justify the convening 
of a Court of Discipline. 


Probation Service. 

19. Progress has been made during the year in all matters regard- 
ing the treatment of young delinquents, and foundations have been 
laid for future development. New forms for records, investigation 
and statistical purposes were introduced and have proved useful 10 
practice. 

20. In 1934, 646 boys were dealt with by the Courts; this year 
the number was 1,108. Of these, 793 were Moslems, 241 Jews, and 
74 Christians. The increase is probably due to more frequent 
recourse to the Courts on the part of the police. 


81 


21. The practice of hearing juvenile cases in camera is increasing. 
With the co-operation of the Chief Magistrates, it has been possible 
to assign certain days for hearing juvenile cases in the three large 
towns. An extension of this practice is anticipated with the enact- 
ment of the Juvenile Offenders’ Ordinance, which should facilitate 
the development of properly constituted Juvenile Courts along the 
lines adopted in many countries. Magistrates hearing juvenile cases 
are becoming familiar with the principles of Juvenile Courts and it 
is a sign of progress that they are relying more and more on the 
reports and recommendations of the Probation Officers. 

22. The essential co-operation between police and Probation 
Officers has been maintained. Arrangements are being made with 


the police to ensure a more accurate checking of statistics of young 
offenders. 


23. The question of providing proper facilities for the remand of 
juveniles in custody has been considered and it is hoped that Remand 
Homes will soon be established in the large centres of population. 

24. The Probation Officer has kept in close touch with the Govern- 
ment Reformatory School. The number of boys committed to the 
School was 81, as compared with 84 in 1934. This represents 
1-3 per cent. of the total cases dealt with instead of 13 per cent. 
in 1934. It is noticed that the greater reductions in committals 
cur in those districts where most use 1s made of the probation 
system. 

25. There has been a slight increase in the use of probation, and 
226 boys were placed under the supervision of Probation Officers for 
periods varying from six months to three years. Every Court in 
the country is now served by a Probation Officer and, with the 
exception of Jerusalem, all the officers serve in an honorary capacity. 

In the chief centres of population, the work has developed beyond 
the capacity of Honorary Probation Officers, however willing they 
may be, and it is hoped that full-time salaried officers will be 
appointed in these areas shortly. The use of probation is mainly 
confined to those Courts where experienced officers are working. 

Particular attention has been given to the Northern District, 
where formerly very little use was made of probation. The District 
has been visited regularly by the Assistant Probation Officer, and 
the work is being reorganized for future development. 

26. The Jewish Honorary Probation Officers have been the 
trained workers of the Department of Social Service of the General 
Council (Va‘ad Leumi) and the Social Service Department of the 
Municipality of Tel Aviv. Their help and co-operation in dealing 
with Jewish offenders has been invaluable. 

27. It is interesting to note that of the 473 boys placed on proba- 
tion since 1932 only 17 have been re-arrested by the Police on a 
fresh charge. This does not necessarily mean that probation is 
96 per cent. successful, but the figure can be taken as indicative of 
the success of probation as a method of treatment in this country. 


82 


28. The work of the Juvenile Court is chiefly remedial and it is — 
recognized that a great deal of delinquency is due to environmental — 
factors which are capable of change. The probation staff, while - 


engaged primarily in the work of the Courts, is doing what it can ~ 


to develop and encourage preventive measures. The staff is repre- 
sented on the Boys’ Work Committee of the Young Men’s Christian 


Association, the American Colony Playgrounds Committee, and the 
Community Service of the Jerusalem Rotary Club. The Probation . 


Officer has also been made a member of the Central Film Censor- . 


ship Board. A number of lectures on probation and Juvenile Court 
work have been given to the Police, Toc H, and the Rotary Club, . 
and close contact has been maintained with institutions and; 
organizations dealing with children and young people. 


PROBATION OFFICE—JUVENILE OFFENDERS—1936. 





PALESTINE. 
| & > 8 
, 3 RF] s | 

> = Rg, > 7 
= : 3s 8 Pa: oe 
2 18s == 3 “| 3 os Saks 
“etry Se} | 3) 2/83] SSB ae |< 
Piarise | deel a (E/9 leh elpeeey §/5 bs] a3 
F233] 2/2] 3/58) 8/83] §] 818s) 818 
Biel Ss) EPS Sia eelQ] BRR | & 

1. Moslems. 
Jerusalem | 85 9/22;,7)|3 3,5 6 1 j11 j11 1;3 {5 
Jaffa ... | 83 | 14 | 14] 7 11 8 | 3 3;/—i:5|—{|—{3 | 6 
Nablus... | 80 5 | 37 | 9 (21 9/8 4 1 |32 |39 3111/15 
Haifa ... | 85 6 | 27 | 2 112 4/2 3/..3/1)5|]—]4 {2 


Total ... /333 | 34 {100 |25 |47 | 24 [18 | 16 5 |49 [55 | 4 /21 |18 


2. Jews. 
Jerusalem | 58 8 6/3 \|-—-};/—;}1!—{]—|4 1 |j—|]1 
Jaffa ... | 91 | 13 8/1;2;—;4}/—!|— 56; 1;/—f-—] 2 
Nablus... 2) — fe RE I er ed] OP RR Oe EE 
Haifa ... | 15 | 3 1j— |}; 2;—/—j — |] — |-— | 1 j— |— 
Total ... 1166 | 24)}15/4;}4/—!]5/—] 2/9) 1 2 |— | 3 
3. Christians | 
Jerusalem | 9 4 3 i— | 3 1;};3;—;—/3/2)——-E 
Jaffa —|/ ly} 2J—J—]}]—F 1} —J-J le} —- eee 
Nablus... 8/—}J—i— J— J — — F — | — 1 bf oP — FY] 1 ll 
Haifa ... 7 }]/—-e]3]— \— 1}; — |j—\|-—|—]| 2 
Total ...| 24/ 6] 56'—/6!/ 1/4] 1]/—/9/7}/—|3]1 
GRAND i 


Tota... {523 | 64 |120 |29 |57 | 25 (27 | 17 | 7 |67 }63 | 6 |24 {22 





a: 
q 


This table shows that offences against property predominate in — 


the large towns while offences against the person, stone-throwig , 


83 


and trespassing are more prevalent in the smaller towns and rural 
districts. With the exception of the high percentage of wounding 


_ and assault cases in the Nablus district, there is nothing remarkable 


about the figures. 


Religious Courts. 


29. Moslem Community.—In the Moslem Religious Courts 
10,144 cases were decided.during the year, including 237 appeals. 
The Sharia judges in addition issued 9,289 deeds of marriage 
and 1,288 decrees of divorce. £P.8,800 were collected in fees. 

30. Orthodox Community.—The Ecclesiastical Courts of the 
Orthodox Patriarchate in Jerusalem sat in that town and also 
m Acre, Haifa, Jaffa, Nazareth, and Gaza. Their revenue from 
fees during the year was £P.300. They disposed of 677 cases of 
which 17 were heard on appeal. Most of the cases were concerned 
with conjugal differences and the administration of estates. 
Fifty-four affected changes of religion. 

ul. Jewish Community.—There are Rabbinical Courts at 
Jerusalem (including a Court of Appeal) (158), Jaffa-Tel Aviv (945), 


: Haifa (228), Safad (56), Tiberias (36), Petah Tiqvah (190), Affuleh 


(41), Zichron Ya‘acov (14), Hedera (32), Rehovot (14), and 
Maskereth Batya (10). The classification of suits was: divorces, 


: §uardianship, agreements, trusts, wills, and confirmation. Most 


\ 


of the cases were those affecting guardianship and divorces. The 


' Dumbers shown between brackets represent the number of cases 


+ heard by each Court during the year. 


32. Latin Community.—During the year, 160 cases were heard 


_ by these Courts concerning alimony, divorce, and wills. 


: : \ _— 
——— -— 


33. Syrean Orthodox Community.—The Court of this community 


. disposed during 1935 of nine cases: seven concerned with marital 


disputes and two with the administration of estates. 

34. Armenian Patriarchate.—The tribunal of this Patriarchate 
heard 21 cases during the year concerning wills, guardianship, 
divorce, and alimony. | | 

35. Roman Catholic Community.—The Court of this Community 
at Acre dealt with 39 cases, mostly marital and testamentary ; and 
that at Nazareth with 20 cases, of which 13 were concerned with 
Inheritance. 

The Court of the Catholic Melkite Community at Haifa heard 
106 cases, including 68 in respect of deeds of inheritance. 


Revised edition of the Laws of Palestine. 


36. The English version of the revised edition of the Laws of 
Palestine is ready, but the difficult and lengthy work of trans- 
lation and local printing in connection with the Arabic and Hebrew 
Yersions is not yet complete. ‘It is obviously desirable and it is, 
indeed, statutorily necessary to publish all three versions together, 
and it is hoped that it will be possible to do this, and to place 


“pies in the hands of the Permanent Mandates Commission, during 
€ first half of 1936. | 


84 
VOI.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


The railways of Palestine, its posts, telegraphs and telephones, its 
ports and roads are in public ownership and are administered by 
the Palestine Government. 


The construction of the Haifa harbour has been carried out by a 
Government department, and an oil dock is being added under 
similar arrangements. 


Water supplies are administered, in all cases, by the municipal or 
local council concerned. 


The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 


The principle that all mineral resources of Palestine are the 
property of the Government and may therefore only be exploited 
under licence by private individuals or corporations is established 
by the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 


There are Ordinances for the control of fisheries, forests, and 
game, for the cultivation, manufacture, and sale of tobacco and 
liquor, for the manufacture and sale of matches, for the manufacture 
and sale of salt, and for the export of fruit. 


Reference may be made also to the Mewat (Waste) Lands, Com- 
panies, Customs Tariff, Urban Property Tax and Collection of 
Taxes Ordinances and to the measures which are being taken to 
carry out a cadastral survey and a settlement of title to land. 


The terms of the concessions which have been granted by the 
Governinent in respect of the exploitation or development of any 
of the natural resources of Palestine, or public services, are such 
as to ensure, by means of time-limit clauses affecting the commence- 
ment of the work and the expiry of the concession, genuine and 
expeditious development. 

Where appropriate, the Palestine Treasury is to receive reason- 
able royalties or rents; the employment of local labour is adequately 
guaranteed; the Government has the right of inspection of the 
concessionaires’ accounts ; and in certain cases there is provision for 
local investment in the capital of the company. In general, rights 
under a concession may not be assigned without the consent of 
the Government, and, as a rule, the right of the Government to 
take over the undertaking in the event of war or similar emergency 
is reserved. Finally, provision is made for the reversion of the 
undertaking and all assets and effects thereof to the Government 
at the end of the term of the concession. 

The provisions of the Mining Ordinance of Palestine are so framed 
that it is possible for the Government to prevent any speculative 
““ tying-up ’’ of undeveloped mineralized areas by prospectors. 

All leases of State Domain land contain a clause enabling the 
Government to resume possession of the whole or any part of the 
area for public utility purposes. 


85 


Metallic Minerals. —Mr. L. Li. Williams discovered small mineral 
velns traversing the igneous formation near Aqaba which contain 
barytes, cuprite, malachite and a little galena. Traces of tinstone 
and wolfram were also reported. Four prospecting licences and one 
exploration permit (excluding oil) were issued to Mr. Williams. 


 Sulphur.—T he concentrating plant of Palestine Sulphur Quarries, 

Ltd., has now been carried to a stage of production which allows 
the concentration of 93 to 96 per cent. of sulphur. The existing 
plant is capable of producing one ton of sulphur per hour when 
milling 20 per cent. ore. The total quantity treated during the 
vear was 5,167 tons. The Company has applied for a further 
mining lease adjacent to the two already held by them. 


Phosphate.—Four new prospecting licences were granted to the 
Palestine Mining Syndicate covering an area of 1638.7 hectares in 
the Nebi Musa area. A report was submitted on results of experi- 
mental concentration of rock phosphate in the laboratory. 


2. It has not been necessary to arrange with the Jewish Agency 
to construct or operate any public works, services and utilities, or 
_to develop any of the natural resources of the country. The Jewish 
_ Agency is, however, a large shareholder in the Palestine Electric 
Corporation, which holds the concession for generating electricity 

from the waters of the Jordan and the Auja; and the Palestine 
Economic Corporation of New York, of which the Directors are 
non-Zionist Jews co-operating with the Jewish Agency, has a con- 
_ siderable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


3. The installation of a new water supply for the capital of Pales- 
tine was completed at the end of the year. It provides an ample 
permanent supply of water of good quality drawn from the source at 
Ras-el-Ain through a pipe line sixty-two kilometres long, with four 
pumping-stations each equipped with three Diesel engines of 360 
hp. A chloramining plant is already set up at the main reservoir 
at Romema in the outskirts of Jerusalem, and a filtration plant, and 
possibly also a sedimentation plant at the source, are to be pro- 
vided. The water is now entering the Romema reservoir at the rate 
of 420,000 gallons a day, permitting a continuous daily service to 
consumers, who latterly had been reduced to a six-days and even 
a weekly supply. 


The daily inflow from the source will in time be increased to a 
million gallons. 


For the time being the subsidiary supply at Wadi Farah and 
Ain Arrub are being maintained. 

The period of the concession of the E] Hamme mineral springs 
has been increased from thirty-one to forty-five years with effect 
from the 30th December, 1930, and the capital of the company 
has been increased by £P.20,000. 

34931 7 


86 


The concessionaires have constructed additional buildings, first 
and second class thermal bath establishments and a hotel; they 
have laid out gardens, and carried out various improvements. 


These health-giving springs are very popular among the Beduin 
of Trans-Jordan and attract visitors from Syria, to whom certain 
special travel facilities are accorded. 


There have been no developments in connection with the lease 
of the Tiberias Hot Springs, which continue to operate under a 
temporary contract. ‘The contractors have carried out some further | 
improvements and have taken steps to construct the thermal source. | 
£P.16,000 were thus expended by them on incasing the springs, 
thereby increasing the volume of water tenfold, and making it to 
a great extent independent of variation in the level of the Lake. | 
The number of bathers has appreciably increased. 


4. During 1935 the Huleh Concessionaires initiated conversations 
with various financial groups regarding the provision of the funds 
necessary for the execution of the project. As a result of these 
conversations it was decided, with the concurrence of Government, 
to invite Messrs. Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, Consulting Engineers, 
to draw up a comprehensive scheme for the development of the 
basin as a whole, including not only the reclamation of the Con- 
cession area, but also the reorganisation of the irrigation and 
effective drainage of the large tract of land which les to the 
north of this area, Government bearing the cost of the investigations 
in the tract in question. 


The necessary surveys have been completed, but hydrological data 
are still being collected; it is hoped that the complete project, 
with estimates of its cost, will be ready in the summer of 1936. 
Until the project and estimates have been received and considered, 
-no decision as to future action can be taken. 


Delimitation of the 15,000 dunums of land which are to be 
reserved for Arab cultivators has been completed and lists of those 
persons who are to be allowed to cultivate it are being prepared. 


Administration buildings and workmen’s quarters have been 
constructed at Zubeid. 


Fishing continues to be carried out by Arab fishermen as hereto- 
fore, and grazing by Arab cattle has continued throughout the 
year in the Concession area. 


The Concessionaires have arranged for an analysis to be made 
of the various soils comprised within the area. Hydrographic 
observations are also proceeding. 


Two biologists from the Department of Zoology and Botany of 
Birmingham University visited Palestine in the summer and under- 
took a complete survey of the plants and animals in Lake Huleh, 
and the physical and chemical constitution of the water. 


87 


5. The latest balance sheets of the several companies holding 
concessions are furnished in Appendix I to this Report. 


Dead Sea Concession.—Production of potash and bromine at 
the north end of the Dead Sea was akout the same as in 1934. 
Small quantities of magnesium chloride were also marketed. 
Evaporating basins covering an area of 5-5 square kilometres are 
now constructed at the south end of the Sea and production will 
start during 1936. | 


Palestine Potash Limited have taken out patents to produce 
“Syngenite ’’ CaSO, K,SO. H,O, from potassium chloride and 
gypsum. This new fertiliser will be introduced on the local market. 


Storage rent on potash deposited pending export has been altered 
to two mils per square metre per day, in lieu of the general storage 
charge on goods deposited pending export, which was at the rate 
of 50 mils per square metre occupied for each month or part 
thereof. 


6. The difficulties placed by the Ottoman regime in the way 
of foreign persons acquiring land in their own name and the pro- 
hibition against any foreign corporation holding land have been 
removed by the Palestine Government and all foreign persons, 
whether individuals or corporate, may hold land upon the same 
tems as any Palestinian individual or corporate person. The 
special tax which was imposed by the Ottoman Law upon im- 
tioveable property owned by corporate bodies was abolished last 
vear. 

Economic equality as regards mining rights is secured by the 
provision of the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 


1. There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime nor 
in the Customs Regulations of the Palestine Government. The 
special privileges in respect of import duty, State and municipal 
taxation and tithes which were enjoyed by certain foreign charit- 
able, religious, and educational institutions prior to the War under 
the Ottoman Law of Silhi 1281 A.H. and various firmans are 
maintained in toto by the Palestine Government, but no fresh 
privileges of the kind have been granted. 


Apart from this, foreign nationals are liable to the same taxation, 
state or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. The Ottoman 
Law of Professional Tax (Temettu), which was assessed only 
upon Ottoman subjects and not upon foreigners, has not been 
applied by the Palestine Government. 


8. Under the Urban Property Tax Ordinance the net annual value 
of all immovable property in towns is assessed by committees on 
which the public and the Government are represented in equal 
proportion. 

34931 D2 


88 


9. The Rural Property Tax foreshadowed in paragraph 27 of 
Chapter VIII of the Annual Report for 1934 was introduced by 
Ordinance enacted in January, 1935. It replaces the Tithes, Com- 
muted Tithes, Badl Ushr, and House and Land Tax in all rural 
areas. It is a tax per dunum on all agricultural lands, and is 
based on official valuations and gradings of sixteen different tax 
categories according to type of cultivation and fertility of the 
soil. The tax is distributed by District Officers on settled areas 
where ownership has been estal:lished and recorded and on non- 
settled areas by village distribution committees under the super- 
vision of the District Officers. Provision is made, as under the 
Urban Property Tax Ordinance, for objections and appeals to be 
heard, in order to protect aggrieved parties. 


Thus the Turkish system of taxation on immovable property in 
rural areas has finally disappeared from Palestine. 


Taxation on immovable property is now of two kinds only—the 
Urban Property Tax, which is a rate on net annual value in all 
towns, and the Rural Property Tax, which, as explained above, 
is a tax per dunum of land in all rural areas. 


The Rural Property Tax Ordinance was amended later in the 
year to provide that where no tax is payable upon any land by 
reason of its being of a category upon which no such tax is payable, 
the non-payment of such tax in respect of such land shall not be 
deemed to affect, or to be evidence of, the rights of any person 
in respect of such land. This amendment was designed to remove 
apprehensions entertained by some villagers, who were hitherto 
accustomed to see in tax-receipts evidence of ownership, lest 
exemption from Rural Property Tax might mean the withdrawal 
from them of such exempted lands. 


10. The Palestine Government will be ready to extend facilities 
for the setting up of free zones in the port of Haifa for transit 
traffic, in which the Governments of ‘Iraq and Iran are specially 
interested. The facilities would include the landing, warehousing 
and transhipments of goods, and a certain degree of manipulation ; 
each free zone would, of course, be under the general control of 
the Palestine Government, and subject to any prohibitions or re. 
strictions as to importation into Palestine that were required by 
international conventions or local needs. Officials of the foreign 
Government concerned would be allowed to take charge of all pro- 
cesses within the zone, and would be granted reasonable conces.- 
sions in respect of local taxation. 


11. Pourparlers continued during the year with regard to the 
conclusion of a Customs Agreement with ‘Iraq in regard to certain 
selected articles. with a view to the encouragement of trade be- 
tween the two countries along the direct motor route from Baghdac 


89 


to Haifa. Certain complications arose as to the precise extent 
and application of the provisions of the proposed Agreement, and 
this prevented matters from reaching finality in the year under 
review. It is, however, hoped that the Agreement will enter into 
foree in the early part of 1936. 


In the meantime the improvement of the desert communication 
is going forward. Satisfactory progress has been made already in 
the construction of that section of the Haifa-Bagdad road which 
lies in Trans-Jordan west of Mafrak. Thirty-six kilometres of the 
Forst part of the road were completely realigned, widened, drained, 
and metalled. In addition to the amount of £P.28,300 referred 
ton paragraph 29 of Chapter VIII of the 1934 Report, a sum of 
£P.1,500 was made available by the Palestine Government to meet 
the cost of transporting labourers from and to malarial regions and 
for repairing damages which occurred as a result of heavy floods 
in February. 

The policy of giving employment, as far as possible, to indigent 
Trans-Jordan tribesmen and villagers on this work was continued 
during the year. 


12. The hydro-electric generating station of the Palestine Elec- 
tie Corporation at Jisr el Majami on the Jordan was operated 
satisfactorily throughout the year. In addition the Corporation 
continued to operate diesel-fuel stations at Haifa and Tel Aviv. 


The Corporation has almost completed the construction of a 
3,000 KW steam-driven station in the Haifa-Acre Bay near 
Haifa, and already more than half this plant is in operation. A 
new transformer station was erected at the Haifa power house, 
with an installed capacity of 22,500 KVA for the stepping-up to 
66.000 volts and 30,000 KVA for a stepping-down to 22,000 and 
6.300 volts; three transformers with a capacity of 27,500 KVA 
were added to the substation at Tel Aviv; and the Corporation 
supply has been extended to Jenin for power and lighting. 


The Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation en- 
larged its power station by the addition of a 500 KW diesel driven 
generator, bringing its full capacity to 2,325 KW. 

Government approved 415 plans for extensions on the Palestine 
Electric Corporation’s distribution system and 24 plans for altera- 
lions and extensions to its power stations. Similarly 29 plans for 
extensions to the system of the Jerusalem Electric and Public Ser- 
vice Corporation were approved. 


Fourteen deaths from accidental electrocution occurred in 1934. 
Government views these accidents with great concern and is taking 
easures to minimise the risks, both by means of Electricity Regu- 
lations and by urging the supply companies to enforce rigid in- 
structions upon their employees. 

34931 D 3 


90 


13. The Public Works Department has advised on certain 
technical matters concerning the activities of the lessees of Tiberias 
Baths; and also upon questions arising out of the regulation of the 
level of Lake Tiberias necessitated by the activities of the Pales- 
tine Electric Corporation, as well as upon the question of pre- 
cautionary works to be executed to avoid damage to property by 
variations in the level of the lake. 


14. The Saghir Bridge over the Yarmuk was altered by the 
Government Department for and at the charge of the Palestine 
Electric Corporation. 


15. A lighthouse was erected on behalf of Government by the 
Administration Générale de Phares at the mouth of the Auja River 
near Jaffa. 


16. Preparations are well advanced for the holding of the Levant 
Fair in 1936 on a larger scale than any of its predecessors. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES. 


Church of the Nattity at Bethlehem.—At the annual cleaning of 
the Church on 28th December, 1935, a British Assistant District 
Commissioner and the British District Superintendent of Police 
were both present. There was the usual dispute as to who has 
the right to clean the northern set of windows of the Basilica. The 
roof of the Franciscan Convent is on the same level as these windows 
and is contiguous to them. The Franciscan monks on the roof 
cleaned the windows and the Orthodox protested. As there 1s no 
way of preventing this action except by a forcible entry by police 
into the Latin Convent, it was considered preferable to preserve 
decorum and accept the written protest of the Orthodox. 


2. Church of the Holy Sepulchre.—The attendance at the Cere- 
mony of the Holy Fire this year was smaller than usual and in 
spite of the various scaffoldings both inside and outside the Church 
the arrangements made by the police for maintaining order and 
decorum were adequate. 

The Armenian Patriarch, the Latin Patriarch and the Orthodox 
Patriarch all expressed their appreciation of the arrangements made 
for preserving decorum at their ce ceremonies in the Church 
of the Holy Sepulchre. 


3. The Church of St. James is adjacent to the Church of the 
Holy Sepulchre and is administered by the Lay Community. Once 
a@ year, viz., Sth November, on the occasion of the Feast of St. 


91 


James (Patron of the Patriarchate), the Patriarch with his clergy 
oficiates. Ownership of the Church of St. James is contested be- 
tween the Patriarchate and the Lay Community. 


On the 5th November, 1935, owing to the existing disagreement 
between the Patriarchate and the laity in regard to the election 
of a new Patriarch, the laity declined to allow the Locum Tenens 
to officiate. ‘To avoid any disturbance of the peace, or aggravation 
of the disagreement between the Patriarchate and laity, the Locum 
Tenens refrained from celebrating the Feast. 


4. There have been isolated attempts to annoy Jewish wor- 
shippers at the Wailing Wall by stone-throwing. So far the per- 
sons responsible have not been detected, but the President, 
Supreme Moslem Council, has promised his active co-operation with 
the authorities in their effort to discover them. 


5. The Coptic Bishop, Monsignor Basilius, died on the 13th May 
and his successor was consecrated six days later. 


6. A protest was made by the President of the Supreme Moslem 
Council against an encroachment by Jews upon established Moslem 
nghts at Rachel’s Tomb, Bethlehem. ‘The matter was satis- 
factorily composed. 


7. Some resentment was aroused when a Polish Rabbi, visiting 
Hebron with some disciples, ascended the steps of the Mosque to 
4 point beyond that permitted by established usage. The matter 
was dealt with by the Courts. 


8. There was co-operation between the Vaad Leumi, the Chief 
Rabbi and Agudath Israel, in the matter of the preservation of 
Jewish interests at the Wailing Wall and elsewhere. 


9. The reports by Mr. William Harvey, the expert appointed 
by the Government of Palestine to examine and report on the 
structural condition of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, Jerusa- 
lem, and of the Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem, were pub- 
lished in December, 1935. Copies of those reports have been 
forwarded to the Heads of the local Communities concerned with 
an intimation that the Palestine Government is giving its careful 
consideration to Mr. Harvey’s recommendations. Copies of the 
reports have also been forwarded for the information of the Perma- 
nent Mandates Commission of the League of Nations. 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious observance 
throughout Palestine. 
34931 D 4 


92 


The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescriptions 
of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which reads 
as follows :— 


‘‘ All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of 
conscience, and the free exercise of their forms of worship 
subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals. 
Every religious community recognized by the Government shall 
enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs of the community 
subject to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order issued by 
the High Commissioner.’’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change of 
religious community is regulated by the Change of Religious Com- 
munity Ordinance, 1927, and is directed to secure that there will 
be public notification of the change of legal status which 1s involved. 

An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to 
make regulations for the organization of any religious community 
which applies therefor. Separate regulations are to be made in 
each case suited to the special circumstances and organization of 
the community concerned. The regulations may provide for the 
constitution of councils or boards of the community, which shall 
have juristic personality, and may confer on them power to impose 
contributions and fees for communal purposes which shall be 
recoverable in the same way as municipal taxes and fees. 

The only regulations of this kind -which have so far been made 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish community, which con- 
tain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion to Jews 
who wish to hold aloof from the established community. 

Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, so 
as to allow every labourer to enjoy, in freedom of conscience, that 
weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, subject to technical 
exigencies or considerations of emergency; and a six-day working 
week is general in such works, The precise method of securing 
this end depends on the kind of work to be done, the period fixed 
for its completion, the locality in which it is to be carried out, and 
the different racial and religious elements of the labour employed 
on it. The matter is usually susceptible of adjustment by the 
District Commissioner concerned, in consultation with the under- 
taker or contractor responsible for the work and, if need be, with the 
religious head of the community affected. 

There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual craftsmen 
who can do their work in their own time. 

As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.) undertaken by 
Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours to 
avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour unavoidable 
to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions as might 
encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All Government 
officers are granted the weekly day of rest observed by the religious 
community to which they belong. But in the case of certain 


93 


departments, such as the Railways, Post and Telegraphs, and 
Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff, the racial distribution 
of technical skill, and the essential continuity, for example, of 
watch and ward duties, entail the consequence, in some centres, 
that some employees shall perform essential services on their 
weekly day of rest. 

2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done by 
Jews and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the Wailing 
Wall Order in Council which was printed in Appendix I to the 
Report for 1931.* 

3. The registration of schools is required by the Department of 
Education and granted subject only to compliance with sanitary 
requirements of the Department of Health. The establishment of 
schools in Palestine by communities or private organizations or 
individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 

The Education Ordinance, 1933, ensures the rights of com- 
munities to maintain their own schools for the education of their 
own members.+ All teachers are required to register their names 
and certain particulars with the Education Department, but except 
for this formality there is no restriction on the free exercise of 
the educational profession in a private school, that is, a school 
not receiving assistance from public funds. Private schools, other 
than those private schools exempted by the High Commissioner 
on the ground that only religious instruction is given, are subject 
to inspection by certain officers of the Department of Education and 
Health. No changes in the curriculum or internal management of 
a private school established or maintained by a religious association 
may be required by the Department of Education. 

The full text of the Education Ordinance was given in Appen- 
dix I to the 1932 Report.+ | 

More local education authorities were set up, under the Educa- 
tion Ordinance of 1933, in both Arab and Jewish localities, and 
have in the main justified their existence. 

4. The election of an Orthodox Patriarch at Jerusalem took place 
on the 22nd July and resulted in the election as Patriarch of the 
Most Reverend Monsignor Timotheos, titular Archbishop of the 
Jordan. The lay community did not take part in the election. An 
action was brought by the leaders of the lay community to invalidate 
the elections but the appeal was disallowed by the High Court. 
The leaders have contemplated an appeal to the Privy Council, but 
action has been suspended pending the outcome of negotiations with 
: view to compose the differences between the Confraternity and the 

ity. 

). Reference is invited to paragraph 16 of Chapter VII—Judicial 
System, in regard to the constitution of a Special Tribunal under 
Article 55 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922. 

* Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 75, 1932. 


Ordinance No. 1 of 1933. The Ordinance came into force on Ist January, 1933. 
{ Non-Parlamentary publication, Colonial No. 8933. 


94 


6. It was explained in last year’s Report that the view of the 
Mandatory Power as to the representations of the General Council | 
(Va‘ad Leumi) of the Jewish Community of Palestine for a con- | 
tribution from Government funds towards the maintenance of the | 
Rabbinical Council and the Jewish Religious Courts had been com- — 
municated to the Va‘ad Leumi in June of that year, and that — 
coupled with the communication was an offer, if the Jewish com- 
munity so desired, to make arrangements for the administration 
of the Jewish law of personal status by the Civil Courts. It was 
further explained that the reply of the Va‘ad Leumi had not been 
received until the beginning of November, 1934, and that its re- 
newed submissions were still under consideration by the Palestine 
Government at the end of that year. 


The submissions of the Va‘ad Leumi were summarized as follows 
in its behalf at an interview granted to a deputation from the Va‘ad 
Leumi by the High Commissioner on the 24th December, 1934 : 


‘“ The Jewish Religious Courts and the Chief Rabbinate are 
an essential and vital service to the Jewish Community as a 
whole, because matters of persona] status such as divorces and 
marriages and other kindred matters are settled under Jewish 
law exclusively by Religious Courts. 


‘* Under the Ottoman regime, too, the Jewish Religious 
Courts had jurisdiction in matters of personal status, but 
inasmuch as the Moslem religion was the dominant religion in 
the State, and the Jewish cases of personal status were, 
formally, within the jurisdiction of Moslem Sharia Courts, 
Government supported only Moslem Courts. 


‘* With the advent of the British Mandatory Administration, 
when full equality and religious freedom of conscience were 
declared, the Moslem religion ceased to be the dominant religion 
in the State, and the jurisdiction of Moslem Courts in matters 
of personal status of Jews was transferred to Jewish Religious 
Courts. 


‘‘ These Religious Courts were recognized under the Order in 
Council as the only Courts exercising exclusive jurisdiction in 
matters of personal status of Jews. 


‘‘ Tt is therefore the duty of the Government to allocate part 
of the vote of Moslem Religious Courts for the benefit of Jewish 
Religious Courts to which jurisdiction has been transferred in 
these matters. 


‘* According to official figures, the expenditure of Moslem 
Courts in 1934-35 was £P.16,916 as follows :— 


£P. 
Moslem Supreme Council ba seg 1,952 
Religious Courts ... ‘i oe ... 14,258 


Miscellaneous a 4 Jos a - 706 


95 


‘‘ Inasmuch as the contribution of the Jewish community 
equals, on the showing of Government figures, 40 per cent., 
therefore Jewish taxpayers contribute a sum of £P.6 to £P.7 
thousand towards the cost of the maintenance of the Moslem 
Courts, while they receive no grant from the Treasury towards 
the maintenance of their own Courts.”’ 


The question was finally discussed by the High Commissioner in 
Executive Council in February, 1935. It is conceded that the 
expenditure on the Moslem Religious Courts exceeds their income 
and that this deficit is a charge to public funds, but whereas the 
deficit amounted in 1933-34 to £P.12,610, in 1934-35 it was only 
£P.9,520. Moreover the President of the Supreme Moslem Council 
has agreed in principle progressively to diminish the deficit by 
reduction of expenditure and the increase of fees. The Government 
of Palestine considers therefore that it is justified in predicting that 
a stage will be reached within the measurable future when the 
administration of the Moslem Religious Courts will involve no charge 
on public funds. In these circumstances the main thesis of the 
Va‘ad Leumi that the Jewish Religious Courts should receive a 
subvention from Government proportionate to that indirectly 
granted to the Moslem Religious Courts cannot be sustained, as the 
circumstance by which it is sought to justify the claim is of a 
transient and progressively disappearing character. There is, in 
fact, no permanency of treatment of the Moslem Religious Courts 
which warrants equality of treatment of the Jewish Religious Courts, 
such as exists, for example, in the case of the respective school 
systems. 


In the issue, therefore, the High Commissioner was constrained 
to adhere to the attitude that the Government of Palestine cannot 
admit any obligation either to extend to other communities the 
system adopted in the case of the Moslem Religious Courts, or to 
grant subsidies to Religious Courts whose expenditure is not under 
Government control. Nevertheless Government recognises respon- 
sibility itself to provide, in the absence of suitable alternative 
arrangements, a means whereby questions of personal status may 
be sukmitted to judgment in accordance with the religious law of 
the communities concerned and therefore, if the Jewish community 
so desires, Government will be prepared to make arrangements for 
the administration of the appropriate law of personal status by the 
civil courts of the countrv. 


XI.—_MILITARY CLAUSES. 


The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prison 
Services in 1985 was £P.514,641. 


The strength at the 31st December was as under :— 





€88'Z | O3L‘S | g OSE | Z8e°T| 06% | 669 | SIT 





OO€ | F836 — 18 OV | 9E — | &I 


€89°% | 9EF'S | 9 Zhe | SFI‘T| FSS | 69 | OOT 


€ | OF 
¥ ¥ 
6I | &F 





"eL0poadsuy 70,7, 





"eLopoadsuy 


"URUNISOIDT 
YUM 


"SUDIELY) 


rh 
~~ 


"8490TQ 1240.1, 


*SLoyuiO 





4 € 8 ge | °° i a4" / 


“" GOIAIOS Ost eq], 
Q010J OI]Og OUT 


snap 
"919780 JT 
"UDIUNSAIDd 
YSrpeegT 


"SUDTSLYD 


“24200 





97 


2. Compared with the previous year, the Police Force was 
increased by a Deputy District Superintendent, two Inspectors, 
five corporals and 26 constables (British) ; and by five Inspectors, 
three sergeants, seven corporals and 85 constables (Palestinian). 


These increases were necessitated by the growth in population, 
particularly in Haifa and Tel Aviv, and the development of 
suburban areas in the vicinity of the larger towns, laying heavy 
burdens upon the police for the maintenance of public security and 
the preservation of property. 


To relieve the pressure of responsibility upon the Superintendent 
of the Northern District, that charge was divided and a new Police 
District formed, including Nazareth, Tiberias and Safad. A large 
proportion of the new personnel taken on during the year was 
drafted to Tel Aviv, where a new police station was opened, and 
the police station for the environs of Jaffa was considerably 
reinforced. 


The Marine Preventive Unit, which has the difficult task of 
checking attempts at illegal landings along an exposed seaboard 
with many points of easy access, now consists of an Inspector, a 
sergeant, three corporals, and five constables (British); and a 
sergeant, two corporals, and 27 constables (Palestinian). A Force 
of 118 N.C.O.s and men is maintained to patrol the land frontier 
for the prevention of illegal immigration. The wireless section 
of the Police Force, running now a total of 20 stations and 
handling a million and a quarter words in the year, was also 
enlarged, and consists of trained men. There was also an increase 
in the traffic section, to which, in view of the greatly increased 
volume of traffic and the larger responsibilities attaching to its 
control, three Inspectors were appointed for Jaffa, Haifa and 
Jerusalem. 


3. The health of the Force was uniformly good throughout the 
vear. 


4. 226 British and 314 Palestinian non-commissioned officers 
and constables sat for the Proficiency Pay examination, and 133 
and 143 passed respectively ; the minimum pass mark has been 
raised from 50 per cent. to 65 per cent. By this examination the 
standard of professional qualifications within the Force is being 
raised. 


d. Sixty-four British and Palestinian recruits were in training 
at the beginning of the year, and 399 recruits were subsequently 
accepted during the year ; 331 finished their course and were posted 
to Districts. Refresher or promotional courses were held at the 
British and Palestinian depots, and were attended by 173 men: 
eight of the non-commissioned officers attending were appointed to 
the inspectorate. 


98 


6. In the higher examination for colloquial vernacular, 36 British 
policemen passed in Arabic and seven in Hebrew, and in the lower, 
100 passed in Arabic and 34 in Hebrew. Thirty-eight Palestinian 
non-commissioned officers and constables passed the higher 
standard language examination and 270 the lower. 


7. The standard of British recruits is maintained at a high level, 
and many well-educated young men are now serving in the Force. 
One was appointed to commissioned rank in Palestine; and eight 
were given commissioned rank in Colonial Dependencies. 


8. Of the First Aid Division Police, 176 members qualified in 
various tests held by the Order of St. John of Jerusalem. 


There are now 618 officers and men competent to render first 
aid to the injured; while 32 officers have acquired proficiency 
under the tests of the Royal Life Saving Society, of which a branch 
now exists in Palestine. An Assistant Superintendent and a 
British Corporal were awarded the Bronze Medal and Certificate 
of the Royal Humane Society for bravery in saving life during the 
February floods. 


9. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners has been uniformly 
good. 


At the end of the year there were 26 inmates in the Criminal 
Lunatic Section and fourteen prisoners in the Tubercular Ward 
of the Central Prison, Acre. 


No prisoners escaped from the precincts of the Central Prisons ; 
thirty escaped whilst on outside labour, and seventeen were re- 
captured. 


24 boys escaped from the Reformatory School at Tulkarm, of 
whom 22 were recaptured or returned voluntarily. 


Under the Penal Labour Ordinance 6,749 prisoners were released 
and employed on services of public utility. No wages were paid 
to them for this work. 


A daily average of 674 convicted prisoners in Jail Labour Com- 
panies were employed on road making, quarrying, and railway 
ballasting. 


In the Central Prison the convicts are employed on the manu- 
facture and repairing of furniture for public offices, making of earth 
baskets for the Department of Public Works, prisoners’ clothing, 
sleeping mats and sandals, iron-work for prisons and Government 
Departments and the repair of mail bags. A printing press 1s 
also run by prison labour. The prisoners receive no payment fol 
their work. 


99 


The number of prisoners in confinement on the 3lst December 
was as follows :— 


Convicted. Unconvicted. 


Central Prison, Jerusalem Sat 388 90 
Central Prison, Acre... Shs 460 96 
Jail Labour Company, No. 1 ... 332 — 
Jail Labour Company, No. 2 ... 310 — 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem ... 38 17 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups ... 22 46 
Northern District Lock-ups__... 4 21 
Southern District Lock-ups_.... 37 127 
Gaza District Lock-ups ... Ke 36 27 
Nablus District Lock-ups ste 15 21 
Nazareth District Lock-ups_... 38 27 

Total ... dies 1,680 472 


——- 


The distribution of sentences was as follows :—Debtors, 34; up to 
3 months, 34; 3-12 months, 556; 1-5 years, 328; 5-15 years, 354; 
over 15 years, 23; Life, 43; Capital Punishment, 1. 


_ At the end of the year, 196 convicted offenders and six boys await- 
ing trial were under detention in the Reformatory School: the 
average age on admission was 13 years and 3 months. 


It is now possible by Rule under the Prisons Ordinance to remove 
to the Central Prison any boy whose presence in a Reformatory is 
prejudicial to discipline. Actually the necessity has not vet arisen 
to exercise the power. 


During the year 1,801 debtors were imprisoned, as compared 
with 1,274 in 1934. 


Rules have been made which provide that whenever for any cause, 
which may include the abstinence from food, the life or health of a 
prisoner is endangered, the Medical Officer may give such direction 
as to the treatment of the prisoner as may be deemed necessary. 


10. Crime.—The Criminal Investigation Department is under 
the command of a Deputy Inspector-General, and the staff consists 
of five Assistant Superintendents, five Inspectors, three Sergeants, 
two Corporals, 21 Detectives and 15 Clerks. 


The duties of the Department are to prevent and detect crime 
by the collection of information and evidence and by investigations 
in collaboration with the District Police, to watch and report upon 
political movements, to repress seditious activities, to maintain 
criminal records, finger-prints and photographs, to examine the 
regular organs of the Press and occasional pamphlets with a view 
to action in case of seditious, inflammatory or pornographic articles, 
to prevent the smuggling of arms, drugs and illegal immigrants, to 
scrutinize applications for naturalization, to arrange deportations and 
extraditions and to maintain liaison with appropriate departments 
and authorities in Egypt, Syria, Trans-Jordan, India, ‘Iraq, Cyprus, 
and Europe. The Department is charged with providing a close 


100 


appreciation of the state of public security from the political and 
criminal standpoints and with reporting regularly to Government 
on these matters. Censorship of foreign newspapers is occasionally 
undertaken. 


Indictable and non-indictable offences :— 





1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 


Indictable offences... sie ae 4,815 4,133 2,881 2,172 1,753 
Non-indictable offences... ... | 28,008 | 17,950 9,721 8,454 | 10,525 





Incidence of the more serious crimes :— 






Murder 


Attempted murder... ne ae 145 115 
Highway robbery . si 98 32 
Theft by breaking into premises 811 858 
Animal theft aan sae 509 393 
Agrariancrime ... ... ...| 1,048 443 





There has been a natural increase of thefts by breaking into 
premises in and around Jerusalem, Jaffa, and Haifa, but the in- 
crease in Tel Aviv was regrettably large, 283 cases being reported 
in 1935 as compared with 21 last year. 


Kuropean crooks in Tel Aviv are indulging in crimes almost 
unknown in Palestine a few years ago such as counterfeiting, 
scientific safe breaking, passport and visa forgeries and bank frauds. 


Police dogs were employed during the year on the detection of 
crimes, particularly of an agrarian character. Ninety-five cases 
were thus investigated with very satisfactory results. 


The following table shows the cases on which police dogs were 
employed this year :— 


Agrarian Crime and Malicious damage ban nA 37 
Murder oe ae se: Hs - oe 15 
Attempted Murder 258 we on See ee 6 
Housebreaking ... se ahs ee ve See 16 
Theft oe ie a ahs sh ee a 14 
Escaped prisoner ae 1 
Highway Robbery and Robbery with violence... D 
Arson Ss see 1 


Total ... wae ate es ae bb 95 


101 


Juvenile wrong-doing in the principal towns is still a cause for 
serious concern ; it is on this account that the Government Proba- 
tion Service extends its activities as elsewhere described in this 
report. 

Three persons were extradited from Palestine to Syria, two to 
Egypt, and 35 to Trans-Jordan, and 12 were extradited from Syria 
to Palestine, 18 from Trans-Jordan, and one from Austria. 


ll. Criminal Records Office. —The Criminal Records and Finger- 
print Bureau now holds 35,855 dossiers of convicted criminals : 
6,560 were opened during 1935. Fingerprint Identification Slips 
received for search numbered 8,349, and in 1,987 cases previous 
convictions were traced. 

In 18 cases fingerprints found on the scene of crime were identi- 
fed; and by this means also eight cases of previous undetected 
crimes were brought home to arrested persons. 

Known and suspected communists continue to be kept under 
systematic supervision. 


12. Communism.—Communist activity continues to demand 
constant police surveillance ; of 89 communists prosecuted, six were 
bound over for various periods, 27 were acquitted, and 36 convicted 
to terms of imprisonment ranging from one month to nine months, 
with reeommendations by the Courts in 15 instances to be deported. 
Fourteen communists were bound over under the Prevention of. 
Cnmes Ordinance, during periods of political tension. 

Thirty-three communists were deported; orders of exclusion, 
mainly on acount of subversive activity, were made in 70 cases. 

Deportation orders executed against persons found to be in 
Palestine without permission :— 


Jews. Arabs. Others. Total. 


For illegal entry ds : ei 245 769 65 1,079 
For overstaying period of visa is 10 1 ] 12 
For other offences... bi ies 1] 30 — 4] 


In addition 1,354 persons (38 Jews, 1,256 Arabs, and 60 others) 
were summarily ejected at the frontiers. 


13. Reformatory Institutions.—Until recently the only reforma- 
tory school for boys in Palestine was at Tulkarm, and in it all young 
offenders of ages ranging from 9 to 18 years had to be accommo- 
dated, notwithstanding disparity of age and condition. 

Arrangements have now been made to move the older boys from 
Tulkarm and employ them in useful agricultural pursuits, under 
proper supervision, at the Government Stock Farm in Acre. Some 
48 boys are already living at the Farm, in tents, and will shortly be 
transferred to up-to-date hutments which are being built for their 
accommodation. 

There is also an Adolescent Prisoners Camp at Acre for convicts 
who, although too old to be treated as young offenders and be sent 
to the Reformatory Camp, are yet worthy of a special effort on the 


102 


part of Government to prevent them from association in gaol with © 
hardened criminals, | 

There is a third Camp at Acre for the segregation of selected © 
prisoners who are undergoing their first sentence. 

These three places of confinement are distinct and separate but all . 
the inmates are occupied upon agricultural tasks on the Government | 
Farm; and besides elementary and practical instruction in hus- 
bandry, the young offenders are given general education in suitable 
subjects by qualified teachers. 

Plans have been prepared to establish Remand Homes in the © 
three principal towns for the committal, pending trial, of young | 
offenders who are unable to produce bail. At present such boys 
are remanded to the Reformatory School at Tulkarm but they have, 
of necessity, to spend some time in ordinary prisons or lock-ups 
before they are committed to Tulkarm, and these intervals of — 
ordinary detention, however short, may expose them to undesirable 
influences. 

The Remand Homes will be conducted on the same lines as 
Reformatory Schools and the education of the boys will be 
continued. 

In addition a scheme is under consideration for the establishment 
of a Reformatory on the principles of the cottage home. A rural 
site has been provisionally selected south of Jerusalem, on which, 
in the first instance, a building could be put up to accommodate 
about 25 boys. There, too, agriculture would be practiséd, and a 
general training imparted. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


14. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force including 
the Reserve, at the 3lst December, 1935, was 1,041, made up as 
follows :— 








#|& ? 
x : 8 

oe § 3 ; § 
S)a)d le) a/ab) dls 
Q x S a) 5S | Qr ~~ 

Officers ... sine aoe 21 8 8 7 3 | — 2 49 

Warrant Officers se 6); — — — — as mee 6 

Staff Sergeants... ae 1] — — — — — = l 

N.C.O.8 and Troopers... | — 403 | 205 | 130 17 46 17 | 818 


eee | epee | Omer | ee | eee | ee | 





Reserve N.C.O.s and 
Men ... _ any 


eee | ete | ees | eee | eet eee | oe | 





Grand total ... 28 | 5624, 235) 159 20 46 29 | 1,041 





103 


Recruits enlisted during the year numbered 113, of whom 48 
were Arab Moslems, 36 Arak Christians, 14 Circassians, 8 Sudanese 
and Egyptians, 4 Druzes, and 3 Jews. 


The number of men discharged on termination of contract or 
otherwise was 106, of whom 16 were enrolled in the Reserve, 
and 148 other ranks, time-expired, have been re-engaged for a 
further contract. 


The discipline of the Force continues to be satisfactory. There 
were no desertions, nor has any man been tried by court-martial. 
The amount collected in fines for the commission of minor offences 
was considerably reduced. 


15. The general health of the Force during the year has not 
been so good as in previous years, owing to an increased incidence 
of malaria in Zerka and Jordan Area stations : there were 278 cases 
of malaria, including 112 primary. 

Cases to the number of 582 were treated in hospitals of the Force, 
and 19 in Government and other hospitals. 


16. The animal strength at the end of the year was 438 horses 
and 9 mules. During the year, 41 horses were purchased—16 in 
Palestine, 13 in Trans-Jordan, and 12 in Egypt. 


17. Operations and Training.—The Force was not engaged in any 
active operations during the year. 


Individual and collective training and co-operational training 
with the Royal Air Force were carried out in accordance with the 
programme laid down. 


The annual courses for rifle, machine-gun, and light automatic 
revealed a satisfactory standard in weapon training. 


18. Education.—The progress of educational classes during the 
year vas satisfactory. 247 other ranks passed the examinations 
held for second and third class certificates. 


The school for children of other ranks at Zerka is now self- 


supporting from school fees. The attendance was good and the 
results are gratifying. There is a similar school at Maan. 


19. Estimates.—The approved estimates of the Force for the 
year 1935-36 amount to £P202,614, including £P22,394 extra- 
ordinary expenditure. 

The approved estimated grant-in-aid from the Imperial Govern- 
ment amounts to £P147,500. 

Actual expenditure in 1934-35 amounted to a total of £P191,757 
including £P26,592 extraordinary expenditure. 


104 


XII.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 


AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syria 


Country. 


Syria 


Syria és 
Trans-Jordan 


Country. 
Egypt 


Egypt 
Egypt 


France 


Great Britain 


‘Iraq : 
Switzerland 
Syria 


Syria 


Palestine. 


G2) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum 
Amendment 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramleh. 
11.7.21, Palestine. 
15.7.21, Syria. 
10.1.24, Palestine. 
28.1.24, Syria. 
11.9.33, Palestine. 
23.9.33, Syria. 


(11) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Customs Agreement ... 


Amendment 
Transit Agreement 


(11) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 
Name. 
Convention concerning the Reciprocal 
Enforcement of Judgments. 
Agreement concerning the Measures 
to be applied for the Control of 
Dengue Fever. 
Arrangements for the 
Palestinian Pilgrims 
Egyptian Territory. 
Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of Palestine on 
the one part and by France on 


Transit of 
through 


behalf of Syria and Great Lebanon 


on the other part. 

Agreement between the Post Office 
of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland and the Post 
Office of Palestine for the Exchange 
of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement 2 

Agreement concerning the Importa- 
tion of Antiquities. 

Agreement to provide for the Distri- 
bution of certain Receipts from 
Animal Tax. 


Date of Signature, 
4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.65.29, Beirut. 
22.10.35, Jerusalem. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 

Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


Date of Signature. 
12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


28.12.33, Cairo. 
(Effective date). 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Jerusalem. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


105 


Country. Name. Date of Signature. 
- Syria. .-- Parcel Post Agreement wis ..» 28.10.29/7.11.29. 
Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 
Syria lw. .-. Money Orders Agreement... .. 17.1.30/25.2.30. 
Syria ... Agreement regarding Measures to 30.3.27. 
combat Cattle Plague. 

Syria and the Agreement for the Reciprocal Grant 20.8.32, Jerusalem. 

Lebanon. of Gratis Visas. 5.9.32, Beirut. 


Trans-Jordan ... Agreement for the Taking of Evidence 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
on Commission for the purpose of 6.3.29, Amman. 
any Criminal or Civil Matter. 

TransJordan ... Agreement as to the Circulation of 14.11.29, Jerusalem. 


Motor Vehicles. 
Trans-Jordan ... Agreement regarding the Interchange 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
of Judicial Documents. 6.3.29, Amman. 
Trans-Jordan ... Agreement regarding the Conveyance 1.10.29. 


of Corpses from Palestine for 
Burial in Trans-Jordan and from 
Trans-Jordan for Burial in Palestine. 
Trans-Jordan ... Extradition Agreement a ... 16.7.34 (Amended 
24.8.35/1.9.35). 
Trans-Jordan ... Agreement to Regulate the Service 23.11.34, Amman. 
of Judicial Documents between 13.12.34, Jerusalem. 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 
United States of Convention regarding the Rights of 3.12.24. 
America. the Government and Nationals of 
the United States of America in 
Palestine. 


Agreements concluded in 1935. 


Syria. ... Agreement to facilitate the movement 12.8.35, Jerusalem. 
of certain animals from one territory 
into the other for purposes of 
grazing and watering. 

Syria =ti«ws. Sis. )~0 Agreement relating to the circulation 18.9.35, Jerusalem. 
of motor vehicles. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Date of Date of 
Name. Signature. Accession. 

International Convention prohibiting the Use of White 26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
(Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches. Berne. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 

International Opium Convention and subsequent 23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
relative papers. The Hague. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. Berne. 

Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit .. 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 

, Barcelona. 

Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 

Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 20.4.21, 9.10.22. 
having no Sea Coast. Barcelona. (Ratification). 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 12.9.23, 23.5.27. 


Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. Geneva. 


106 


Name. 
Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial matters) 


International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol 
of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Ports and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit 
of Electric Power and Protocol of Signature. 

International Agreement as to Contagious Diseases 
of Animals. 

International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Explora- 
tion of the Mediterranean Sea. 

International Convention for the unification of certain 
rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circulation of 
Motor Vehicles. 


Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial Navi- 
gation and Additional Protocol of May, 1920. 


International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 
International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 


Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in the — 


Field. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement regarding False Indications 
of Origin on Goods. 


International Convention for the Protection of 
Industrial Property. 


European Broadcasting Convention 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
Geneva 
3.11.23, 29.8.24 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
25.1.24, 13.7.27. 
Paris 
21.6.26, 9.10.28. 
Paris 
26.4.29, 19.12.29. 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31 
Brussels (Effective 
date) 
24.4.26, 4.12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date). 
13.10.19. 11.7.22 
(Effective 
date). 
22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
Paris. 
19.2.25, 25.9.28 
Geneva. (Effective 
Date). 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 26.6.31. 
Geneva. 
27.7.29, 23.6.31 
Geneva. (Ratification) 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
18.5.04, 6.5.32 
Paris. (Effective 
4.5.10, 
Paris. date) 


30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 
Geneva. 


6.11.25. 12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 

6.11.25 12.9.33 
The Hague. (Effective 
date). 

19.6.33, 15.1.34, 
Lucerne. (Effective 


date). 


107 


International Conventions adhered to in 1935. 


Date of Date of 
‘ Signature. Accession. 
International Convention for Mutual Protection 25.7.34. 3.5.35. 
against Dengue Fever. Athens. 
International Convention for Sanitary Control of Aerial 12.4.33, 1.8.35. 
Navigation. The Hague 
International Telecommunications Convention 9.12.32, 24.5.35. 
Madrid. 
Universal Postal Convention 20.3.34 1.1.35. 
Cairo 
Agreement concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 20.3.34 1.1.35. 
Cairo 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. 


Date of Signature. 


Between United Kingdom and 22.7.26 


Albania. 
Austria 


Czechoslovakia 


Denmark 
Ecuador 
Estonia 


Finland... 
Germany 


Netherlands 


Nicaragua 
Norway 


Panama 
teed 
Peru 


Poland .. 


3.12.1873 
26.6.1901 
29.10.01, 
5.3.07, 
3.3.1], 

8.8.23 and 
2.7.28. 
22.2.1892 
26.1.1897 
27.10.1888 
2.12.29. ... 
3.10.1904 
17.4.1930. 
11.11.24, ban 
Protocol 4.6.26. 
31.3.1873 
20.9.1880 
18.11.25 
30.5.24 ... 
14.5.1872 and 
10.12.1928 
24.9.10 
4.7.1885 
7.12.1874 


3.12.1873 and 26.6. 1901 


2.5.1932 
16.7.24  ... 
16.12.1892 
18.5.26 


17.12.91 and 27.11.30 ... 


26.9.1898 
19.4.1905 
26.6.1873 
18.2.1907. 
25.8.1906 
12.9.1908 
26.1.1904 
11.1.1932 


Date of Application. 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


23.1.28. 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


18.2.28. 
13.1.28. 
5.12.30 (Effective date). 


12.12.31 (Effective date) 
15.7.27. 


10.2.28. 

19.1.28. 

10.3.27. 

25.11.26. 

17.8.30 (Effective date). 


19.4.28. 

11.9.29. 

13.1.28. 

25.4.28. 

15.6.33 (Effective date). 
7.6.26. 

16.10.28. 

29.3.27 (Ratification). 
5.7.31 (Effective date). 
27.1.28. 

12.1.28. 

13.12.29. 


24.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
12.3.34 (Effective date). 


Country. 


Portugal 


Roumania 

San Marino 

San Salvador ... 
Siam aie 
Spain 


Switzerland 


United States of America 


Yugoslavia 


108 


Date of Signature. 

17.10.1892 

20.1.1932. 

21.3.1893 11.1.29. 
16.10.1899 

23.6.1881 

4.3.1911 27.2.28. 
4.6.1878 and 13.2.28. 
19.2.1889. 

26.11.1880 19.9.29. 
29.6.1904. 

22.12.31 24.6.35. 
6.12.1900 1.11.28. 


Date of Application. 
23.6.34 (Effective date). 


19.7.34 (Effective date). 
8.8.30 (Effective date). 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in list 
{A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. Mexico. 
France. Tunis. 
Italy. Uruguay. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. 


Between the United 


Kingdom and 
Austria 


Bulgaria 
Czechoslovakia 
Egypt 

Finland 
Finland 


Germany 


Greece 


Greece 
Hungary 


Japan 


Latvia 


Name. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 

Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 ee 

Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.30, Cairo 

Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of 

Prolongation until 16.2.36 by Notes of _... 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14.12.33. 

Convention regarding the Suppression of 
Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 
into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2.12.24, London. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 
Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
23.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 


Date of 
Application. 


5.6.26. 


2.12.27. 
13.4.28. 
25.2.29. 


5.6.25. 
11.6.30. 
16/19.2.33. 
13/15.2.35. 
13.2.26. 


13.10.33. 


2.12.26. 
21.6.29, 
5.7.29 
(Effective 
date). 
23.3.27. 
9.7.29. 


1.6.30. 


25.5.24. 


Country. 


Lithuania 


Panama 
Poland 


Portugal 
Spain 

Spain ... 
Yugoslavia 


109 


Name. 


Agreement respecting Commercial Relations 
6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 

Exchange of Notes 28.11/10.12.1929, modi- 
fying this agreement. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.28. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 

Trade Agreement, 27.2.1935 

Notes on Flag Discrimination in Portuguese 
Ports, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 

Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 

12.5.27. 


Date of 
A pplication. 
24.4.23. 
10.12.29. 
2/19.9.32. 
19.6.24. 


24.7.35. 
14.10.33. 


6.8.31. 
1.12.28. 
4.4.28. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Country. 


Austria 

Belgium 
Cechoslovakia 
Denmark 
Estonia 


France 


ltaly ... 


Netherlands ... 


Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Name. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 31.3.31, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 21.6.22, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 11.11.24. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 29.11.32, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 22.12.31, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 2.2.22, 
London. 

Extension to French Colonies and Territories 
under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 1.8.33. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 20.3.28. 


Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certificates 
and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 25.1.29. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 17.12.30, 
London. 

Notes respecting Documents of Identity for 
Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.31, London. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 


Date of 
Application. 
1.4.32 

(Effective 
date). 
13.3.25. 
(Kffective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 
date). 
27.3.34 
(Effective 
date). 
11.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
22.3.23 
(Effective 
date). 
20.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
25.11.29 
(Effective 
date). 
11/25.8.30. 


25.8.32 
(Effective 
date). 
13.4.31. 


1.12.29 

(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 


110 


Country. Name. Date of 
Application 
Netherlands ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 23.5.34 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 31.5.32, (Effective 
London. date). 
Norway sins ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 14.11.31 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 30.1.31, (Effective 
London. date). 
Poland ius ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 17.10.32 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 26.8.31, (Effective 
Warsaw. date). 
Portugal abe ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 30.4.33 
Civil and Commercial Matters 9.7.31, (Effective 
London. date). 
Spain be ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 23.2.3] 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 27.6.29, (Effective 
London. date). 
Sweden es ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 23.2.31 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 28.8.30, (Effective 
London. date). 
Conventions applied in 1935. 
Belgium ek ... Supplementary Convention regarding Legal 27.6.35 
Proceedings in Civil and Commercial (Effective 
Matters, 4.11.32, Brussels. date). 
Finland eh .... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 4.6.35 
Civil and Coaitneteial” Matters, 11.8.33, (Effective 
London. date). 


XIII.— ANTIQUITIES. 


1. During the year the Antiquities (Enclosures) Ordinance was 
promulgated. The Ordinance makes provision for the regulation 
of the Palestine Archsological Museum and Library and other 
premises occupied by the Department of Antiquities. 


2. Licences have been issued for archzological excavations. 
soundings, or clearances, at the following sites :— 


(a) Tall al-Nasbeh, by Dr. W. F. Bade, for the Palestine 
Institute of the Pacific School of Religion, Berkeley, 
California. 

(b) Isbeita, by Mr. H. Dunscombe Colt, for the British 
School of Archzology in Jerusalem. 

(c) Et-Tell, by Madam Krause-Marquet, for Baron James 
de Rothschild. 

(d) Urtas, Dair el Banat (Soundings), by the Reverend 
Father P. Duvignau. 

(e) Tell Duweir, by. Mr. J. Li. Starkey, for the Wellcome 
Archeological Research Expedition to the Near East. 

(f) Bethlehem. Ard el Baten, by Miss E. W. Gardner, for 
the Wellcome Archeological Research Expedition to the Near 
Kast. | 

(g) Samaria, by Mr. W. J. Crowfoot, for the British School 
of Archeology in Jerusalem. | 


111 


(h) Jebal Kafzeh (near Nazareth), by Monsieur R. Neuville, 
lor l'Institut de Paléontologie Humaine, Paris. 

() Tall al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), (Clearance), by Mr. 
Robert S. Lamon, for the Oriental Institute of the University 
of Chicago. 

(j) “Auja el Hafir (Clearance and Soundings), by Mr. T. J. 
Colin Baly, for the British School of Archseology in Jerusalem. 

(k) Wadt al-Mughara and Wad: Fallah (Athlit), (Sound- 
ings), by Miss D. A. E. Garrod. 

(l) Jisr banat Ya‘qub (Soundings), by Miss D. A. E. Garrod. 

(m) Jerusalem, Solomon’s Quarries (Clearances), by Mr. 
R. Monckton. 

(n) Tabgha, Grotto of Beatitudes (Clearance), by the 
Reverend Father Bellaraino Bagatti, for the Custodian of 
Terra Santa. 

(0) Kh. Minyeh (Soundings), by the Rev. Father Koeppel. 

(p) Tall al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), by Mr. Gordon Loud, for 
the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(q) Jerusalem, Valley of the Judges (Clearance), by Pro- 
fessor K. Galling. 

(r) Jerusalem, Kedron Valley (Clearances), by Dr. E. L. 
Sukenik, for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(s) Tell Keisan (Soundings), by Professor J. Garstang, for 
the Institute of Archeology of the University of Liverpool. 

(t) Jisr Banat Ya‘qub (Soundings), by Mr. M. Stekelis, for 
the Hebrew University. 

(u) Tell el-Sultan (Jericho), by Professor J. Garstang, for 
the Institute of Archeology of the University of Liverpool. 

(vl) Qades (Soundings), by Professor J. Garstang, for the 
Institute of Archsology of the University of Liverpool. 

(w) Anata Village (Soundings), by the Director of the 
American School of Oriental Research. 

(t) Tiberias (Soundings) by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 


3. The Inspectorate of the Government Department has been 
“ccupied in preventing damage to historical sites and monuments, 
and in Investigating, by systematic excavation and other means, 
discoveries of antiquities made either by the Department or in the 
“ourse of agricultural, industrial and other works. 


r The Department’s work at Athlit has continued under the direc- 
"00 of the Field Archeologist, who has also conducted excavations 
the Citadel at Jerusalem. An excavation on the Byzantine site 
_ “ Aurbet el Mefjir (near Jericho) was initiated during 1935. 


me labrary.—The main work has been the transference of the 

| ey and their arrangement on the stacks or on the reading-room 

of ni in conformity with the subject catalogue. The labelling 
© books is -well ‘advanced. 


112 
The subject-catalogue has been extended, and many cross- - 
references have been added. 


As soon as the labelling is finished, the shelf numbers will be 
entered in the authors’ and subject catalogues. 


Books added ... Sod ec 173 (324 volumes) 
Periodicals exchanged es 88 
Periodicals received (including 

above)... i = es 129 


Records.—The re-arrangement of records on the loose-leaf file 
system has been continued, and has now reached the letter P. At 
the same time many new sites are being added. Complete sets of 
the photographs of the more important sites are being made by the 
staff photographers as opportunity arises ; among sets recently com- 
pleted are Nazareth, Cesarea and Petra. 


Quarterly.—Parts 1 and 2 of Volume V have appeared. Parts 3 
and 4 are in the press. 


Mr. Hamilton’s Excavations at Tell Abu Hawam and Mr. Avi- 
Yonah’s Mosaic Pavements in Palestine have been published 
separately. 


5. Museum.—Packing of the antiquities was continued during 
the first part of the year, and finished by the end of May. There- 
upon the new Museum was taken over and almost all the anti- 
quities were transferred from the old building during the first 
fortnight of June. Eleven heavy stone objects remain to be 
transported, when supports have been constructed for their 
reception. 


During the year, 4,500 new accessions were inventoried. Some 
10,000 flint tools were classified and catalogued in detail for the 
card catalogue by a specialist, who was engaged for that work for 
three months. 


Divisions were made with twelve archaeological expeditions. 


A Catalogue of Egyptian Scarabs, etc., is being printed by the 
Press of |’Institut Francais d’Archéologie Orientale, Cairo. 


The development of the photographic section, in order to deal 
with the considerable and increasing demands upon it, has beer 
continued. MRe-organisation has included the taking over of more 
than 11,000 negatives from the Records Office, and their re-classi- 
fication and re-housing on a new and more convenient system. 
Albums of photographs for sale are in preparation. Much nev 
apparatus is being purchased, again to equip the photographic 
section on modern lines, and to enable work to be carried out wit! 
economy and despatch. 


A chemist was appointed and took up his duties in June. He 
will remain for two years, during which time he will train s 
Palestinian to succeed him. He has begun work on the large 
accumulations of objects to be treated from past years. 


113 


Unpacking of the antiquities began in August. About 125 cases 
(out of 310) have been unpacked, and their contents studied, with 
a view of deciding on their eventual] destination, i.e., for Public 
Exhibition, Students’ Galleries, or Reserve Collections. 


Plans for exhibition await a decision by Government on the 
means of providing certain structural works and fittings. 


Some 10,000 flint tools have, after classification and cataloguing, 
been installed in cabinets in one of the Students’ Galleries. These 
cover the whole range of the Stone Age in Palestine, from Lower 
Palaeolithic to Mesolithic, and thus provide a fully documented 
series for students. 


It is proposed to open the Museum to the puklic when the in- 
stallation of the Stone and Bronze Ages has been completed, 1.e., 
toc. 1200 B.C. Work will thereafter continue on the Iron Age 
and its sub-divisions. 


An arrangement has been concluded with Trans-Jordan by which 
the principal moveable antiquities originating in that territory are 
housed and exhibited on loan in the Palestine Archaeological 
Museum. They will take their place in the chronological scheme. 


6. The Conservation of Antiquitties.—According to the Anti- 
quities Ordinance, 1929, the term ‘‘ Antiquity ’’ includes historical 
monument and means— 


(a) any object, whether movable or immovable or a part 
of the soil, which has been constructed, shaped, inscribed, 
erected, excavated or otherwise produced or modified by human 
agency earlier than the year 1700 A.D., together with any 
part thereof which has at a later date been added, recon- 
structed or restored, and 

(b) human and animal remains of a date earlier than the 
year 600 A.D., and 

(c) any building or construction of a date later than the year 
1700 A.D., which the Director may by notice published in the 
Official Gazette declare to be an antiquity. 


Broadly, the operations needed for the conservation of antiquities 
as defined are of two categories— 


(a) the conservation of movable antiquities, 


(b) the conservation of immovable antiquities, 1.e., historical 
monuments and historical sites. 


The movable antiquities acquired by the Government either as 
the result of licensed excavations or of excavations carried out by 
the Department are conserved by cleaning, mending, repairing and 
other treatment carried out in the repair shop and laboratory of 
the Museum. Where, as in the case of human and animal remains, 
the Department is not equipped to undertake certain highly 


specialized work arrangements are made for this to be done by 
qualified persons or bodies. 


114 


The Department does not at present include a technical con- 
servation section staffed and equipped for the specialized work of 
conserving ancient buildings. Therefore its work in regard to im- | 
movable antiquities is confined to the following— 


(1) The preparation of reports for submission to the Govern- 
ment, or to the Department of Public Works, on the con- 
dition of monuments, together with general suggestions as to 
the measures needed to prevent collapse. A token vote is in- 
cluded in the budget of the Department of Antiquities for 
the purposes of defraying the cost of any works that may be. 
carried out by the Department of Public Works, while other 
provision is made under the heading ‘‘ Public Works Extra-— 
ordinary ’’ in the budget of the Department of Puklic Works. | 

(2) Reporting to the Government in regard to any proposed | 
destruction of monuments in order to enable the Government 
to decide whether any given monument that may be threatened 
with destruction shall be destroyed or retained. 

(8) Recording by photography, drawings and description 
any antiquities found in the course of industrial or other works, | 
of which the preservation is not possible. 7 

(4) Preventing, by means of the Department’s Inspectorate, 
illicit excavation for. antiquities. 

(5) Preserving, so far as possible unimpaired, the value of | 
historical sites as fields for scientific excavation. 

(6) Making recommendations to the Government in regard 
to any action that may be needed for protecting and enhancing» 
the amenities and historical integrity of important historical | 
sites against the dangers of commercial and industrial encroach- | 
ment. 


7. During the year 1935 the repair of St. Helena’s cistern at 
Ramleh has been completed by the Department of Public Works 
in consultation with the Department of Antiquities. Repairs to the 
Walls of Jerusalem have been carried a stage further, while the 
measures taken by the Public Works Department to protect cer-— 
tain mosaic floors discovered at Beisan have been essentially 
completed. 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


1. The practice of the Palestine Government is in acordance with | 
Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which reads as 
follows :— | 


‘¢ All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of the 
Government and all official notices of local authorities and 3 
municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the High — 
Commissioner, shall be published in English, Arabic and 
Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates and 


115 


discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to any 
regulations to be made from time to time, in the Government 
offices and the Law Courts.”’ 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to the 
use of English, Arabic and Hebrew in the Law Courts was more 
exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows :— 

‘* In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a trilingual 
area, every process, every official copy of a judgment, and 
every official document shall be issued in the language of the 
person to whom it is addressed, and written and oral pleadings 
shall be conducted in any of the three official languages. The 
Legal Secretary may from time to time issue rules* restricting 
the languages of pleading in any Court or class of Courts 
outside the trilingual areas. 

“In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court shall, 
and in other area may, accept a declaration and register a 
document in any of the three official languages.”’ 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, Haifa, 
and Jaffa, and also the district of Jaffa and sub-districts of Tiberias 
and Safad. The recognition of the three languages in the Courts 
involves some complication in the hearing of cases, and occasionally 
trials are protracted. The rules have, however, on the whole 
worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and com- 
mittees, and departmental publications are published in English, 
arabic, and Hebrew. 


4. For the use of Hebrew characters in transmitting inland 
telegrams see Chapter XXIV—paragraph 15. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix IX to the 
Report for 1930. + 

The opportunity is taken to correct an error which appeared 
under Appendix IX, page 257, line 6, of the Annual Report for 
1930, in regard to Jewish Festivals. 

The word “‘ Feasts ’’ appearing in that line was, of course, a 
misprint for ““ Fasts ’’. 


* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 
+ Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 75, 1931. 


116 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 


See separate section on T'rans-Jordan, pages 273 to 355. 


XVII.—LABOUR, 


The international labour conventions applied to Palestine are s 
out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 1933. 


. 2. ‘The Permanent Mandates Commission has asked for inform: 
tion on the new definition of unemployment adopted in Septembe 
1934.* That definition is as follows :-— 


‘“ An unemployed worker is defined as a person who | 
usually working under contract of service (wage earner) and | 
both able and willing to work but is at the time of the invest 
gation unable to find employment.”’ 


For the purpose of compiling statistics of Arab unemployment 
a distinction is made between urban and rural unemployment. A 
urban labourer is defined as a labourer who resides in a town 3 
the time of the investigation or who follows an urban occupatio 
and is working in a town although residing in a neighbourin 
village. 

Persons who, not being wage-earners, are in need of and actuall 
looking for employment (for instance, peasant small-holders comin; 
to town in search of work) do not fall within the definition givei 
above. ‘Their number is however estimated and reported separately 


Skilled workers who are unable to find employment in the occu 
pation in which they are skilled but have, at the time of the in 
vestigation, found some other work are not classified as unemployed 


3. The compilation of more truly representative statistics of em 
ployment and unemployment will not be possible until the Offce 
of Statistics 1s more fully established and machinery for the collec. 
tion of these statistics has been set up. It must be recognised 
however, that statistics of unemployment must depend upon regis: 
tration; and registration is ineffective without inducements t 
register. 


4. Provisional estimates of the number of unemployed worker: 
were made several times during the year under review. 


During the first half-year unemployment was negligible, although 
there was a certain number of unemployable workers, persons 12 
transit and new immigrants who had not yet obtained employment. 


In the second half-year the conditions changed considerably. In 
August and September, under the influence of the Italo-Abyssinian 
conflict, large amounts of deposits were withdrawn from the banks 








* Page 67 of Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission. 


117 


in Palestine. The banks reacted by restriction of credit, and 
manufacturers and wholesale merchants exercised great care in 
accepting orders covered by promissory notes. Building activities 
were also affected by the hesitation of investors who postponed the 
construction of projected buildings. Industry and handicrafts were 
hampered by the restriction of credit and by the decrease of the 
consumption of manufactured products mainly in industries directly 
or indirectly connected with building construction. 


d. In September, the presence of unemployment began to be 
felt, principally among Jewish workers. The number of Jewish 
Wwage-earners out of employment was roughly estimated at 3,500 
in October, at about 5,000 in November and at about 6,000 at the 
end of December, From these figures should be deducted the 1,500 
unemployable workers, persons in transit and new immigrants 
‘teferred to above. The additional Jewish unemployment at the 
end of the year due to economic causes was thus 4,500, which is 
about six per cent. of the Jewish workers in paid employment. 


6. The unemployment funds of the General Federation of Jewish 
labour, which were stated to be £P.15,000 at the end of 1934, 


were reported to have reached more than £P.35,000 by the end 
of 1935. 


7. No reliable estimates of Arab unemployment are available. 
The number of Arab unemployed increased in September and Octo- 
_ ber under the influence of the Italo-Abyssinian conflict but returned 

more or less to normal by the end of the year. 


8. The increase in the number of Jewish wage earners during 
the past eighteen months is estimated as follows :— 


On In 
Total. construction. industry. 
1934, June sue foe 45,000 11,900 17,000 © 
1935, January... ree 59,000 14,000 20,000 
1935, December... 74,000 16,500 23,500 


(Figures supplied by the General Federation of Jewish Labour). 


9. The major part of the capital brought to Palestine by immi- 
grants was invested in industry and building. During the last 
five months of the year under review the number of new under- 
takings showed an appreciable decrease as compared with the pre- 
ceding period owing largely to the restriction of credit and the un- 
certainty of the international situation. 


A decrease of investment in citrus plantations was also observed 
_ owing to decline in profits and fear of overproduction. Arab 
farmers, however, with little or nothing to pay for their land and 


their larger margin between receipts and costs have placed large 
additional areas under citrus. 


34931 E 


118 


10. The monthly average floor area of buildings for which per- 
mits were issued by the municipalities of Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, 
Jaffa and Haifa is shown in the following table : 


1931 oe age ce, . ves ... 27,000 
1932 a _— a as ... 27,000 
1933 oe beg ae ee ... 58,000 
1934 ve sek bee oh ... 16,000 
1935 we ips oe oh ... 85,000 


(Figures supplied by Municipal Corporations). 


11. No new investigations were made into the expansion of in- | 
dustry in Palestine. The last census of Jewish industry, taken by 
the Jewish Agency in 1933, showed a total annual output of 
£P.5,371,000. The industrial output has considerably increased 
since that date. 


12. The increase in the area in dunums (quarter acre) of citrus — 
plantations is estimated as follows :— 


Owned by Owned by 


Total. J ews. Arabs. 
1931 oe oh ae 125,000 66,000 59,000 
1932 _ ba ses 160,000 86,000 74,000 
1933 so fue ... 204,000 120,000 84,000 
1934 she sate ... 265,000 150,000 115,000 
1935 295,000 160,000 135,000 


(Figures sanrolial 65 die: Dedadineat of Agriculture and Forests and 
from other sources). 


13. The number of Jewish workers employed in agriculture in- 
creased slightly during the year and no exodus occurred from rural 
to urban areas as in the preceding two years. The growth of the 
number of urban labourers was, however, so fast that the propor- 
tion of rural labour showed further decrease. The distribution of 
Jewish workers has shifted as follows :— 





July, 1934. December, 1935. 

Proportional Proportional 

Number. | distribution | Number. | distribution 

per cent per cent 
Urban workers see 30,000 59 55,500 69 
Agricultural small- holders... 6,000 12 6,500 8 
Agricultural labourers ies 4,500 9 6,500 8 
Non-agricultural labourers in 

rural areas ... Pex = 10,000 20 12,000 15 


(Figures supplied by the General Federation of Jewish Labour). 


119 


14. A number of Jewish agricultural workers passed from hired 
work to farming on their own account, mostly in the collective 
settlements. 


15. The upward movement of wages has continued in some in- 
dustries but wages were more or less stationary in the second 
half-year. A decrease took place in the wages of skilled building 
workers. 


The presence of unemployment and the decrease in overtime 
work have not been off-set by an equivalent lowering of rents or 
of the cost of living ; real wages in Palestine are thus falling. 


16. No appreciable change occurred in the hours of work, the 
system of insurance against accidents or the grant of annual leave 
a3 reported in 1934, nor was there any change in the system of 
recruitment of labour through trade union labour offices. 


17. As in the previous years, only a few Arab labour unions 
actually exercised functions. There was, however, a movement 
towards the improvement of conditions of work, which found its 
expression in a number of strikes declared by Arak workers in 
various industrial undertakings. 


18. The General Federation of Jewish Labour does not aim at 
bringing Arabs directly within its ranks. Its object is to instruct 
and advise Arab movements in the methods of creating trade unions 
parallel in principle and in organization to the Jewish unions. 
These Arab unions would then be federated with the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour. Some success attended this policy 
of the General Federation at first among the Port workers at Jaffa 
but towards the end of the year the resignations of Arab members 
from the Histadruth became frequent as the feelings engendered 
by the arms smuggling incident overcame the still unformed sense 
of social solidarity. 


19. No considerable change has taken place in the mixed Arab- 
Jewish trade unions. Some unions ceased to exist while other 
similar organizations were established. 


20. Sixty industrial labour disputes occurred during the year, 
including two cases where there was no actual stoppage of work. 
The nature and effect of the strikes and lock outs during this year 
compared with previous years is shown by the following 

sures :— 


1933. 1934. 1935. 
Total number of disputes which came under 
notice wee ase bats Sea she dies 57 49 60 
Number of disputes over wages, hours of work, 
and improvement of conditions of employment 24 23 37 
Number of disputes over discharge of workers ... 2 4 7 


34931 E 2 


120 


1933. 1934. 1935. 
Number of es da over ae aa of union 
labour ac 6 8 4 
Number of disputes over employment of oe in 
Jewish undertakings ssi 19 12 4 
Settlement of disputes which were concluded 
during each year :— 
Number of instances where the workers were 
successful... a 29 26 32 
Number of instances where the ee failed 18 15 13 
Number of compromise settlements ... site 9 6 13 
Number of industrial strikes and lockouts ste 45 40 58 
Number of establishments affected by strikes and 
lockouts.... 242 87 331 
Number of workers involved (spas) ... 2,050 2,030 3,650 
Number of working days lost (approximately) ... 19,100 17,230 28,400 


21. During the first half-year, most strikes involving Jewish 
workers were for increases of wages and in most cases the workers’ 
demands were accepted. In the third quarter of the year many 
of the disputes were in connexion with Jewish workers’ demands 
for the employment only of union labour or with their protests 
against discharges of workers. The workers were successful in a 
smaller proportion of such disputes. During the last quarter of 
the year only a few disputes occurred in Jewish industrial 
undertakings. 


The number of disputes over the employment of Arabs in Jewish 
undertakings has diminished generally as compared with previous 
years. 


One third of the disputes which occurred in 1935 involved Arab 
workers. About 2,000 Arab workers were involved in the strikes 
and about 14,000 working days were lost by them. Most of these 
strikes were for increases of wages and for the improvement of 
conditions of work. Disputes of this kind took place not only in 
private undertakings Fut also in public and municipal works. The 
Arab workers succeeded in securing the desired conditions of work 
only in a few cases but in a considerable number of cases a com- 
promise was reached granting to the workers a part of their 
demands. 


22. The regulations in force in regard to labour were given in 
the Annual Report for 1930. Apart. from an amendment to the 
Intimidation Ordinance, 1928, prohibiting picketing in inter-racial 
disputes, no change has been made. 


23. The administration has no powers to control labour contracts 
in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment on the part of the emplover 
and employed, nor has it power to prevent any abuses in this 
respect. 


X 


Ni 


121 


24. The Permanent Mandates Commission hag asked for fuller 
information on the proposal to establish a single Government 
authority to deal with labour questions.* 


2. The Labour Legislation Committee is the agency of the 
Government for examining and co-ordinating proposals and recom- 
mendations for the introduction of new or the modification of 
existing labour legislation. 


26. The other functions of Government in matters of labour are 
carried out by the various Departments concerned. Thus the 
District Administration and the Departments of Health, Public 
Works, Police, Railways and Posts and Telegraphs have admin- 
istered independently their respective labour concerns. 


27. These arrangements have not proved entirely satisfactory or 
sufficiently comprehensive, lacking as they do, in particular, the 
essential elements of correlation, unified responsibility and expert 
advice. For these reasons, to which force is added by the con- 
siderable industrial development now taking place in Palestine, 
Government has reached the conclusion that services relating to 
labour and industry should be organized and co-ordinated by the 
institution of some form of centralised control. The establishment 
of a separate Department of Labour is not considered to be neces- 
sary in present circumstances. It is proposed, however, to appoint 
a specialist officer with experience in factory inspection who will 
be responsible for the superintendence of trades and industrial 
undertakings which are discharged by Departments of Government 
under statute and otherwise; this officer would also act ex-officto 
as secretary to the Labour Legislation Committee ; undertake the 
compilation of industrial and labour statistics in close conjunction 
with the Government Statistician ; and possibly act as conciliation 
oficer in labour disputes. 


28. The Permanent Mandates Commission has also asked what 
steps are in contemplation in the matter of factory inspection and 
a weekly day of rest with special reference to dock labour. + 


29. As explained in paragraph 26, there is at present no single 
authority responsible for factory inspection ; the work being divided 
among the various Departments concerned. 


_ The principal Ordinances relating to factory inspection are admin- 
istered as follows :— 

Industrial Employment of Women and Children Ordnance, 
1927, by the Government Welfare Inspector and her assistants 
and by District Officers of the District Administration ; Regula- 
tion of Trades or Industries Ordinance, 1927, by the Depart- 
ment of Health in conjunction with the Departments of Public 

* Page 69 of the Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Man- 
tes Commission. 
t Page 68 of the Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Man- 
dates Commission. 
34931 E 3 


122 


Works and Police, and by Municipalities in Municipal Areas: 
the Fencing of Machinery Ordinance, 1927; Steam Botlers 
Ordinance, 1926; and Electricity Ordinance, 1926, by the 
Department of Public Works. 


The duties of inspection of trades and industrial undertaking: 
discharged by the several Departments of Government under these 
statutes will be co-ordinated ty the proposed appointment of the 
specialist officer referred to in paragraph 27. 


30. The position in regard to a weekly day of rest is that in 
December, 1934, the High Commissioner decided to suspend action 
on proposed legislation for a compulsory weekly day of rest for 
the reason that legislation was being enacted, by amendment of the 
Municipal Corporation Ordinance, 1934, to give power to Municipal 
Corporations to prescribe, by by-laws, the closing hours for shops. 
Municipal Councils would be able to use the power thus conferred 
to close shops for the whole of the Sabbath day, subject to the High 
Commissioner’s approval, and it was considered desirable to leave 
the position in regard to a compulsory day of rest unchanged for the 
present, and to keep under observation the use which Municipalities 
would make of the new power in regard to the closing hours for 
shops. 


The Municipality of Tel Aviv has already made use of its powers 
to prescribe closing hours for shops by by-law; a similar by-law 
18 in contemplation by the Municipal Council of Jerusalem. 


31. The question of a weekly day of rest for dock labour was con- 
sidered by the Labour Legislation Committee in connection with the 
proposed legislation for a compulsory weekly day of rest. The Com- 
mittee recommended that persons employed in public utility services 
should be specifically excluded from the operation of any Ordinance 
providing for a weekly day of rest, and that dock labour should 
be regarded as a public utility service. In such services, including 
those maintained by certain Government departments, it is the 
practice to arrange that the staff should take duty occasionally by 
rotation even on their normal day of rest, having regard to the 
fact that in such services the public interest is paramount. 


32. The revision of the existing legislation for the protection of 
women and children in industrial employment and its extension to 
cover also the non-industrial employment of women and children 
(see 1934 Report, page 108) has been completed, and the amending 
legislation was published as a Bill in the Palestine Gazette No. 570 
of the 6th February, 1936. 


The Bill embraces undertakings of a non-industria] nature. It 
provides a definition of ‘‘ undertaking ’’ to include industrial under- 
takings and also shops, hotels, restaurants and places of public enter- 
tainment. The High Commissioner’s rule-making powers have 
been enlarged to cover the regulation of conditions of health over- 
crowding and sanitation, and inspectors have been empowered to 


123 


examine medically employed children. Penalties are imposed upon 
- Parents allowing children to be employed in contravention of the 
_ Provisions of the Ordinance. The tradeg in which phosphorus, 

mertury, arsenic, or explosives are used have been added to the 
scheduled list of dangerous trades. 


The minimum age for children employed in industrial under- 
takings has been raised from twelve to thirteen years and in all 
undertakings the maximum period of work for children has been 
reduced from eight to seven hours in twenty-four, of which not 
. more than four hours shall be consecutive with a period of rest 
_ of not less than one hour. A compulsory day’s rest in every seven 
_ prescribed for all women and children so employed. 


In February the Government Welfare Inspector and the District 
Officers visited 50 factories in Jerusalem, administered several warn- 
ing8 to proprietors in regard to working age and hours of employ- 
. Ment which were effective. Working hours were reduced in all 


" factories to 8 hours a day and all children under 12 years of age 
Were paid off. 


_ 38. In view of grievances voiced by the unclassified personnel 
_ mployed on the Palestine Railways and in the other technical 
epartments of Government, the High Commissioner, with the 
approval of the Secretary of State, set up a Committee to enquire 
into the conditions of service, hours of work and pay of certain 
classes of employees in those Departments. 


34. The Committee's Report, the text of which is printed in 
“Ppendix II to this Report, was considered by the High Commis- 
‘loner and in consequence it was decided to introduce certain im- 
_ Pfovements in the conditions of service and pay. These improve- 

ments are set out in an official communiqué issued on the 17th May, 
1985, the text of which forms Appendix III to this Report. 


35. It was not long before it became apparent that these con- 
tessions still fe)] something short of satisfying the reasonable re- 
quirements of the railwaymen as presented ky their leaders in 
une at an interview with the High Commissioner. It was 
“cordingly conceded that the temporary housing allowance 
‘paragraph B (3) of the official communiqué) should become pay- 
able with effect, from the 1st April, 1934, instead of the 1st April, 
ean and that the temporary increase in the daily rate of pay 
Grated IN Consideration of high coat of rents (paragraph D (1) 
— “ommunigué) should, in the case of railwaymen, also be 
paid with effect from the earlier date. 
© question whether these additional concessions should apply 
aff © unclassified personnel of the other technical Departments 
_ sled is being considered. 


86 nee 
4 Provident 18 also being given to the possibility of setting up 


tem Fund for unclassified technical employees and, as @ 
porary Measure pending the establishment of such a fund, 
34931 


E 4 


124 


to the possibility of bettering present conditions as to the amount 
of gratuity which may be given to an employee of that category 
on the termination of his service. 


o7. The staff at Haifa Harbour as well as the casual] labour 
employed for porterage 1s now directly engaged and céntrolled by 
the Port Manager. The dual control by contractors and _ port 
authorities 1s thus obviated and the new arrangement makes both 
for absence of friction and expeditious and effective working. 


388. Among the important strikes which took place in the year 
were a strike of transport workers of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company 
which is more fully described below ; of the employees of the largest 
tobacco factory in Palestine, conducted by Messrs. Karaman Dick 
and Salty of Jaffa, where on one occasion the strikers used violence 
and came into conflict with the police; and of the workers in the 
tile factory at Hedera. There were even strikes among waiters 
in restaurants at Tel Aviv and of the clerks employed by certain 
firms of auditors in Jerusalem as well as of bus drivers at Jaffa. 
None of these strikes was of long duration and, except as indicated, 
in no case did they lead to breaches of the peace. 


39. In February, 1935, the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company announced 
their intention to revise the scale of their employees’ wages on 
passing from constructional to operational conditions. 

Led by an Arab worker who was formerly in the service of the 
Palestine Railways, the employees of the Company presented 
various demands to the Company and, while those demands were 


still under consideration, and notwithstanding the fact that a large © 


measure of agreement had already been reached on the issues in 
controversy, declared a strike on the 21st February. 

The strike, which had originally been confined to the Company's 
operatives, extended a few days later to the employees of its trans- 


port department. It was conducted in an orderly and constitu- | 


tional fashion, without any incidents of violence or sabotage, and 


was eventually settled on the 10th March. 

Lhe terms of settlement were the following: an eight-hour day ; 
seven days’ leave with full pay a year, in addition to six days 
religious holidays; sick-pay at half-rate up to a maximum of one 
month; at least seven days’ notice to any workman about to be 
discharged owing to the termination of the work for which he was 
taken on; any workman proposed for discharge to be allowed to 
state his case to the Kmployment Officer. 


In addition, the promotion, with effect from the 1st March, © 
of unskilled labourers from the basic rate of 120 mils to 130 mils | 


after four months completed service, and after a further four 


months’ service to 140 mils; free transport of workers from Haifa — 


to the site of the Company’s terminal; re-engagement of a pro- 
portion of the strikers at their previous rates of pay off-set by 
subsequent reductions of labour (both re-engagement and reduc- 
tions to be on the kasis of seniority of service) to correspond witb 


125 


the Company’s actual and future needs; no objection to be taken 
by the Company to the formation of one or more workers’ clubs 
of associations, provided that no employee is compelled to join 
such clubs and associations against his will, and their existence 
does not deprive any individual worker of direct access to the 
Management or its representatives. 


XVII.—_TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 

The Firearms Ordinance, 1922, was amended to increase the 
penalty for illegal possession of firearms from three to seven years. 

2. Judging from information received by the police and from 
ezures of firearms and ammunition effected, there appears to 
_ bea considerable slackening in the traffic to Palestine from con- 

liguous territories, and, although there is little doubt that firearms 
have been smuggled into Palestine from Trans-Jordan, it is fairly 
certain that the smuggling was not on a large scale. Seizures by 
the police during 1935 :— 


Type. Serviceable. Unserviceable. 
Rifles... eae 171 7 
Pistols and Revolvers oat ead 251 13 
Shotguns ge 95 8 
Bombs and Grenades the, <8 42 3 
Rifle Ammunition ...... 2... 4, 171 — 
Pistol and Revolver Ammunition ... 3,194 — 


Raub figures exclude large seizures discovered at Jaffa in cement 
ane Ra the 16th October. Of 537 drums of cement consigned 
es — to one Isaac Katan of Tel-Aviv (unidentified), 359 
te a contain canisters in which were concealed over 300 
$00,000 Of various sorts, approximately 500 bayonets, nearly 

UY rounds of ammunition, and miscellaneous component parts. 


Rear on or near the Palestine—Trans-Jordan Frontier were 
stances of the the previous year and again the nature and circum- 
tfc. Som e selzures do not suggest any extensive or organised 
of old patte of the rifles confiscated were in good condition though 
serviceable an others were so dilapidated and worn that, though 
cision, "Th, €y could no longer be described as weapons of pre- 
following is a list of seizures effected :— 


Nth ie Division. Firearms seized. Circumstances of Seizure. 
--» Nablus 1 Turkish rifle and Seized from a shepherd 
lst January 4 rounds. from Trans-Jordan. 
? --+ Nablus 1 English rifle and Seized from a criminal sus- 
th Apr 5 rounds. pect. 
Bae «os Nablus 1 German rifle and Seized from a bedu on the 
Ost April 4. rounds. bank of the Jordan. 
‘os Tiberias 7 rounds pistol am- Confiscated from a fellah 
; munition. coming from  Trans- 
4th May Jordan. 


Nablus 1 English rifle and Seized from a fellah. . 
4 rounds. 


126 


Date. Division. Firearms seized. Circumstances of Seizure. 

29th June ... .e» Nablus 1 Greek rifle Seized from a fellah. 

28th October ... Nablus 1 German rifle and Seized from a shepherd. 
3 rounds. 

24th December... Nablus 1 German rifle and Seized from a fellah. 
39 rounds. 

3lst December ... Nablus 1 nickel revolver and Seized from a fellah. 
4 rounds. 

20th November ... Tiberias 1 German rifle and Owner of rifle, a man from 
2 rounds. Trans-Jordan, was es 


corting two silk-smug- 
glers into Palestine. 

4. The following is a table of seizures of firearms in the Nablus 
and Safad areas during 1934. It has not been possible to establish 
to which seizure reference was intended by the Beirut newspaper 
quoted by M. Sakenobe at the Twenty-Seventh Session of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission ;* but no other seizures than 
those now tabulated took place in the areas mentioned, and none 
of them presented features of unusual interest or importance. Of 
the fifteen pistols and revolvers seized in Safad during May, only 
three were serviceable. It happened also in May that a contractor 
in Nablus was found to have in his possession 80 kilograms of 
blasting powder and 15 kilograms of black powder (for refilling 
shotgun cartridges) over and above the amount which he was 
licensed to make. It may be that these two seizures provided 
material for the newspaper report. 


Seizures of Firearms in the Nablus and Safad Divisions durimg 








1934. 
Nablus. Safad 
1934. 
Bgl ¢ | bg bel ¢ 
Hila 
fds lil dil glk 
Se | a SB | as] & | Aw 2 

January 2 2 3 -— — 1 — ma 

February 6 1 1 — — — ie 

March — 1 1 — — — a ae 

April ... 4 6 1 —- — 2 | nn rs 

May ... 4 2 — — 2 15 4 /¢- 

June ... 2 1 1 6 — 1 — | i 

July ... 1 3 — — — 1 1 = 

August — 1 — -- 1 — 1 os 

September 5 4 — -- — — 1 oe 

October 3 — — -— 1 1 ] - 

November 3 — 1 — — — <= ~ 

December 2 — 2 1 | 1 8 os 
bot ec a Se es et I 





* Page 60 of the Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. 


127 


Licensed Firearms. 


The list of holders of licences to carry firearms has again been 
“Subject to very careful scrutiny and revision. The following table 
gives details of licences issued during 1934 and 1935 :— 

Me Se ee er te en 


1934. 1935. 
District, Pistols Pistols 

Rifles. and Shot- Rifles. and Shot- 

Revolvers.| guns. Revolvers.| guns. 

Jerusalem 33 82 750 28 78 771 

Northern 40 166 1,605 25 100 975 

Southern 5 43 979 43 38 1,095 

= 31 12 380 29 15 391 

wareth* a = = 19 37 456 

17 5 155 33 6 168 

Totals for Palestine 126 308 3,869 177 274 3,856 
Se set ee cel ead ee, cits oe ole ae 

oa In- De- 

e Nazareth District was created during the | crease | Decrease | crease 

year 19365. 51 34 13 
Liquors. 


i” It will be recalled that legislation further to control the sale 
ne liquors has keen for some time under contemplation 
A ae Government (see paragraph 19 page 114 of Report 
of j 3), the necessity for it having been revealed in the course 
Directo oats carried out by Dr. J. W. P. Harkness, Deputy 
Hark or, Department of Health, Palestine. Copies of Dr. 
VM i Teport were placed at the disposal of the Permanent 
_ ‘ ates Commission in 1934. 
. eee based on the recommendations in the report was 
and is 8 *nacted at the beginning of the year under review, 
selen itled the Sale of Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance. The 
ie ines of this legislation are set out in paragraph 1 (iv) of 
Clon VII of this Report. 


Pct oy relating to public entertainments, which 1s closely 
iri with the sale of intoxicating liquor, and which was 
tinments Ooened in the Intoxicating Liquors and Public Enter- 
entitled th rdinance, 1922, was re-enacted in a separate ordinance 
© Ordina Public Entertainments Ordinance No. 5 of 1935 ©. 
ea ance follows generally the form of the previous provisions 

5, Powers in District Commissioners, Magistrates, and 


°u u ° * . 
0 isi Officers to direct the closing of premises in times 


128 


7. The variation in the numbers of factories licensed to manu- 
facture intoxicating liquors and spirits during the past five years 
was as follows :— 

1931, 1982. 1938. 19384. 1936. 


Spirits sa aes wee 22 23 16 15 16 
Wine aes an .. 14 15 16 15 14 
Beer ... he . — — — ] 

Total a .. 36 38 31 30 31 


Their output was :— 


Wine Arak Beer Cognac 
Year. Litres. Litres. Litres. Lntres. 
1931 ... 3,838,652 52,568 — 147,250 196,802 . 
1932 ... 3,155,928 52,944 _- 160,720 420,912 
1933 ... 1,629,125 38,307 — 121,292 686,989 
1934 ... 2,378,922 41,855 203,495 853,681 


1935 ... 2,619,980 51,611 242,600 295,539 1,012,598 


The quantity of arak produced represents that quantity resulting | 
from first distillation. In 1935, 187,412 litres of alcohol of fruits (in- 
cluded on first distillation as ‘‘ other spirits °’) were re-distilled 
into arak, producing 185,300 litres. : 


Incidence of Drunkenness during 1934 and 1935. 





1934. 1935. 
Number of persons convicted. Number of persons convicted. 
On On On four On On On four 
ae Once.| two three {or more} Once.| two three | or more 
occa- occa- occa- occa- occa- occa- 
sions. sions. sions. sions. sions. SiODS. 
Moslems 570 23 10 9 575 44 6 5 
Christians 88 2 l l 97 6 — — 
Jews... 55 3 l 3 52 4 2 2 
Total... | 713 31 12 13 724 54 8 7 


The increase in first and second offenders reflects the growth of 
population; it is satisfactory to note that the number of habitual 
drunkards remain low. In only three cases was drunkenness 
directly responsible for road accidents. 


On an estimated population of 1,308,200 on the 31st December 
statistics of drunkenness during 1935 were as follows :— 
First offenders oe ioe ae ... one in 1,806 
Convicted on two occasions _— ... one in 24,226 
Convicted on three or more occasions ... one in 87,213 


129 


Incidence of drunkenness among urban and rural populations :— 


Persons Convicted for Drunkenness. 





Number of persons convicted. 


Division, 
On two On three On four or 

occasions. occasions. more 
occasions. 


Jerusalem, Urban 
Jerusalem, Rural 
Hebron... : 
Haifa, Urban 
Haifa, Rural 

cre “ae 





Jet ml mel ee EL el al ee 


PET ELE EET Peet vol ol TI 
Po ab Dp Detee fenced aot 


RS 


Totals... | 724 | | 

8. At the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission Count de Penha Garcia referred to the new Order 
under the Customs Ordinance authorizing the importation on 


certain conditions of essences intended or suitable for use in the 
manufacture of spurious or imitated alcoholic beverages.* 





Legislation was enacted in November, 1934, whereby such 
essences might be imported :— 


(a) by any firm manufacturing products solely for exporta- 
tation and under excise control ; 

(6) by any licensed pharmacist under permit from the Direc- 
tor of Customs in such quantities as may be recommended as 
necessary for medicinal purposes by the Director of Medical 
Services. 


It will be seen that in both cases adequate safeguards are adopted 
to ensure that these essences are not employed illegally. 


Alcohol intended for use exclusively in the manufacture of 
flavouring materials and essences intended solely for export may 
IS aa = No ate a be Ace “APRS ET 


*Page 70 of the Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent. 
dates Commission. 


130 


now be removed to such factory, if approved by the Director of 
Customs, without payment of duty from the premises of a manv- 
facturer of intoxicating liquors. 


Drugs. 


9. No new legislation was introduced during the’ year for the 
control of traffic in dangerous drugs, which continues to be regu- 
lated by the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance of 1925 as amended by 
the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Ordinances of 1928 and 1932. 


During the year, however, a revised draft of the Dangerous 
Drugs Ordinance was under preparation to bring the local legisla- 
tion into conformity with the recommendations of the International 
Convention for Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the 
Distribution of Narcotic Drugs signed at Geneva on the 13th July, 
1931. 


International Opium Convention. 


10. The number of Import Certificates granted during the year 
1935 was 158. 


Actual imports were as follows :— 


Grammes. 
Medicinal Opium _... — i 3,150 
Opium in the form of Sreparauons se o3s 8,674 
Morphine and Preparations we oe Lf 1,840 
Diacetylmorphine and Preparations... aa 250 
Methylmorphine and Preparations ae ... 15,820 
Ethylmorphine and Preparations bas tee 1,232 
Cocaine and Preparations Ae ue agg 4,558 
Eucodal and Preparations at pls oe 88 
Diocodide and Preparations aes ae es 107 
Dilaudide and Preparations aut ba ae 29 
Acedicone and Preparations ee a vas 5 
Cannabis Indica __.... wie, “. Guek ae je 2,700 


11. Seizures of narcotic drugs indicate that the illicit traffic in 
hashish is declining and that. in opium becoming more active. 
Hitherto very little opium drug had been found in Palestine, but 
in 1935 333 kilogrammes fell into the hands of the police. One 
consignment was discovered in a mail train in a pink waterproof 
on a seat in an empty carriage; and another in a waterproof-paper 
package in a sandbox of the sleeping-car on the same train a 
fortnight later. 


131 


These facts point to the complicity of train attendants engaged 
in the traffic through Palestine to Egypt. 


In a third case, opium was actually concealed in the wombs of 
female camels in a caravan near the Sinai boundary. 


The three cameleers were sentenced to eight months’ imprison- 
ment. 


There still seems to be very little traffic in ‘‘ white ”’ drugs, 
which are carried in small quantities and are much easier to conceal 
and smuggle. 


Narcotic Drugs Confiscated during 1935. 


Hashish. Opium. Cocaine. Others. 
Kilogrammes. Kilogrammes. Grammes. 
42,597 33,507 93 Nil 


122 persons were prosecuted in connection with the illicit drug 
traffic, of whom 103 were convicted and 6 were awaiting trial 
at the end of the year. Fines ranged from 300 mils to £P.100, 
and terms of imprisonment from four days to twelve months. The 
fines imposed amounted in the aggregate to about £P.800, and 
the terms of imprisonment awarded to fourteen years. These 
results testify to the fact that police vigilance has not relaxed 
and the effective and constant liaison with the corresponding 
departments in Egypt and Syria is maintained. 


12. Anti-Narcottc Measures.—The measures taken by the police 
for the suppression of the traffic in narcotic drugs include super- 
vision of the movements of known drug dealers, employment of 
agents to collect information, exchange of information with other 
Governments, patrolling of frontiers, and searches of vehicles and 
animals en route for Egypt. 


Special measures are taken to combat the possible smuggling of 
dangerous drugs by ocean-going steamers entering the ports of 
Haifa and Jaffa. Ships calling at either port are normally 
searched in so far as it is possible during the period of call. 
Customs Guards or Port Marine Police are posted on board during 
discharge or loading. All lighters, motor launches, and fishing 
vessels are subjected to close examination, and lightermen, steve- 


dores, and similar port workmen are carefully searched on return- 
ing to the shore, 


Crews of vessels are also searched if allowed to go on shore, and 
the baggage of passengers is examined. 


Prompt advance information in regard to suspect ships or 
dividuals on board is supplied to the Customs authorities by the 
nminal Investigation Department of the Palestine Police. 


» oi) 


132 


XIX.—EDUCATION. 


1. The educational work of the Government Department during 
the school year 1934-35 has progressed steadily. There has been 
a considerable expansion in Government school establishments, and 
preparations were made for further expansion. There was also a 
considerable expansion in the Hebrew public system, and in other 
schools. The following table gives a concise comparative picture :— 





July, 1934. July, 19365. 











Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 









































Arab Schools. 
Arab Public System (Government) 
schools ... ae Bee ie fue 320 | 30,842 350 | 36,005 
Other schools : 
Moslem schools Sec ek sg 174 | 10,907 190 | 11,788 
Christian schools... we oe 148 | 17,347 165 | 17,854 
Total Arab schools ... Se 642 | 59,096 705 | 65,647 
Jewish schools : 
Hebrew Public System (Va‘ad Leumi) 
schools ... ne oe cuts me 291 | 28,223 317 | 34,071 
Other schools ___... nee a sch 176 | 15,677 175 | 17,243 
Total Jewish schools ... ve 467 | 43,900 492 | 51,314 














Grand totals ... ‘es 1,109 | 102,996 1,197 | 116,961 


The ‘* Christian Arab ’’ schools include all those maintained by 
missionary bodies. 


The 65,647 pupils in Arab schools (46,648 boys and 19,004 girls), 
comprise 45,879 Moslems (36,315 boys and 9,564 girls), 18,165 
Christians (9,408 boys and 8,757 girls), and 741 Jews (314 boys and 
427 girls). 


The 51,314 pupils in Jewish schools (26,671 boys and 24,643 
girls) include 15 Moslems and 10 Christians. 


2. No fresh legislation was enacted since the promulgation of the 
Education Ordinance and Regulations in 1933. More local educa- 
tion authorities were established in both Arab and Jewish localities. 
Many of these local education authorities have justified their 
existence. 


3. The number of classified officers employed by the Department 
in November, 1935, was 970 (against 905 in 1934), of whom 13 
were British and the rest, with very few exceptions, Palestinians. 


133 


4. The expenditure by the Government Department of Educa- 
tion in the school year 1934-35 on educational services was 
approximately as follows :— 


(3) Administration and Inspectorate (Arab and Hebrew). £P. £P. 
Overhead charges— 
Salaries ... ae a ak sae sae 17,972 
Other charges ... sie Sie’. cat ve 518 
—__—_—_—. 18,490 
(5) Schools. 
(i) Government (Arab)— 
Salaries... 130,583 
Grants to local authorities for school 
buildings... eek 4,850 
Books, furniture and equipment see 11,429 
Scholarships, maintenance allowances, etc. 5,696 
—_— 152,558 
(ii) Non-Government— 
Block grant to Jewish public system ... 32,000 
Per capita grant to other schools :— 
Jewish... = a re 1,958 
Moslem PP ned 1,342 
Christian (including foreign) ve 1,293 
—__——- 36,593 
(c) Miscellaneous. 
Grant to Board of Higher Studies... sie de 500 
Transport and travelling... bas om 3 3,976 
Other minor charges... as eee ies is 525 
——— 5,001 
£P.212,642 


The revenue from the sale of books and school materials in 
Government schools amounted to £P.1,494 and that from fees to 
£P.3,049, a total of £P.4,543. 

d. The distribution of educational benefits between Arabs and 
Jews was based on the proportion of school-age population, and 
educational expenditure incurred by other Government Depart- 
ments was included in the calculation. 

The ratio between the Arab and Jewish school-age populations 
Hey estimated as 82.65 to 17.35 or as 100 to 21 as on Ist October, 

The actual expenditure by the Department under ‘‘ Schools ”’ 
Was apportioned as follows :— 


£P. £P. 
Arab schools— 
Government ae ie sea 152,558 
Non-Government ... ease uae 2,635 
—_——_—— 155,193 
Hebrew schoolsa— 
Jewish Public eee ose a 32,000 
Others site ae agide 1,958 
——_—_—_— 33,958 


The benefits to Arab schools are gross, and should be reduced 
by £P.4 043, the amount of the revenue from sales and fees men- 
tioned above. ¢ 


134 


6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1934-35 
by other Government Departments upon educational services :— 


Approximate 
Department. Object. amount. 
£P. 
Agriculture... ... Supply of trees : Mie 242 
Health oe ... Hygiene and medical care of pupil sais 1,700 
Secretariat... ... Printing and stationery... wh 375 
Treasury _ ... Housing allowance ... ee bas 88 
Public Works... ... Rent, repairs, office furniture, ete.... as 10,595 
£P.13,000 


These figures exclude any share of overhead charges for salaries 
or other administrative expenditure by the Departments concerned, 
and also exclude expenditure from the Public Works Department 
Extraordinary Estimates for buildings. 


The net expenditure of all Departments, except the last 
mentioned, was distributed as follows :— 


£P. 
Arab education nae oo ae ae se 168,193 
Jewish education... he _ 33,958 


, in the proportion of 100 to 20.2. 


7. There are no exact figures of the total expenditure of private 
bodies, and especially of foreign organizations. The figures for the 
Jewish Public System are given in paragraph 20 below. 


8. The figures of children of school-age (5 to 15) at the time of 
the 1931 Census were approximately :— 


Boys. Girls. Total. 


Moslems eae _— vie 85,700 71,900 157,600 
Christians... son his 9,940 9,140 19,080 
Jews ... das a bes 17,160 17,440 34,600 

Total ... — 112,800 98,480 211,280 


The estimated figures as on 30th September, 1934, were :— 





Arabs and other non-Jews . jes 506 Ss 227,441 
Jews ... ame oe sae ah gs 47,747 
Total ... ... 275,188 





i.e., a8 100 to 21, while the figures estimated as on 30th September, 
1935, were :— 





Arabs and other non-Jews . say sis ... 237,634 
Jews ... — Se ate ita ee 56,672 
Total ... ... 204,306 


1.e., aS 100 to 23.85. 


135 


The pupils attending schools in 1934-35 were as follows, classi- 
fied by religion. The age range is 3 to 20, but the bulk is in the 
range 5 to 15 :— 


Boys. Girls. Toial. 


Moslems eae oe ee 36,326 9,568 45,894 
Christians ee wad we 9,412 8,763 18,175 
Jews ... aie sae ar 26,970 25,060 52,030 
Others... ar see iat 606 256 862 

Totals... ba 73,314 43,647 116,961 


These figures do not include pupils in a small number of 
Christian schools which have rendered no statistical returns. 


School Fees. 


9. Arab Public System.—In the Government kindergartens and 
elementary schools education is free. In the secondary day schools 
students are required to pay £P.3 a year. Day students at the 
(sovernment Arab College and the Women’s Training College pay 
£P.6 a year and boarders pay £P.24. A number of pupils in the 
secondary schools are exempted from payment of any fees when 
poverty is established. 


In the Kadoorie Agricultural School the students pay £P.24 a 
year for tuition and board. 


Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees paid 
very rarely exceed £P.1 a year, and are usually less than 500 mils ; 
in some places the practice of paying fees in kind persists. 


In the town schoolg the fees rise to £P.2.500 mils a year. In 
Raudat al-Ma‘arif College at Jerusalem the tuition fees in the 
elementary classes are £P.6 a year and in the secondary classes 
they rise to £P.8. The boarders pay £P.36. 


Jewish Schools.—The education rates and other revenues which 
support the Jewish public schools are, in many localities, supple- 
mented by school fees assessed according to the means of the 
parents and the grade of the class. Total exemptions are 
frequent. 


In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or main- 
tained by local authorities, the fees range from £P.6 to £P.12 a 
year. In the elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to £P.12 


and in the higher classes of the secondary schools rise as high as 
£P.26. 


In the bulk of the purely private schools the fees charged are 
lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciably higher. 


136 


At the boarding section of the Reali Secondary School at Haifa, 
local pupils are charged £P.9 a month, and pupils from abroad 
£P.10. 

At the agricultural boarding schools the fees charged vary from 
£P.30 to £P.50 a year. 


In the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, 
the fees, if any, are generally small. 


Christian Schools.—No information is available regarding the 
fees charged in the schools under the Latin Patriarch and the 
Archbishop of Galilee. Most of the foreign schools which submit 
returns through the Consuls are unwilling to disclose financial 
details and do not state the fees charged. 


In some of the German secondary schools the maximum fee 
is £P.6 a year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the secondary 
classes. In the Syrian Orphanages the maximum fee paid by a 
boarder is £P.20 a year. 

In the European and American Missionary town schools the 
maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in the large majority of these schools the fees are very much 
lower. In the secondary classes the fees range from £P.6 to 
£P.15 a year. In addition to tuition fees, boarders pay boarding 
fees which do not usually amount to more than £P.35 a year. 
£P.57 a year is charged in the English Preparatory School of 
the Jerusalem Girls’ College. 


Generally speaking, no fees are charged in the village missionary 
schools nor any in the schools of the Orthodox Patriarchate. 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


10. During 1934-35, 884 classified teachers were employed in 
Government schools, compared with 827 in 1933-34. Of these 
five were British and the rest Arabs. There were in addition 135 
unclassified teachers, mainly in villages, paid by Government, and 
21 teachers paid by local authorities. The total number of teachers 
in Government schools was thus 1,036. Sixteen women teachers 
resigned in the summer of 1935 on marriage. 


Seventy-two new classified posts were approved for the year 
1935-36 ; 70 having been added in 1933-34, and 57 in 1934-35. 


11. Llementary Education.—In the summer of 1935 there were 
348 Government elementary schools, with 35,868 pupils (818 and 
30,714 in 1934). 

The demand for education among Arabs continues to increase. 
In September, 1934, 16,185 new pupils applied for admission, but 
only 10,047 were admitted, the rest being deferred for lack of 
accommodation and staff. In September, 1935, 18,675 applied 
(7,554 in towns and 11,121 im villages), but only 10,910 were 


137 


admitted, 4,434 in towns and 6,476 in villages. The following 
table analyzes these figures :— 





Towns. Villages. 


1933. 1934. 1935. 1933. 1934. 1935. 


TESS | OT | EE SE TIT RE NNT TE ETS | TREE IE OTTER 


Per cent.| Per cent.| Per cent.| Per cent.| Per cent.| Per cent. 
Accepted... igs oe 62 59 59 59 64 58 
Deferred ... ane wag 38 41 41 41 36 42 





Lack of accommodation still retards progress in the grading of 
classes by age. Entries are deferred for one, two, or three years, 
thus the age range of the lowest class 1s excessively wide and the 
average age of entry too high. 


The number of pupils who repeat the lowest class has been 
further reduced, but the figures of ‘‘ repeaters’’ for the lower 
elementary course are still somewhat high. The average length of 
school life is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


12. Town Schools.—In September, 1934, four new town schools 
were opened, and in the summer of 1935 there were 67 town 
schools (including Training Colleges) with 17,167 pupils. The 
following table analyzes these figures :— 





1933-34. 1934-35. 


Schools. | Pupile. | Schools. | Pupils. 


rn | ee | eS | 


Boys 35 | 8,577 38 | 10,044 
Girls ... 28 | 6,004 29 | 7,123 
Total... we 63 | 14,581 67 | 17,167 


In July, 1985, a seventh elementary class existed in 20 boys’ 
schools and in 12 girls’ schools in towns, with 430 boys and 164 
girls. Of the boys, 262 entered Government secondary schools in 
September, and 38 were admitted into other schools. Of the 
remainder, 40 are known to have found employment. Of the 
girls, 31 are continuing in Government schools and 22 are said 
to be in other schools. 


Over 1,200 village boys and 50 village girls attended Government 
town schools. In September, 1935, two boarding sections were 
opened for village children at Tulkarm and Jenin, for ten boys in 
each centre. The boarding school for the children of Bedu sheikhs 
at Beersheba accommodated 56 boys. 


138 


The number of girls’ schools at which domestic science subjects 
are taught was raised from eleven to fourteen. 

The top classes of some girls’ schools continued to visit infant 
welfare clinics. 

The sum of £P.106,000 was assigned from the Loan Fund 
towards building and equipping new town schools in Jerusalem, 
Jaffa and Haifa. 

Building operations have begun on the Government Trade School 
for Arabs at Haifa, and it is expected to open in September, 1936. 


13. Rural Schools.—Thirty new village schools were opened in 
1934-35. The following table shows comparative numbers :— 


1933-34. 1934-35. 


Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 


For Boys __... sos 247 15,281 269 17,693 
For Girls... see 10 852 14 1,145 
Total... hes 257 16,133 283 18,838 





The demand for village schools for girls 1s growing, but it is 
difficult to find suitable Moslem women teachers. In September, 
1935, arrangements were made for opening 26 new village schools, 
of which six were for girls. 

Thirty villages erected new school buildings or added rooms to 
existing buildings. The Government contributed £P.4,350 as 
grants in aid of these buildings. 

Out of the 288 schools, 233 included the full four years of the 
elementary course or more. Higher elementary classes existed in 
49 villages. Of 50 schools which have not yet developed the four- 
year course, 382 have been established within the last three years. 

Suitable Arabic books have been provided in many villages to 
form small libraries for use by both schoolchildren and the adult 
population. 

Circulating libraries are now in operation for the benefit of small 
groups of villages in the Galilee and Southern Districts. 


14. Secondary Schools.—There were 396 pupils in the secondary 
classes of Government schools as against 326 in 1933-34. These 
figures include the students at the two Colleges in Jerusalem, 
except the post-matriculation class of the Government Arab 
College. 


15. Government Arab College.—Thirty-seven new students were 
admitted in September, 1934, bringing the total to 100, of whom 
18 were Christians and the rest Moslems. 

Of the 28 students of the fourth class who entered for the Pales- 
tine Matriculation Examination, 18 obtained the Matriculation 
Certificate and 10 the School Certificate. Ten were admitted to the 


139 


fifth class, three joined the Rural Teachers’ Training Centre, 
Tulkarm, while two received Government scholarships at univer- 
sities. Most of the remainder obtained teaching posts. 

The College was transferred in April, 1935, into new premises 
specially erected for it at a cost of approximately £P.29,000 on an 
excellent site of 47 dunums south of Jerusalem, not far from 
Government House. The present accommodation is in every way 
superior to that of the rented premises formerly occupied, but the 
complete plan is still to be carried out. 

In the diploma examination held in July, 1935, 16 passed, two 
were referred in one subject, and one failed. They were all given 
teaching posts by the Department. 


16. Women’s Training College.—Seventeen new students were 
admitted in September, 1934, making a total of 62, of whom 19 
were Christians, and the rest Moslems. In the diploma examination 
ll passed and two failed, and all were offered teaching posts. 


17. Scholarships.—Seven Government scholars, including one 
blind student, are now maintained in universities and training 
colleges in great Britain, six at the American University of Beirut, 
six in technical schools in Egypt, and seven in non-Government 
secondary schools in Palestine. 


Hebrew Public System. 


18. The Executive Education Committee, consisting of repre- 
sentatives of the Jewish Agency, the Va‘ad Leumi, the Tel-Aviv 
Municipality, and the organized Jewish settlements, other than 
Labour centres, continued to be responsible for the administration 
of the Jewish public system. A representative of the Government 
Department of Education attended most meetings of this 
Committee. 

The Tel-Aviv Municipality enlarged its education department. 


19. The estimates of the Jewish central authority for 1934-35 
showed an increase of £P.6,374, as follows :— 








Revenue. 
1. Central Authorities— £P. £P. 
Jewish Agency bie re ben és st 20,000 
Government ... oa ee oe sak ae 28,000 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association rr 3,350 ae 
2. Local Authorities— 
Tel-Aviv Municipality oe eos She i 24,650 
Other local authorities < ci ae a Te 
School fees... wae a os jag bm : ieee 
Miscellaneous ia 


Total ... ar £P.97,975 





140 











Expenditure. 
1. Administration and sa rt £P. £P. 
Salaries i a Ss = 4,166 
Other Charges mn ee sas sare 300 
Grant to Labour Federation | a vag vie 300 
| ——— 4,766 
2. Schools— 
(1) Masntained schools. 
Salaries... Ses eas ee 80,770 
Rent and mhaintenance 59% Soi Sa 2,700 
Furniture and equipment sat ee 1,000 
84,470 
(ii) Assisted schools. 
Grants to Labour schools ie he 4,400 
Grants to other schools ... ian atid 2,138 
6,538 
3. Miscellaneous. 
Transport and travelling... : oes ais 448 
Pension seeing gratuities, ete. ie —e 1,441 
Unforeseen expenses.. oii ve i's ve 312 
2,201 
Total... ais £P.97,975 


The Government grant was at the rate of £P.28,000 for the 
period October, 1934, to March, 1935, and £P.36,000 for the period 
April to September, 1935, but the increase was not incorporated 
in the Va‘ad Ieumi estimates for the school year 1934-35. 

20. The estimates shown in paragraph 19 are only in respect of 
services maintained directly by the Va‘ad Leumi. Most of the 
expanded and new services are provided by the local authorities. 
The following table gives the actual cost of maintaining the schools 
in the Jewish public system, and mention is also made of the 
sources of revenue to meet that cost :— 





| Sources of Revenue. 


Grand total 
Grade or Central. Local. 
type of school. __ 
Per : Fees. | Total. | Per Per 
£P. cent. pes £P. £P. cent. £P. cent. 
Kindergartens... 495| 1-3 | 30,457) 6,969] 37,426) 98-7 | 37,921) 16-2 
Elementary ... | 38,692] 25-5 | 87,048) 25,572) 112,620) 74-5 | 151,310} 60-5 
Training Colleges... 4,946) 54-7 763| 3,319} 4,082) 45-3 9,028 3°6 
Secondary... sic 600] 1-7 2,110; 31,814) 33,924) 98-3 | 34,524) 13-8 
Commercial ...' — | — 260| 6,700] 6,960/100 6,960| 2-8 
Trade iu sig? | 36; 11-7 250 20 270} 88°3 306) 0-1 
Administration ! 8,386) 85:8 400 1,100 l oN) 14-2 9,886; 4:0 
Total ... * 53,155 











* Comprises: £P.28,600 (or 53°8 per cent.) from Government 
£P.20,000 (or 37-6 per cent.) from Jewish Agency 
£P. 4,555 (or 8-6 per cent.) from Palestine Jewish Colonization 
Association 


141 


21. The following tables give comparative figures regarding 
schools and pupils :— 


Table I (Administrative Groups). 








1933-34. 1934-35. 
Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 
General i os 138 17,270 145 19,801 
Mizrahi ee es 50 6,769 51 8,490 
Labour ee me 103 4,184 121 5,780 
Total ... ae 291 28,223 317 34,071 © 





Table II (Type of Schools). 


1933-34. 1934-30. 


Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 


rere | peri | Es | pa ES 


Kindergartens 152 5,361 165 6,202 
Elementary ... 123 19,644 139 24,439 
Secondary 7 2,562 6 2,765 
Training Colleges 4 366 4 429 
Trade... 4 174 2 121 
Agriculture l 116 1 115 

Total 291 28,223 317 34,071 





The secondary schools include also elementary classes. The 
purely secondary classes contained about 1,040 pupils. 


22. The Jewish local authorities throughout the country, and 
especially that at Tel-Aviv, showed much public spirit in meeting 
the demand for more classes created by a marked rise in immigra- 
tion. Most of them erected new buildings, or added to existing 
buildings, or hired additional accommodation. 


In spite of the difficulties created by the absorption of great 
numbers of immigrant children, mostly backward in Hebrew, the 
schools have shown marked progress, due to some extent to the 
quality of the younger generation of teachers. 


142 


At the request of the Government Department of Education, 
the number of weekly periods given to the lowest two classes in 
elementary schools was raised from 21 to 24. 


23. The system of school kitchens was continued, and 24 schools - 
and 52 kindergartens had kitchens attached. These served 
luncheons to over 5,600 pupils, and 2,000 children received in- 
struction in cookery and dietetics. | 


24. ‘The final examinations for secondary schools were extended, — 
and embraced the teachers’ colleges. The result revealed certain — 
weaknesses in the syllabus and in the methods of teaching, which 
the Vaad Leumi Department of Education will attempt to rectify. 


25. The supply of new Hebrew textbooks continues to be 
plentiful. 


Other Schools. 


26. I.—Moslem Schools.—The following are comparative figures 
for two years :— 





1933-34. | 1934-365. 


Schools.| Boys. | Girls. | Total. | Schools.| Boys. | Girls. | Total. 


eeereeenaeees | ee: |S |, |S |S | A | A Te 





“* Kuttabs”’ ... 100 3,070 92 | 3,162} 113 3,495 114 | 3,608 
Other schools 74 6,326 | 1,419 | 7,162 77 6,586 | 1,593 | 8,179 


eS | ES | ES |S | | AS | | eS 


Total ...| 174 9,396 | 1,511 | 10,907 | 190 | 10,081 | 1,707 | 11,788 





27. II.—Christian Schools.—The following table give comparative 
figures for two years. The figures are only approximately correct, 
as some groups of Catholic schools, not always the same groups, 
have for some years past failed to render statistical returns. 





1933-34. 1934-35. 


Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 


ee | Coat | OS | eee 


Catholic 71 | 10,099 87 10,286 \ 
Protestant 42 4,262 42 4,437 \ 
Orthodox 28 2,592 28 2,665 

Others 7 394 8 466 





143 


The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by local and foreign bodies. Blank spaces indicate 
that no returns were received for the year or years in question. 


| 1933-34. 1934-365. 


Schools. | Pupils. | Schoole. Pupils. 


RS ee | ee: | SPs IED 


| 
(a) Palestinian. | 
Latin Patriarchate... ... .., — | — | 20 | 1,656 
Greek Orthodox Patriarchate ee 16 860 16 876 
Syrian Orthodox Patriarchate ... 2 125 2 144 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate ... 4 642 4 642 
Orthodox Societies POF Se 6 965 6 1,004 
Custodia di Terra Santa... eae 15 2,757 15 2,855 
Greek Catholic cise as sais _— — — — 
Others — we 12 687 9 571 
55 6,036 81 7,648 
(b) Foresgn. 
French ae ios ee se 38 4,991 ! 38 5,173 
British aoe sha es es 20 2,142; 20 2,231 
German bas ae ot bk 20 2,008 20 2,137 
Italian ve se dist ot 14 1,739 — — 
American... sire Bi ae 4 397 5 443 
Swedish sas sie Sie was 1 221 1 222 


28. IlI.—Jewtsh Schools (not included in the Hebrew Public 
System).—The following table gives comparative figures for two 
years :— 











1933-34. 1934-35. 

Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupsts. 
Alliance Israelite Universelle.. 9 4,172 9; 4,118 
Anglo-Jewish Association 1 377 l 382 
Women’s International Zionist Organization 2 142 2 133 
Agudat Israel Organization ... 8 763 10 978 
Ben Shemen Orphanage ae a ae ] 280 ] 282 
Under Private Control a eee — 155 9,677 152 | 11,350 


176 | 15,677 175 | 17,248 





144 


Secondary and Post-Secondary Education and Examinations. 


29. The following summaries show the numbers of schools in 
which secondary education was given :— 





1933-34. 


Arab Public System. 
Training Colleges... 2 7 67 
Secondary schools ... 1] 17; 198); — 
13 24 | 265 
Moslem schools aac 2 6; 131); — 
Christian schools. 
Teaching in English 11 47 | 308 | 241 
» French... 8 26 | 197 
Pe German 7 11 30 
» Arabic... 4 8 26 
30 92 | 561 | 348 
Jewtsh Public System. 
Training Colleges 4 17 98 | 268 
Secondary schools ... 7 30 | 593 | 528 


seco teoe | coerce | eecteeatineeeeen | cee | eeereee | ees | oe | 


Private Jewish schools 6 22 | 258 | 361 


ee | eee | eeccreeee | ees | eos | ees | OE | 


Grand total =... ~~... |: 62 | 191 | 1,906 (‘1,556 








30. The number of students in the Government Law Classes 
during the year were 87 (35 Arabs and 52 Jews) in the second 
year class, and 47 (22 Arabs and 25 Jews) in the fourth year 
class. 


31. The number of Palestinian students attending the upper 
departments of the American University of Beirut was 428 in 
1934-35, as compared with 238 the preceding year. 


32. One hundred and thirteen candidates entered the Palestine 
Matriculation examination ; of these, 54 obtained the Matriculation 
Certificate and 30 the School Certificate, the percentage of successful 
candidates being higher than last year. 


33. Hebrew Untversity.—Consequent on the recommendations 
made by the commission of inquiry in 1934, important changes were 
made in the administration and machinery of the University. Dr. 
J. I. Magnes, formerly Chancellor, was appointed President, and 
Dr. Hugo Bergman was elected Rector. 


145 


At the end of the year the staff numbered 103, including 22 
professors and 29 lecturers. The number of students rose from 
270 in the previous year to 391, including 37 research students. 
About 30 per cent. of the students came from Palestine, and 70 


> percent. from other countries. Ten candidates entered the entrance 


examination, of whom six passed. Other admissions were on the 


_ ground of school or other certificates presented. 


Of the total of 58 graduates of the University, 19 are school 
teachers. 


New departments were added, including one in Education, and 


- one m Physical Chemistry. 


University extension lectures were given at Tel-Aviv during the 
winter. 

The University Press continues its publications. 

The expenditure of the University during the year was 


_ £P.68,000. A sum of £P.500 was allocated by Government as a 


grant towards research in anti-malarial and agricultural veterin- 


. ary work. 


i ~ 


34. Language Examinations for Government Officers.—Four out 
of seven candidates passed the elementary Arabic examination, and 
ten out of fourteen that in Hebrew; while in the advanced exam- 
inations one out of three passed in Arabic, and two out of three 
in Hebrew. 


30. Teachers’ Examinations.—Of 69 candidates for the 


Teachers’ Lower Certificate Examination, 16 passed in Part I 


(Pedagogy) and 13 in Part II (School Subjects). For the Higher 


Certificate, seven out of 20 passed in Part I and two out of 16 in 


Part II. 


36. Foreign Examinations.—Fifty-two candidates (35 Pales- 
tinjans and 17 others) entered for London University examina- 
tions conducted at Jerusalem under the supervision of the Depart- 
ment. Of these, 20 passed (15 Palestinians and five others). Four 
candidates also presented themselves for other foreign 
examinations. 


Agricultural Education. 


37. (a) Government Schools —One hundred and ninety-two 
schools had gardens, with a total area of 1,446 dunums (361 acres) ; 
115 gardens have been fenced, and 50) have been provided with an 
adequate water supply. 


The school nurseries raised during the year over 27,000 fruit 
trees, and the seedlings were given to local farmers either free or 
at a low price. Over 53,000 forest tree seedlings were also raised, 
of which about 8,100 were similarly distributed. About 350 


sre were planted with improved varieties of vegetables and 
cereals. 


146 


in January, 1935, Government schools planted 25,000 fores 
trees, 1,388 fruit trees, and 8,100 grape vines. 

Bee-keeping is practised in twelve schools, poultry raising 1 
fourteen schools, and rabbit rearing in five schools. 

Twenty demonstration plots for Arab farmers were inaugurate: 
during the year in cooperation with the Department of Agricul 
ture. The school teachers manage and supervise the plots, whicl 
are worked by the farmers. 

At the Kadoorie Arab School thirty new boys were accepted ir 
July, including three from Trans-Jordan, making a total of 7 
boys as against 58 in the previous year. 

The Kadoorte Jewtsh School at Mount Tabor which wa: 
opened in June, 1934, now has the full number of 50 student: 
resident. 


38. (b) Jewish and Other Schools.—An increased interest in 
school gardens has been noticed in Jewish schools. 
A new agricultural secondary school was established by the 


Jewish Farmers Association at Pardess Hanna. The course is to 
cover five years. The area of the farm estate is 500 dunums. 


The following figures give the number of pupils in non-Govern- 
ment schools where instruction in practical agriculture is given :— 


Jewrsh : Boys. Girls. 
Agricultural School at pales Israel, (Alliance 
Israelite) o 205 — 
Girls’ School for domestic science and agriculture at 
Tel-Aviv (Wizo) a —- 40 
Agricultural School for Girls at N ahalal, ( Wizo) es — 93 


Training farm for girls in five settlements ; (adminis- 

tered jointly by Wizo with the Jewish Workers 

Council) : — 200 
Girls’ agricultural ‘farm ‘school, ‘Talpiyot, Jerusalem 

(Women Workers Council of the General Federation 


of Jewish Labour) _.. — 29 
Kefar han-No’ar at Ben- Shemen (J uediache Waisenhilfe 

of Berlin) ste 173 109 
Children’s village at Meir Shfeya (Junior Hadassah 

of U.S.A.) ; 63 52 
Agricultural School of Jewish Farmers Association 

at Pardess Hanna ... 20 1] 
Nahalat Yeladim in Ramat Gan near Tel- Aviv sia 59 48 
Ziv Agricultural School, Tel Litvinski.. as ve 41 27 

Christian : 

Agricultural School of Beit Jamal (Salesian Fathers 

of Don Bosco) : 30 —_— 
Agricultural School at Rafat ( Latin Patriarchate) sg 32 4 
Agricultural School at Latrun (Trappist Order) _... 15 _ 


Manual Training and Technical Education. 


39. Satisfactory progress continues to be made in the teaching 
of manual work in Government schools. Workshops were added 


147 


to several schools, and necessary equipment was issued to all. The 
annual competition in manual work was held, with satisfactory 
results. 


Work was begun on the new Trade School for Arabs at Haifa, 
and the school is expected to be ready by September, 1936. 


_ 40. Most of the technical and agricultural Jewish schools bene- 
fing from the sum of £P.20,000 allocated to them from Loan 
Funds have made progress in giving effect to the schemes 
approved. Thus building operations were begun on the additions 
to the Haifa Technical Institute and orders were placed for | 
machinery and equipment ; the reconstruction of the Bezalel School 
of Arts and Crafts was completed; the construction of the Max 
Pine Trade School was nearly completed, and much work was 
done on the additions to the Ben Shemen children’s village. No 
pees has been made with the proposed Trade School at 
el-Aviv. 


41. The number of pupils at the engineering college and the 
technical high school of the Hebrew Technical Institute at Haifa 
has increased considerably. Sixteen candidates entered the 
Diploma examination. 


The ‘‘ New Bezalel ’’ School of Arts and Crafts, which was re- 
_ constructed with help from the Government, has been opened. 

A new trade school for Jewish girls was opened in 1935 at Haifa. 
_ Another trade school for young Yemenite Jewish children was also 
. opened at Marmorek, near Rehovot, during the year. 


42. Education of Defectives——There has been no appreciable 
change in the number of blind and of deaf and dumb persons cared 
for in special schools. The following are the figures for the year :— 


Deaf an 
Blind. Dumb. 


Arabs : , 
Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem...  ... 0 wwe 13 — 
Moslem Orphanage, Jerusalem see es ae 15 — 
Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul, Jerusale ne did 25 1] 
Miss Chapman’s School, Jerusalem ...  ...... — 4 
Jewish : 
Institute for the Blind, Jerusalem ...  ... 25 _ 
ce Israelite School for the Deaf and Dumb, 
Jerusalem sce ae Sg Ren | ae — 24 


Mentally retarded and defective children are still cared for only 
¥ the Jewish community, mainly in a school and centre main- 
- ‘ained by the Tel-Aviv Municipality, and in a small number of 
| Pnvate institutions. 


43. Physical Training, Athletics, etc.—As a result of the courses 
™ teachers in physical training conducted by the Department 
‘nng the past few years, all Government town schools and many 
wal schools now provide efficient instruction in that subject. 


f 


148 


Physical training is now also provided in most Jewish school 
by trained teachers. 


The Boy Scout and Girl Guide Movements continued to develop 
In October, 1935, there were 2,722 scouts and 154 scouters, am 
726 guides and 66 guiders. These are almost entirely Arabs, con 
trolled by the two Palestine Associations for Scouts and Guide: 
respectively. 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


1. Epidemic Diseases.—The number of cases of notifiable 
diseases reported was 7,841 as against 10,861 in the previous year. 
This decline has been due principally to a much lower incidence 
of measles. The total deaths from notifiable diseases were 1,068 
to which number pneumonia, measles and typhoid fever contri- 
buted 411, 224, and 204 respectively. There were 2,060 cases of 
typhoid fever with 204 deaths, the highest incidence being during 
the summer and autumn in Haifa, Jaffa, Tel Aviv, and Jerusalem - 
this is slightly more than last year but, when the increase of 
population is taken into account, it is relatively less. 


Although the number of cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis rose 
to 169, the disease remained sporadic in incidence and distribution. 


Diphtheria showed a fall in incidence with a somewhat increased 
case fatality rate : 1t was more prevalent in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel 
Aviv, and Haifa in the early and latter part of the year. 


There were four small isolated occurrences of smallpox but the 
adequate protection of the population by re-vaccination, which has 
been carried out at intervals, prevented any spread of the disease. 


There was a slight increase of scarlet fever but of the 218 cases 
only one was fatal. 


In general this disease in Palestine is very mild in character. 


2. The unit engaged in the investigation and treatment of anky- 
lostomiasis continued its work, certain areas in the northern district. 
not associated with citrus cultivation, were surveyed and a short 
investigation was also made in Jericho. It may now be confidently 
stated that the disease is predominantly associated with citri- 
culture. Areas previously investigated in the Jaffa area are at 
present being resurveyed to estimate the effects of treatment and 
sanitation. The results so far are to some extent disappointing, 
chiefly because orange groves are not yet provided with sanitary 
accommodation for their labour. 


It is hoped to improve matters in this respect during 1936. 


3. The preliminary survey of tuberculosis was completed during - 
the year and a report on the incidence of this disease, with recom-— 
mendations for its prevention and control, has been submitted 
to Government for consideration, which is proceeding. 


149 


The figures provided by the report included mortality, morbidity 
and tuberculin sensitivity rates, and an examination of the main 
productive factors, such as malnutrition, overcrowding, poverty, 
and ignorance. 

The results indicate that tuberculosis is a disease of considerable 
endemic importance among all classes of the population, and that. 
a progressive anti-tuberculosis scheme is needed to avert increased 
morbidity and mortality rates. 


4. To ensure more systematic methods for the prevention and 
treatment of venereal diseases on modern lines, a special Medical 
Oficer was engaged and sent to the United Kingdom for a course 
of instruction. 

Separate accommodation is being provided by Government for 
the treatment of this group of diseases, and it is expected that 
there will be a-rapid development of this work during 1936. 

The campaign against endemic syphilis in the Hebron district 
is conducted only during the winter and early spring months, but 
considerable progress has keen made in certain limited areas. 


). The higher rainfall of the winter and late rains in the spring 
provided conditions favourable for an increased incidence of malaria 
in the early summer. Temporary water collections and marshy 
areas suitable for mosquito breeding were more numerous or of 
greater extent than in recent years. An early survey indicated 
that more extensive anti-malarial measures would be necessary 
to cope with the situation. Additional funds were, therefore, pro- 
vided for malaria control, by the Department of Health, and funds 
made available for drainage works of a permanent nature or the 
improvement of existing marsh drainage schemes. The attention 
of the public was drawn to the necessity of co-operating in these 
measures and the duties and responsibilities of house-holders and. 
property-owners under the Anti-Malarial Ordinance were explained 
to the public. 


6. The drainage of the Birket Ramadan marshes was pushed 
forward rapidly and before the onset of the winter rains the main 
canals had been completed. Government, the Supreme Moslem 
Council and the neighbouring Jewish settlement of Nathaniya are 
participating in the cost of this scheme, which has now reached 
4 point at which it has reduced the incidence of malaria markedly 
in the neighbouring Jewish settlements. Some attempts were made 
by unauthorised persons to encroach upon the land after drainage 
operations which might have had the effect of undoing the reclama- 
tion, but these attempts were checked by the intervention of the 
Supreme Moslem Council. 


Amongst other schemes of a larger nature completed were the 
drainage of Basset Kabbani, Basset Sheikh Saleh and Wadi Maleh 
in the Wadi Hawareth area where close Jewish settlement is pro- 
ceeding. In this area, also, the drainage of the Basset Sheikh 
Mohammed, completed in 1934, was extended and improved, and 

34931 F 


150 


the resettled Arabs are now cultivating the land. Further north, in 
the neighbourhood of Hedera, the Dameira marsh scheme was 
brought to an end. 


7. The principal towns continued to be free from primary malaria 
infections. In rural areas, too, the disease has been kept satis- 
factorily in control and there was no epidemic, though in certain 
places there was a higher incidence. The absence of endemic 
malaria in urban areas is reflected in the low spleen rate, 1-7 per 
cent., based on the examination for spleen enlargement of 26,000 
children under 12 years of age. The consolidated spleen. rate in 
rural areas was 7-3 per cent., based on 45,000 children examined. 
This index is below 1 per cent. in Jerusalem and the Southern 
Districts. In the Northern District the highest indices are in 
Tiberias, Beisan, and Safad sub-districts. 


8. Typhus and relapsing fever both showed an increase. .They 
were sporadic in occurrence and at no time showed signs of assuming 
epidemic proportions. 

Three cases of infantile kala-azar were reported from different 
parts of the country, two proving fatal. 

There was one isolated case of pellagra. 

Among other diseases reported were 19 o acute poliomyelitis 
and 33 of anthrax. 


9. Infectious Diseases. 








] 

Acute poliomyelitis si 17 4 19 3 
Anthrax fest) 33 3 33 6 
Cerebro-spinal meningitis sis 120 51 169 76 
a nerpeie see 442 36 335 43 
Dysentery gut 491 46, 465 56 
Encephalitis lethargion dis 4 3 3 l 
Influenza és es 432 24 58 1 
Measles re 6,002 301 3,488 224 
Paratyphoid “ee 328 12 200 4 
Pneumonia ss. a 693 477 623 411 
Puerperal fever si 4] 18 54 29 
Relapsing fever oe 15 — 34 = 

Scarlet fever ae 168 1 218 l 
Smallpox se 30 7 7 d 
Typhoid Ms 2,009 185 2,060 204 
Typhus... ae es ae ae Se 26 — 55 3 
Undulant fever i or oe se 8 — 15 l 
Blackwater fever a aoe = 2 2 2 1 _— 

Kala Azar... ier. ies, ake — — 3 2 
Pellagra ede se ous bes sink — — 1 _— 











Totals ... sie 10,861 | 1,170 7,841 1,068 





151 
10. Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1935. 


Birth- Number Estimated Number  Death- Infantile 
Yer. rate per of ion of rate per Infantile mortality. 
1,000 births (Mid-Year). deaths 1,000 deaths. Rate per 
living. registered. registered. living. 1,000 births. 
1931... 48-07 46,011 957,191 21,149 - 22-09 7,826 170-09 
1932... 44:14 43,638 986,329 21,958 22-26 6,669 153-17 
183... 44:38 46,089 1,038,331 20,866 20-09 6,656 144-4] 
194... 41°68 45,942 1,104,605 24,136 21°85 7,245 157-69 
195... 45:16 653,040 1,194,529 22,248 18-62 7,087 131-39 
11. Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1935. 
Eetimated population. Jews. Others. Totals. 
«Oth June, 1985... a 320,358 874,171* 1,194,520° 
Deaths St sis ee ee 2,748 19,500 22,248 
Death-rate per 1,000 of population 8:58 22°31. 18-62 
«Births... sa = Mie 9,867 44,073 53,940 
. Birth-rate per 1,000 of population... 30-79 50-41 45-16 
Deaths—Infants under 1 year ma 633 6,454 7,087 
_ Infant mortality rate per 1,000 births 64-15 146-44 131-30 
Natural increase per 1,000 of population ... 22-22 28-11 26-53 


12. The estimated population has, as in previous years, been 
- based on the Census of 1931 after allowing for the natural increase 
of population and that due to migration. 


‘6 ’ 


The birth and death rates given are ‘‘ crude ’’ rates. The re- 
- corded births were 7,998 more than last year and deaths were 1,888 


less. The total recorded infant deaths were 158 below last year’s 
re. 


| The calculated crude birth-rate is 45 per 1,000, the death-rate 18-5 
_ and the infant mortality rate 131 ; the corresponding figures in 1934 
were 42, 22 and 158. 


‘The natural increase of population has risen from 19-7 in 1934 
0 26.5 in 1935, 


13. Regulation of Trades and Industries. 


ae number of licensed trades and industries has grown from 
5,824 in 1934 to 16,500, and there is now a much greater variety 
of establishments dealt with, many being of a larger and more 
Mportant nature. 


The following types were added to the schedule of controlled 
8 and industries :— 


(1) Establishments dealing in second hand jewellery and 
ousehold or personal effects. 

(2) Money-lending establishments where jewellery and/or 
other articles of value are taken or held as security for loans. 


tr. : 
Not eluding nomadic Bedouin population numbering 66,553 at the date of the 


» November, 1931, and His Majesty’s Forces. 
34938) F 2 


152 

Factories for the manufacture of artificial butter wére reclassified 
as factories for the manufacture of edible oils and fats, to conform 
with the provisions of the Public Health (Rules as to Food) 
Ordinance, which came into force during the year. 

Under the Public Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance, rules 
have been made as to labelling of foods, the use of preservatives, 
etc., standards of foodstuffs, and the manner of procuring and 
submitting samples for examination. 

It is the intention of Government to appoint a Controller of 
Factories and it is hoped to make provision for this appointment 
in the financial year opening on the 1st April, 19386.* The appoint- 
ment of this officer should enable more effective use to be made of 
existing factory and labour legislation and permit of an extension 
of this activity of Government. 


14. Drainage.—Outline main drainage schemes for the towns of 
Jaffa and Tel Aviv have been drawn up and await the opinion of 
consulting engineers. The plans of a main drainage scheme for 
Haifa have been completed. A new combined sewer has been 
completed in Nablus to replace the old one which was destroyed by 
floods. Several small storm water and sullage water schemes have 
been installed in Tel Aviv. 


15. Village Sanitation.—The installation of village latrines 
has progressed satisfactorily during the year, and in all 9,713 were 
provided. The total number installed to date is now 14,652 and 123 
villages have been served. Where depth of soil permits, the bored- 
hole pattern has been installed; in the hills and in rock ground a 
shallower pit type has been adopted. 


16. Water Supply : Towns.—Progress was made with the new 
water supply scheme for Jerusalem, and it is anticipated that it will 
be possible to introduce the supply early in 1936. The Hebron 
supply is also nearly complete, and should be in use early next 
spring. Preliminary consideration has been given to a scheme for 
Acre involving the installation of filters and chloramine plant to deal 
with water drawn from the Kabri-Acre aqueduct. 


Water Supply: Villages.—The Committee appointed in 1933 to 
deal with the question of permanent improvements of Village 
Water Supplies continues its valuable work, and a further sum of 
£P.30,000 was made available for expenditure on this work during 
the financial year ending the 31st March, 1935. 93 schemes. 
estimated to cost £P.30,000, were passed by the Committee for 
execution. Since its inception in 1933, the Committee has approved 
the carrying out of 188 permanent schemes, of which 95 had been 
completed and handed over to the villagers by the end of September. 
1935. 

* Cf. question at top of page 68 of Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission. 





153 


ll. Quarantine and Moslem Pilgrimage.—Authority was received 


~ for the expropriation of land required for extensions at Haifa 
 Lazaret, and the matter of expropriating a further area is receiv- 
ing consideration. 


The new port disinfecting station is now complete and in use, 


é aid a Clayton gas disinfecting barge has been ordered. 


1411 Palestinians and 12 Trans-Jordanians proceeded on the 
pilgrimage to Mecca under official arrangements. Each had the 


*. oficial Pilgrim Booklet and was vaccinated before departure. In 


my 


 anumber of cases return steamship tickets from Suez to Jedda were 


~ sued to those who desired them by local Health Offices. Five 
 pilms died while in the Hejaz. Foreign pilgrims to the number 


of 164 entered Palestine on their way to the Hejaz, and 115 passed 


_ trough on the return journey. 


rn os 
7 


ve 


I$. The Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc.—The numbers of 


"persons licensed in the various professions are given below. The 
" dumber of new licences to practise medicine issued during the year 


* Was 596, compared with 492 in 1934; and 52 doctors besides were 
*- granted provisional permits pending completion of formalities. The 


serious overcrowding of this profession necessitated legislation 


. fanting powers to restrict the issue of licences to practise medicine. 


The numbers of persons holding licences at the end of 1933 was 


. 198, and bad risen to 2,082 at the end of 1935. 


Oe acter TIES 


At the end of 1935 there was one licensed medical practitioner 


« 10599 of the settled population. 


~ Tn the other professions, 80 dentists were licensed as compared 
a 


ith 122 in the preceding year, 63 pharmacists as compared with 
i, and 48 midwives as compared with 34. 


. Licences of Doctors, Dentists, Pharmacists and Midwives—1935. 


Number New Cancelled Cancelled Number 

licensed _ licences during licences _ licensed 

at end assued 1935 renewed in atend 

u 1934. 1935. (Deaths, etc.). 1935. 19365. 
: — ae 1,498 596 13 1 2,082 
ae can ‘is 41] 80 233 2 493 
— oe ee: 256 63 ] —_ 318 

2 MWiveg 405 48 8 — 445 


{ 


ao 


19, Hospitals and Dispensaries.—Further progress was made in 
© 6Xpansion of hospital facilities. 


The scheme for construction of a Government Hospital in Haifa 


ne Hl . < . 
“, “tupied attention and schedules of accommodation required were 


COmpleted 


ae for the use of the architects: meanwhile the severe 


F 3 


154 


pressure on the accommodation at present rented necessitated the 
construction of a pavilion ward, providing an additional 20 beds. 


A site was selected in the Jaffa sub-district for a new infectious 
disease hospital of 72 beds. The Tel Aviv municipal hospital was 
extended by the addition of 50 beds. In that same town a private 
hospital of 72 beds was opened. In Petah Tiqva the construc- 
tion of a new hospital of 80 beds was begun by the Kupat Cholim 
(the Sick Fund of the General Federation of the Jewish Labour) 
assisted by a capital grant from Government. 


The plans of an infectious fever hospital for Jerusalem town 
and district were nearing completion and construction will shortly - 
start. 


The establishment of a small Government hospital in Ramleh 
was approved, to be carried out in 1936. | 


Proposals are being considered for the construction of rural: 
hospitals or one central rural hospital to serve the needs of the 
Jewish rural population. 


Minor improvements were in hand at Safad Government hospital 
and Nablus municipal hospital. 


A representative of the Government Department served in an 
advisory capacity on the Building Committee for the new Hadassah - 
Hospital in Jerusalem. . 

The civil hospitals of various organisations and religious and . 
charitable societies continued as in the past to provide for the bulk 
of the general hospital requirements of the public and have main- 
tained their services in various towns. The total number of beds 
in these institutions was 1,734; the details are shown in the follow- © 
ing tables (see paragraph 23). | 


The ophthalmic hospital of the Order of St. John in Jerusalem, 
the Hadassah Tuberculosis hospital, the Exrath Nashim mental. 
hospital and the Moravian Home for Lepers continued to render 
useful services in their particular special spheres of medica] work. | 


The epidemic service for the treatment of acute conjunctivitis - 
organised by Government for villages in the Southern District 18 
dealing with an increasing number of cases and its activities are 
proving of great value. 


20. Ophthalmic Service.—The special Government organisation — 
to cope with epidemics of acute purulent conjunctivitis in villages . 
was increased by the addition of six medical orderlies. 


First-aid treatment was provided for varying periods of time dur- 
ing the epidemic season in twenty-one villages Fy trained orderlies — 
whose work was supervised by the Medical Officers conducting the 
ten regular ophthalmic clinics of the Department. 


155 


In addition the mobile ophthalmic unit operated in twelve villages 


; Where epidemic conditions were more serious. Ophthalmic treat- 


ment was provided at the Nebi Rubin festival in Ramleh District 
where large numbers of Moslems congregated during part of August 


_ and September. 
The following cases were treated :— 
Total 
| New cases. attendance. 
Ophthalmic clinica .. 36,812 463,679 


Subsidiary village first-aid ophthalmic posts... .... 28,503 286,546 


_ In schools 10,550 new cases were treated by the school medical 
" service, 2,705,127 treatments being given. 


In addition to these services, 6,503 cases of eye disease were 


. tated at the general outpatient clinics and dispensaries of the 


SC a en 


Mth epi 


Government Department throughout the country. 
The Jewish school medical service, which receives a subsidy 


_ fom Government funds, carried out similar treatment in Jewish 


schools, 
The ophthalmic hospital of the Order of St. John in Jerusalem 


"dealt with 1,082 in-patients and 21,116 new out-patients during 


the year, and the Warden assisted the Government Department 


_ mth consultations. One doctor and four nurses of the Department 
, Mended the Order’s hospital for special instruction in ophthalmic 


teatment and nursing. 


i. At the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
mmission a question was asked as to what assistance had been 
given by Government to the Jewish Community in the matter of 


» hthalmie services,* 


Ophthalmic disease is treated at all hospital out-patient depart- 
nents and clinics throughout the country. There are ten ophthal- 


_ Mac clinics conducted by the hospital medical officers in connection 
_ wih their out-patient clinics, or by the District Medical Officer 
of the locality in addition to his other duties. Four of these clinics 
| € in centres of mixed population, and treat all classes of the 


‘mmunity without restriction. In two centres where there is a 
considerable Jewish population the clinics are conducted by Jewish 


doctors. «The ophthalmic clinic in Tel Aviv is part of the out- 


Patient department in Tel Aviv Municipal Hospital, which is 
‘ubsidised by the Government. The school medical service of 
"Yernment carries out a considerable amount of ophthalmic treat- 


_ Ment for pupils, and a grant-in-aid is given by Government to the 


“responding medical service conducted in Jewish schools. The 
mobile ophthalmic epidemic unit which was established to cope 
demics of acute conjunctivitis in rural areas is available 


s 
Cb Page 27 of Minutes of Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent Mandates 
MMission, 


3493] F 4 


156 


for service in any part of the country. Its activities have, however, 
been required so far only in the Arab villages of the Southern 
District, where epidemic conjunctivitis is the principal cause of 
blindness. The Jewish rural population is not subject to epidemic 
outbreaks of this disease. 


22. The following is a summary of new patients admitted to 
hospital or attending dispensaries and clinics during the year :-— 


Unclassi- 
jied and 
Moslems. Christians. Jews. others. Totals. 
In-patients : 
Government and Muni- 
cipal Hospitals .. 8,023 2,073 7,434 78 17,608 
Voluntary Hospitals ... 9,049 4,629 16,584 2,514 32,776 
Out-patients : 
Government and Muni- 
cipal Dispensaries ... 92,274 13,622 20,173 218 126,287 


Voluntary Organizations 116,742 38,465 461,112 4,754 621,123 


Pri The following tables provide information as to the activities 
of :— 
A. Government and Municipal Hospitals. 
B. Voluntary General Hospitals. 
C. Special Hospitals : 
(a) Voluntary ; 
(b) Government. 


157 


a A EE 


FEFL| 40°C} €20°8| Sg 


O19 T-819 | 668°OT | ZIT‘T 
8 ¥-9 G06 06 
oF 9-19 99F'T cOl 
LOS G-S&Z | 68'S OFF 
oT L°ST 964 gg 
¢8 F-6L T8L'3 +I 
ol ¥-¥G L68 £6 
STI 6-901 | St9°% Erl 
8L €:98 O6L‘% 6LI 
‘4vah fo |\-pardnaoo0 

pua yo | spaq fo 
padnaoo | saqunu sch "Syjvaqy 
speq fo | abnsaan atl 
saqunay | Apo 


809°LT| SL 


ees | cee | eee ee | ee | eee | ere SSS 





AS |S | Te | ND | GS | pI YE 


—- L 
G C6 
0s9‘c| € 
G 8§ 
€89 163 
I3I 90T 
OSL T09 
96T G&6 
qQ oo) 
> 
= | 2 
S 
® 


9€ oIo | 009 §10}0,7, 
ae a ee aes sss Bie St ++ -eqoysicog 
€ 5 6I 6c ere ece Bee ace 1848 AA ‘sn[qeN 
€% = Ser EEGs “*  drqsuaoy, ‘aray-jay, 
Z Z P ¥Z ace owe eae eee ediorunyy “8ZEX) 
€ L 06 0g eee eee eee eee jedwrunyy ‘Eyer 
ones — 8Z so eos ove eee quOTIUIOAO0r) ‘pejyeg 
8 L 09 GL = a ore QqUOTIUIOAOL) ‘VjIeyT 
91 91 II €L as a ** *QUSWIUWIOAOY) ‘Wa BENE L 
«|e |e |e! 
S :. 2 
2) * | & | € 
& -symdeory 
“uous peg pousuoN 


a aenneeeeterereeeeeet ees nerve re 
‘S€6I—STVilgsoy IvaIDINa|Y GNV LNEWNUTAOS (VY) 


168 








99 020 | 8-09 {oe | “FISH 
Bd 0-LE L tad mateat LN A 
5) ¥-F9 93 bad Lad 
8L 9-64 a ° 8240 
06 9-61 oI - 
901 9-99 oL * 

9I 6°EI LI wWoleenier 
89 ¥-8P 6F **"SBLIOGhy, 
9¢ 9-Ld 9L qIOTeZV NY 
oT 6°LT 69 *** UoIqeH 
19 6-69 IT Welesniol 
vI LST 93 “* SQIQSN 
&6 o-LE £9 “o*  BZBE) 
| b°3é 62 syer 
99 9-8) OI “* peyeg 
orl 6-991 996 woresnJer 
sveh fo |"petdnooo 

pus yp | spaq fo 

pesdnooo | saquinu "WO*$DOOT 
epoq fo 

son N’ 





"9E6[—BIVLIGSOPR]s IVHANT*) AUVLNNIOA (g) 


“Agepowosgn Ay 


“FISH JO ATUNUITI Uy 
‘(qlUIBsUIY WaYOUD 
yedny) Pond Weed AIS Tena 


“* = sUIRSEIVg UI Moqevy] ystmor 
go Ton ePoped [ered jo puny Fog 

"  (Wg'a pus 

wopsury pozytug Aysoum ‘peoiqe 
PUB spuny [eOO]) MOND MIT PIO 

sa (CW'S'N pus 

wopsury poyuy Apysoul ‘peoiqe 
pus epuny [Boo]) WITOYH Mog AON 

mas ([BULI0oJX9 PUB [BOO] 
‘SuORSUOP HVA) youpey qeaziy 
* puv]yOog JO YoNYD cory poyuy 
Aqopog UOISsSIY [eOIpeyy YSinquripy 
UOISSIY Seq Puv WoTesNIOL 


“* eaop 0} WOIseT FomnGD 


_Aeoog Areuorseny yoy 


@OLIOULY JO U014eZI 


wis 4STUOIZ 8,USTIO AA Yessepsyy 


‘woupruDbic) foysde0 HT 


159 





e213 8 | we **-OULIOT, Op OfBUOTSN] GUCIZBIOOSSY 
Woresnior | *** WeITeIT | “** SULITEI] efeUCTgSNY CUOIZEIDORTY 
Oe Lhd =| : “ Bored) “99 JO SIOISIS JO JOpPIO 
eyer as ons Aqgowog efduey, 

ta] é¢ ooo mIeqy 

Tre YOMIOSTeY Jog UleIeA Wess 


ur re peaureers armor oUF JO 8103 
“OojoIg pus sIOINL, * FOOPST ards 





YROIVzV AT 

ae eye es 
qorqaod ee dc me aa - 

wmepernsor | --- youorns | --- ane cc pwardeoR, qOUSAT 


7 eee a A Se eee te 
ms cf haiti oe 
ied, Selhtt Ae 3 oes \ xt ee a ee o.oo. a eo 


160 








EE ES | gree ED | ES | AD | Se AE, | SNE taee | dala 5 au ATT Ta ree | Pirate eee aes SS | eaten ae 


6F L-0g 3 I I — — I — 2g . i "SON [ezidsoyy pequopy 
wey quoUul 
98 8:18 91 € 8Z — Ol €1 g *8 -eqIOY | -UJOAOH) | ***T ‘ON [ezIdsoTy [eQUE_T 
—syopudso Fy 
qortoadgy  guamusaaoy (Q) 
Oll F-GZI | €80°I L 060.T | — OL FEI 988 GOT 
*so[q BINOUT 
UvsrTurly pus soUGSUT IO} owuoy 
6S 6:8¢ | OF . g 6F — 6F — — 09 -sa[8q | “AqoI00g WTYseN 498IZq 
‘aopuoy ‘Ay0100¢ 
[suoT}euU UstA BIOL [euolrzsu 
LZ 6-12 L z 6 — 9 — € 09 . -lojuy | -lozUy ‘fezidsoyY scdey 
"puyy 
-Buq Ul Wlo[esnier jo 
19} UyOLr 4g JO JepiQ oy 
¥% 9-8 9£0T — ceor | — GI Fel €88 GF -eenlo¢ | ysiylig | jo peydsoy ormypeqyydo 
—eropd 
-80F7 powadg fspyunjo, (p) 
‘avah fo |pardnooo "707, |849Y10 | ‘snar | ‘euDisuYyD | suaso;T 
puayw | spaq fo | , 4yBua.4s : 
pordnooo| saqunu | °04Y? | ovema -poq |*uorzooo7| MI? | -worrwesunbs0 pondeo yy 
“oT SS ee -U047D NT 
spaq fo | abn.saan [DUSUON 
saqunyy | pod "suotssIULp 


*SE6I—STVLIdsoH TvIogag (9) 


161 


24. Government Grant-in-Aid to Jewish Medical Services.—The 
grants for the current year were :— 


| £P. 

School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Service ee 1,765 
Infant Welfare Services ... me ba = 1,038 
Contribution to Tuberculosis Hospital, Safad ... 1,700 
Contribution to Tel Aviv Hospital sa oe 5 841 
£P.10,344 

Capital grants were also given as follows :— 

EP. 

Construction of Kupat Cholim Hospital at Petah 4,300 

Tiqvah. 

Additions to Kupat Cholim Hospital at Afuleh 1,300 — 
Hebrew University Hospital sis as ne 6 ,200 
£P.11,800 





In addition a grant of £P.163 was made to the Hebrew Univer- 
sity towards the cost of malaria research work. 


25. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services.—Further progress 
was made in the development of maternity and infant welfare ser- 
vices in rural areas. During the year three centres were opened 
and staffed with graduate nurses. | Seventeen pupil midwives 
completed a course of six months’ training in the Government 
Midwives Training School at Jerusalem. 7 

At the end of the year 6,057 infants were on the registers of 

Government and Government-assisted infant welfare centres, 
and 7,784 on the registers of 43 centres operated ky the Hadassah 
Medical Organization and other organizations of the Jewish 
Community : ; 

It is estimated that approximately 4 per cent. of all Arab infants 
and 65 per cent. of all Jewish infants come under supervision and 
Care of infant welfare services. , 

he expansion of services for the Arab community in rural 
‘teas proceeds slowly owing to the difficulty of providing staff 
trained in infant welfare work. Additional facilities for training 
taf in maternity and infant welfare work are being provided at 
Nablus and a proposal is under consideration for the construction 
of a pupil midwives training school at Jaffa. 
our Superintendents of Midwifery supervise the work of practis- 
midwives in Jerusalem, J affa, Haifa and Nablus districts and 
80 Supervise the Government infant welfare work in those districts. 
n each of these centres, ante-natal and gynaecological services 
: Provided and at the end of the year a woman medical officer 
*S appointed by Government to develop this work amongst Moslem 


ee A second woman medical officer took up her duties early 


ing 


are 


162 


‘26. Laboratory Services —The Department provides for Pales- 
tine a general laboratory service with stations at Jerusalem, Haifa 
and Jaffa. The central laboratories at Jerusalem consist of bacteri- 
ological, chemical and entomological divisions, with pathological, 
serological, bio-chemical, medico-legal, chemico-legal, physical and 
agricultural sub-divisions ; and including as they do the central anti- 
rabic (Pasteur) manufacturing institute, the Government lymph 
establishment and a general vaccine section, these laboratories have 
catered largely for the country’s routine diagnostic needs, have 
undertaken whatever scientific investigations have been required . 
of them by Government Departments, and have prepared, stand- . 


ardized and issued all curative and prophylactic vaccines demanded .. 


by the Public Health Services of Palestine and Trans-Jordan. | 
Moreover they have accommodated and maintained the standard - 
metric weights and measures. The quarantine laboratories at the - 


ports of Haifa and Jaffa, situated within the areas of the local ~ 


hospitals for infectious diseases, while primarily designed and - 
equipped to meet the needs of the International Sanitary Conven- . 
tion, have also satisfied the towns’ diagnostic requirements. 
During the year the bacteriological division has dealt with over 
200,000 specimens sent for examination and has prepared 641,400 
doses of calf-lymph, 125,570 c.c. of anti-enterica prophylactic and 


150,000 c.c. of anti-rabies vaccine. Vaccine issues have included - 


224,000 doses of smallpox lymph, 120,000 c.c. of anti-enterica - 


vaccines and 145,820 c.c. of carbolized anti-rabic vaccine. The . 
anti-rabic vaccine, equivalent to more than 200 human treatment . 
courses, has been distributed to and administered at 34 district _ 


dispensaries. ‘The success rate of vaccine virus insertions has ex- . 
ceeded 95 per cent. Research work has included investigations into .. 
the antigenic structure of the typhoid baccillus and the occurrence | 
of B. typhosus containing V1 antigen in cases of typhoid fever and 
of Vi antibody in their sera. Studies have also been made into the 
virulence and immunogenic activities of the typhoid organism in 
relation to its antigenic constituents. Work in connection with 
the tuberculosis survey has been continued and biological tests for 
pregnancy have become part of the routine. A classification of the 
various types of the diphtheria bacillus has been made. 

The work of the entomological division has been restricted to 
the identification and classification of insects submitted by depart- 
mental personnel and by inspectors of private firms operating in 
midge-infested areas. This routine examination of anopheline 
mosquitoes, of sandflies and of fleas parasitic on the rats caught at 
the ports of Jaffa and Haifa has been undertaken by the general 
laboratory officers. 

In the chemical division, which provides an analytical and 
advisory service for all Government Departments, there has been 
a generally increased activity, with further development in the 
ibio-chemical and agricultural branches. As a result, considerable 
extension to the present accommodation is now being made. 


163 


Exclusive of 3,914 samples of milk, of which 4.6 per cent. have 
been below standard, 7,330 samples have been dealt with. System- 
atic sampling under the Public Health (Rules as to Food) 
Ordinance, 1935, has been instituted. Of 2,200 samples of edible 
oils and fats, the following percentages have shown adulteration :— 
tutter 6, samneh 3.3, olive oil 14, sesame oil 15.5. 


Bio-chemical specimens numbered 1,393 and 302 exhibits have 
been examined in connection with criminal investigation. 


In connection with the Trade Agreement with Egypt, a scheme 
of control has been devised to ensure the purity of olive oil soap 
exported to that country. 


Investigations into the factors influencing the quality of local 
olive oil have been continued, and so far have shown primitive 
methods of handling and pressing to be the main causes of acidity. 


Enquiry into the causes of corrosion in aluminium alloys in motor 
vehicles has been completed. Results of investigations on chlorosis 
in citrus have been published in local journals. 


27. Housing and Town Planning.—During the year under review 
there was intense building activity in Haifa, Jerusalem, Jaffa and 
Tel Aviv, but a slight decrease from September to December became 
evident. 


There was a shortage in the chief centres of houses and flats at 
reasonable rates. Generally speaking, rents continue to be high, 
though a slight fall occurred in certain areas towards the end 
of the year. A demand has arisen in the towns for apartment 
houses to meet the needs of small families and single persons, and 
special regulations have been prepared by the Central Town 
Planning Commission, and promulgated by Government, to control 
this type of development. 


The housing of the poorer classes casually employed at Haifa and 
Jaffa continues to engage the attention of the Government, and 
selected areas have been allocated for that purpose. 


The volume of business undertaken by the Central and Local 
Town Planning Commissions has increased and, following the re- 
commendation of Government, a full time Town Planning Adviser 
was appointed in October. 


28. Housing Scheme for Arab Workers.—The question of the 
better accommodation of Arab workers has begun to engage the 
serious attention of Government as part of its general policy to 
encourage housing schemes for the poorer classes in the large 
towns. It is hoped that as a first step in this direction, in col- 
laboration with the Municipal Councils concerned, it will be 
possible to make satisfactory arrangements for the re-establishment 
im simple dwellings of the considerable number of Arab working 
people who at present occupy unhealthy huts at Jaffa and Haifa, 


164 


where they are not only evilly housed themselves but are a source 
of possible infection to the rest of the inhabitants. 


The policy of Government is to place suitable plots of State 
Domain at the disposal of Municipal Councils to be turned into 
building sites for such housing schemes, charging an economic 
rent for the land to be built upon and giving rent-free any areas 
which are to be used as public parks or open spaces. Long leases 
will be granted; and Government will be ready to assist the pro- 
moters so far as possible in their arrangements for financing the 
actual construction. It is contemplated that co-operative societies 
will interest themselves in this activity. The execution of these 
schemes will of course be subject to the general control of Govern- 
ment and of the Municipal authorities concerned in the matter of 
planning generally, communications, structural requirements and 
determination of rentals. An Ordinance has already been drafted 
with a view to facilitating the establishment and governing the 
activities in Palestine of building societies; and this will be con- 
sidered in the course of 1936. 


A scheme for the housing of Arab workers in Jaffa was mooted 
by the Municipality of that town but progress has been delayed 
owing to the difficulty of finding a suitable plot of State Domain. 
At Haifa a site is available and plans have already been worked 
out in some detail for the transplantation of some 700 families 
from their present shanties to a properly laid out cantonment. 


State land has been placed at the disposal of the Municipality 
of Tel Aviv and arrangements are already far forward for the 
creation of a workers’ quarter under the auspices of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour. At the Kishon near Haifa in the 
vicinity of the Railway Workshops, Government intends to embark 
upon an experimental scheme to provide proper accommodation 
for Arab employees of the Railways who at present pay high rents 
for inadequate housing in the town. In the first instance 20 
houses «will be put up in two different designs, permanent and semi- 
permanent, with a view to determining how far the workers will 
be attracted by the amenities offered. 


29. Child Marriage.—An account was given in paragraph 15 of 
this Chapter in the Report for 1934 of the situation as to child 
marriage in Palestine, the steps for its regulation which were con- 
templated in the draft Criminal Code Ordinance and the various 
measures adopted through Government and private agency for the 
education of girls in towns and villages and for their medical care. 


It was made clear that the practice of child marriage is not 
widespread in Palestine and that the Religious Codes of the van- 
ous Communities are designed to discourage it as far as possible; 
and the circumstances were explained which rendered it advisable 
in Palestine to proceed in this matter gradually and with the con- 
sent of all Communities. 


165 


It will further be recalled that the prospect was mentioned of 
raising the minimum age of marriage in the case of a female so 
as to bring the provisions of the draft Criminal Code Ordinance 
into closer approximation to the rules observed in European coun- 
tnes. To this end the High Commissioner addressed the Heads 
of all Communities in Palestine, inviting their support of his 
Intention to raise the minimum age from fourteen to fifteen years 
completed ; it was urged that the beneficent effects confidently 
anticipated from the fixing of a minimum age would be still greater 
if such a change were made. 


It is pleasing to record that there was unanimous and unqualified 
acceptance of this invitation and the draft Criminal Code Ordinance 
is accordingly to be enacted early in 1986 with a prescription, 
endorsed by all spiritual leaders in Palestine, that the minimum 
age of a bride shall be fifteen years completed. 


30. Women Doctors.—In last year’s Report, the engagement 
of women doctors by Government was foreshadowed: two such 
appointments have now been made and the ladies appointed are 
already at work in Palestine. 


31. Public Morality.—There is no change to report in the 
general situation as affecting prostitution in Palestine, which was 
described in detail in paragraph 20 of the Chapter in the Report 
for 1934. Strict control is maintained over attempts to smuggle 
foreign prostitutes in Palestine; places of amusement are kept 
under close surveillance ; and Government continues to enjoy the 
co-operation of various non-official institutions in combating the 
traffic in women and children. 


The following are statistics of prosecutions for the last four 
vears in the chief towns for the offence of brothel-keeping : 


Jerusalem. Haifa. Jaffa. Tel Aviv. 


1932... 1 4 2 ae 
1933... 1 5 14 2 
1934... bie 7 2 14 — 
1935... es 3 5 — — 


Convictions were obtained in 1932 in four cases, in 1933 in nine- 
teen cases, in 1934 in seventeen cases and in 1935 in four cases. 
The sentences ranged from six weeks to one year’s imprisonment 
and from £P.5 to £P.100 as fines. In the four convictions in 
the present year the sentences passed were imprisonment for a year 
and for six months, a fine of £P.25 or two months’ imprisonment 
and a fine of £P.40 or six months’ imprisonment. 


eae draft Ordinance amending and consolidating the existing 
egislation in regard to the sale of intoxicating liquors, mentioned 


‘0 paragraph 22 of this Chapter in last year’s Report, was enacted 
in February, 1935. ; 


166 
It is, by this law, forbidden to employ any female between ~“ 


the age of seventeen and twenty years completed after 7 p.m. or < 


any female over the age of twenty years completed after that hour, ~- 
unless the Licensing Board grants special permission; no female _ 
under the age of seventeen years may be employed in any circum- © 
stances; and it is an offence, punishable by a fine of £P.10 or im- © 
prisonment not exceeding fifteen days and by increased penalties “- 
in case of subsequent offences, to permit licensed premises to be — 
the resort of or place of meeting of prostitutes. = 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from - 
Ist July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Govern- = 
ment), to the 3lst March, 1935, are set out below :— = 


Revenue. Hazpenditure. 
£P. 
Ist July, 1920 to 3lst March, 

1921. 1,136,951 1,259 587 
1921-1922 2,371,531 1,929 341 
1922-1923 1,809 ,831 1,884 280 
1923-1924 1,675 ,788 1,675 ,105 
1924-1925 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-1926 2,809 324 2,092 647 
1926-1927 2,451,365 2,123 568 
1927 (April to December) 1,739 ,380 1,944,397 
1928 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929 2,323,572 2,140 032 
1930 2,,389:,546 2 536 504 
1931 2,333 895 2,374,867 
1932 (J anuary i March) 657 ,289 511,656 
1932-1933 3,015 917 2,516,394 
1933-1934 3,985 ,492 2,704 856 
1934-1935 5 ,452,633 3,230,010 

£P.38,891,777 34,158,222 
Surplus Balance at 31st March, 4,733,555 


1935. 


Revenue and Expenditure (1934-35). 
Revenue. 


2. Summaries of the revenue and expenditure under Heads are 
contained in Appendices I and II to this Section, with explanations 
of variations of note. 


£P.38 891,777 


167 


3. The revenue for the period under review aggregated 
£P.5,452,633 and the expenditure amounted to £P.3,230,010, or an 
excess of revenue over expenditure of £P.2,222,623. 


4. The revenue under Head I, Customs, amounted to 
£P.2,600,370 and shows an increase of £P.731,772 over the revenue 
from that source in the preceding year. The increase in receipts 
from Customs Import Duties is mainly due to increased imports of 
foodstuffs generally, to increased imports of building materials, and 
to increased commercial and industrial activities in general. The 
cause is attributable to increased immigration and import of capital, 
and to a general improvement in conditions in rural areas resulting 
from better local harvests. 


The revenue under Head IJ, Port and Marine, amounted to 
£P.90,701 and shows an increase of £P.34,212 over the revenue 
under this Head collected in 1933-34. ‘The increase is due to the 
collection of a full year’s revenue, as compared with eight months’ 
revenue only in 1933-34 and to the increase in the total tonnage 
of steam and sailing vessels which entered and cleared in the foreign 
trade of Palestine. The increase was from 5,146,024 tons in 
1933-34 to 6,514,894 tons in 1934-35. 


A sum of £P.6,361 was received from fees levied at the rate 
of 2d. a ton on oil loaded into vessels by the ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company’s sea-loading lines at Haifa. When the Oil Dock is avail- 
able for use, the charges will be 5d. per ton on oil delivered from 
the Oil Dock and 2d. per ton on oil delivered by sea lines, subject 
to a minimum annual payment of £P.30,000 to cover both these 
charges. The first fees in respect of the sea-loading lines came 
into effect on the 26th October, 1934. 


The revenue from Head III, Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted 
to £P.1,075,295 as compared with £P.857,180 collected in 1933-34. 
The main increases occurred under the following sub-heads : Road 
Transport Licences (P.11,876), House and Land Tax 
(£P.17,787), Tithes (£P.51,200), Urban Property Tax (£P.34,419), 
Stamp Duties (£P.35,094), Matches Excise (£P.6,076), Tobacco 
Excise (£P.35 626), Wine and Spirit Excise (£P.8,054), and Fines 
and Forfeitures (£P.20,922). On the other hand, there was a 

decrease of £P.10,779 under Animal Tax as, owing to heavy mor- 

tality among livestock caused by failure of pastures, remissions 

Were granted in 1933-34 which affected the 1934-35 revenue. 


The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £P.845,923 as against £P.534,355 collected in the 
preceding year. The most important increases occurred under the 
following sub-heads: Court Fees (£P.28,204), Citrus Fruit 
Advertisement Fees (£P.4,806), Passport Fees (£P.6,231), Regis- 
tration of Companies, Partnerships and Co-operative Societies Fees 


168 


(£P.21,399), Registration of Immigrants (£P.17,516), Registration * 


of Land Fees (EP. 168,214), Palestine Archaeological * Museum ; 


Receipts—dividends on the Endowment Fund previously accounted *_ 


for as deposits (£P.10,250), Veterinary Receipts (£P.5,731), Re-- 


imbursements Miscellaneous (£P.30,807), and Warehouse Rent - - 


(£P.20,073). On the other hand, there was a decrease of 


£P.24,468 under Reimbursements on account of Municipal Police, 


owing to their absorption in the general Police Service. 


The reason for the increase in collections under Court Fees is > 
to be found in the increase in the number of cases from 86,161 in ° 


Ks 


1933-34 to 100,664 cases in the year under review and in their -. 


value. The Citrus Fruit Advertisement fee was raised from 1} to .= 


2 mils per case of citrus fruit exported as from the 17th of January, «: 


1935, in order to provide funds for a more intensive advertising -- 


campaign. ‘The number of cases of citrus fruit, cleared for ex ort : 


by the 3lst March, 1935, was 7,016,000, as compared with 4,892,000 . 


exported in the preceding year. The increase in receipts in respect ” 


of fees for registration of companies, partnerships and co-operative _ 
societies is due to the further employment of capital in industrial ~ 
and trade enterprises; while the increase of £P.168,214 in the fees ~~ 


received in respect of the registration of land is due to the increase 


in the number and value of transactions in land—the number of ~ 


registered transactions rose from 29,685 in 1933-34 to 41,634 in-: 
1934-35, of which 30,056 transactions were in respect of rural - 
areas and 11,578 in respect of urban areas. The receipts under .. 
Reimbursements Miscellaneous include (a) Contribution by the Jaffa .- 
Municipality of a sum of approximately £P.13,000 towards the - 


cost of construction of the South Approach Road to the Port; (b) . 


Contribution amounting to £P.11,414 by the Hasharon Settlements -- 


towards the cost of construction of a road from Herzlia through 


the Settlements to the Railway; (c) Gift by His Excellency the ' 
High Commissioner of £P.3,600 towards the cost of the construc- . 


tion of a new wing at the Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm ; 
and (d) Gift by Sir Elly Kadoorie of £P.1,500 for the construction 
of married quarters for instructors at the Kadoorle Agricultural 
School, Mt. Tabor. The increase under Warehouse Rent is due in 
part to reduction in the franchise period for free storage of goods 
with effect from the 18th May, 1934, from six to three days in the 
case of goods exempted from Import Duty and to five days in 
respect of dutiable articles, other than timber and iron. Part 
of the increase, however, was due to the provision of additional 
storage accommodation, both at Haifa and Jaffa, where there was 
a large increase in the volume of goods requiring storage accom- 
modation. The tonnage of cargo discharged from steam and sailing 
vessels in the ports of Jaffa and Haifa amounted in 1934-35 to 
1,122,036 tons and of the cargo loaded on steam and sailing vessels 
to O74, 206 tons (exclusive of cred oil), as compared with "897 981 
tons and 206,366 tons, respectively, in 1933-34. 


169 


The revenue from Head V., Posts and Telegraphs, amounted to 
£P.355,817 and was £P.67,974 in excess of the receipts realized 
in 1933-34. Increases were recorded under all items except for that 
relating to Reimbursements for the Maintenance of Air Force Lines 
in Sinai, in respect of which the sum received is based on actual 
costs, 


The most important increases fall under Sale of Stamps 
(€P.38,952) and Telephones (£P.22,067), which reflect the pre- 
vailing economic situation. 


The total revenue earned by this Department in 1934-35 exceeded 
by a sum of £P.50,089 the expenditure incurred on recurrent ser- 
vices and extraordinary works, including the cost of buildings under 
the vote for Public Works Extraordinary but excluding Debt 
Charges in respect of capital expenditure met from Loan Funds. 


The revenue from Head VI., Revenue from Government Property, 
amounted to £P.21,618, as compared with £P.14,420 collected in 
1933-34. The main increase of £P.6,927 occurs under State 
Domains, the reason for which lies in the general improvement in 
the agricultural situation which enabled cultivators to pay their 
rental tithes. 


The revenue from Head VII., Interest, amounted to £P.97,102, 
as compared with £56,896 realized in 1933-34. Of the total revenue 
in 1934-85 a sum of £P.83,673 was earned on the investment of 
surplus balances, as compared with £P.54,496 earned in the pre- 
ceding year. On the 3lst March, 1935, a sum of £P.1,132,000 was 
invested in the Joint Colonial Fund and £P.3,086,407 was invested 
in stock, as compared with sums of £P.651,000 and £P.1,725 ,203, 
respectively, on the 31st March, 1934. 


The revenue from Head VIII., Miscellaneous, amounted to 
£P.177,886, and shows an increase of £P.56,549 over the preceding 
year. This is due to (a) an increase of £P.20,000 in Palestine’s 
share in the profits of the Palestine Currency Board over the amount 
of £P.90,000 received in 1933-34; (b) the appreciation of invest- 
ments, in respect of surplus balances, based on the middle market 
price at the 31st March, 1985, which accounted for a sum of 
£P.40,327 in 1934-35 as compared with £P.23,016 realized in the 
preceding year; and (c) profits, amounting to £P.10,394, on sales 
of stocks effected during the year. 


The revenue from Head IX., Land Sales, amounted to £P.31,640, 
and shows an increase of £P.5,031 in comparison with the previous 
year. The increase was due to moneys received for the redemption 
of certain properties, which, owing to the failure of the former 
owners to account for tithes farmed out to them by the Ottoman 
Government, were registered in 1915-16 in the name of the Ottoman 
Treasury. The properties were released on payment of outstanding 
habilities and the accrued interest thereon. 


170 


The revenue from Head X., Grant-in-Aid, consisted of the 
following :— 


£P. 
Three-quarters of the expenditure under Head 
XXI., Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, during 
the year 1934-35 (£P.165,165) 5 gis 123 ,874 


Whole expenditure on Capital Works in Trans- 
Jordan under Head XXIX., Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force Extraordinary, during the 
year 1934-35... — ee ee a6 17 ,494 


£P.141,368 


The total receipts from the Parliamentary Grant-in-Aid for the 
year 1934-35 amounted to £P.142,734, but the sum of £P.1,366 was 
transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit Account for adjustment of 
the Grant in the current year. 


The receipts under Head XI., amounting to £P.14,913, represent 
assistance by the Colonial Development Fund granted to Palestine 
towards meeting interest charges on the capital cost of certain 
schemes. Fixed grants of £P.9,000 and £P.5,250 respectively were 
received in 1934-35 in respect of the Jerusalem Water Supply 
Scheme and the Jerusalem Drainage Scheme. In the case of the 
Hebron Water Supply and Village Water Supplies (the latter 
including Water Resources Survey, Underground Water Investiga- 
tions, and Improvements to Village Water Supply Schemes), the 
assistance granted in 1934-35 took the form of full interest, calcu- 
lated at bank rate, on expenditure incurred to the 3lst March, 1935 ; 
and grants in the sums of £P.121 were received in respect of the 
Hebron Water Supply and of £P.151 in respect of Village Water 
Supplies, etc. 


In addition to grants for approved development schemes, assist- 
ance was also granted by the Colonial Development I*und as 
under :— 


(a) A moiety of the expenses incurred in connection with the 
visit to Palestine in 1933-34 of a Fruit Canning Specialist who 
was sent to advise on the possibilites of canning locally-grown 
vegetables and fruits, £P.123. 


(b) Expenses incurred on Consultant’s fees in connection 
with the aerial survey of a possible route for a Haifa-Baghdad 
Railway, £P.250. 


(c) One-third of expenses incurred in connection with the 
Colonial Agricultural Scholarship Scheme, £P.18. 


Disbursements in respect of (b) and (c) are shown under Expen- 
diture Head XXXI., Colonial Development. 


171 
Expenditure. 


5. The variations in expenditure in 1934-35 as compared with the 
expenditure of 1933-4 are due to the following causes :— 


I.—Pensions.—Expenditure 1933-34 £P.24,193, 1934-35 
£P.28,747. The main excess occurs under Pensions and Gratuities 
(£P.5 343), paid under the Palestine Pensions Ordinance, 1925, in 
respect of retired and deceased officers. Of this excess, a sum of 
£P.1,329 was however an outstanding gratuity to a retired officer 
which should have been claimed and drawn in 19383. 


{I.—Public Debt and Loan Charges.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.127 198, 1934-35 £P.126,904. The expenditure under this Head 
shows a slight decrease as compared with the expenditure incurred 
in 1933-34, owing to the fact that the apportionment between the 
Railways and the Government had not hitherto been based on the 
correct distribution of the assets acquired under the Wickham Valu- 
ation, and, moreover, the Railways had not in the past been debited 
with any share in the cost of raising the loan. The matter was 
adjusted in 1934-35, resulting in a reduction of the charge under 
this Head with a corresponding increase in Debt Charges of the 
Railways. 


V.—District Administration.—Expenditure 1933-34 £P.97,712, 
1934-35 £P.108,790. The total increase 1s £P.11,078, of which 
£P.8,003 was incurred under Personal Emoluments and £P.2,413 
under Other Charges. The latter excess was due to the application 
of the Rural Property Tax in substitution of the Tithe and the 
House and and Tax in rural areas. 


X.—Customs, Excise and Trade.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.94,395, 1934-35 £P.147,620. The increase is £P.53,225. The 
general increase in the volume of trade and the need for a full 
year’s provision for the new Harbour at Haifa caused additional 
expenditure amounting to £P.15,822 on Personal Emoluments. 
Additional personnel were appointed for varying periods, of whom 
forty-six were engaged on a temporary basis and at daily rates of 
pay. Increases also occurred on the maintenance of tugs 
(£P.3,010) by reason of the need for a full year’s provision (the 
tugs were first employed in October, 1933) ; Drawbacks of Customs 
Duty (£P.25,118), which were included under Head XXVI, Mis- 
cellaneous, in the preceding year; and the purchase of motor 
launches and mooring springs (£P.4,151). One launch was re- 
quired to replace an unserviceable pilot launch and two mooring 
launches were required for Haifa Harbour. One launch was also 
purchased for use on the sea of Galilee by the Customs, Police, 
and Agricultural Departments. 


XI.—Department of Health.—Expenditure 1933-34 £P.135,838, 
1934-35 £P.166,311. Increase £P.30,473. The main increases 


172 


occurred under Personal Emoluments (£P.7,833), Hospital Diets 
(£P.3,030), Contribution to Jewish Health Services (£P.7,977), 
Grant to Scottish Hospital, Tiberias (£P.3,000), and Drainage of 
Birket Ramadan (£P.7,088). During the year, 1t was decided to 
proceed with the project for draining and reclaiming the swampy 
area known as Birket Ramadan; and an agreement was reached 
with the Hanotaiah Company (a Jewish Association which is con- 
cerned with the development of the area) and the Supreme Moslem 
Council for contribution in the sums of £P.6,000 and £P.4,500, 
respectively, towards the cost of the project. The estimated cost 
is £P.18,000, of which Government is to provide £P.7,500. The 
drainage work will reclaim about 8,000 dunums of land and will 
enable land in the vicinty to be farmed without danger of malaria. 

The steps taken in the preceding year to extend the Ophthalmic 
Service and the scheme for village sanitation by the installation 
of latrines in villages were continued in the year under review. 

The year witnessed the expansion of village clinics, the exten- 
sion by 18 beds of the Jaffa Infectious Diseases Hospital, and the 
extension of Infant Welfare Work by the appointment of two 
additional Welfare Supervisors and two additional nurses for 
Hebron and Majdal and sub-districts. There was also an increase 
in Quarantine staff, and the Haifa Quarantine Lazaret was im- 
proved. Four Assistant Sanitary Inspectors were appointed with 
a view to the development of rural hygiene and sanitation. 

The establishment of a tukerculosis hospital at Nazareth was 
deferred pending the completion of the survey of the incidence of 
tuberculosis in Palestine. 

During the year, a contribution of £P.11,667 was made to Jewish 
Health Services, covering the following :— 

£P. 


(a) Grant to Municipal Hospital, Tel-Aviv _ -.. 7,432 
(b) Maintenance Grant to Tuberculosis Hospital 1,700 
of the Hadassah Medical Organization, 


Safad. 
(c) School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Services ... 1,620 
(d) Infant Welfare Services of the Jewish 925 
Agency. 





£P.11,677 





XII.—Department of Education.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.179 635, 1934-35 £P.201,498. Increase £P.21,863. The 
principal increases occur under Personal Kmoluments (£P.10,678), 
Grant-in-Aid to Schools of the Jewish Agency (£P.2,746), and 
Grants to Local Authorities for School Buildings (£P.8,853). 

During 1934-35 thirty-five new classified posts were provided in 
town schools. Town children to the number of 5,604 applied for 
first admission to schools in September, 1934, and it was possible 


173 


to accept into the lowest class 3,337, representing an increase of 
137 over the admissions in September, 1933. Nevertheless, the 
number of rejections in the lowest class rose from 1,700 in 
September, 1933, to 2,267 in September, 1934. The total number 
of pupils in town schools rose from 14,700 in July, 1934, to 17,689 
in November, 1934, or an average of 34-5 pupils per teacher post. 
Accommodation for new pupils was provided by hiring additional 
premises at Jerusalem, Jaffa, Haifa, Hebron, Beersheba, Tulkarm, 
and Safad, the cost being met from the provision for rents under 
Heal XXV, Public Works Recurrent. Additional accommodation 
was also provided in certain Government schools. 

The provision in the approved Estimates for Grants to Schools of 
the Palestine Jewish Agency was increased from £P.25,254 in 
1938-34 to £P.28,000 in 1934-35 and was fully expended. 

Building grants amounting to £P.225 were given to local autho- 
nties to forward the construction of new rooms at Majdal, Ramle, 
aud Tulkarm. The expansion scheme for rural education was con- 
tinued in 1934-35 by the appointment in September, 1934, of 23 
classified and 61 unclassified teachers and the distribution of 
£P.4,625 in building grants to local authorities, thus enabling 30 
new village schools to be erected and new rooms to be added to 
27 existing schools. Approval for the scheme of expansion was 
delayed, and in consequence teaching appointments were postponed. 


XIII.—Department of Agriculture and Forests.—Expenditure 
1933-34 £P.115,076, 1934-35 £P.147,287. Increase £P.32,210 
The main increases occur under Personal Emoluments (£P.7,573) , 
Citrus Advertising Fund (£P.4,806), and £P.6,039 and £P.6,678 
In respect of the Kadoorie Agricultural Schools at Mt. Tabor and at 

lkarm, respectively, which was previously met from deposit 
accounts (see paragraph 20). 

The provision made in 1934-35 for Agricultural services exceeded 
the provision in the Estimates for 1933-34 by £P.33,203, owing to 
the inclusion of additional staff for inspection and agricultural 
stations, increased provision for demonstration plots and improve- 
ment of natural pastures, the establishment of two new Horticul- 
tural Stations (one for citrus demonstrations), the extension and 
improvement of forest nurseries and the propagation of carob trees, 
the establishment of animal quarantine stations and extended veter- 
lary services. The Estimates also made provision for a Citrus 
Advertising Campaign in the United Kingdom and on the Continent, 
but expenditure on this scheme is offset by receipts obtained from 
ees levied under the Citrus Fruit Advertisement Ordinance, 1933, 
on the fruit exported. The fee imposed was at the rate of 1} mils 
Per case until the 16th J anuary, 1935, and at 2 mils per case 
thereafter. The amount collected is transferred to a deposit 
‘ccount from whence the actual cost of advertisement is met. The 
cost of contracts placed during the year amounted to £P.20,039, of 
which £P.17,800 was placed in the United Kingdom; £P.1,902 


174 


on the Continent, and £P.337 locally. As the fees received in 
1934-35 were insufficient to meet the cost of the contracts placed 
with the advertising agents, Government advanced to the Adver- 
tising Committee a sum of £P.8,000 by way of loan free of interest, 
to enable the contracts to be placed. The loan is repayable from 
fees collected in 1935-36. 


It was found necessary to make supplementary provision for the 
expansion of the experimental fields at Acre and Jericho where 
intensive irrigation work is carried out ; and for increasing the pro- 
duction of budded fruit trees, grafted vines and olives for issue to 
fruit-growers, particularly in the hilly districts. 


The school farm of the Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarm 
was increased by 200 dunums during the year, and a new wing was 
constructed for the accommodation of thirty additional students. 


During the year, the following grants were made to Jewish In- 
stitutions in aid of research and experimental work :— 


= #6P. 
(a) Grant for Citrus Research by the Experi- 
mental Station of the Jewish Agency. ... 3,000 
(b) Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farming. 
éxperiments ne ee ee 
(c) Grant-in-aid to Hebrew University ‘for Fowl 
Pox Vaccine Research _... 150 
(d) Grant to Jewish Agency Experimental Fruit- 
growing at hillside Station, Kiryat Anavim 300 
(e) Grant to Hebrew University for Field Mice 
Investigations ... ea 70 
(f) Grants to ° Jewish Agency for— 
£P. 
(1) Field Experiments ... aa 500 
(2) Horticultural Experiments ... 500 
(3) Experiments in animal nutri- 
tion and Dairying... oa 500 
(4) Mycological Investigations ... 300 
— 1,850 
£P.5 ,670 


XIV.—Department of Antiquities.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.8,359, 1934-35 £P17,197. Increase £P.8,838. Prior to the 
year 1934-35 the interest derived from the Palestine Archaeological 
Museum Endowment Fund was crédited to deposits and used to 
defray the cost of upkeep of the museum; but with effect from 
1st April, 1934, these receipts were credited to revenue, and the cost 
of upkeep was charged to expenditure under the votes of the De- 
partment of Antiquities. Expenditure during 1934-35 on account 
of the Museum amounted to £P.8,663. 


175 


XIX.—Police and Prisons.—Fixpenditure 1933-34 £P.486,605, 
1934-35 £P.506,712. Increase £P.20,107. The principal increase 
occurs under Personal Emoluments (£P.14,470) owing to the need 
of additional police to deal with the problem of illegal immigration 
and to supplement the Force at Tel-Aviv. 


XX.—Department of Immigration.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.21,392, 1934-35 £P.29,437. Increase £P.8,045. The increase 
occurs mainly under Personal Emoluments (£P.4,790). A sum 
of £P.2,891 was expended on the Marine Preventive Force, in- 
cluding equipment and staff. 


Re-organization of the Department was also effected at a cost 
in 1934-385 of £P.1,186. Although the major changes were not 
effected until 1935-36, the increase in the Personal Emoluments 
vote is due in some measure to this re-organization. 


Owing to the increase of illegal immigration, special measures 
were taken during the year to suppress the illegal entry of persons 
into Palestine through the ports or across the frontier. The 
measures taken were the establishment of a Sea Preventive Force 
under the Department of Immigration and of additional police for 
intensive frontier work under the Department of Police. The ex- 
penditure incurred in 1934-35 on the Preventive Force covered 
Personal Emoluments at a cost of £P.1,082, and equipment, etc., 
at a cost of £P.1,809. 


This project was introduced as an experimental measure, but 
it has now been retained and modified by placing responsibility 
for sea control in the hands of the Inspector-General of Police, 
under whose votes provision for this service has teen made 1n the 
Estimates for 1935-36. 


XXI.—Trans-Jordan Frontier Force.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.172,318, 1934-35 £P.165,165. Decrease £P.7,153. The ex- 
penditure in 1933-34 included £P.5 ,132 for vehicles for the mechani- 
zation of the Force, for which no provision was necessary in 1934-30. 
Expenditure on Special Expenditure was also £P.1,966 less than 
expenditure in the previous year. 


XXII.—Defence.—Expenditure 1933-34 £P.110,125, 1934-35 
£P.144,118. Increase £P.33,993. There was an increase of 
£P.2,875 under the contribution to the Imperial Government to- 
wards the excess cost of the Royal Air Force, Armoured Cars and 
Army units employed in Palestine and T'rans-Jordan over the cost 
of such forces at their normal stations, including the cost of local 
services. The total payments under this item in 1934-35 amounted 
to £P.103,875, but a sum of £P.2,570 had been overpaid in 1933-34 
in respect of Palestine’s actual liability for that year and was 
credited to expenditure in 1934-35. The total payment made 1n 


176 


respect of 1934-35 therefore amounted to £P.106,445. The amount 
of contribution due in respect of 1934-35 was not notified to Govern- 
ment before the close of the year, but payment of the instalment 
in respect of the last quarter of that year was not demanded by the 
War Office and the Air Ministry as it was already evident that the 
payments previously made in respect of the previous quarters would 
cover Palestine’s liability. The Estimates for the year included 
a sum of £P.77,800 for capital works and hirings, of which 
£P.30,000 was in respect of the cost of married quarters in Jeru- 
salem and Haifa, but difficulties occurred in connection with the 
acquisition of suitable sites and construction was deferred. 


During the year, a site was acquired, at a cost of £P.40,000, for 
Army married quarters at Haifa, but no decision has yet been taken 
with regard to construction. 


In 1933-34, expenditure was incurred amounting to £P.8,764 in 
respect of the difference in cost between public rates and preferential 
rates on the Palestine Railway and operated lines for Royal Air 
Force and Army units. No expenditure was incurred in 1934-35, 
as preferential rates have now given way to fixed rebates of 25 per 
cent. on the Palestine Railway only. No rebate is now given in 
respect of traffic on the Kantara-Rafa or the Hijaz railways. 


A sum of £P.243 was required in 1934-35 to cover the cost of 
local services rendered prior to the 1st April, 1932, from which 
date they have been included in the excess cost of the garrison. 


AXXIII.—Posts and Telegraphs.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£LP.167,245, 1934-35 £P.225,048. Increase £P.57,803. The prin- 
cipal increases occur under Personal Emoluments (£P.15,861) 
owing to increased demand for postal facilities, chiefly in Jerusalem, 
Tel-Aviv, and Haifa; and Conveyance of Mails (£P.35,435), the 
excess on the latter vote being due to the following reasons :— 


(1) the method adopted by the International Postal Union 
for the settlement of International Accounts; 

(2) a large increase in the quantity of mails originating in 
Palestine and conveyed through other countries ; 

(3) diversion to other routes of foreign mails formerly con- 
veyed in transit through Palestine , 

(4) a large increase in the quantity of air mails despatched 
from Palestine ; 

(5) repayment of certain transit charges paid by France in 
respect of the years 1930, 1931, and 1932; 


(6) depreciation of sterling. 
With regard to (1), the sums which each country in the union 


has to pay annually to other countries for the conveyance of mails 
through the territory of these countries is based on statistics taken 


177 


once in every three years. These statistics were formerly taken at 
the commencement of the period in respect of which demand is 
nade but they are now taken in the middle of the period and 
part of the payment is made with retrospective effect. The statis- 
ics hich form the basis of the international settlement in respect 
of the years 1929, 1930, and 1931 were taken in May, 1929. Those 
tating to the years 1932, 1933, and 1934 were taken during 
\ctober and November, 1933. | 


Prior to 1933 statistical period, the quantities of mails carried in 
iansit through Palestine (mainly between Europe, Syria, ‘Iraq, 
aad Persia) was considerably greater than the whole of the foreign 
nails despatched from Palestine alone, and the credits received 
in tespect of such transit provided a substantial amount as an offset 
against the total cost of conveyance of Palestine mails. 


The four years which elapsed between the 1929 and 1933 statis- 
teal periods witnessed a large increase in the volume of foreign 
wails originating in Palestine, and a large reduction due to diver- 
“on to other routes in the volume of mails conveyed in transit. 
The increase in weight of letters, newspapers, etc., despatched 
fom Palestine in 1933 as compared with the year 1929 amounted 
0 02,621 kes., and the decrease in weight of letters and newspapers, 
ete., conveyed in transit through Palestine amounted to 449,419 kgs. 
It will be seen that, whereas Palestine was required to pay to 
other countries in 1933 on the basis of an increase in weight of 
12,621 kes., the amount received from other countries was based 
o a reduction of 449,419 kgs. The 1933 statistics apply with 
retrospective effect to 1932, the first year of the accounting period, 
4nd as the amount payable is greater than that already paid on 
the 1929 basis, the difference must be met by Palestine. In some 
cases settlement can be effected directly with the country con- 
cerned, but in others settlement must be made through the medium 
ofa third country as may be decided by the International Bureau. 
The increased payment under this item in 1934-35 was to allow 
for direct settlement, whereas the amount required for indirect 
settlement has been provided in the Estimates for 1935-36. 


With regard to air mails, it should be explained that during 
the first six months of 1933 the total quantity was 1,563 kgs., 
while during the first six months of 1934 it amounted to 5,899 kgs., 
ind the additional cost entailed for the whole year was approxi- 
mately £P.7 O00. 


Repayment to France was necessitated by the diversion from 
Palestine of certain mails which were forwarded by another route 
shortly after the 1929 statistics had been taken, but in respect of 
‘hich France had paid transit charges based on those statistics. 


International Postal Accounting is continued on the basis of the 
fold franc, and this entails an increase of some 65 per cent. in the 
— Cost of settlement in view of the present sterling depreciation. 


178 


The net revenue of the Posts and Telegraphs Department in 
1934-35 was £P.50,089 as shown below :— 


£P. 
ToTaL REVENUE (see Head V of Appendix I) 355 817 





ToTaL EXPENDITURE— 
Ordinary (see Head XXIII of Appendix II) 225 ,048 
Extraordinary (see Head XXVII of Appen- 71,623 





dix ITI) 
Works Services (included in Head XXVIII 9,057 
of Appendix II) | 
£P.305 ,728 





Ner REVENUE ... se me sae ... &P.50,089 





These figures, however, exclude debt charges on loan funds ex- 
pended on Posts and Telegraphs services. 


XXV.—Public Works Recurrent.—Expenditure 1933-34 
£P.189,369, 1934-85 £P.228,875. Increase £P.39,506. The main 
increases occur under Rent of Offices and Quarters (£P.4,873) and 
Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (£P.29,180). 


The increase under Rent of Offices and Quarters was caused in 
part by the need for the payment of £P.1,000 to the Levant Bonded 
Warehouses Company Ltd., for hire of stores in the Jaffa Port 
Area and to the payment of rent in the sum of £P.900 for the 
Moslem cemetery required as a site for temporary Customs sheds 
at Jaffa pending the construction of the new Customs offices under 
the Jaffa Port Improvement Scheme. The main requirements 
were, however, in respect of departmental buildings of which the 
major portion were leased on behalf of the police. 


The large increase under Maintenance of Roads and Bridges was 
due to a decision taken during the year, on the recommendation 
of the Rail and Road Transport Co-ordination Committee, to in- 
crease the maximum axle-loads of commercial vehicles. The con- 
sequence of this decision was to increase the damage to road sul- 
faces, thereby involving increased expenditure for road maintenance 
and for the reinforcement of road foundations and culverts. 


XX VI.—Miscellaneous.—Expenditure 1933-34 £P.189,908, 
1934-35 £P.257,868. Increase £P.67,960. The principal increases 
occur under the following items :— 

(a) Housing Allowances (£P.7,984). Representations were 
made during the course of the year that the increased cost of 
housing in Haifa and Tel-Aviv demanded an undue proportion 
of the emoluments of junior officers. The situation was caused 
by the increase in the value of land in those towns and to the 


179 


acute shortage of houses which led landlords to demand en- 
hanced rents. A Government Committee was appointed to 
consider the question, and recommendations were made for the 
grant of Housing Allowances to married officers in Grades 
“NN” and ‘* O ’’ and to unclassified officers on similar salary 
scales. ‘The allowances were given with retrospective effect 
from the 1st April, 1934. 

(b) Payment to Supreme Moslem Sharia Council in lieu of 
Assigned Waaqf Tithes (£P.66,440). An agreement was con- 
cluded with the Council in 1934 for the settlement of the 
Council’s claim to tithe revenue for additional Wagf villages 
and lands. In accordance with the terms of this agreement, 
the Council was paid as follows :— 

£P. 
(1) Compensation in respect of arrears up to 
the 3lst December, 1931, of tithes of 
additional Wagaf villages and lands __... 43 690 
(2) Annual payment of £P.7,000 in respect of 
the tithes of additional villages and lands 
from lst January, 1932, to 3lst March, 
1934 or ves oe he ee 15,750 
(3) An increase of the annual payment in lieu of 
Assigned Waaf Tithes from £P.23,000 to 
£P.30,000 with effect from 1st April, 
1934 ... uss et nas bbe ae 7,000 


£P.66,440 


(c) Preparation, Translation and Printing of Legislation 
(£P.4,637). When the Estimates for 1934-35 were framed, it 
was thought that the sum of £P.5,000 then provided would 
cover the cost of the service; but although a sum of £P.5,206 
Was expended in 1934-35, it by no means covered the major 
part of the expenditure necessary, and provision for further ex- 
penditure in the sum of £P.5,000 was again made in the Esti- 
mates for 1935-36. The total cost is now estimated to be 
£P.11,500, of which a sum of £P.569 was expended in 1933-34, 
£P.5,206 in 1934-35, and the expenditure in 1935-36 is now 
estimated at £P.5,725. 

(d) Settlement of claim for damage by earthquake to the 
Kaiserin Augusta Viktoria Stiftung, Jerusalem (£P.7,000). 
Negotiations regarding Government’s liability to meet the 
damage caused to the building by the earthquake in 1927 (when 
the building was in Government occupation) were protracted 
owing to Government’s inability to accept the full claim ren- 
dered by the Kaiserin Viktoria Stiftung authorities. Agree- 
ment was eventually reached, and settlement effected in the 
sum of £P.7,000 covering all claims arising in this connection. 


180 


(e) Contribution towards the reconstruction of the Mafrak. 
Jisr Majami Road (£P.10,000). In connection with the step: 
which are being taken to promote trade between Palestine anc 
‘Iraq, by developing a direct trans-desert route from Baghdad 
via Amman and Mafrak, to Jaffa and Haifa, a sum o! 
£P.28,300 was made available by the Palestine Governmen' 
for the improvement of that section of the road lying in Trans 
Jordan, west to Mafrak. The work is being carried out by th 
Trans-Jordan Department of Public Works, with the advice 
and under the inspection of the Palestine Department of Publ 
Works, which is also lending the necessary rollers. Wor! 
began at the end of October, 1934, and employment ig bein; 
given, as far as possible, to indigent tribesmen and villagers ir 
Trans-Jordan. The section of the road lying between Hosr 
and Mafrak is being aligned in part, and that section betwee 
Hosn and Jisr Majami, which is already well aligned, wil 
be soled and metalled. Advances on account of the tota 
expenditure voted by the Palestine Government are being madé 
as work proceeds, and the first advance of £P.10,000 was made 
in October, 1934. The sum of £P.18,300, being the balance 
of the contribution, has been re-voted in 1935-36. | 


(f) Flood Relief Works, Tiberias (£P.12,367). During May 
1934, Tiberias suffered from the effect of a cloud-burst, whict 
caused loss of life and considerable damage to property. The 
funds at the disposal of the Municipality were inadequate tc 
meet the cost of the relief measures necessary or to undertake. 
the work of reconstruction. Appeals for funds were therefore 
made to the public, and the work of relief was placed in the 
hands of a committee formed under the chairmanship of the 
Mayor of Tiberias; but it became necessary for Government 
also to come to the aid of the Municipality. The measures 
necessary and the estimated cost thereof were :— 





£P 
(1) Temporary accommodation for the homeless 87 
(2) Temporary nutrition of the destitute Di 370 
(3 Cleansing of streets and removal of debris... 381 
(4) Demolition of buildings... ~ 2,513 
(5) Compensation for parce destroyed ae 19,000 
(6) Transport oe on 200 
(7) Miscellaneous ... st ae teal 260 
(8) Construction of Roads’ a oes mee 5 800 
(9) Rehabilitation of the destitute in their 
occupations - se See = 1,600 
£P.30, 211 


The appeal for funds made to the public produced a sum of 
£P.1,600, and it was decided that the measures falling mn | 


181 


(9) should be charged to these funds, while expenditure under 
(1) to (7) should be borne by Government, thus leaving the 
measures under (8) only to be met from Municipal funds. 

A further cloud-burst occurred on the 11th November, 1934, 
which caused considerable damage to road works under con- 
struction. As a result, the expenditure on this account was 
increased from £P.5,800 to £P.12,625, and it was agreed that 
of this total the sum of £P.6,325 should be defrayed from public 
funds, leaving the Municipality to bear the remaining expen- 
diture, namely, £P.6,300 by means of a Government advance. 
It will thus be seen that the full estimated cost of relief, recon- 
struction and protective measures taken on account of the flood 
damage amounted to £P.37,000, approximately, of which a 
sum of £P.29,100 is being met from public funds, £P.1,600 
from public subscriptions to the Appeal Fund, and £P.6,300 
from Municipal funds, assisted by a loan from Government. 
Of the total of £P.29,100 to be met from public funds, a sum 
of £P.12,367 was expended in 1934-35 and the balance was 
re-voted in 1935-36. 

(g) Refunds of revenue collected in previous years (£P.7,990) 
were formerly treated as direct refunds from revenue, but are 
now charged to expenditure under a separate item. The ex- 
penditure in 1934-35 amounted to £P.7,990. 


Decreases of note occurred under Grants to Municipalities 


. (£P.9,240) ; payments to Municipalities in lieu of their share in 
. the collection of Urban Property Tax (£P.9,228) ; and Drawbacks 
. f Customs Duty (£P.24,483), which in 1934-35 were included 
- under Expenditure Head X. Department of Customs, Excise and 


Trade, 


XXVII.—Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary.—Expenditure 


1933-34 £P.27,487, 1934-35 £P.71,623. 


A sum of £P.18,951 was expended on the construction and 


: ‘uipment of a broadcasting station, Jerusalem, for which a total 
' Sim of £P.32,000 was provided. Delays occurred in construction, 
; ind the work was not completed. The unexpended balance has 


therefore been re-voted in 1935-36. Considerable expenditure was 
Meurred in respect of telephone installations and other works in 
the four principal towns, and the replacement of certain sections 


_ of the telegraph and telephone routes, etc. 


~ Y 


; £P 495 


XXVII.—Public Works Extraordinary.—Expenditure 1933-34 
*P.134,359, 1934-35 £P.262,878. The provision for 1934-35 
‘Setegated £P.290,123, which was supplemented by further pro- 
ae under Special Warrants to the amount of £P.135 ,297 (chiefly 
or the provision of additional facilities in the Ports of Haifa and 
alla, improvements to the latter port and the provision of additional 
nds for road construction), thus raising the total provision to 
420, of which the sum of £P.262,878 only was expended. 


e under-expenditure is due to the non-completion of works in 
493] G 


182 


progress (£P.106,195) and to the non-commencement of works for 
which provision was made (£P.48,724), thereby necessitating a 
re-vote of the provision in 1935-386. Works amounting to 
£P.550 were found to be unnecessary and were not attempted. The 
following summary shows the value of works completed during 
the year, works begun but not yet completed and works not 
begun.— 


Provision in 








Estimates and 
by Special Expenditure. 
Warrants. 
£P. £P. 
Works completed _ ne a 109,870 102,797 
Works begun but not completed ox “ 266,276 160,081 
Works not yet begun ... sas ane ae 48,724 — 
Works abandoned ies e ae aa 550 — 
£P.425,420 262,878 








The expenditure for the year falls into the following categories :— 


£P. 
(1) Works and Buildings i es 73 247 
(2) Construction of Roads and Br idges ae 100 ,891 
(3) Miscellaneous _ é se she 88 ,740 
£P.262 ,878 


This amount exceeds by £P.128,519 the expenditure under this 
Head in 1933-34, the increase falling mainly under Miscellaneous 
Works (£P.68,478) occasioned by the necessity to make provision 
from surplus balances for additional port works. Under the Jaffa 
Port Improvements Scheme a sum of £P.47,807 wag expended 
during the year, mainly on the construction of a two-storey transit 
shed (£P.30,718) and the construction of six steel-framed sheds 
for the accommodation of general cargo (£P.14,3898), the erection of 
which afforded accommodation for some 6,000 additional tons of 
cargo. The cost of additional works in the Haifa Harbour aggre- 
gated £P.27,348, of which £P.17,079 was expended on the con- 
struction of a third transit shed and £P.6,923 on the development 
of the reclaimed area. It should be explained in the latter con- 
nection that a committee was appointed by Government for the 
development of the estate formed by the reclaimed area and that 
the general plan of the estate has been embodied in the Haifa Town 
Planning Scheme. The work of developing the estate and disposing 
of the sites thereon had been entrusted to an officer of the Depart- 
ment of Land Settlemnent who is acting as agent of the estate under 
the direction of the committee. An estate office has accordingly been 
set up in Haifa, in which all work in connection with the develop- 
ment of the estate and all negotiations regarding the leasing of 
plots and the control of buildings is centralized. The initial cost 


183 


of main and intersecting roads and of secondary sewers necessary 
to develop the area is included in the cost of the scheme, which 
covers measures for securing uniformity of design in the buildings 
fronting on the main road of the reclaimed area. The services of an 
architect have been obtained to control the design and the con- 
struction of the buildings on this section of the estate, and the 
architect’s fees are met from the provision under this item. 


The expenditure on road construction during the year under 
review amounted to £P.100,891, as compared with £P.72,696 ex- 
pended in 1933-34. The increase occurs mainly under Relief Road 
Works (£P.17,980). A survey carried out by the Department 
of Health pointed to the existence of serious malnutrition among 
villagers, due to poverty. Government therefore authorized the 
execution of relief works in the affected districts in order that 
wages might be earned and means of subsistence obtained. The 
sim of £P.18,500 was accordingly allocated for road improvement, 
which, apart from affording relief to villagers, are desirable in 
themselves and beneficial to the country. 


XXIX,.—Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Fxtraordinary.—Fxpendi- 
ture 1933-34 £P.13,075, 1934-385 £P.26,592. Owing to an extended 
programme of works, expenditure under this Head in 1934-35 ex- 
ceeded by £P.13,517 the amount expended in 1933-34. The main 
projects undertaken in 1934-35 were the reconstruction of Samakh 
Camp (£P.4,338), additions to Zerka Camp (£P.4,602), and elec- 
trical installation and water supply, Zerka (£P.4,883). The 
approved provision for the year exceeded the actual expenditure 
by £P.6,036. This is due partly to delay in the construction of 
buildings owing to the atnormal rains during the winter of 1934-35, 
which rendered it necessary to re-vote an unexpended balance of 
sme £P.3,487 in 1935-36. Savings to the extent of £P.2,782 
were also effected on the estimated cost of construction of the 
men’s married quarters in the Jordan area owing to :— 


(a) Part of the cost (£P.1,031) being defrayed in 1933-34 ; 


(b) a sum of £P.1,100 not being expended at Rosh Pinna; 
and 


(c) a sum of £P.651 being re-voted in 1935-36 for the con- 
struction of quarters at Beisan. 


XXXI.—Colonial Development.— Expenditure 1933-34 £P.24,003, 
1934-35 £P.271. Decrease £P.23,7382. In 1933-34 a sum of 
£P.24,003 was expended under this Head representing a moiety 
of the cost of the aerial survey of a possible railway route between 
Haifa and Baghdad. An equivalent amount was received from the 
Colonial Development Fund and credited to revenue. In 1934-35 
the total expenditure under the Head amounted to £P.271 only, 
of which £P.253 was in respect of the Haifa-Baghdad Railway 

$493) GQ 2 


184 


(Zerka Valley Survey) and £P.18 in respect of the Colonial 
Agricultural Scholarship Scheme. | 


Railways. 


6. The Railway deficit charged to Government expenditure in 
1934-35 was £P.59,259, as compared with £P.33,805 in 1933-34. 


The final results in 1934-35 of the four railway systems, operated 
by the General Manager, Palestine Railways, were as under :— 


Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit. 


£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Palestine Railways... ... 573,614 579,621 — 6,007 
Kantara-Rafa Railway .. 118,495 91,233 27,262 — 
Hejaz Railway vee 90,545 118,343 _ 27,798 
Petah Tiqva Railway... shece 2,902 840 2,062 — 


In order to arrive at the deficit charged to revenue, the accounts — 
of the Kantara-Rafa Railway and the Petah Tiqva Railway are 
excluded, as the surpluses are subject to a special arrangement. In 
the case of the latter railway there is an obligation to pay interest | 
to the colonists and to Government on their respective advances for 
the construction of the line. The surpluses in previous years have 
been insufficient to pay this interest in full, and at the 3lst March, 
1935, after distribution of the year’s surplus, there was an out- 
standing debt of £P.10,617 due, as under :— 


£P. 
To Government ue hae as see ve 1,004 
To Petah Tigqva colonists ... a his ae 9,613 


The agreement provides for the payment to the colonists of the 
amount advanced (£P.20,000) with interest at the rate of 6 per 
cent, per annum, but a prior charge exists in favour of the Govern- © 
ment of Palestine in respect of interest on the excess cost of the 
line met by Government over the contribution by the colonists. — 
That excess was £P.34,019. Any deficiency in the payment of in- 
terest to Government, together with interest at 5 per cent. thereon. 
has first to ke met before the claim of the colonists is due for pay- 
ment and any deficiency in respect of such payment also bears 
interest at the rate of 5 per cent. per annum. The agreement 
further provides that after meeting the charges for interest the 
net surplus shall be set aside to repay the loan of £P.20,000 made 
by the colonists. In 1923-24 a sum of £P.568 was repaid to the 
colonists and in 1924-25 a sum of £P.267. The net surplus of 
£P.2,062 in 1934-35 was entirely absorbed in the payment of arrears 
of interest to Government, and is included in the revenue of the 
Palestine Railway. 


185 


Special arrangements were entered into regarding the Kantara- 
Rafa Railway with effect from 1st April, 1933. Prior to this date 
amoiety of the profits of this railway was credited to the Special 
(Renewals) Fund and a moiety of the profits was divided between 
His Majesty’s Government and the Palestine Railway in propor- 
tion to their respective capital interests in the railway. This method 
of division gave way to a commuted payment on a rental basis 
with effect from the 1st April, 1933, and a sum of £P.4,000 was 
agreed upon as the annual rent to be paid by the Palestine Railway 
for the user of the line, subject to reconsideration at the end of 
three years. The profit of £P.27,262 resulting from the operation 
of the railway in 1934-35 was divided equally between the Special 
(Renewals) Fund and the Palestine Railway. The revenue of the 
Palestine Railway includes therefore a sum of £P.13,631, and the 
expenditure a rental payment of £P.4,000. 


The net deficit charged to Government expenditure under this 
head was, therefore, £P.33,805, consisting of the deficits of the 
Palestine and Hejaz Railways, which were £P.6,007 and £P.27,798 
respectively. 


The following comparison is afforded between the revenues of the 
four sections of the line in 1983-34 and 1934-35 :— 

















Kantara- Petah- 
Palestine Rafa Hejaz Tiqva Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Railway. 
£P. £P. £P. <P. £P. 
Coaching :— 
1933-34 ... . 150,708 72,319 25,162 — 248,189 
1934-35 ... . 195,347 81,387 28,285 — 305,019 
Goods :— 
1933-34 ... . 241,796 32,545 65,428 2,503 342,272 
1934-35 ... . 330,211 34,521 56,112 2,880 423,724 
Miscellaneous :— 
1933-34 ... 39,202 - 1,944 7,855 44 49,045 
1934-35 ... 48,056 2,587 6,148 22 56,813 
Total :— 
1933-34 £P.431,706 106,808 98,445 2,547 639,506 
1934~35 £P.573,614 118,495 90,545 2,902 785,556 














_ It will be observed that increases occurred in every case except 
in the receipts from goods and miscellaneous traftic on the Hejaz 
Railway and from miscellaneous traffic on the Petah Tiqva Railway. 


Expenditure on the Palestine Railway includes a sum _ of 
£P.56,700 for the Renewals Fund and a sum of £P.157,140 for 
Debt charges on the railway portion of the Palestine Government 

3493] G 3 


186 


5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan 1942-67. The following table affords 
a comparison between the expenditure of the railways on all} 
sections in 1933-34 and 1934-35 :— 








Kantara- Petah- 
Palestine Rafa Hejaz Tiqva Total. 
Railway. Railway. Ratlway. Raslway. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Maintenance and Renewals 
of Ways and Works :— 
1933-34 ... 64,438 25,055 21,554 — 101,047 
1934-35 ..» 68,133 24,722 21,967 214 105,036 
Maintenance and Renewals 
of Locomotives and 
Rolling Stock :— 
1933-34 60,308 18,648 23,097 — 102,053 
1934-35 .. 72,350 20,250 28,656 140 121,396 
Transportation Expenses:— 
1933-34 at .-- 94,145 20,108 33,750 — 148,003 
1934-35 . 115,316 21,576 37,226 377 174,495 
General Charges :— 
1933-34 37,641 26,082 11,927 840 76,490 
1934-35 43,029 24,685 13,171 109 80,994 
Debt Charges :— 
1933-34 ... 156,458 —- —— — 156,458 
1934-35 ..- 157,140 — 63 — 157,203 
Extraordinary Expendi- 
ture :— t 
1933-34 4,377 -- 3,128 — 7,505 
1934-35 76,953 — 17,260 — 94,213 
Renewals Fund :— 
1933-34 40,000 — — — 40,000 
1934-35 .. 66,700 — — — 56,700 
Deficit from previous 
years :— 
1933-34 — — 48,587 — 48,587 
Total :— 
1933-34 &P.447,367 89,893 142,043 840 680,143 
1934-35 £P.579,621 91,233 118,343 840 790,037 














The financial position of the four sections of the railway for the 
two years under review 1s summarized below :— 


1933-34. 1934-35. 
Surplus(+) Surplus (+) 
Defictt (—) Deficit (—) 
£P. £P. 
Palestine Railways 3 — 15,661 — 6,007 
Kantara—Rafa Railway ... + 16,915 +. 27,262 
Hejaz Railway... ies Sais se ..  — 43,598 — 27,798 
Petah Tiqva Railway _... a2 ie aw. + 1,707 + 2,062 


The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper for 
the period Ist April, 1934, to 31st March, 1935, were as under :— 


187 











Rerenue :— £P. £P. 
Coaching and Goods ... ies a ... 525,558 
Miscellaneous ... Bde Bist et Sei 48,056 
573,614 
Expenditure :— 
Operation Expenses... ee se ... 288,828 
Debt Charges ... she sad = ae 157,140 
Capital Improvements bic sie gis 76,953 
Renewals sis a a dts 56,700 
579,621 
Deficit se su ng ide bie sec £P.6,007 





It will be observed from the comparative table of the railway ex- 
penditure that there has been an increase of £P.132,254 in 
Palestine Railway expenditure in 1934-35 as compared with that of 
the previous year. The increase is made up as under :— 





£P. 

Operating Costs... a ‘hs ne ae 42 296 
Debt Charges a beg si ae 682 
Extraordinary Expenditure es me oe 72,576 
Renewals Fund ... a4 A — — 16,700 
£P.132 254 





The increase in operating costs is mainly attributable to the large 
increase in passenger and goods traffic, the receipts from which were 
£P.141,908 in excess of those for the preceding year. The Debt 
Charges show an increase of £P.682 as the result of the re- 
allocation of these charges as between the railways and other 
services (explained in paragraph 5 of this Chapter) under Head II, 
Public Debt and Loan Charges. 

The large increase of £P. 72 76 in Extraordinary Expenditure is 
the outcome of the recommendations of the Committee for the 
Co-ordination of the Railway and Motor Transport Systems with 
regard to essential wagon and locomotive requirements to cope with 
the great increase in traffic generally and in particular the con- 
veyance of citrus, potash, and cement, as under :— 

£P. 
100 Covered 4-wheeled goods wagons for citrus 
traffic , a 40,000 
6 Passenger locomotives to replace 6 unsuitable 
Baldwin engines used for passenger 
service, so that the Baldwin engines 


may be released for goods traffic we 50,000 

4 Bogie flat wagons for iron and building 
material Sine see oe ae = 2 500 
£P.92 500 


34931 G 4 


188 


The expenditure incurred in 1934-35 on account of this programme 
aggregated £P.55,717, the details of which are :— 


£P. 
Wagons ce “ed io - ae ee 33,034 
Locomotives ie sgh see shee be 20 358 
Bogie flat wagons ... obs ae bs ne 2,325 
£P.55,717 


The increase in expenditure on renewals eventuated from the 
recommendations of the above mentioned committee that twelve 
new boilers should be purchased to replace boilers of Baldwin en- 
gines which are beyond repair. These were obtained at a cost of 
£P.16,381. 


7. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railway proper to 
31st March, 1935, is appended :— 


£P. £P. 
From Loan Funds :— 
Purchase of Assets from His Majesty’s 
Government (included in Item II of Ap- 
pendix VI) ... eon os zis ‘ie 784,854 
Other expenditure (see Item I of Appendix 
VI)... so — ie Les ; 1,639,169 
——_—_— 2,424,023 
From Revenue :— 
Capital Improvements to 3lst March, 1934... 584,881 
Capital Improvements in 1934-35... _ 76,953 
—_—— 661,834 
£P.3,085,857 


8. The revenue and expenditure of the Kantara-Rafa Railway 
for the year ended the 31st March, 1935, were as under :— 








Revenue :— £P. £P. 

Coaching and Goods ... bat ss ... 115,908 

Miscellaneous ... ii see aoe ee 2,587 

118,495 
Expenditure :— 

Operation Expenses... a seis ea 91,233 
Net Earnings es as oné bie set £P.27,262 





These earnings were apportioned as under, in accordance with 
the special arrangement regarding this railway to which mention 
has already been made :— 


£P. 
Renewals Fund — ... aus sai won aie 13,631 
Palestine Railway ane or ne - 13,631 





£P.27 ,262 





189 


9. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway for the 
year 1934-35 were as under :— 














Revenue. 
£P. £P. 
Coaching and Goods __.... a 84 397 
Miscellaneous... sae —_ 6,148 
90 545 
E.rpenditure. 
Operation Expenses _... ee 101 ,020 
Capital Improvements ... ae 17,260 
Debt Charges _... ae ve 63 
118 ,343 
Deficit se ae bed sas £P.27 ,798 





The main increases in the expenditure of this railway occur under 
Maintenance and Renewals of Locomotives and Rolling Stock 
(€P.5,559) and is due to expenditure on arrears of maintenance, 
under Transportation Expenses (£P.3,476) caused chiefly by the 
payment of £P.1,585 to the Chemin de Fer du Hedjaz for hire of 
two locomotives to replace two engines requiring re-conditioning, 
and by an adjustment of £P.1,750 as a charge to this abstract for 
transport of coal during 1933-34 and 1934-35 over the French section 
of this railway between Samakh and Nessib which had inadvertently 
heen debited to the general coal account of all sections of the line. 
The large increase of £P.14,132, in Extraordinary Expenditure was 
caused by a payment of £P.12,000 in respect of compensation for 
land occupied by the railways at Haifa, the ownership of which 
had been the subject of protracted dispute (the sum of £P.5,000 
was paid on account in 1932-33); and a payment of £P.3,058 to 
the Chemin de Fer du Hedjaz for the value of twenty-eight turn- 
outs which the Palestine Railway had agreed to hand over in 
part exchange for certain rolling stock received from the Syrian 
section of the railway but which was not available. 


It may be noted that as from the Ist of April, 1934, the Hejaz 
Railway is being debited with its portion of Debt Charges. 


10. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah-Tiqva Railway 
for the year under review were as under :— 


Revenue. £P. £P. 
Goods = si cee oe 2,880 
Miscellaneous - ae Ses — 22 
—— 2,902 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses oie ie 840 


Net Karnings ... = — ae £P.2,062 


190 


Defence. 


11. A sum of £P.138,500 was provided in 1934-35 to cover the 
contribution to the Imperial Government towards the excess cost 
of the Royal Air Force units and Army units stationed in Palestine 
and ‘T'rans-Jordan, and the cost of construction of Army married 
quarters in Jerusalem and Haifa. The amount due is paid quarterly 
on the kasis of one-fourth of the sum provided in the United 
KXingdom Estimates in respect of Palestine’s contribution towards | 
the cost of defence. The amount due for the last quarter, however, 
is adjusted so as to allow for the latest estimate of excess cost 
received from the War Office and Air Ministry, and such contribu- 
tion 1s then demanded as sufficient to cover the balance of the. 
excess according to those Estimates. Under this arrangement the 
total sum paid during the year amounted to £P.103,875, but a 
sum of £P.2,570 had been overpaid in 1933-34 in excess of Pales- 
tine’s actual lability for that year and was adjusted in 1934-35. 
The total payments made, therefore, in respect of 1934-35 amounted 
to £P.106,445. 


The following contributions have been made :— 


Financial 
period tn which Amount. Financial year tn which Amount. 
payment was liability was incurred. 
made. | 
£P. £P. 
1928 53,500 1927-28 (1 year) ... ne ig .-- 31,000 
1928-29 (9 months) “ae ee ... 22,500 
1929 30,375 1928-29 (3 months) rr, ee oe 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) das tae ... 22,875 
1930 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) oe . 7,625 
1930-31 (payment for 6 aatie at the 
original rate of £P.33,500 per annum, 
which was anaes revised to 
£P.75,250 per annum) .. ..- 16,750 
1931 86,000 1930-31 (payment of balance of coat 
tion for the year at the revised rate of 
£P.75,250 per annum) ... ee .-. 68,500 
1931-32 (6 months) ie ie ... 27,600 
1932 
(January to 
March) 27,500 1931-32 (6 months) ses ue ... 27,500 
1932-33 90,000 1932-33 (1 year) ... ile bes ... 90,000 
1933-34 101,000 1933-34 (1 year) ... os at ... 101,000 
1934-35 103,875 1934-35 (1 year) ... ae Sek ... 103,875 





Total ... £P.516,625 





191 


Assets and Liabilities. 


12. The assets and liabilities are set out in Appendix III. At 
the 3ist March, 1935, the surplus balance amounted to 
£P.4,733,555 as under :— 


SP. £P. 

Surplus balance at Ist April, 1934... sis ae 2,510,932 
Revenue for the period Ist April, 1934, to 3lst March, 

1935. ... §,452,633 


Expenditure for the period Ist April, 1934 to 


3lst March, 1935 sey ; 3,230,010 

Surplus for the period Ist April, 1934 to 3lst March, 
1935... sh as er si es ve 2,222,623 
Surplus balance at 31st March, 1935 Ae is £P.4,733,555 


Municipalities. 


13. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities at the 
jist March, 1935, are summarized as under :— 








£P. £P. 
Jerusalem— 
Ain Farah Water Supply—Purchase of Plant from 
Sir John Jackson Ltd... sg ee ite 3,885 
New Abattoir and Incinerator ies one tad 16,105 
19,990 
Haifa— 
Oil Storage Area re ss sic Sie re 9,143 
Other Municipalities— 
For Works and Services oe sue ae dee 6,638 
£P.35,771 


In addition, a sum of £P.33,870 has been advanced to the Jeru- 
salem Municipality in connection with the City Drainage Scheme. 
This appears in the Statement of Assets and Liabilities under 

Advances in Anticipation of the New Loan.”’ 


Agricultural Loans. 


14. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of 


oans are summarized as under :— 
£P. £P. 
(a) Agricultural Loans (1919-23) £P.576,319 
(Northern, Southern and Jerusalem Districts)— 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 8 — 16,410 


Repayments during the year 1934-35 ean 1,608 
Sag 2 14,802 





(Percentage of arrears to the total instal- 
ments due 2:5 per cent.). 
(b) Agricultural Loans (1928) £P.19,366 (Northern 
District) — 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 ee eee 5,128 
Repayments during the year 1934-365... 34 sees 


(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
26-3 per cent.). 


192 





























(c) Agricultural Loans (1930-31) £P.29,979 (Northern £P. £P. 
and Southern Districts)}— 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 ar 23,540 
Repayments during the year 1934-35... 877 
22,663 
(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
75:6 per cent.). 
(d) Agricultural Loans (1931-32) £P.17,136 (Southern 
District }— 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 on 9,692 
Repayments during the year 1934-35... 4,317 
5,375 
(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
31-4 per cent.). 
(e) Agricultural Loans (1932-33) £P.53,537 (Northern, 
Southern and Jerusalem Districts)— 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 ies 50,301 
Repayments during the year 1934—35... 12,106 
38,196 
(Percentage of arrears to the total instalments 
due 69-5 per cent.). 
(f) Agricultural Loans (1933-34) (Northern, Southern 
and Jerusalem Districts)— 
Total loans issued to 3lst March, 1934 £P.57,109 
Total loans issued during the year 
1934-35 asa fed os ae 150 
57,259 
Repayments during the year 1934—35... 972 | 
56,287 © 
(Percentage of arrears to the total loans 
98-3 per cent.) 
(g) Fodder Loans (1933-34) (Northern, Southern 
and Jerusalem Districts}— 
Total loans issued to 31st March, 1934 £P.18,896 
Total loans issued during the year 
1934-35 ues oo ane vat 1,824 
e 20,720 
Repayments during the year 1934—35... 118 
paym g y 20,602 
(Percentage of arrears to the instalments 
due 99-3 per cent.). 
(h) Agricultural Loans (1934-35) (Northern, Southern 
and Jerusalem Districts) ... ie oa ~ 6,163 
(i) Bee-hives Loans (Northern, Southern and Jerusalem 
Districts)— 
Outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 £P.271 
Total loans issued during the year 
1934-35 sia 5h — 202 
473 
Repayments during the year 1934-35... 15 a 
£P.169,640 


With the exception of £P.390 under (a) and £P.3,385 under (e) 
the instalments comprising the outstanding balances of (a), (b), (¢). 
(d), (e) and (f) are now overdue. The majority of loans under 
(g) and (h) are repayable in one or two instalments and the loans 
under (i) are repayable in three equal instalments. 


193 


Earthquake Reconstruction Loans. 
1). The position with regard to advances made on account of 
earthquake reconstruction loans is summarized as under :— 





<P. 
Advances outstanding at 3lst March, 1934 ... 18 ,938 
Repayments during the year 1934-35 ... = 1,674 
Amount outstanding at 3lst March, 1935 oe 17 ,264 





These loans were made principally to persons residing in Lydda, 
Ramle, Nablus and Nazareth. The arrears of due instalments at 
dist March, 1935, amounted to £P.11,032. 


Deposits. 3 

I6. Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund.—The balance in this 

account represents the difference between the amount received by 

way of fees on exported citrus fruit and the amount expended on 

advertising. The gross amounts appearing in the account during 
the year were as under :— . 








£P. £P. 
Balance brought forward from 1933-34 oP as 5,186 
Fees collected during 1934-35 ... ses she - 12,655 
17,841 
Advertising expenditure, etc. ... sos i ee 9,927 
Balance at 3lst March, 1935 eas mo ee £P.7,914 





li. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.—In 
accordance with an undertaking given to Mr. John Rockefeller, Jr., 
4sum of £P.29,692 was transferred from the Endowment to the 
Construction Account during the year 1934-35 in order to provide 
the balance of funds required for completion of the building. The 
balance of the account is now made up as under :— 











£P. £P. 
Amount of the fund at 3lst March, 1934 ___... us 298,077 
Add— , 
Profits realized on sale of Investments during 1934-35 2,275 
Appreciation of Investments held at the 3lst March, 
1935 based on the mean market value ruling at 
that date oF ous Sats ee re ; 5,653 
7,928 
306,005 
Less— 
Amount transferred to Construction Account... sas 29,692 
£P.276,313 





18. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Fund.— 
When Mr. John Rockefeller, Jr., undertook to provide $2,000,000 
for the cost of construction and endowment of this museum it was 
estimated that the building would be completed in 1930, and the 
sift was promised on the understanding that the last payment would 


194 


be called for not later than the Ist January, 1931. Owing, how- 
ever, to unforeseen difficulties, construction has not proceeded 
according to schedule and the building had not been completed 
at the 31st March, 1935. Nevertheless, a sum of $1,000,000. 
was recelved in November, 1929, and an endowment fund created. - 
Subsequent building grants, on a dollar basis, were also made from | 
time to time with an extension of the period of call to the Ist. 
January, 1933. 

Owing, however, to the fall in the value of the sterling, the - 
dollar values of the building grants were considerably in excess of 
the original sterling equivalents, while the enactment of the United | 
States gift tax law in June, 1932, increased by almost 100 per 
cent. the cost to Mr. Rockefeller of his benefaction. Moreover, 
the delay in construction of the museum had delayed the necessity 
for maintenance, and interest thereby accrued on the Endowment 
Fund, although certain expenditure was inevitably incurred on staf . 
and research work in connection with the classification and arrange- 
ment of the archaeological material, records and library. 

In view of these changes it was suggested that the original pledge 
should be replaced by a new arrangement which ultimately took | 
the following form :— 

(a) The cost of construction of the museum estimated at 
£P.200,000, should be reduced to £P.193,000. This was made — 
possible by economies on certain items of equipment and 
fittings. 

(b) £P.14,000 of the unexpended balance of income derived © 
from the Endowment Fund at 3lst March, 1934, should be 
transferred to the construction account. 

(c) The Endowment Fund should be reduced by the amount © 
required to complete construction (this was effected in 1934-3, 
vide paragraph 17) after taking into account the sum of 
£P.149,308 already paid by Mr. Rockefeller and the transfer of © 
£P.14,000 from the balance of the current account. } 

The amount of £P.14,772 shown in the Statement of Assets 
and Liabilities is made up as under :— 

£P. 
Amounts received from Mr. Rockefeller to 149 308 
31st March, 1935. 


Amount transferred from accumulated interest 14,000 
in current account. 
Amount transferred from the Endowment 29 ,692 
Fund. 
193,000 


Less : Amount expended to 31st March, 1935 178 ,228 


Balance in hand at 31st March, 1935 .. £P.14,772 


195 


19. Moslem University of Palestine.—In March, 1935, His High- 
ness the Nizam of Hyderabad donated a sum of £P.7,543 to form 
an Endowment Fund for the maintenance of a Moslem University 
in Palestine. It is proposed to invest this money and to apply 
the proceeds towards the upkeep of the University. Negotiations 
are still proceeding and the investment will be made when these 
are concluded. 


20. Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest.—The bequest was made to His 
Majesty’s Government, who appointed the Officer Administering 
the Government of Palestine to be the local representative for the 
administration of the trust. 

The bequest is for the construction and the endowment of Agri- 
cultural Training Schools at Tulkarm and Mt. Tabor. The total 
amount received was £P.112,551, but the bequest was enhanced 
In value by transactions on investments and by accumulation of 
interest to a total of £P.179,604. Of this total the sum of 
£P.93,084 had been remitted by the Crown Agents for the Colonies, 
at 3lst March, 1935, for the construction and equipment of the 
schools, leaving an amount of £P.86,520 in the fund, which was 
held partly on investment in the Joint Colonial Fund (£P.19,100) 
and partly in Trustee Securities (£P.67,335), the remainder 
(£P.85) being held in cash by the Crown Agents for the Colonies. 

Prior to the year 1934-35 interest from the Endowment Fund, 
together with school and farm receipts supplemented by a Govern- 
ment grant-in-aid, were utilized both for the construction and the 
maintenance of the school. With effect, however, from the 
Ist April, 1934, these receipts were credited to Revenue, and re- 
current expenditure on the schools was provided for in the Estimates 
of the Department of Agriculture and Forests. There remained, 
however, a balance of £P.12,242 in the current account at 1st April, 
1934, which was utilized during 1934-35 for capital work on school 
construction, with the result that a btalance of £P.4,756 only re- 
mained in the account at 3lst March, 1935. The estimated cost 
of construction and equipment of the two schools is £P.80,148 of 
which the sum of £P.74,967 had been expended to the 31st of 
March, 1935. A further sum of £P.5,181 is therefore required 
to complete the work. Of this sum a balance of £P.4,756 remains 
i the current account and it may be necessary, therefore, to draw 
on the Endowment Fund in the hands of the Crown Agents to the 
extent of £P.425 in order to complete the construction and equip- 
ment of the school. 


Investments. 


21. The cost price of stocks held on Government Account in 
respect of available balances and loan funds at the Ist of April, 
1934, was £P.1,696,288, and during the year further surplus funds 
Were invested to the extent of £P.1,327,792, making a total in- 
vestment of £P.3,024,080. The value of these stocks, based on 
the middle market price prevailing on 31st March, 1935, was 


196 


£P.3,086,407, as shown in Appendix V. Investments held on 
behalf of funds in the custody of Government consist of stocks 
forming the Endowment Fund of the Palestine Archaeological 
Museum, valued at £P.276,313 ; and the investment of the surplus 
balances of the Police Fines Fund, valued at £P.3,524. The 
total investments, therefore, at the mean market value at the 
31st of March, 1935, amount to £P.3,366,244 as compared with 
total investments amounting to £P.2,026,839 held on the 31st of 
March, 1934. 


Loan Expenditure. 


22. The expenditure from loan funds is shown in Appendix VII. 
The Palestine 5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan of £4,475,000 issued at 
£100 10s. per cent., realized £P4,497,375. 

The expenditure during the year amounted to £P.137,360, and 
was incurred on the following works : 


£P. 
Railway Workshops eee as oe: Mae 524 
Jaffa Port Improvements es — sais 85 ,3834 
Haifa Harbour Construction bey bed a 45 ,676 
Construction of Government Printing Office... 5 ,826 
£P.137 ,860 


23. The total expenditure from loan funds at 31st March, 1935, 
amounted to £P.4,381,268, leaving a balance of £P.116,107. 


Advances in Anticipation of a New Loan. 


24. The necessary legislation has been passed to enable the 
Palestine Government to raise a loan of two million pounds for the 
following purposes :— 


Et de 

(1) Resettlement of displaced Arabs 250,000 
(2) Water Supply and Drainage Schemes 

for Jerusalem and Haifa, Water Supply for 

Hebron and various villages, and survey of 

water resources ... ae ae ae 933 ,000 
(3) Agricultural credits is ae Fess 200 ,000 
(4) Construction of oil-berth and reclamation 

scheme at Haifa eae ae oes se 210,000 
(5) Public buildings, including Jerusalem 

Post Office and various educational buildings, 

and purposes incidental to, or connected with, 

any of the purposes mentioned in this schedule, 

including the raising of the Loan __... es 407 ,000 


£P.2 ,000 ,000 


197 


The bulk of the loan would be to meet the cost of Municipal 
water supplies and drainage schemes, the annual charges of which 
will ultimately be revenue-earning. His Majesty’s Government 
have approved free grants from the Colonial Development Fund 
of the interest payable on the loan in respect of the capital cost 
of schemes as under :— 


Jerusalem ‘Water Supply £P.9,000 in 1934-35, £P. 12,000 in 
1935-36, £P.5,000 in 1936-37 and £P.5,000 in 1937-38. 


Jerusalem Drainage Scheme £P.5,250 in 1934-35 and the 
four succeeding years. 


Hebron Water Supply 5 years at full rate and 5 years at 
half rate. 


Village Water Supply 5 years at full rate. 


The fixed grants in respect of the first two schemes, as well as full 
interest, calculated at bank rate, on expenditure incurred to the 
3lst of March, 1935, in respect of the latter two schemes, aggre- 
gating in all £P.14,522, were received during the year from the 
Colonial Development Fund and carried to Revenue under Head XI. 


Application will be made for grants in respect of the Haifa Water 
Supply and Drainage Schemes as soon as estimates of cost are 
approved. 


The proposed provision of £P.250,000 for the resettlement of 
Arabs is in conformity with an undertaking given by His Majesty’s 
Government in 1930 that provision would be made for the resettle- 
ment of those Arabs who might be found, after inquiry, to have 
been displaced from the lands which they occupied in consequence 
of the lands passing into Jewish hands, and who had not obtained 
other holdings on which they could establish themselves or other 
equally satisfactory occupation. 


25. The work on the majority of the schemes enumerated in para- 
graph 24 has been started, and the expenditure thereon has been 
met from surplus balances pending the issue of the new loan. The 
expenditure on this account during the year amounted to 
£P.272,863 and was incurredon the following works :— 


£P. 
Resettlement of displaced Arabs ee me 11,354 
Water Supply and Drainage Schemes, etc. ... 170,951 
Construction of oil-berth and _ reclamation 
schéme at Haifa ee sii a Dy 61,585 
Public Buildings, etc. ... ee ee See 28,973 


£P.272 863 


198 


The total expenditure on these services amounted, at 2st 
March, 1935, to £P527,735, and a statement is appended showing 
the expenditure to the 31st March, 1934, the expenditure in 1934-35, 
the expenditure to the 3lst March, 1935, and the unexpended 
balance at that date :— 


Total Total 
Provision Expends- Expendi- 
in tureto xpends- ture to Un- 
Work. proposed 31st ture in 31st expended 
Loan March, 1934-35. March, Balance. 
Schedule. 1934. 1935. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 


1. Resettlement of dis- 

placed Arabs... ... 250,000 70,635 11,354 81,989 168,011 
2. Water Supply and Drain- 

age Schemes, etc. :— 

(i) Jerusalem Water 


Supply ... .-- 370,000 58,983 140,650 199,633 170,367 
(ii) Jerusalem Drain- 

age Scheme ... 150,000 29,523 4,347 33,870 116,130 
(ili) Haifa Drainage 

Scheme ... ..- 130,000 398 1,437 1,835 128,165 
(iv) Haifa Water Supply 200,000 — 504 504 199,496 
(v) Hebron Water 

Supply ... sae 10,000 4,177 3,070 7,247 2,753 
(vi) Water Resources 

Survey ... ote 6,000 669 1,993 2,662 3,338 
(vii) Underground Water 

Investigations ... 22,000 —~ 6,230 6,230 15,770 


(viii) Improvements of 

Village Water 
Supplies ... ..- 45,000 — 12,720 12,720 32,280 

3. Agricultural Credits :— 

(i) Investment in Land 


Mortgage Co. ... 150,000 — — — 150,000 
(ii) Long term Loans for 
Hill Areas ..- 60,000 — — — 50,000 


4. Construction of Oil 
Berth and Reclama- 
tion Scheme at Haifa:— 


(i) Haifa Oil Dock  ... 150,000 40,092 51,279 91,371 58,629 
(ii) Haifa East Reclama- 
tion Area... am 60,000 35,532 10,306 45,838 14,162 


5. Public Buildings, inclu- 
ding Jerusalem Post 
Office and various edu- 
cational buildings and 
purposes incidental to, 
or connected with, any 
of the purposes men- 
tioned in this schedule, 
including the raising 
of the Loan :— 
(i) Government Arab 
College... ... 27,000 — 13,025 13,025 13,075 
(ii) Government Schoo ; 
in Towns ... ..- 106,000 — 2,833 2,833 103,167 


199 




















Total Total 
Provision Expends- Ezpends- 
in tureto Expendi- ture to Un- 
Work. proposed 31st ture in 31st expended 
Loan March, 1934-35. March, Balance 
Schedule. 1934. 1935. 
5. Public Buildings, ete—  £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
—cont. 
(ii) Government Tech- 
nical and ‘Trade 
School... .- 40,000 — 560 560 39,440 
(iv) Capital Grants to 
Jewish Institutions 20,000 — — — 20,000 
(v) Jerusalem Post 
Office eos .-- 156,000 14,863 12,555 27,418 128,582 
(vi) Cost of Raising of 
Loan esis ... 66,000 — — — 56,000 
(vii) Unallocated 2,000 mas == _ 2,000 
£P.2,000,000 254,872 272,863 527,735 1,472,265 
Currency. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual 


Report for 1929.) 


26. During the year under review the Currency Board paid to 
Government a sum of £P.110,000, in respect of Palestine’s share 
in the profits from currency for the year ended 31st March, 1934. 

27. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the total 
value of currency in circulation at 3lst March, 1935, amounted to 
£P.5,326 228, or an increase of £P.1,256,564 as compared with the 
value of currency in circulation at 3lst March, 1934. 


Denomination. 


Coins :— 
Silver coins :— 
100 mils ... 
50 mils 


Face value of silver coins 
Nickel-bronze coins :— 
20 mils ... 
10 mils ... 
5 mils 
Face value of nickel-bronze coins 
Bronze coins :— 
2 mils 
1 mil 
Face value of bronze coins 


Face value of all coins 


Coins and Notes in Circulation at 
31st March, 1934. 31st March, 1935. 






































£P. £P. 
181,500 222,500 
174,000 216,000 
355,500 438,500 
19,500 24,100 
23,200 29,300 
15,900 19,400 
58,600 72,800 
1,520 2,080 
2,464 3,680 
3,984 5,760 
. £P.418,084 £P.517,060 








200 
Coins and Notes in Circulation at 


Denomination. 31st March, 1934. 31st March, 1935. 
Notes :— £P. £P. 
£P.100 bid ets be Tite ae 5,600 11,900 
£P.50 ah sae ie ae sas 68,250 90,150 
£P.10 std sre me ae nes 564,270 958,100 
£P.5 S25 fu: sale ee --» 1,226,075 1,611,575 
£P.1 ae see see me ..- 1,532,740 1,839,844 
500 mils... ie ea ‘ne sie 254,645 297,599 
Face value of notes es ed £P.3,651,580 £P.4,809,168 
Face value of coins and notes ... £P.4,069,664 £P.5,326,228 
Monopolies. 


(See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual Report for 
1929 and paragraph 29 on page 165 of the Annual Report for 
1933.) 

Banks. 


As stated in the previous report, a Committee was appointed, 
under the Chairmanship of the Treasurer, comprising a mixed 
unofficial membership representing the more important bank- 
ing and commercial interests. The Committee has Submitted 
a report embodying recommendations for better control of banks 
and special legislation to give effect to the Committee’s main 
recommendations is under consideration. 


28. In August, owing to uncertainty of the situation arising from 
the Italo-Abyssinian conflict, the local branch of the Banco di Roma 
was obliged to withdraw considerable sums from the Currency 
Officer against payment of sterling in London, to meet depositors’ 
demands. arly in September uncertainty had almost become 
panic in certain quarters, and the movement to withdraw deposits 
spread to a number of Palestinian banks which kept their accounts 
with the Banco di Roma. The larger foreign banks rapidly sup- 
plemented their local cash balances at all branches and assisted 
the smaller banks in Haifa, which was principally affected, by 
giving them advances against their fixed deposits held by the larger 
banks and on the security of kills. In Jerusalem and Tel Aviv 
too there were heavy withdrawals from the smaller banks a few 
days later, although most banks had by then strengthened their 
cash position within their means. In Jerusalem the movement 
of withdrawals subsided in a very brief space. In Tel Aviv it 
lasted longer. Many of the smaller local banks held considerable 
sums on deposit at call. It might have been difficult for some 
of them to realize their assets for the purpose of meeting the 
abnormal demands by depositors; and if one failed the situation 
might easily have degenerated seriously. That the larger banks 
were apprehensive is shown by the fact that between the 5th and 
9th September they increased by over £P.1,000,000 the amount 
of securities deposited with the Currency Board in London against 


201 


which to draw currency locally. In Tel Aviv again assistance was 
extended to the smaller banks by the larger foreign concerns 
which made or promised if necessary to make advances against 
fixed deposits or selected bills. By the 9th of September the strain 
had eased and the run on banks ended although the position re- 
mained rather critical for some weeks. 

During this period a sum of £P.1,600,000 was issued ty the 
Currency Officer to banks. The stock of currency held locally on 
the 31st July amounted to £P.3,022,550. By the end of August 
it had fallen to £P.2,745,144, and by the 8th of September to 
£P.1,145,144. As withdrawals continued it was found necessary 
to supplement local currency reserves from the reserves held in 
London. A first consignment of £P.1,175,000 reached Palestine 
by special aeroplane on the 10th of Septemler; a second consign- 
ment of £P.1,070,000 by ordinary air mail was delivered on the 
13th and 14th of September and a third and last consignment of 
£P.510,000 was shipped by steamer. By the 31st of December, 
1935, local banks had returned to the Currency Officer £P.1,124 000 
of the amount withdrawn during the rush. 


Adverse Balance of Trade. 


29. At the 27th Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission 
(see page 55 of the Minutes), attention was drawn to the excess of 
imports into Palestine over exports from Palestine. This continued 
during the year 1935, but is not considered to give any grounds for 
anxiety. The figures of imports into Palestine and of exports from 
Palestine during 1934-35 show an adverse balance of trade of 
nearly £P.11}4 millions. There are two other items on the debit 
side of the balance of payments, viz., the amount annually re- 
quired for the service of the Palestine loan, namely £P.284,000, 
and dividends and interest on capital of companies and corporations 
subscribed abroad which, comparatively speaking, are modest in 
amount and do not materially affect ascertainable figures. Against 
these must be set a number of invisible exports on the credit side 
of the account. An estimate of the minimum funds imported into 
Palestine during 1934-35 by 6,445 immigrants (excluding depend- 
ants) with capital and assured incomes is approximately £P.6 
millions. The number of travellers (excluding immigrants) re- 
corded as visiting Palestine in 1934-35 was 99,996 and the number 
of returning residents was 49,484 and, assuming that the average 
expenditure in the country of a traveller is £P10 and that each 
returning resident brings with him £P.5 as petty cash, the total 
amount brought into the country by travellers and returning resi- 
dents may be reckoned at approximately £P.1,250,000. The total 
receipts of the various Zionist funds in 1934 approximated 
£P.740,000, and it may be assumed that an equivalent amount 
was remitted to Palestine during 1934-35. During 1934-35 Govern- 
ment receipts abroad (such as grants, interest on investments, etc.) 

utilized for Government payments abroad approximated £P.350 ,000. 

\t is also estimated that in 1934-35 imports paid for otherwise than 


202 


by remittances from Palestine by charitable, religious and archaeo- 
logical institutions, consuls, 
Royal Air Force and Army, and imports of used personal effects 
were close upon £P.1,200,000. 

Apart from these items, which total approximately £P.9} millions, 
there were other items of the nature of invisible exports, which it 


the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, the 


is impossible to estimate precisely. For example, institutions of | 


the kinds mentioned in the previous paragraph spent locally sub- 
stantial sums derived from abroad. Again public bodies and local 


and foreign companies carrying on business in Palestine utilized — 


loans or other sums derived from abroad for the purchase of goods 
imported into Palestine. 

Other items of importance which cannot be estimated are 
Palestinian emigrants’ remittances to their families in Palestine 


and capital brought into the country in cash or goods by returning 


residents. 

In these circumstances it is safe to assume that if imports of 
capital be regarded as invisible exports the balance of payments in 
Palestine in 1935 was not adverse. 


The position is not at all | 


alarming so long as the country is able to offer opportunities for — 


investment sufficiently lucrative to provide investors with a liveli- - 
hood from the return on capital, provided that individual capital | 
sums are large enough to support the new immigrant until such | 
But it is estimated that £P.16 millions | 
are still lying on deposit in banks, of which £P.124 millions are 


return becomes available. 


kept on current account and earn little interest if any, although, 


as has been shown, large sums were invested in Palestine during — 


1934-35. 
APPENDIX I. 
Summary of Revenue for the years 1981 to 1984-35. 
1932 1932-33 | 1933-34 | 1934-35 
(1st January| (1st April, | (1st April, |(1st April, 
Heads of Revenue. 1931. to 1932 to 1933 to 1934 to 
31st 31st March,\31st March,|31st March 
March). 1933). 1934). 1935). 
£P. £P. SP. £P. £P. 
1. Customs 922,080 257,107 | 1,286,945 | 1,868,598 | 2,600,370 
2. Port and Marine 10,531 9,789 15,822 56,489 90,701 
3. Licences, Taxes, etc. 604,771 173,355 824,443 857,180 | 1,075,295 
4. Fees of Court and 
Office, etc. ; 248,631 68,807 332,488 §34,355 845,923 
5. Posts and Telegraphs 207,758 55,254 229,819 287,843 355,817 
6. Revenue from Govern- 
ment se ga 13,591 3,595 16,217 14,420 21,618 
7. Interest 52,793 4,271 83,775 56,896 97,102 
8. Miscellaneous 42,001 26,395 79,938 121,337 177,886 
9. Land Sales 8,830 3,382 18,682 26,609 31,640 
10. Grant-in-Aid 222,909 27,734 127,788 137,760 141,368 
10a. Railways (excess of 
Revenue over 
Expenditure) — 27,600 — — — 
11. Colonial vaneatuies 
Fund — — — 24,006 14,913 


£P.| 2,333,895 


ES |S | SS |S | A 


657,289 | 3,015,917 | 3,985,493 | 5,452,633 


203 


Summary of Expenditure for the years 1981 to 1984—85. 


Heads of Expenditure. 


1. Pensions... 

2. Public Debt and Loan 
Charges . 

3. His Excellency the 
High Commissioner 

4. Secretariat . 

5. District Administra- 
tion cue 

6. Legal Department... 

7. Judicial : 

8. Treas ua 

9. Audit Department 

10. Customs, Excise and 
Trade... es 

il. Department of 
Health... 

12. Department of 
Education 

13. Department of Agric- 
culture and Forests 

14. Antiquities Depart- 
ment ee Te 

15. Land Settlement oe 

16. Lands Department 

17. Survey Department 

18.Department of 
Development 

19. Police and Prisons... 

20. Department of 
Immigration 

21.Trans - Jordan 
Frontier Force 

22. Defence ‘ 

23. Posts and Telegraphs 

24. Public Works aad 
ment 


26. Miscellaneous we 

27. Posts and Telegraphs 
Extrao 

28. Public Works Extra- 
ordinary .. 

22.Trans - Jordan 
Frontier Force 
Extraordinary ... 

30. Railways (excess of 
Expenditure over 
Revenue) 

31. Colonial 


Develop- 
ment eas 


£P. 


1931. 


70,759 
105,918 
146,988 

81,227 

7,119 

23,358 

17,551 

44,947 


1,910 
469,516 


174,815 
121,681 
151,631 

48,720 


180,686 
151,404 


11,452 
104,947 


8,078 


67,916 


2,374,867 | 


511,656 | 2,516,394 
SSS i SS 


APPENDIX II. 
1932 1932-33 | 1933-34 | 1934-35 
(1st January} (1st April, | (1st April, \(1st April, 
to 1932 to 1933 to 1934 to 
31st 31st March,|31st March,\31st March 
March). 1933). 1934). 1935). 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
5,033 32,070 24,193 28,747 
— 124,355 127,198 126,904 
2,143 9,199 9,313 10,694 
5,452 23,437 25,433 24,735 
22,480 84,755 97,712 108,790 
2,308 10,155 10,451 10,294 
22,330 84,459 89,534 91,545 
3,985 14,550 15,746 16,553 
3,033 11,096 12,181 12,793 
16,955 76,767 94,395 147,620 
26,161 111,052 135,838 166,311 
30,322 159,520 179,635 201,498 
20,463 86,515 115,076 147,286 
1,682 7,064 8,359 17,197 
5,706 22,772 27,298 26,541 
4,256 18,283 20,024 21 455 
11,038 48,571 60,007 62,810 
1,595 6,618 7,822 6,901 
111,329 475,042 486,605 506,712 
4,702 18,737 21,392 29,437 
35,599 169,701 172,318 165,165 
36,846 105,922 110,125 144,118 
39,611 154,989 167,245 225,048 
11,869 45,193 49,496 48,944 
35,112 178,018 189,369 228,875 
27,368 206,835 189,908 257,868 
2,678 14,672 27,487 71,623 
18,050 94,240 134,359 262,878 
3,550 5,134 13,075 26,592 
— 116,673 59,259 33,805 
— — 24,003 271 


ere beer a 


2,704,856 | 3,230,010 


204 


I6L'F¥SG‘99E'S 


G69" SLE ‘OI 
LIL PEL‘LES 


6Z1°208°SIE 


000°000°ZE II 


663'999"°6L 
ad Lars Ki 


TOS PSOE 
OIF E1E‘OLS 


OLT'LOF‘980°E °° 


GL8°0E0F 
F909 F402 
€8F'008'Z1 


816°LEI‘6 
862° 9ES‘FZ 
696 EES‘ 
962°€19°F 
€69°916'E 
GOT H9S'LT 
£66 FI6'ST 
6E8'OLL'9E 
91L°6E9°69T 


BTU * ds 


puny seuly soog 
ce puny yuewmopuy 
wunesn _Teopiojoouqory @Ul}80]8 
“  spung 
weoyT pus saouyeg oqereay 
"*SINTALSAANT 


ASN] 40 NOLLVdGIOLLNY NI SHONVAGY 


* syunoooy Arpung 
an syumoooy eBIOH] S0fog 
a “"sqUNODDY 
e0ueapY sydvisojey, pue s}80g 
[Bieucr) JoySsBUysOg 
= " S}UCUIMLIOAOY) 10990 
"sysodeq sorusdmog souvwmsuy 
se ; SIDI JUSUITLIOAOY) 
se010T ISU) 
eIvo] voHoNISsUONY exenbyz1eq 
eee SABA TRY 
solzlTedioruny;, 
HOBA[ND 0} suUBOT [VINYNOUIsY 
*SHONVACY 
anag TVINOTO)D LNIOP 
“+ BBYD 


sy268 V 


"G86F “YoreW ISTE 38 SONTIGUT] Puy sossy Jo ;uWIE;E7g 


slat “dF 


‘THE XIGNGddV 


G99" SoP 
TSL°803°69 


¥99°9L6'S 
68S TLL'F1 


6IF'EIE‘OLZ 


LEE" LOL ‘FZ 
ZFE 069‘ 
L06°668°T 
£69°CPS‘L 


996°F90°L 
69F°698'ET 
G08'Z09°L 
696'EE8‘SI 
O82 E10°1Z 
000°9ch' 


LOG*ZIL 
S16'S6E'1Z 
LO6'STL*8L 
SOF 109°6 
L69°€16°L 


STU “dF 


sybuay oysaug 
syUNODOY 
ayoodoq. sqdesioay pus 
2 “" puny seuly eoyog 
qunoooY u040nI48U07; 
UMesn_, [sodojoesyory ocurse[eg 
ve oe puny jueuLmopuy 
WMoesnyy [eordojoeeyory ounqse(eg 
_queg [eInyMoUsy U8U1071¢C) 
eaVdoretyed *OPCdHO 
RS : serq [ed iorunyL 
* eee JO WIBZIN 
e"], aimeomiinn sty Aq aoryng14U00) 
euljsefsq jo AzisioatugQ wosoyy 
“* syeodeq suniaig sooo, 
800}}IUIMIOD UONYBONpY [8007 
sysodoq AneSey pur] 


‘sary poullepooy, moqivy eye 
“" pung joroy oxenbyyweq 

oe ese sj1sodeq su0z8N6) 
syisodeqy 4n0() 

ne ane syisodeq, 81030813000 


"SLISOda(] 


SORT IOeT 


205 


cms SE EE Teh 


189°002'TS 


6SO'TI6‘6SF'S ‘“d3 


O€6'9ES‘LT 
986'286'T 
990° 186'TT 


sydeiZojo7, pue 980g 


""* gunoooy Azreng syi0A4 oqug 


pa107g PeToUOZ) SHIOM ONGN 


*BAUOLG GALVOOTIVNYG) 


6SO'T16‘6S4°S ‘dF 


IPT Soe ‘SELF 
LPP LOT9TI 
1&0°L6 

OFF IST‘OI9 
@L8'6SOTT 
FLO" 109°S 
PEE'9°6 
999° LEFS 
PEO ESh'S 
SOU IZL 
TOU 99L Ft 
LOT F904 


"PS “SEI IS8‘L9ZF 
Sem YOOS sy} jo uonduop 
“OI OY} JO¥ “CEET “Yup ISTE 049 
qe puny SuUTHUIG 943 JO yUNOWR OUT, 
000°S LF‘ Hopfoyyxoo;g uvoyT ourysoleq 
5 “Laaq aHaNnogq 


eos eee (soue|eg snjding) 
eee aria SLUSSy fO SS8AOX 
LNQOOOY NVO'T 

"** SHONVLLINAY GNV SLAIVAG 


as sjunoooy Arpung 
“*“speoy pus sorjddng 103844 OF4TITA 
_ Ayodoig pourepuy 

sis pry-u1 
query) Q010,7 JOIUOIT UYpIOL-sUBLy, 
POUND sLIBYyg Welsopy oulaidng 
“es 80g oo1[0g jeloedg 
geonbeg e110opeyy sy 19 
“0 6 Aqaodolg 04%3g UVIsENYy 


Je) 


20 


SE6'FI6'SI' dF eee ene ees eee 


(II] xtpueddy) 


seLiqery pus syIssy JO ZUEMIOZBIG OY} UI UMOYS SB JUNODOY oOUBAPY BS. JoseUB_ [BIOUeXy JO oouRleg 


osTLt 
SITZE6'ST 
“gta “dF 


(pesen{(pe Sureq) sXeapey Aq suioyt poysn{peuy : sse7 
oe GANGS FUOUIG}BYS UT Geonr 8B JUNOOOY 8 JOINSVely 


“AINSVOLL, OY} Ul JUNODDY OOULAPY 8,JOZeULp [elouesy Oy} YM SJUNODIDY ABATTEY oy} Ul JUNODDY S,JOMS¥OIL JO UOP}ePoUODNY 


EFL LEE‘ 9ST' dF 


660° £008 oa ie _ ROH pus: 6010}G pe}BOO]/BU 
026 '0FF'9 ee “+ g9OUBAPY 
FOP G6RE‘SL eee eae eee shea ey 2483S usiydAsy 
02° F92 ‘ZI eee eos eee eee Yysey 
gid “ds 
“sassy 


EFL LOE‘OSI' dF 


SIT ZE6'SI 
998° 120° 
6LL'91Z'6 
186°LL9°61 
OFL IE€'69 
GLO LET'L 
BU ds 


aN x 


quUNODDY 8 .JoINSBeL], 

puny soul 

“ee syisodeq 

me qunoosy ate ten eabiy, yeiog 
pung gjemousoy AvMIVy (Vjey-B1ieyUBy) TeUIS 
“* puny sjemousy Avapley oulqso/eg 


“eat pqovy 


"GEGT “WOIEW ISTQ 3B JUCUTMIOAOY OUTSOI¥g Oy} Aq pojeIOdO SALMTEY OY} JO SOUTGe[] pue syossy oy} JO yUOTIEIKIS 


‘AI XIGNUddV 


miN OD Hid S 


207 


APPENDIX V. 


Statement of Investments. 


SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS: 


: Middle Market 
Nominal Average Pri 31 
Value. Coat Prices. 0 hoes 
March, 1935. 
(1) Avatlable Balances and Loan Funds— 
£ 38d. £P. mils £P. mils 
British Guiana 1959/69 3 per cent. 

Stock a = = .. 23,000 0 0 22,253.500  22,770.000 
Ceylon 3} per cent. Stock 1959 . 131,894 8 5 133,081.712  138,489.142 
Ceylon 3 per cent. Stock 1940 ... 29,956 10 6 30,093.800 30,855.221 
Jamaica 34 per cent. Stock 1958/68 5,000 0 0 4,975.000 5,350.000 
Jamaica 3 per cent. Stock 1922/44... 24,238 14 5 23,993.571 23,996.334 
Kenya 3} per cent. Stock 1957/67... 20,000 0 0 19,800.000 21,200.000 
Natal 34 per cent. Stock 1914/39 .... 7,107 3 8 7,231.558 7,249.327 
Nigeria 3 per cent. Stock 1955 76,303 17 1 74,396.258  74,396.258 
Northern Rhodesia 34 per cent. 

Stock 1955/65 on ois .. 20,000 0 0 19,600.000 21,600.000 
Straits Settlements 3} per cent. 

Stock 1937/67 __... ses ... 122,046 9 4 124,001.775 124,487.396 
Trinidad 3} per cent. Stock 1958/68 45,000 0 0 44,700.000 48,600.000 
Uganda 3} per cent. Stock 1955/65 12,699 9 8 13,515.600 13,588.447 
Commonwealth of Australia 5 per 

cent. Stock 1945/75 se .. 5,397.17 0 5,816.408 5,937.635 
Commonwealth of Australia 4 pe 

cent. Stock 1943/48 ae .. 17,000 0 0 17,486.538 17,340.000 
Commonwealth of Australia 3} pe 

cent. Stock 1964/74 one ... 43,981 12 9  44,798.771 _42,662.189 
Bradford 43 per cent. Stock 1940/60 14,126 10 2 15,492.996 15,680.424 
Brighton 44 per cent. Stock 1940/60 7,007 6 9 7,643.634 7,708.072 
Burton-on-Trent 3 per cent. Stock 

1953 ue a: she .. 25,000 0 0 23,382.092 25,000.000 
Canada 4 per cent. Stock 1940/60... 74,062 19 6  76,858.433 77,025.494 
Canada 4 per cent. Stock 1953/58... 30,107 2 7 29,511.872 32,816.771 
Canada 34 per cent. Stock 1930/50 92,294 13 11 93,426.883  93,217.643 
Canada (C.P.R.) 34 per cent. Stock 

1938 sie see ss .. 394,951 10 10 35,531.75] 36,349.604 
Canada 3} per cent. Stock 1950/55 98,141 12 8  94,788.342  101,085.882 
Conversion Loan 5 per cent. Stock 

1944/64... me we .. 40,828 15 1 47,667.570 49,198.648 
Conversion Loan 3 per cent. Stock 

1948/53... a ae ... 300,000 0 O 318,751.000 315,000.000 
Conversion Loan 2} per cent. Stock . 

1944/49... ee sie ... 553,616 610 550,887.712  564,688.669 
Edinburgh 44 per cent. Stock 

1940/60... es _— .. 18,800 0 0 20,233.500  20,680.000 
Funding 3 per cent. Stock 1959/69... 85,064 17 1  90,009.584  § 86,766.151 
Hull 5 per cent. Stock 1941/61 50,000 0 0  55,039.100  55,500.000 
India 5 per cent. Stock 1942/47 27,000 0 0  27,064.863  31,455.000 
India 4 per cent. Stock 1948/53 20,337 10 0 20,836.725 21,964.500 
Natal 3} per cent. Stock 1934/44 ... 74,074 14 8  74,622.565  75,556.228 
Natal 3 per cent. Stock 1929/49 89,202 17 10 90,301.296 89,202.892 
Newfoundland 3} per cent. Stock 

_ 1952 vis eee nee wee 81,500 0 0 = 31,441.450 —-32,760.000 
Newfoundland 3} per cent. Stock 
1950 sae wis ses ... 32,000 0 0  31,997.800  33,280.000 


(1) Available Balances Loan Fund— 


cont. 
New South Wales 34 per cent. 
Stock 1930/50... . ; 
New Zealand 44 per cent. Stock 


1945 ; 4,446 
New Zealand 34 per cent. Stock 

1955/60 33,459 
New Zealand 3} per cent. Stock 

1940 33,211 
New Zealand 3 per edit: Stock 1945 96,597 
New Zealand 3} per cent. Stock 

1949/54... 50,000 
Palestine 5 per cent. “Stock 1942/67 9,518 
Plymouth (Devonport) 3 per cent. 

Stock 1920/60... 8,500 
Queensland 34 per cent. Stock 1945 38,028 
Queensland 3 per cent. Stock 1922/47 26,568 
Sheffield 3 per cent. Stock 1954 26,500 
South Australia 3} sis cent. Stock 

1926/36... 12,500 
South Rhodesia 3} Per sant, Stock 

1953/63... 4,454 
South Rhodesia 3} per cent. Stock 

1955/65... 52,000 
Stoke 3} per cent. Stock 1955/65 . 8,500 
Stretford 3} per cent. Stock 1955/65 10,000 
Ulster 33 per cent. Stock 1943 .. 39,606 
Union of South Africa 5 ai cent. 

Stock 1945/75 1,052 
Union of South Africa 44 Pek cone 

Stock 1955/75 26,664 
Union of South Africa 4 per ene 

Stock 1943-63 16,000 
Victoria 33 per cent. Sioske 1929/49 6,000 
Victoria 3 per cent. Stock 1929/49... 10,100 
West Australia 34 a cent. Stock 

1935/55 : 12,701 
West Ham 3 per sent: ‘Stock 1945 .. 7,800 

- 2,934,291 
Federated Malay States 3 per cent. 

Stock 1960/70 (5 per cent. paid) ... 250,000 
Birmingham 2? per cent. Stock 

1955/57 (564 per cent. paid) 50,000 
Union of South Africa 3 per cent. 

Stock 1954/64 (5 per cent. paid) ... 220,000 


3,454,291 


8 
17 


12 


d. 


. 118,337 11 11 
. 


0 


0. 








A Middle Market 
C a Price Price on 3lst 
° March, 1935. 
£P. mils £P. mils 
117,043.750 118,337.596 
4,768.796 4,802.143 
34,129.051 34,798.248 
32,963.940 34,207.656 
93,263.105  96,597.279 
48,963.017 5 1,500.000 
11,268.571 11,232.277 
8,574.875 8,415.00 
36,745.748 38,408.940_ 
24,260.484  265,771.878 
27,659.375  26,765.000 
12,620.428 12,750.000° 
4,411.50] 4,766.404 
51,176.087  54,080.000° 
8.529.413 8,797.500 
10,031.450 —10,400.000 
39,876.5647 42,180.612 
1,159.163 1,210.384 
29,264.263 31,197.436 
16,850.800 _ 17,120.000 
6,056.004. 5,940.00 
9,343.133 9,797.667 
12,859.913 § 12,574.135 
7,627.738 7,800.000 
2,970,580.811 3,032,908.082 
12,500.000  12,500.000 
29,342.438 29,342.438 
11,656.650 11,656.650 





0 3,024,079.899 3,086,407.170 





209 


(3) Police Fines Fund— 
Commonwealth of Australia 3} a 


cent. Stock 1946/49 es . 1,800 0 0 1,755.000 1,818.000 
Commonwealth of Australia 3} per 7 
cent. Stock 1964/74 ar 492 9 2 499.845 477.684 
New Zealand 3} ie cent. Stock 
1955/60 —i... .. 41,181 5 4 1,204.892 1,228.518 
£ 3,473 14 6 £P.3,459.737 £P.3,524.202 


Nominal Average penguin, 
Value. Cost Price. March, 1935. 
£ 3s. d.  £P. mils £P. mils 
(2) Palestine Archaeological Museum 
Endowment Fund— 
Northern Rhodesia 34 per cent. ) 
Stock 1955/65 —.... 725 6 7 710.822 783.355 
Birmingham 3} per cent. Stock 1946 
orafter ... . 30,000 0 0 31,935.788 31,500.000 
Bristol Perpetual Debenture 34 per 
cent. Stock... : 5,579 2 6 5,592.975 5,941.768 
Canada 4 per cent. Stock 1953/58 .. 10,000 0 0 10,518.812 10,900.000 
Commonwealth of Australia 3} per 
cent. Stock 1948/53 des 10,000 0 0 9,921.975 10,100.000 
Consolidated 4 per cent. Stock 1957 
orafter  ... 22,834 14 6 19,010.365 26,259.934 
Conversion Loan 33 per cent. Stock 
1961 or after 6,347 6 3 6,363.487 6,664.678 
Guaranteed 3 per cent. Stock 1939 
orafter... 27,000 0 0 17,711.000 25,650.000 
Guaranteed 2} per cent. Stock 1933 
orafter ... 47,819 810 29,699.900 42,081.109 
India 34 per cent. Stock 1931 or after 31,843 18 4 25,873.342 29,296.404 
Liverpool (Irredeemable) 3} per cent. 
Stock gaz 15,387 7 10 15,810.525 16,310.636 
London County 3 per cent. Stock 
1920 or after sas 59,381 2 6 39,187.606 55,818.257 
West Australia 34 Per cent. Stock 
1935/55 15,158 17 4 15,386.621 15,007.278 
£282,077 4 8 £P.227,723.218 £P.276,313.419 


210 


€99°L9S‘18E'F 


9ZL'969°8EE 


FLO 109°SOF‘T 


000°000‘000‘T 
E91 69T‘6E9'T 


‘op “ds 


SOF'S0E OI "** UBO] BUTSTEI JO 4800) 
PLL L9O8‘8 COO Zuyuug JUeUTUIEADY 
QOO;O0E'IZ | “"*_ eFf8 Jo UoWIemboy 
—: sSuIpling queuruies04) 
POFOS'S8I | °° sauoydejoy, pus sydeisojay, 
“AI We}] 


068°Z8L‘ZIS'T | BOIjoN.1YsUO|H MOGI’, VIVA °S 
P8L'SIL‘O6I gUoMaAOIMM] V1OG BYVe | 
—: syuomesaciduly 
q10g pwe UOTONnI4sU0H IMoqieyy 
“TH 04] 
*quouIMIOAOY) 8, Aqsolepy 
SH Woy mosses [eyideo 
Jeqjo pues Avayiel JO oseqomg 
‘TT Wey] 
———— “(poor 


960° 061‘SFZ sdoysyioM Avarey *] 
—: shea] ey 
"J Woz] 

‘grr “dF 


"asnqipuadr iy 






“Gorey 


000°F0S “Wl Woqg wyue *{ 
— syUemIEAOId 
“wy Hog puv aon 
-OnI4ysUoH +4IMoqiByy 
“TTT 63] 
“quoul 
“ureaoy) 8,Aqe0l ey 
TH wo s}ossE 
[eyideo 104}0 pue 
ABVM[IBI JO ossyqoOmMYA 
"TT W994] 


000‘000°T 





000‘0*F9*T 
68 poyBoo[[ sal) “€ 
SxIOM 
10430 *S 
‘sdoys 
yom «= Avaregy “T 
—: shBaplery 
"T W949] 


reo ree'T = Avarey 
LL3‘S¥Z 


"dS "d3 
"ay849 Jo Arejaloeg 043 Aq 
peaoidds sv uvoyy jo uoysory 
“(L261 “oousurpig 
usoyT ounseisg Aq pestioyyne) ‘yueo Jod 
"BOT OOITF 4 PoNnss! YOO'CLE'FF JO YOOIS§ 


IE [000°SLE‘LEFF| PooyuTen) eUTyeE/¥q “4UE0 sod g Jo Bpocoolg 


"SS6] “Yorepl 3ST 38 yUNOSOY ULOT 
‘IA XIGNUddV 


apie a oe 


eS |S | eee Ce ee ee ee (es 


000°SLE*LEF'F | “dF 
LeF LOTSIT 


‘ooueleg 








"GLE‘LOF'F |" dF 





GLE 696 


000‘S88#‘T 


GLE‘LOF'F dF 





£06‘0ZT 
661 


o*9‘09 
TES‘S8T 





O00'F8z'T 


WOT BZUISIV1 JO 400K) 
pezsoo0 [su 
‘oO syULg 
JO yuaudmby puv 
uornoniysu0y) pues 
MQ  uUemMUIEAOL) 
‘souoyd 
-9[9], pus sydeiZojay, 
“AI wes] 


*uOo;JONIWEUID 
anoq rey ejrey ‘SZ 


212 








L69‘8SEE' dF SLE‘69E' dF 











€06‘0Z1 E08 ‘0ZI eee eee oon eee eee eee eee eee tee uso] BUISTeI JO 4800) 
ee 661 aes sts pereooypeuy 
SOT ‘OE creo9 2’ #80 Supoua jo quomdmnbg pue ‘TOoHONISUOD pus seolQ QUCTTUIEA0Y) 
OZI°S8I gest “" ‘+  sguoyderey, pu sydeiSoja7, 
‘dd "ds —: Jopun se dn opty (2) 
LOLSTT 892° I8EF CLE‘ LOVF 000°009‘F 000‘008*F 


“WeO] O43 JO Fursrer oy} Surpnjour 
‘eInpeyog siyz UI peuotuou sosodimd oy} jo 
Aue q}L4 pezyoouuoo 10 07 [eyueploutl sesod.ind 
pus ‘yuouldojeacp jo syi0M JOUTU ‘sAoAINS 
SLL‘0E (2) L688 (D)9L8°698 000‘SLE 000°SFL ‘souoydejo, pus sydvidojoy ‘ssurpymq oyqnd ‘F 


S6FF8 209*E0F'T 000‘°88F‘T 000‘88F‘T 000°ST IT syUSMIGACId WM] WOg PUY UOIyONIWsUOL INoqIeyy “¢ 
‘quommUI0AOs) 8 Aqsolvyy SIT WOIy 
= 000°000°T 000°000‘T 000°000‘T 000‘000‘T syosee pesidvo: roy pus Aoared jo oseqoing °Z 
T&8 691 “6E9'T 000‘0F9'T 000‘0F9'T 000‘0+9‘T vs gGABATTOY °T 
“dd "dS "dd “d3 Ki 
| “S61 ‘unoT fo ‘apg fo ‘9261 ‘PV suno7 
"sOUDIDT “YosD Hl TE speooosd, huvpusog ay | Dosefy wo pun yr 
popuadaouyy | y0 eanjipuodery yonzop fo fq poaosddn ouspeoqnd a 


| ponp Pp 010007] F UO*PDIOT]D-2ET O} anpeyrg 


ae 


“SS6F “OVAL ISTE Ie SCOURTE UOT JO jUCMIE;E}S 
‘TIA XIQGNUddV 


213 


‘somloqog soyddng 1978A4 oBeTILA pue uoIqoy oq} pus 
somoqog oSeurviq pus Ajddng 107844 weresnsor 043 Jo qoedsar ur puny yuouidojesaq [eTUO[OD ey} Woy BUBIZ GOUSIEER ‘Z7G°F] gz BapHpUy (2) 
‘pepyseg pus eyley uscenjoq oyno1 Avmyrer ofqissod © Jo ‘s1coulsugy a 








WIA XIGNUATV 





pefoy jo Azred @ Aq Aoaine [elles ue JO 4800 04} 10A00 04 puny yuouIdojsa0q [eIUO[OD 043 Wo ysoroqUT suid 4UeI3 ‘900°F2' dF sepnypouy (q) 
‘spun wvO'T 0} podieyo pus sivod snotaaid ul UeyezJopuN syIOM snoLea Jo yoodsal WI 176‘Z0S' dF JO JuouSN(pe us sepnouy (7D) 








969‘0FS TTe‘99T 982‘LFI 86F‘ 102 SSE'960'S | (9)T83‘9ST = 000‘SLY‘F O€6I-FE6I 

FOS‘ ELE 8E8‘SET 9LO'STT GE9°6LT LEL‘E@8'E | (Q)99LT9T = 000‘S LFF FEGI-CECT 

ISP‘LTE SS0‘ITT GIg‘98 0z¢‘69T 6Z1‘888‘s S8L‘LZI — 000‘SL¥‘F SE61-ZCE6I 

1g0‘S9 191‘9Z £9F'0 ZSE‘0E G99°6Z9 PEL'LS = 000‘S LFF SEGI “Gouspy 07 Arenuve 

Soe 'FEE 8T6‘SOT LZZ‘T8 886‘9FI 98601 T'S 606°GSS — 000‘SLFF ses 1861 

686 ‘Z8E I8*‘SOT 8TS‘ZOT coe‘ePrl 092‘8F8‘S 983'IF = 000‘SLF‘F Og6I 

L¥6‘00E +98‘ TOT PIL‘OL 68L‘6ET 6F0°662'S EBS‘FS a 000‘SLFF 6261 

PIL‘ SPE 189°86 09€'SL CIT‘LEI O39‘8F9°S LOL‘9E a 000‘SLF‘F sy S86T 
(2)8Z9‘ZOS 8o8‘EL 067‘ZS 6£0‘00T GE0°60L‘T GFE ‘OE se 000‘SLF‘F L361 ‘1equieceq] 04 pudy 

TST‘Ile€ 9L9'16 o1eS9 Os‘oII 688 ‘F9E'S 9LP‘98 — = one L&61-9261 

PLO'LIZ T1¥‘S8 680‘LE 366'€0I OFF F09'S 8L8‘F03 = a 9261-S26I 

yee'Fa1 OFF't8 169°S 999°ZOT 028°696'T 9Z1‘S6T = = SZ61-F661 

999‘LFI 869‘E6 Ogs‘9E SLL‘66 S8L‘SL9'T 659‘OFS = = 461-261 

S8E‘61 PLOLIT O19‘8E 0Z9°T6 TE8°608'T 000°S6Z ca = £261-Z261 

FOE FOI 969‘9FT LEe‘or SIF‘06 Tes‘ TLg‘S a = = ee ee eee 3061-161 

009‘L9T SLS‘ 1ST 9F0'TE 6L0‘09 F8S'SEl‘T = = = T36T ‘YoLeP_ YTS 07 ‘OSET ‘AML 98T 

"d3 "dF "dF "d3 "dF "dS "d3 "dF 
8440 M "WHO |. eon uBy | eunsG | 
mgm mgr | AMIOMAY | MOHPONPH | seaosnoe | agpsanooas | ORY | eoanByf 
— poutegxa “WON 189701) 
wos, 199 "400 X oaspasrusiupy 
uDy) 40y70 NqNT sO EU 
UO quads junDwp anuaray "SIOANOYY POULT 
wosf anuaraagy 


3493) 


. 214 


XXII.—_ DEMOGRAPHIC STATISTICS. 


Attention is invited to pages 135-138 of the Report for 1931. 
2. Vital Statistics.—The following are the vital statistics since 


1921; 


other than nomadic Beduin :— 


Year. 


1921— 


Town 


Country 


1922 
1923 
1924 
1925 
1926 
1927 
1928* 
1929 
1930 
1931 
1932 
1933 
1934 
1935 


Birth- 
rate per 
1,000 
living. 


27°4 

28-4 

47-43 
61-31 
49°31 
53-47 
50-35 
48-78 
46-32 
48-03 
48-07 
44-14 
44-34 
41-59 
45-16 


Ests- 
mated 


Number popula- Number 
tion(mid- of deaths 


of births 


regis- 
tered. 


31,402 
34,955 
35,479 
40,471 
29,193 
42,895 
41,742 
44,587 
46,011 
43,538 
46,049 
45,944 
53,940 


year) 
ests- 


662,013 
681,245 
719,508 
761,896 
778,369 
879,532 
901,742 
928,148 
957,181 
986,319 


1,038,331 
1,104,605 
1,194,529 


regis- 
tered. 


those from 1923 onwards include estimates of population 


Infantile 
mortality, 1.., 
death of child- 
Death- ren under 
rate per 1 year of age 
1,000 per 1,000 
births. 
16-1 209-6 
— 123-3 
18-75 — 
25-67 184-76 
25-94 184-83 
27°25 188-64 
24:43 163-03 
28-01 200-46 
26-21 186-33 
24-00 186-47 
21-02 154-28 
22-09 170-09 
22-26 163-17 
20-06 144-43 
21-84 157-58 
18-62 131-39 


* The diate from 1928 onwards are estimates of mid-year populations based 


upon the census of November, 1931. 


3. Recordéd Immigration and Emigration.—The following is a 
table showing immigration and emigration in respect of Palestine 
of Jews and non-Jews for the years 1920 to 1935 inclusive :— 





Year. 


1920 io cena a isa ae 


1921 . 


1922 ... 
1923 ... 
1924 ... 
1925 ... 
1926 ... 
1927 ... 
1928 ... 
1929 ... 
1930 ... 
1931 .. 
1932 ... 
1933 ... 
1934 ... 
1935 ... 


* Figures for July to December. 


Recorded Immigration. 
Jews. Non-Jews 
5,514 202 
9,149 190 
7,844 284 
7,421 570 
12,856 697 
33,801 840 
13,081 829 
2,713 882 
2,178 908 
5,249 1,317 
4,944 1,489 
4,075 1,458 
9,553 1,736 
30,327 1,650 
42,359 1,784 
61,854 2,293 


ft No statistics of emigration by race were compiled. 


Recorded Emigration. 


RE eerie TNA fn ee TE CARRS EN 


215 


4. According to the records of the Department of Migration 
supplemented by those of the Jewish Agency in the earlier years, 
59,889 Jewish immigrants entered Palestine between 1919 and 
the end of 1935. The principal countries of origin were the follow- 
ing :—Poland 107,958, Russia 29,528, Rumania 12,491, Lithuania 
5,086, Yemen 7,277, United States of America 5,907. During that 
period 20,784 German citizens entered, but to these must be added 
the numbers of Jews of German and other citizenship who formerly 
resided in Germany. In 1935, there were 2,931 such additional 
persons, but no records are available of the number in previous 


_ years. The total of immigrants from Germany is, however, 


believed to be in the neighbourhood of 30,000. 


' XXTII.—_-CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 
This year was again somewhat difficult for the Department of 


~ Customs, as it brought a further considerable increase in the total 
_ dumber of steamers calling at Haifa and Jaffa and in the tonnage 


of goods handled. As a consequence, additions to the staff were 


once More necessary. 


Certain bulk import. traffic continued to be diverted from Jaffa 


fo Haifa, except that shipments of cement and coal were allowed 


in May and September respectively. 
The working of Jaffa port was hindered a little by the execution 


; of new important works but the benefits of those works were 


beginning to be realized towards the end of the year. Imports 
diverted from Jaffa caused the storage accommodation at Haifa to 
be taxed on several occasions to its limit and the shiploads of 
limber were not easy to accommodate. | 
Another large shed, principally for the storage of citrus fruit 


~ for export, was erected at Haifa during the year and was brought 


into use for the current citrus season. 
Cordial relations are maintained with Chambers of Commerce and 
Chambers of Shipping at both ports, and frequent conferences tend 


_ smoothe out many difficulties to the satisfaction of the public and 


Government. 


2. Tonnage of Import and Export Cargo handled at the Ports of 
Jaffa and Haifa during 1931-1935. 


Jaffa. Haifa. 
Year. 


Discharged.| Loaded. | Discharged.| Loaded. 


: 193) Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
ier et oe ben 151,975 77,873 214,893 48,303 
oie ese Be we 221,113 106,824 273,411 54,164 
te ai oe ate 348,797 96,888 401,410 71,632 
Mine eee ey ea 486,974 120,967 589,203 99,756* 
ee ae sua . 402,524 171,819 787,307 138,427* 


a“ 





* Exclusive of Crude Oil. 


‘ 8. The net revenue of the Department for the last five 
= was :-—1931, £P.1,169,924; 1932, £P.1,511,149; 1933, 
071,370 1934, £P.2,936,513; 1935, £P.3,459,164 


931 H 2 


216 


"O[P{ Jod e]1u g] SEM sULOG eoYOo UO Aqnp oU3 SEPT 07 IOL"g (4g) 

“O[Ty dod syiu Qg sea soqny pus BoI4y Joqqniz uo Aynp 044 gE’F'g{ 0} JOLIg (Pp) 
‘opty Jed sqrur Z sem ooLr uO Aynp oy} OE'F'gT 0} JOU (¢) 

*uasoz0a pp *yue0 Jed GZ eM SIO 1OJOUI UO ANP O43 OE'F'g] 0} 1OLIg (Zz) 
‘o[ry od spruz QT sem reZns uo Aynp 044 G¢g'g"g 0} JOG (T) 


opty sed OT StH (¢) 000‘08 


000006'T =" «SOT * - suBEg Ge0R 
00882 ory sed og SIZ (F) 0008  O00;0Id = ** ~SOTy * seqny pue sak], soqqny 
000‘9Z €W ted 0cz SW =—s«OO'GE ~—-000 SOT ew BOB) STLIF) JO} poom porvdarg 
006'8Z Ory god ¢-] TA (g) 000‘°I6I 000‘000‘LT oes SOIT] eee oon eee eee eee eoe eee eee eony 
00008 8078] SNOW A 000°08T = = “““geporqeA poljedoid-A];eorusyoow Jo satiosseooy pus szeg - 
00c‘TEe 80} BY SNOLIB A 000‘0ZT 000‘00€‘8T ese so[ty] eee eee eee eee ese eee eee een Avo M 
000°LE "** guao Jed ZT] OOO‘OTE —000‘0ZS ** SOM BOnsstL BSTOOM 
000‘SF ory Jed 0% sity OOO'LST  o0ooss's  —* SOIT ° VT send “soy ng 
000'F9 * offy od QOO'T ST = OUT = 000*F9 "SOR ° a EO 
008't9 ""* Offy Jed ¢-Q pus g-O TW 000‘€29  000°00%°88 ** FOI *° eh bus Sted Corp 
000‘¢9 "gated 008 SE = 000°SZ9-—O0O'LTS. EN “* "7 BUIPING 105 poo 
009'TL “so gage sNOLBA = QON'ES_——«000*0Z9 Solty (caduog Surpnjoxe) sonssty, yTIg 
00S°FL “eo oy ged OOF SITY 000°0S =. 000*98T SOIT we dls de eed: 
000'F6 dee a2 soyey snowed O00'RZE  OO0‘;000'ZE °° BOTT, NOL] Fou AA 
008‘00T ery] sod £7 spiyy 000‘66T  ooo‘oss‘'zg =" Sela. * ee 
00S‘FIT s0}8Y SNOLIEA 000°SL% — 000°000'F sol *"" nee we BPDOD PORT GOMOD 
000°STI s078Y] SOLU A 000°08L ene: cn eee eee eee eee "++ (s9,108 ]]'B) jorsddy BULIvO AA 
OOO'LET ese Oly lod C8 -¢ ng AN 000‘E6Z 000‘000‘SLI ° sory eee one one eee ees eee eee eon quoule) 
000‘OFT Ory sod OF puv Og BIW (Z) OOO'SE  000'E "COND" BE) 1090 
000‘881 “*  oppy sed ¢ sy (1) 000°88T — 000‘088°FZ sory ieang 
000°EL¢ ez] Jod TT styq 000°¢23  000‘00S‘ze 8019] “+ guizueg 

"d3 "d3 
papvayoo hynq, ‘fing fo amy ‘anyoA = “Ayyquon® “ul 


‘(SGT JO SYQUOUI UsAZIe 4sIG O04} JO saIN3Yy [uNzoe UO poseg) 


“SOUL 


“MO[aq 4NO 4aS BIB CEGT Ul Yowa woIj poaloder Aynq y1odmq jo 


jUnOWIe OY} pue pealiap st Aynq 4yaodury ey} Jo yinq 94) YoIyM wos payzoduit seporjae pedrourad eu 


Y 


217 


). Excise duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 


methylated spirits, salt and matches. The receipts during the last 
five years were :— 





1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 
; £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
rp Duty ... 158,720 201,722 222,864 255,588 246,677 
cence Fees 5,872 6,281 6,672 7,420 8,437 
Intoxicating Liquors, 
ies ou. 38,262 34,457 38,853 42,260 49,586 
Veh e os 6)726 4,290 3,723 3,753 3,819 
ie ated Spirits, Duty — 3,175 5,132 7,406 8,900 
ae! eu «11,410 12,000 12,550 14,300 15,550 
le uty .. 11,895 16,382 14,625 21,785 29,173 
cence Fees 6, 100 50 50 50 50 
Total... =... 999.984 278,357 «304,469 +=» 352,562 362,192 
6. The 


oe number of licensed tobacco, tombac and snuff factories 
ung 1931-1935 was :— 


” . 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 
ane and Cigarettes ‘11 9 10 10 10 
T ues eee ees =— —_— — 2 2 
ca a ae 2 l 1 1 1 
ae ee 9 3 9 1 1 
Total 15 13 13 14 14 
Their output wag :-— | 
Heisheh. 
Year. Cut 





199) Kilos, | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. 
1999 | — | 24,570 | 493,741 | 95,923 | 5,444] — as 
1993. ‘| — | 20,798 | 487,022 | 78,709 | 4,805} 1,228 839 
\) ae iio 17,666 | 537,348 | 71,930 | 6,310 | 2,039 1,644 
1995  ** | 1,082 | 15,852 | 636,832 | 75,294 | 6,848 | 4,021 7,766 


1,748 | 18,095 | 791,264 | 89,392 7,819 672 694 
on April, the excise duty on tobacco was reduced from 350 to 
mils per kilogramme and on heisheh from 150 to 100 mils. 


are humber of tobacco growers in Palestine was 2,157, as 
Pared with 2,776 in the previous year. 


The ®Doual crops for 1930-1934, in kilogrammes were :— 


Tobacco. Tombac. 
WO°- 954,424 3,531 
81 ae aeSS«086 4 558 
1982S, — ae ~ 565,617 5,771 
1983, sae 8 .. 402,623 17,905 
340 .. 958,344 52,829 


34997 H 3 


218 


7. The production of salt at Athlit (by sea evaporation) and at 
Jebel Usdum (rock formation) and of methylated spirits and 
matches during the last five years was as follows :— 


Unit. 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. 
Salt ae ... Kilos 7,593,700 8,045,800 8,404,400 9,389,040 10,375,700 
Methylated | 
Spirits _,, — 211,675 342,156 493,712 693,307 
Matches ... ... Gross 159,485 138,153 127,761 175,758 221,275 
of 
boxes. 
8. The value of exemptions granted during the year 1935 was :— 
Exemptions Exemptions 
under the under the 
Customs Duties Syria-Palestine Total. 
Exemption Customs 
Ordinance. Agreement. 
£P. £P. £P. 
Food, drink and tobacco oe ss 701,000 553,000 1,254,000 
Goods mainly unmanufactured i 660,000 14,000 674,000 
Goods mainly manufactured ... a, 2,564,000 520,000 3,084,000 
Miscellaneous and unclassified ates 1,945,000 — 1,945,000 


Total ... a 5,870,000 1,087,000 6,957,000 


These exemptions do not include benzine and other oils supplied 
free of duty from bonded installations in Palestine to certain under- 
takings. 

9. The value of goods imported by charitable and _ religious 
institutions, consuls and archeological societies during the past five 
years 1s shown below :— 


Under the Customs Duties 
Total. 





Under the Exemption Ordinance. 
Year. Ottoman Law |————-—_- 
Religious Charitable | 
Orders. and other Consuls.* 
Institutions. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 

1931 ig... ast 32,647 9,960 3,828 46,435 
1932... ae 33,971 7,690 7,382 49,043 
1933... eae 31,152 19,309 7,629 58,090 
1934 =... se 30,779 16,331 6,574 53,684 
1935... ans 31,492 23,330 8,617 63,439 


* Including benzine, etc., delivered to consuls from bonded oil installations. 

10. In addition to the importation duty free of all articles con- 
signed to them direct, the following goods were also supplied from 
bonded oil installations to the ‘Traq “Petroleum Company, the Navy, 
Army and Air Force Institutes and the Administration Générale des 
Phares :— 


Amount of 
Supplied in 1935 free of duty to Benzine. Kerosene. Duty involved. 
Intres. Litres. £P. 
Iraq Petroleum Co. ... 1,026,473 250,477 11,730 
Navy, Army and Air ‘Force: Institutes ... 232,392 37,459 2,652 
nistration Générale des Phares aN — 3,929 7 


219 

















000°L80‘T 000‘TZ6 000°8TL 000°869 000°F#9 
‘queo sod g.gz “queosed g-2% ‘suoosed g.gz ‘quedo sed ZZ = “quo sod ¢7 
000°889'F 000‘°FE8°E 000°6¢¢°S 000°LZF'T 000°EFS'T 
000‘8S¢‘OT 000‘096‘ET 000‘FF9‘6 000‘99F°9 000‘6FE"e 
-gueo dod g-9g ‘guaosodg.gz ‘quaosedg.9z ‘quoosed 1% = “guao od ¢.9g 
000°0L8°S 000‘0EFS 000‘889'T 000°F61'T 000°%26 
000°E8L‘OT 000°E81°6 000°L9€°9 000° TFF'F 000°C9F'E 
000°L80‘T 000‘T26 000°8TL 000°869 000°FF9 
000‘0L8°TT 000‘90T‘OT 000°E80°L 000°6£0°¢ 000°90TF 
-queo Jed Z-~Z «©“yueo sod $7 ‘qyuoo od #z «= “quod sad g-eg *4ua0 lod ¢.7Z 
000°0L8°% 000‘0€F'S 000°889'T O00FETT 000°26 
000‘OL8‘TI 000‘90T‘OT 000°S80°L 000‘6£0°¢ 000°90IF 
000‘889°F 000‘F28"S 000°6¢¢°S 000‘LZF‘T 000°EF3°T 
000‘see*OT 000°096°ET 000°F¥9‘6 000°99F'9 000°6FE"e 
‘queosede-2, ‘quoosedg-,y “quooiodg.z~— “queosedg-gt  ‘yuoo sod LT 
000°0L8°S 000‘0EF'S 000‘889‘T 000‘F6T‘T 000°%26 
ooo’ses*sT 000‘096°ST - 000°FF9'6 000‘99%‘9 000°6FE'S 
000°C8T'T 000‘S6I‘T 000‘6LF'T 000‘s08‘T 000‘T69 
OOO‘OPL'LI ooo'esl‘et OOO*ss LTT 000‘69L‘L 000‘0+6‘S 
‘at Pb "d3 “dF “dF 
“C°GT "PEGI “COOL “CE6T “LE6T 


(GE6I Ive O43 JOJ sYQUOM UEAGIE WU ey. JOJ salnAy junjow uo poeregq) 
‘CEOL-TEGT 81704 943 20} sUOIIdUIeXGy PUT UOTYNXRY, sUIOJEND Jo sIBApeaW UU sy Huarsopfoy OUT 


ite “* quoUr 
eed | sul0ysnD ouryso[eg “BIAS oy} Jopun ‘oiaiees Spood jo onjvA 
*syodur] JO ONfBA JON OF o3709019g oo 

‘ et i Sate “* gouBUTpIC 
vondurex yy sorind su048N;) a zopun qdulexe spoos jo onjeA 
; "** sqiodwy jo onjwa Jony 
Aqnp jo 981 Sutpuodsazi0oy 
at oe Ss nee feo eee hia pa109]][00 Aqynp VN 
syloduly 9[qvryng Jo onjeA 


one quoMms3Is 7 
wuro}sti) euneeled: ents out aapun aude SpoOOd Jo on] BVA seoT 
"+ sqyioduy Areutpig Jo one 


Aqnp jo oyel SutpuodseLi0g 
eee Gece ieee wale Suse aree se poypoT]oo Aqnp VN 
ee 328% ate 076 sete cute syiod uy AIBUTPIO JO On[vA 


UIBIIO UBLIAG JO spoos ZuTpNypouT ynq ‘souBUIPIO u0Ty 


~durex sornd SuIO4SNX) O43 Jopun aduisxe Spood Jo on[Ba ssaT 
"> sqioduly Jo onjva Jony 


Aqnp jo o781 Zutpuodse110g 
Ep pezoajoo Aqnp IONT 
"** gqiodwmy jo on[ea ZoNy 


se1039 AuvduI0g wNeol}eg 


bey, P pus “Tq VV ‘Nv ‘cee ‘gUOTAUIOAOY) jO On[BA ssaT 


szIod uy JO onjBA [BO], 


3193] 


TT 


x. 


aq ‘quoosed Z.6g ‘quooiedg.gg ‘quoosced gp ‘quoosed ep ‘quoosedgG.[TpP °" ae sa aoe ‘sodury JO On]BA [BIO], 07 odeqQUaDI0g 

000°L°6'9 000°896‘a 000°9¢2 > 000°868‘ 000°SLF‘S 1c a **  guolyduiex GY JO [84307 puvi¢) 

*quoo Jed [-9 *queo sed g *queo Jed ¢-9 "quao Jed g ‘queo Jed [I °* oe oa ie suodu jo ouly A [901 0} 088zU0010g 
000°L80‘T 00026 000°STL 000°86¢ 000‘F49 .° = i. “** guoul 

-C01SY ‘suIOgEND ourssoled- e114 94} Jopun ydwoexe spoon jo onjvA 

"queo lod [-gg ‘queosed¢.gg -quoosod¢.gg queosed eg ‘guoosodg.og °° sylodmy] jo onjeA [BIO], 09 os¥zUEOIEg 
000‘0L8‘S 000°L¥0‘E 000°8€0F 000‘0&L‘S OOF FEST a oa 7 ses parozg Auvduroy unspoijeg bey, 
pus ‘JT V'V'N ceeitie ‘{UOTIUIOAOY) Suipnjpout ‘eouvurplo 

uondmoxy s019nq sTUOASTC) oq} Jopun suOdWOXY JO ON[BA [BIO], 

000°OFL'LT 000°EST‘ST 000°EST ‘TT 000°69L°L 000‘0F6‘S te syiodmy Jo onyea [eq0], 

"queo lod g-Fg ‘quoosed Fe ‘quooscd FE ‘queosod [g ‘queosjodgeg °* = ae — *"sq10duly JO on|vVA JON 07 OSeqQUCOIOg 
000°ELL‘g 000‘SLL*F 000‘LLZ‘S 000'S20'Z 000‘L88'T nee ‘“qUOMIEdISY SMIOISND OUTISE/Vq-BLIAG 04} PUB COUVUIPIO 

condense sorand] BELO ENG ou} Jopun suoijdulexg JO on[wa [20], 

‘quedo ied g-g ‘guedsedg¢-.g  -quoos0d g.y *quoo Jed g ‘yueo Jod ZI *** sia “*gq10d Ul] JO on[VA JON 07 OSBqQUOD.IOg 

“dF "dd "dS "dS "dF 


“986L “KE6L “SE6L “OS6L “TE6L 


221 


Commerce and Industry. 


12. During 1935, Palestine showed further economic development. 

Among the more important undertakings established during the 
year Were factories for the production of cooking, stoves, bathtubs, 
iushing cisterns, metal-ware for constructional purposes, toilet soap, 
Perfumery, edible oils, steel furniture, electrical fittings, preserved 
muts, vegetables and fish, whilst several smaller factories pro- 
duced stockings and socks, bedsteads, knitted underwear, printers’ 


nk, carbon paper, belts, braces and garters, tiles, furniture, and 
fruit juices. 
_ 1. In the field of manufacture, almost all branches showed 
increased output. The output of tobacco factories increased from 
7,645 kilogrammes in 1934 to 908,128 kilogrammes in 1935, 
“ment from 148,000 tons to 187,000 tons, matches from 175,758 
eoss to 221 975 gross of boxes, salt from 9,389 tons to 10,376 tons, 
and methylated spirits from 493,712 kilos to 593,307 kilos. 

Factories man 
Costumes, gtoc 
Production, ag 


ufacturing textiles such as hosiery, sweaters, bathing 
kings and socks and other knitted wear also enlarged 
1995 . is apparent from increased imports of yarn during 
: 9: thus the imports of cotton, woollen, silk and artificial silk 
4] amounted to 862,000 kilogrammes valued at £P.176,000 in 


he Compared with 812,112 kilogrammes valued at £P.165,173 


ea ties engaged in the extraction of oil from imported seeds 
huts for food and industrial purposes, also made headway. 


1934. 1935. 
Conta Imports, Tons. £P. Tons. £P. 
Sesam ig: De aks se eau 1,489 14,470 2,200 24,000 
Linseed"? Gingelly Seeds... .... --2,589 29,186 1,470 21,000 
Sung aks) Si es 1,097 12,639 1,600 16,000 
ound eet, es ee eee 2,025—_:13,230 12,500 77,000 
mute, shelled ... ... 11,817 100,695 6,700 78,000 
18,517 170,220 24,500 216,000 
monig ction is- made elsewhere of the index of local prosperity 
i ed by more numerous registration of new companies, and 
. mm ®, of capital of existing companies; other indices are the 
‘ic gration of capitalists, and the circulation of currency. General 
F “on appears in other sections of this Report to the slight 
teriorat; 


100 in economic conditions at the close of the year, pre- 


“eded by a run on certain local banks. 


BuiLpIna ACTIVITY. 


1 The apaxtion of buildings, commercial and residential, to 
Mmodate new immigrants and residents attracted from small 


222 


towns and settlements to the more flourishing centres, continued 
without pause, and in twenty centres, including the four principal 


towns, about £P.7,000,000 was thus invested. 


Local producers and importers of constructional materials were 
fully occupied in supplying the needs of builders. 
table of imports of building materials illustrates this :— 


1931. 1932. 1933. 1934. 1935. ~ 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Timber and wood for building... 153,381 184,267 253,777 460,410 625,000 
Iron bars, angles, rods and girders 83,629 96,683 240,096 520,604 623,000 
Sanitary ware =55 Sag 19,824 39,288 66,041 177,999 130,000 
Electrical fittings and insulated | 
tubes and pipes .. 22,704 29.475 68,491 106,609 135,000 
Cement sat 14,359 25,264 88,328 267,624 295,000 
Paints and colours oe oT 18,963 24,471 39,339 657,664 65,000. 
Plate glass and window glass ... 15,372 21,984 34,431 58,419 68,000 
Tiles and brick ... Bas 16,068 20,849 34,523 88,334 127,000 
Door and window fittings* 19,000 20,000 40,000 60,000 = 67,000 


The following 


* Figures in respect of 1931-1934 are approximate. 


The stringent measures later adopted by banks and credit in- 
stitutions in financing builders, as a result of the international 
situation, slowed down building operations considerably and there 
was a sharp decline in the issue of building permits. 


Cirrus TRADE. 


16. Export of grape-fruit for the 1935-36 season started on the 
1st October and of oranges six weeks afterwards. 


The hot spell during April and May caused considerable damage 
to the fruit and the crop was reduced by about two million cases. 


During the year, 6,878,911 cases of oranges and 888,793 cases of 
grape-fruit were exported, as compared with 5,129,422 and 419,789 
cases, respectively, during 1934. 


Imports. 


17. The approximate value of imports for home consumption 
in 1935, was £P.17,740,000, an increase of £P.2,600,000 over the 
preceding year. 


The rise was to a great extent due to the entry of immigrants 
with personal effects, implements and machinery and to the ex- 
tensive importation of building materials and house fittings. 


There were noticeable increases also in imports of seeds and 
nuts for expressing oil, and in cotton, silk and woollen yarn for 
use in the manufacture of knitted wear, animals for slaughtering, 
dairy products, fresh vegetables and fruits to suffice the needs 
of the growing population, industrial and agricultural machinery; 
wearing apparel of all sorts, benzine and kerosene and rubber tyres 
and tubes. 


223 


18. The following is a comparative table showing the principal 
articles imported during 1934 and 1985 :— 





Rice ... 
Wheat a 
Wheat Flour 


al ee ae 
a or svehtering es 
aie ae ne 
feah and tinned 
Fruit, fresh | 

Coff 


girders 
Tron tubes 
thereof 


» Pipes and fittings 
wood fo : hin i ery 
Sod prepared 
Cases @ee 
Plywood 


for citrus 





14,020,676 
45,547,042 
24,694,811 
270,549 
1,773,210 


4,230,600 
56,981,899 
10,448,057 

1,182,526 
18,890,092 
12,348,832 
49,886,087 


18,520,751 
150,537,089 


80,512,359 
20,469,717 


200,337 


73,339 
5,369,750 
3,979,388 

424,521 
620,237 


812,112 


48,573,941 
40,608,907 


3,575 


eel 


476,508 
12,852,916 


| 499,120 


£P. 
125,628 
321,802 
232,220 
344,122 
125,613 


141,719 
105,633 
162,969 
58,082 
150,805 
73,150 
55,807 


170,256 
267,624 


520,604 


366,032 
177,999 
314,344 

56,632 
966,749 
460,410 


242,838 

87,612 
520,574 
245,277 
307,019 
583,870 


165,173 
117,010 
154,711 
206,257 


578,271 


102,363 

65,417 
104,724 
586,977 
243,261 


305,850 
53,522 


24,880,000 
14,000,000 
75,000,000 


24,500,000 
175,000,000 


88,200,000 
31,800,000 


a en ee 


224 


Exports. 


19. The value of exports of Palestine produce amounted to 
£P.4,215 486 in 1935, an increase of £P.997,924 over the preceding 


year. 


The increase was primarily due to increased exports of citrus fruit. 


Iixports of locally manufactured articles also showed an increase 
of £P.73,967 over 1934, chiefly in respect of wearing apparel, 
stockings and socks, olive oil, soap, fruit juice and syrup and 


artificial teeth. 


A table showing exports of locally manufactured articles during 
the last five years is set out below :— 


Cakes for all sorts of Pada 


animals . : 
Biscuits and cakes 
Bread passover 
Cheese 
Chocolates .. 
Confectionery . 
Fruit juice and syrup 
Brandy and pea 
Wines 
Olive oil 
Sunflower oil bis 
Oils other, edible ... 
Cement se 
Mirrors... 
Bedsteads and parts thereof 
Aluminium manufactures 
Tin manufactures .. : 
Olive wood manufactures 
Cotton yarn and thread . 
Cotton manutactures 
Stockings and socks uid 
Wearing apparel of all kinds 
Soap 
Paper and cardboard goods 
Curios and articles of piety 


Beads and mother of pearl manu- 


factures ... 
Leather handbags... 
Stationery ... ses 
Artiticial teeth 
Essences of all kinds ; 
Other manufactured goods 


Total 


1931. 
£P. 


3, 834 
16,152 
703 
50,394 


1932. 
£P. 


16.508 
108,101 
2,544 
2,819 


9.569 
5,290 
6,77 
13.429 
2,285 
95.433 


£P. 364.954 435.623 


1933. 
£P. 


406,398 


1934. 1935. 
£P. £P. 
14,637 —-9,630 
1,256 1,007 
1,903 = 1,924 

695 —s14,254 
266 54S 
1,489 97,117 
6,751 9,145 
5,721] 852 
93,214 20,551 
18,687 32,785 
35,978 23,808 
1,700 2,650 
1,973 2,775 
462 961 
2,053 2,666 
1,283 66; 
1,691 3,439 
1,931 1,678 
936 ~—«:1, 084 
8,920 11,095 
38,124 63,459 
71,532 79,311 
4,142 5,011 
6,742 6,993 
6,877 3,78 
6,035 Gal 
939 _—s«i, 066 
28,585 33,762 
7,447 6,6") 


404,840 478,807 








OSL‘ESE 68F'SLST 901‘66S‘G $LE‘OFOF C96‘886'E OCF LZEF 8Z0°L3S'S 8 PRL 
9SL°E8E cane FOS ‘99F 09°0¢8 SLS‘IF8 656 COST LOF‘9ZS fa ~~ "+ gtoedg jo suodxg 
= CCL‘9T TL9°00E 9F6‘E8S ZOE6IE LOO‘EFS SEETSS — _ Spoon Uso10g jo syiodxo-oxy 
= 86861 CFF‘89 L¥0'6h G8Z‘8F sae = cic * puog wor syiodxq 
a CVF'8ES 000°8LF 8OS°6ES €88°L8T 9LE°96T COTLLT i a a “+ qIsueLy, Ul spIodxy 
= #36°L66 98FS12 F CISLIZ'E LI9‘I6S°S 16¥F‘ 188s 190°SLS‘T : eonpolg oulsaeg jo syodxgq 
‘dd "dd ‘di "dF “dS "d3 ‘dd 
“PE6T “PEGT “OS6L “FE6T “SS6L "CO86L “T&6l "940d xq 
Lapun 4320 
ASDALIOT  a8DALIUT 
"YAUOUL 4SB] OY} JOJ OFVUIT}Se OY} PU ‘sYJUOUI UeATO 4SIY oY} 1OJ samsy jenjzoe o4} UO paseq ore CEg BuLMp syodul] 10J sams , 
pas T€Z°F80°E OOOOSL’SI 69L°S99‘°ST S8LO‘OSFIT  L6L‘OZI‘S L8T‘6IT'9 1210.7, 
— OLS‘8SZ 000‘°ZES OSFELZ 908'SFI 109°SST GZ0'Z : eoedg jo syz0d uy 
— ZFF'SET 000‘8LF 8O96ES £8881 918961 ZOU‘LLT roses qtsureny, Ut syrodury 
= BIZ‘L89°S OOO‘OFL*LI ISL‘SSI‘ST 68F‘EZI‘IIT O26'89L‘L  000‘0F6'S *** uordumsuoy, J0f s310d uy 
‘IF ‘dS "dS “d3 ‘d3 ‘dF ‘dF 
*PEGT "PE6T “GE6L "FEGT “SE6T “CE6T “T&6T “740d T 
Lapun AILO 
aeas20( aevasOUT 


"“*GE6T PUT FECT ‘ERET ‘SRET ‘TE6L AOJ #9/qQu7 eATZeIedaIOD ‘s4y.10dxiq 


pues 4yzoduly [BIO], JO enleA “OG 


ae 526 L668 O8FCIZF ZOa°LIZ‘s LI9‘169°S 16F188°S 190°CLET - * PPIO.L 





= 673 6F8S 009° TLG‘L 81g 892'E ad ig ""*  - peyissepoun pues snosue][eosi jy 
— T¥6‘SL FSI‘OLE EFS FBS Z60°908 G6E‘SIE SEF‘08Z i ‘Spel oayndem Ajuyeur IO Atjoqs s9[DIFIY 
= 609‘SF FIOIOL GOP'S GI6‘IE LI6‘ZP Z69°8S an pain 
ee Ajayeur sIPIPIV pus S[VLIOP CY ABY 

= GZI‘9L8 Ger IFL’6 F1Ee‘cos’s 6809'S 99°9Z0'S E99'6CZT °° "** OooBqoy, pus yu ‘poo 
"dS ‘dS ‘dS "dF "dF "dF "dF 

"PE6T "PEGI "PE6I "OS6I “PE6L "OS6L "TE6L "9.4007 

s4apUun 43:00 


aevaivagy «= aBDALIUT 


. 226 


“GIUOUL 4SB] OY} 1OF OFVUIT}SO OY} PUB ‘syYZUOU UdACIO 4YsIy Of} JOZ saNSY enzow oy} UO poseq ole CEE] ZULMp sysoduy Joy sams , 





€1G°Ss ZELSINS OOOOFL'LE §=ISL°ZST°ST = BSFEST*TI =: OZ 6S 9L‘L 000‘0F6‘S _ “8 POL, 
€1S*Ss = 000°086'T €19°C00°S £6L°LITS SIL‘OIo'T Z8T°OSL we PSH(SSEOUN PUB SROBUBL[Oos!]T 
= 6IL°169°T 000°098°0I 183‘89I‘6 FOE'EFL'S IIF‘OT6‘S SSL‘19S'S ~ fe aie le aa le 10 ATioqs sao WV 
a 9OT*ELS 000‘0S§'T F68'9L0'T C8t‘9E8 996°9S¢ F06 LIF os = pany 
; ounueuun cso SIpIWIY PUB STRLIIVp MB 
as LO6‘L¥9 000‘0¢e"€ £60°C06'S LIS‘'SZhS O€8F8L'T 6ci‘cesT = * ; “** OooBqoy, pus yuLICy “poo 
“dF "dd “dd "d3 "d3 "ds "dS 
“FE6T “FE6T “GE6T “PE6T “Eb6L “OS6L “Te6l “spsodut 
apun £300 


asnawvagG «=: aS aLIUT 


«S861 PUB PEGT ‘EET ‘GEGT ‘TE6T 10} se1qz7} oatyereduuoo ‘sosse[D Aq syiodxq pue sy1odwy jo onjeA “TZ 


227 
22. Imports, by Countries, during 1934 and 1935.* 





Value by country of origin. Percentage. 
Countries. a ee 1935. 
1934. 1935. 
. £P. £P. 
United Kingdom 2,960,706 3,180,000 17:93 
British Possessions 526,406 620,000 3-49 
Austria... 348,157 355,000 2-00 
Belgium... 620,468 730,000 4-11 
Bulgaria... 148,818 205,000 1-16 
Czechoslovakia 514,210 660,000 3-72 
Denmark ... 127,003 112,000 0°63 
France. 417,601 345,000 1-95 
Germany ... 1,658,993 2,170,000 12-23 
Holland ... 247,228 255,000 1-44 
Hungary ... 115,410 205,000 1-16 
Italy 481,261 445,000 2-51 
Poland... 475,375 770,000 4-34 
Roumania ... 953,343 1,210,000 6-82 
Rusia. 215,033 235,000 1-32 
Sweden... 184,663 230,000 1-30 
Switzerland 168,275 180,000 1-01 
Yugoslavia 174,440 195,000 1-09 
Egypt 456,832 590,000 3-33 
Japan 593,552 640,000 3-61 
Iraq 180,452 230,000 1-30 
Syria 1,083,095 1,300,000 7-33 
Tukey .. a, 495,308 305,000 1-72 
United States of America 1,283,484 1,500,000 8:45 
Other countries .. 3 722,668 1,073,000 6-05 
poeeiete  ee eeg 
Total... __... | £P.15,152,781 | £P.17,740,000 100 





* Figures for Imports by Countries of Origin during 1936 are based on the 
«tual figures for the first cleven months and the estimate for the last month. 


23. Exports, by Countries, during 1934 and 1935. 


























ae Value by country of destination. Per centage 

1934. 1935. : 

ee ee re: 

£P. £P. 

prited Kingdom 1,785,014 2,553,986 60-59 
“sii Poasessions 79,195 85,083 2-02 
chen: vee 29,947 17,844 1-85 
“ita 45,799 39,120 -93 
Ce e 29,552 89,769 2-13 
Holland? 600,669 250,909 5-95 
Ital d 77.481 185,438 4-40 
Nore 18,707 22,679 0-54 
Poland. 29,892 64,186 1-52 
31,990 122,245 2-90 
Sol 60,485 92,219 2-18 
Beyot 34,883 54,374 1-29 
Syria 70,484 77,402 1-84 
Uhited Stcis ce ceo 222,643 302,988 7-19 
Othe oe of America 30,667 15,855 0-37 
tCountries 6 00 70,154 181,389 | 4-30 

SCs Se 


Total 









. | £P. 3,217,562 | £P. 4,215,486 | 






228 
Price. Movements. 


24. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 
living are shown below :— 


Wholesale Prices. Cost of Iaving. 
(Basis, 1934= (Basis, January, 1922= 
1935. 100 per cent.) 100 per cent.) 
January... as oe sist 101-9 55°7 
February _... ane oe Sis 104-2 56-0 
March eae ade Bag see 100-4 54-1 
April = 104-9 4-2 
May ... 103-3 53-9 
June... 102-9 54-0 
July ... 102-7 54-6 
August 105-0 54-2 
September 103-3 54-4 
October $86 me ie ea 101-1 54-9 
November ... ner tee te 99-3 54-9 
December... Are Sia wee 97-8 55-1 
Average ... — 102-2 54-7 


The average index number of cost of living for 1985 showed a 
‘decrease of 0.4 per cent., due mainly to lower prices of wheat, flour, 
sugar and olive oil. 


25. The Customs Ordinance was amended by provision for the 
grant of drawback of Import Duty in respect of materials used 
in the manufacture of locally produced goods which have been 
subsequently exported. 


The Standing Committee for Commerce and Industry considers 
applications for allowance of drawback and submits its recommenda- 
tions to the High Commissioner. Recommendations may not be 
made unless, having regard to all the circumstances, including the 
interests of producers in Palestine of material of the kind specified 
in the recommendation, it 18 1n the interest of Palestine that draw- 


back should be allowed. 


Customs Tariff. 


26. The following amendments to Customs tariff were made 
during 1935 :— 


Description of Articles. Former Duty. New Duty. 
Mils. Mils. 
Cigars, including bands and tubes bes ... 1,000 per kilo 2,000 per kilo 
Raw coftee bee eas 16 10 
Sliding metal fasteners ss Si aba ss 15 per metre 30 per metre 
Handwritten Hebrew talismans ss sive 12 per cent. 20 per cent. 
ad valorem. ad valorem. 
Motor Vehicles and Tractors :— 
(i) Motor cars, omnibuses, lorries and vans 40 per kilo 
(ii) Omnibus bodies imported a ais 25 per cent. 60 per kilo 
(iii) Chassis and tractors ... ad valorem. 30 per kilo 


(iv) Parts thereof ... Ses Seis seis 50 per kilo 


229 


Description of Articles. Former Duty. 
Olives in pickle 5 per kilo 
Handwritten phylacteries 12 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
Pickled cauliflowers and pickled cucumbers 12 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
Rice se vee a9 2 per kilo 
Handwritten scrolls of the law ... Free 
Tomato juice and other tomato products 12 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
Toys :-— 
Soft toys wholly or partly made of plush, 
velvet, wool, cotton and other similar 
material das = oe gee 12 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
Tyres and tubes for mechanically i ata 
vehicles, including inner containers ... 50 per kilo 
Wheat, hard ‘ sed Sliding scale 
according to value. 
Essential oils, for perfumery 25 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
Sugar. Se 10 per kilo. 
Tea, in containers exceeding 1 kilogramme 30 per kilo 
Bentwood furniture, raw or prepared :— 
(a) Bentwood furniture, ready made, im- 
ported wholly or in parts... 30 per cent. 
(b) Bentwood furniture, semi- prepared ir im- ad valorem. 
ported wholly or in parts —_.... 
(c) Bentwood, raw, i.e., rough shapes 12 per cent. 
ad valorem. 


New Duty. 


25 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
20 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
25 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
1-5 per kilo 
20 per cent. 
ad valorem 
25 per cent. 
ad valorem. 


25 per cent. 
ad valorem. 


35 per kilo 
3 per kilo 


12 per cent. 
ad valorem. 
5 per kilo 
20 per kilo 


22-5 per kilo. 


15 per kilo 
2 per kilo 


27. The following articles are exempted from payment of import 


duty :— 


Wireless sets, imported by any person who is an immigrant. 


Motor lorries for the 
expeditions. 


Cork in granules, raw or prepared. 
Liquid paraffin (medicinal). 
Petrolatum. 

Vaseline. 

Meat and fish meal. 

Marine life saving apparatus. 


use of approved archeological 


Furniture and equipment imported for use in any Sailors’ 
Home in Palestine approved by the High Commissioner. 


Steam and motor rollers for road making when imported for 


private companies engaged in road construction. 


Traffic lights apparatus, imported by Municipalities for their 


Own use. 


230 
Metal waste and scrap of iron, brass, a tin, fit only for 
the recovery of the metal. 
Linseed oil varnish (lithographic varnish). 
Waste pearls. 
Rough diamonds. 
Moulding powders. 
The following raw materials employed in the manufacture of 


paper :— 
(a) Waste paper ; 


(b) Chemical pulp (cellulose) ; 
(c) Mechanical pulp (woodpulp) ; 
(d) Lime of animal origin ; 

(e) Casein and china clay. 


The following materials used in the manufacture of glass :— 
(a) Fireproof blocks, in sizes not less than 40 x 30 x 30 centrf- 
metres. 
(b) Fireproof bricks ; 
(c) Sand; 
(d) Sodium sulphate. 


Shipping. 


28. Number and tonnage of steam and sailing vessels entered 
and cleared in the foreign trade of Palestine during the years 1934 


and 1935. 











Entered. Cleared. 
1934 | 1935. 1934 1935 

Steam Number 1,684 2,061 | 1,665 2,060 
Tonnage | 4,264,571 | 5,510,847 | 4,177,835 | 5,483,914 

Sailing ... ste ... Number 1,731 1,689 1,723 1,642 
Tonnage 52,313 52,670 52,926 50,863 

Total... ae ... Number 3,415 3,750 3,388 3,702 
Tonnage | 4,316,884 | 5,563,517 | 4,230,761 | 5,534,777 
1934. 1935. 
Total shipping dealt with five ... Number ies 6,803 7,452 

Tonnage ... 8,547,645 11,098,294 


29. Enquiry has been made into the report published in an 
Egyptian newspaper that a Japanese vessel on entering the Port of 


231 


Haifa had refused to hoist the British flag in pie of the insistence 
of the local authorities.* 


The Port Manager at Haifa affirms that there was no record 
of any such occurrence in that port. 


The Port Manager at Jaffa affirins that only one Japanese vessel, 
the 3.8. Mansei Maru had visited Jaffa Port within the past two 
years and no question whatever arose about flying the British flag. 
No allusion to any such incident can be found in the isolated descrip- 
tion of this report which appeared in the local newspaper Falustin 
in September, 1934. A reporter of that paper admits, however, that 
on another accosion, when the first Danish East Asiatic Company's 
steamer Peru visited Jaffa in December, 1934, he boarded the 
vessel to attend a reception and took it upon himself to ask the 
Captain why his vessel was not flying the Palestinian flag, as 
apparently the reporter was under the impression that such was 
the law in a Palestine port. It is not known what was the 
reply of the Captain but the newspaper did publish a short article 
of which the concluding paragraph reads :— 


‘* Falastin’s representative noticed that this ship had not 
hoisted the British flag unlike all other vessels. He asked the 
Captain about it and the reply was that it was the Captain’s 
first call to Palestine waters and that he was unaware of the 
custom followed here but that he would instruct the hoisting 
of the British flag as suggested by the representative, which 
he did ’’. 


Tariff treatment of products of States which have ceased to be 
Members of the League of Nations. 


30. In their Report to the Council of the League of Nations 
on the Work of their Twenty-Seventh Session the Permanent 
Mandates Commission expressed the wish ** to learn the reasons for 
Which the imports of products of a State which has ceased to 
be a Member of the League of Nations are admitted on an equal 
footing with the products of States Members of the League ’’ 
His Majesty’s Government as mandatory for Palestine and ‘l'rans- 
Jordan have never found any reason hitherto for introducing tariff 
legislation in those Territories permitting of discrimination between 
States which are and those which are not Members of the League 
of Nations ; and they are not contemplating any change of policy in 
this respect as a consequence of the departure of Japan and 
Germany from the League of Nations. 


31. Wheat is a staple product on which the Palestine peasant 
depends very largely for a livelihood. It provides him with his 





* See page 52 of the Minutes of the Twenty-Seventh Session of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. 


232 

main article of subsistence, and he places the surplus on the market 
for ready cash wherewith to purchase the other necessaries of life. 
The local price of wheat had fallen to such an extent by 1930 that 
it was found expedient to limit the importation of wheat and flour 
so that the fellah might be assured of a reasonable market. In 
July of that year, therefore, an Order was published restricting 
such imports of wheat and flour by means of quarterly licences 
which were issued to importers without discrimination as to country 
of origin. This Order also prohibited the importation of unrefined 
olive oil in the interest of local production. 


The Palestine-Syria Customs Agreement exempts from duty in 
either territory goods other than tobacco, tombac, pure alcohol, 
spirituous liquors, salt and matches and any other goods which 
may be agreed upon by the contracting parties— 


(a) which are wholly produced in Palestine or Syria or the 
Lebanon, or 


(b) which are manufactured from local produce and have not 
undergone any process of manufacture outside the country of 
origin, or 

(c) which are wholly manufactured in Palestine or Syria and 
the Lebanon from foreign materials, or 


(d) which are wholly manufactured in Palestine and Syria 
and the Lebanon in part from foreign materials and in part 
from local produce. 


In view of this provision, the Order of July, 1930, specifically 
excepted Syrian wheat and flour. 


The embargo upon imports of unrefined olive oil, which had been 
imposed by the same Order, was removed in October, 1930, and 
in its place a system was introduced under which unrefined olive 
oil was admitted only under licence granted by the Chairman of the 
Standing Committee for Commerce and Industry without discrimin- 
ation as to country of origin. From this regulation, too, the Syrian 
product was, at the request of the Syrian authorities, specially 
exempted. 


In June, 1933, it became necessary to supplement the measures 
taken in respect of wheat and flour imports by imposing a protec- 
tive duty on a sliding scale increasing in inverse ratio to the decrease 
of the c.1.f. price at Palestinian ports. This duty was so calculated 
as to bring the price of flour on the Palestine market up to £P.12 
per ton and of wheat up to £P.9. But as Syrian wheat and flour 
would still be imported without restriction and duty free, the local 
cultivator did not reap the full benefit of this protection, and as 
imports from Syria increased, local prices tended to fall, particularly 
in seasons of abundant crops in both territories, which is often the 
case owing to similarity of climatic conditions. Accordingly, in 


233 


May, 1934, negotiations with the Government of Syria were begun 
with the object of arriving at an agreement whereby the licence 
system enforced in 1930 by Palestine would be applicable to wheat 
and flour from Syria. 


It is gratifying to record a prompt understanding, on the part of 
the Syrian authorities, of the special difficulties with which Palestine 
was faced, and a ready co-operation towards mutually advantageous 
adjustments. Thus, in April, 1935, it was agreed that the importa- 
tion of wheat and flour from the territories under French Mandate 
in the Levant was made subject to the general quota authorized by 
the Standing Committee for Commerce and Industry under the 
Order of July, 1930. Wheat and flour so imported from those 
territories is of course admitted duty free. At the same time, in 
the interests of Syria not less than of Palestine, the sliding scale 
of duty on hard wheat (which is the variety commonly produced 
in both countries) was replaced in Palestine by a specific duty of 
£P.3 per ton as from April. 


As in 1934, it was decided in August, as sufficient stocks of 
wheat were available to meet all local demands, to suspend the 
grant of permits for importation of foreign wheat in the last quarter 
of the year, except a certain quantity required for the baking of 
unleavened bread for the Passover. 


Business Names. 


32. The Registration of Business Names Ordinance, 1935, was 
promulgated on the 20th of May and the Rules made thereunder 
were published a month later. 


The Ordinance provides for the registration of every person 
having a place of business in Palestine and carrying on business 
under a name other than his own name and of every firm whose 
business name does not consist of the true names of the members 
of the partnership. 


Registration of persons and firms falling within this category is 
compulsory ; so far, 1,363 applications to be registered have been 
received, and £P.400 has been paid in fees. 


Trade Marks. 


33. During 1935, 861 applications for the registration of trade 
marks were received, thus bringing the total of applications filed 
to 4,056. The sum of £P.2,200 was paid in fees. 


The fee for registration of a Trade Mark has been reduced from 
£P.5 to £P.3. 


The high rate of registration continues to reflect flourishing trade 
conditions and the eagerness of foreign manufacturers to enter the 
Palestine market. 


234 


The following table shows the countries of origin of applications 
in the last three years :— 


Number of applications. 
Country. 1933. 1934. 1935. 
United Kingdom or oa 144 255 
Germany siaeg dete ee 
United States of America ... 
Switzerland ... Be 
France 
Holland 
Hungary 
Austria 
Poland 
Sweden 
Italy ... 
Egypt... 
Czechoslovakia 
Portugal 
India ... 
Japan... 
Denmark 
Spain ... 
Syria ... 
Ceylon 
Trans-Jordan... 
Belgium 
Australia 
Lithuania 
Roumania 
Latvia... ae 
South Africa ... 
Finland 
Trinidad 
Norway 
Canada 
Scotland 


| mm RONEN ORRANAABHOM MH wom 
Pea) lee: | Sc Ser octs ecorte co ek 


ome! | tl ee lel | | ewe | | mm orwanane ae 


| 
er oe 


150 346 718 


The following amending Ordinance and Rule and Order under the 
Ordinance were published during the year :— 

(1) Trade Marks (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985, amending 
sections 24 to 26 of the Principal Ordinance so as to be 
applicable to British Territories, and appointing the Supreme 
Court sitting as a High Court of Justice to act as ‘‘ the 
Court of Appeal ’’ under the provisions of the Principal Ordin- 
ance. Further minor amendments in connection with the 
foregoing are also included. 

(ii) Trade Marks (British Territories) Order, 19385, extending 
the provisions of Sections 24 and 25 of the Principal Ordinance 
to the United Kingdom and certain other British Territories. 


Patents. 


34. Patent applications numbering 231 (nearly one-half being 
from local residents) were received, and altogether 788 are now 


235 


fled. Receipts from fees amounted to £P.300. It is evident that 
inventors and exploiters of inventions are coming to realize the 
potentialities of Palestine as a field for their enterprise. Judging 
from the classification of patents applied for, the main interest would 
appear to lie in the building industry. 

Number of 


Subject matter. applications 
received. 

Chemical inventions r ant 15 
Agricultural, irrigation and plant- -protection ini 14 
Buildings, structures, roads, methods of construc- 

tion and materials da a oe os 58 
Sanitary appliances and geysers ... ae on 17 
Kitchen appliances and refrigerators we 16 
Electrical switches and other electrical apparatus 5) 
Food preparation and preservation, beverages and 

fruit Juice extractors es — sae oa 10 
Medicine, dentistry and hygiene ... mes ss 7 
Pipes and hoses, including couplings... i 9 
Manufacture of cigarettes ... 3 
Furniture, furniture fittings and household articles 13 
Assorting, treating, printing and packing of citrus 

fruit 10 
Fuel, manufacture and supply, burners, stoves and 

the like ... sgt ; se Sexe seh 12 

Designs. 


35. Thirty-one applications for registration of designs were 
received, 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


The remarkable expansion of business which manifested itself 
during 1934 continued in 1935 and resulted in the estimated revenue 
of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs being considerably 
exceeded. 


2. Revenue.—Revenue amounted to £P.409,173, compared with 
£P.333,512 in 1934. 
The principal increases were as follows :— 


=r. 
Sale of Stamps ... ... 48,247 (27 per cent.) 
Telephones me ... 26,740 (22 per cent.) 
Foreign Parcel Post ... 2,644 (19 per cent.) 
Other increases were :— 
Rents of Letter Boxes ... 735 (18 per cent.) 
Postal Order Poundage ... 240 (24 per cent.) 


Commission on Money 
Orders ... ai ame 112 (9 per cent.) 


236 


The increase 1n commission on money orders does not represent 
fully the increased use of the service made by the public—the 
increase in the number of incoming foreign orders dealt with 
amounting to 67 per cent. The disparity between number and value 
is due to a great extent to the restriction placed by certain countries 
of origin on the amount which may be remitted in individual orders. 


3. Expenditure.—FEixpenditure amounted to £P.288,290, com- 
pared with £P.206,082 in 1934. It should, however, be mentioned 
that this increase includes £P.20,000 in respect of a contribution to 
the Renewals Fund, an item which had not previously existed. 


The principal increases were as follows :— 


£P. 
Personal Emoluments ... ba ... 28,554 
Conveyance of Mails (outside Palestine) 20,803 
Rents and Repairs of Buildings oe: 2,799 
Stationery and Printing a hy 1,316 
Maintenance Stores she sed see 1,427 
Renewals Fund ... ae see ... 20,000 


The increase under Personal Emoluments was due to (a) addi- 
tional personnel, (b) increments, and (c) restoration of the cost of 
living allowances to the figures at which they stood prior to the 
reduction in 1931. 

The increase in the cost of conveyance of mails outside Palestine, 
amounting to no less than 59 per cent., is attributable to (a) in- 
creased use of the air mails and (b) adjustment of accounts in respect 
of Palestine mails carried by other countries and for which part 
payment only was made in 1933 and 1934. 


4. Surplus.— The surplus of revenue over expenditure was 
£P.120,588 compared with £P.127,430 in 1934. It must, however, 
be borne in mind that, in 1934, no contribution was made to the 
Renewals Fund and that, in 1985, payment for the conveyance of 
mails included a considerable sum in respect of certain mails 
carried during 1933 and 1934. 


The value of the services rendered to other Government Depart- 
ments was £P.12,608. 


Posts. 


5. Mails.—With but few exceptions, the mail services were main- 
tained with regularity throughout the year. The principal excep- 
tions were due to unusually heavy rain-storms in February, causing 
interruptions in the railway services for several days. The road 
services to Trans-Jordan via Allenby Bridge were similarly inter- 
rupted, owing to the swollen condition of the River Jordan. 


6. Trans-Desert Mail_—On a number of occasions, during very 
bad weather, when the desert became totally or almost impassable, 
the overland mails were unavoidably delayed. Generally speaking, 


237 


however, this service was regularly and punctually maintained, no 
small credit being due to the drivers who undertake the long, 
arduous journey. 


1. Sea-borne mails to and from Palestine Ports.—Owing to rough 
seas rendering disembarkation at Jaffa impossible, mails arriving by 
the direct. Trieste-Brindisi-Palestine Service were on four occasions 
landed at Haifa. 


8. Air Matls.—The popularity of the air mail service was again 
demonstrated by a large increase in the weight conveyed. The total 
weight despatched from Palestine by air increased from 14,100 kilo- 
grammes in 1934 to 25,041 kilogrammes in 1935. The greater 
frequency now afforded by four mails weekly to Europe and by two 
mails weekly to ‘Iraq and India, coupled with the extensions to 
Australia and to certain parts of the African Continent, no doubt 
largely accounted for the increase. During the year, the air mail 
service with Egypt began to operate every week day, whilst, from 
the heginning of August to the middle of October, there was a 
weekly service in each direction with Cyprus. 


9. Registered and Insured Correspondence.—Extended use was 
made by the public of registration and insurance facilities and the 
amount of registered correspondence conveyed in the mails kept 
pace with the development of the mail services generally. Compensa- 
tion paid in respect of loss or damage amounted to £P.130, a sum 
which, in comparison with the total volume of matter dealt with, 
may be regarded as negligible. 


10. Parcel Mails.—The number of inland parcels and foreign 
parcels despatched showed only a moderate increase. Parcels 
recelved from abroad, however, increased by 14 per cent. 


ll. Returned Letter Office.—The Returned Letter Office dealt 
dealt with 627 ,081 items, of which 385,125 were returned to the 
senders. Of the items dealt with, 350,961 were letters and cards 
and 276,120 were other articles. 

The value of articles (exclusive of cheques) found in undeliverable 
Correspondence was £P.659, of which £P.179 could not be returned 
to the senders owing to the absence of an adequate address. 
heques and bills found amounted to £P.2,174 and of this sum 
£P.746 could not be returned to the senders for the same reason. 


12. New Post Offices.—During the year, new Post Offices were 
*pened at Karkur and Benei Beraq and an additional Branch 

ost Office was opened in Tel-Aviv. 

Postal Agencies were established at Ramatayim, Ramat Hasharon, 


rahe ah (Beit Alfa), Qiryat Hayim and Ahuzat Sir Herbert 
uel, 


; 13, Postage Stamp Vendors.—There were 200 licensed postage 
mae at the end of the year, an increase of 53 as compared 


238 
Telegraphs. 


14. Traffic._—The number of telegrams of all classes transmitted 
during the year was 508,332, an increase of 109,332 over the 
preceding year. 

The telegraph revenue, however, declined to £P.26,196, a 
decrease of £P.1,774, which was due entirely to the fall in sterling 
and to the necessity of settling accounts with the majority of other 
administrations on the basis of the gold franc. 


15. Telegrams in Hebrew Script.—On the 1st January telegrams 
written in Hebrew characters were accepted for inland transmission 
for the first time. The service was, of necessity, restricted to tele- 
graph offices situated in certain Jewish settlements, but the pos- 
sibility of extending it as and when opportunity offers is being 
carefully studied. The total number of telegrams in Hebrew 
characters dealt with during the year was approximately 6,700. 


Telephones. 


16. The demand for telephone service continued with increased 
intensity. 

The waiting lists of applicants, particularly at Tel-Aviv and 
Jerusalem, increase steadily, but with the bringing into use of relief 
exchanges at those two places, pending the installation of automatic 
exchanges already ordered, the situation will be greatly improved. 

During the year, despite the difficulties created by the lack of 
switchboard accommodation and of insufficient main and/or 
subsidiary cables in certain areas, 956 additional exchange lines 
and 2,138 subscribers’ stations were installed. At the end of the 
year there were still 1,641 applicants awaiting connection—mainly 
in the larger urban areas. In some cases a considerable period must 
still elapse before requirements can be wholly satisfied. 


17. Trunk Circuits.—The rapid increase in the number of sub- 
scribers was accompanied by a corresponding increase in the use 
of the trunk system and, at times, heavy delay was experienced. 
Several additional trunk circuits were erected during the year, but 
the poles on which the routes between the principal towns are 
carried cannot now accommodate any more wires. The provision 
of new trunk routes is essential and plans are in hand for con- 
necting Haifa, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv, and Jerusalem by underground 
cables. 


18. Revenue and Traffic—Telephone revenue increased from 
£P.119,359 in 1934 to £P.146,099. 

Local calls increased from 27,795,200 to 28,735,257 and trunk 
calls from 1,158,819 to 1,497,256. Of the trunk calls, 1,446,618 
were internal and 50,638 international. 


19. Extension of International Service.—Early in November, a 
trunk telephone service between Palestine and ‘Iraq was 


239 


inaugurated and has already proved in considerable demand. The 
facilities afforded by the service will, in due course, be extended 
to Egypt and other countries with which Palestine is in telephonic 
connection. 


20. New Exchanges.—A new exchange was opened at Karkur 
in March. 


41. Introduction of Continuous Service.—During the year con- 
tinuous service (except on Saturdays) was provided at Petah Tiqva 
and Rishon-le-Tsiyon exchanges, where previously attendance had 
been limited to the day-time. 


Engineering. 

22. General.—The telegraph and telephone lines were maintained 
in an efficient condition throughout the year. There was a serious 
interruption of certain trunk services on the 4th February due to 
acloud burst which carried away a large section of the Railway 
line. The latter in turn demolished nearly half a kilometre of the 
main telegraph and telephone route. Owing to the volume of 
flood water passing through the breach, communications were only 
re-established with great difficulty. 7 


The reconstruction of trunk routes and of the cable distribution 
systems of the three principal exchange areas, although somewhat 
delayed owing to unforeseen circumstances, was executed as quickly 
& possible. The large extent of trunk reconstruction work, com-- 
bined with the increased rate of installation of subscribers’ lines, 
threw a heavy burden on the skilled staff. 


To provide additional switchboard accommodation in Haifa and 
Jaffa, the capacity of the exchanges in those towns was increased 


from 2,000 to 2,400 lines by alterations to the framework of the 
sections, , 


23. Jerusalem.—The work of diverting the existing .cables and 
of laying new ducts to serve the Jerusalem automatic area was well 
advanced and will be completed by April, 1936. Many of the heavy 
overhead routes in Jerusalem have already been removed, greatly 
mproving the appearance of the streets. Trunk entry cables have 

en laid, in conjunction with the main cable scheme, and are 
already working, | 


24. International Circuits—A new Tiberias-Damascus trunk cir- 
cut was brought into service on the Ist January, 1935, and has 


provided relief for direct traffic between adjacent zones in the two 
mitories. | 


_ The construction of the Haifa-Baghdad trunk line was completed 
in April and a line repeater was installed in May in premises pro- 


Mded at “‘ H4’’ Pumping Station on the ‘Iraq Petroleum Com- 
Pany’s pipe line. It was not possible to open the line to the public 





240 


until a further line repeater had been installed by the ‘Iraq Adminis- 
tration at Haditha. The Haditha repeater was installed in October 
and transmission tests commenced early in November. The 
repeaters, which are of somewhat novel design, in that they are 
controlled from the terminal stations, have functioned very satis- 
factorily. The overall characteristics of the circuit are so good that 
when it was extended for test purposes to London the British 
authorities expressed willingness to accept radio traffic from 
Baghdad as soon as arrangements for the service were completed. 


25. Reconstruction of Routes.—Work on the rearrangement of 
overhead routes for the purpose of (a) obtaining fuller and better 
use of the existing copper wires by the provision of extra phantom 
channels, and (b) the elimination of overhearing and a general reduc- 
tion in noise level, has continued as rapidly as the arrival of the 
necessary stores would permit. This work has involved the removal 
of poles, the insertion of crosses and phantom transpositions, the 
changing of arms and, in some cases, the change of positions of as 
many as 18 wires on a single route. Bearing in mind the extent 
of these works, the interruption to trunk traffic during the recon- 
struction period was relatively small. Satisfactory results have 
been obtained on certain international trunk lines by the extended 
use of oil insulators. Telegraphic induction on telephone circuits 
was considerably reduced by the reconstruction work and the small 
amount of induction that remained was removed by the installation 
of special filters. 


26. Technical Education.—Owing to the extreme pressure on 
supervising staff due to the abnormal rate of development, the 
technical education and training of junior engineering personnel has 
not proceeded as rapidly as was hoped. However, considerably 
more work was done in this direction during 1935 than previously 
and technical classes were held in elementary mathematics, mag- 
netism, electricity, telegraphy and telephony in each Division. In 
general, the results were promising and it is hoped to increase the 
number of classes. | 


In addition to the classes conducted by departmental officers, a 
system of correspondence courses conducted by the International 
Correspondence Schools, in accordance with syllabuses provided by 
this Department, was arranged for groups of linemen and artisans. 
Owing to the amount of overtime which the men have been called 
upon to perform, the progress has not been rapid and thescheme is as 
yet too young to show definite results. A scheme for higher educa- 
tion ky means of engineering scholarships tenable at an English 
university was inaugurated during the year. 


27. Sinat Telegraph and Telephone Route.—The reconstruction 
of the route in Sinai, which was completed in 1934, has had very 
satisfactory results. There were only five faults during the year on 


241 


the Palestine-Egypt trunk circuits in the Sinai section. A small 


portion of the route at El Arish was reconstructed during the year, 
' ip accordance with the programme previously arranged. Creosoted 
- poles were substituted for the steel poles which showed rapid 
.. corrosion due to the close proximity of the route to the sea. 


Broadcasting. 


98. New Station and Studios, etc.—The erection at Ramallah of 
the building to accommodate the transmitting apparatus was com- 


“: pleted during the year. The installation of the 20 Kw. transmitter 
: and associated plant proceeded according to plan, enabling the trans- 
-. mnitter to be put under test on artificial load before the end of 
. December. The whole plant is expected to be handed over for 
. service early in 1936. 


Temporary studios have been equipped in Jerusalem. They are 


' somewhat restricted in size, but the adaptation affords the best 
_ arangement possible until the permanent studios in the new General 


Post Office are available. 


29. Programme Personnel.—The direction of programmes will be 


~ undertaken at the outset by the Programme Director of the Western 
: Regional Station of Great Britain, whose services the British Broad- 
»* @sting Corporation have kindly placed at the disposal of the 
Palestine Government. Sub-Directors for the Arabic and Jewish 


parts of the programme, and for Arabic and Jewish music are to be 


employed. 


30. Receiving Licences and Revenue.—The number of broadcast 


. Teelving licences more than doubled during the year, having 
- ltreased from 5,900 at the end of 1934 to 12,000 at the end of 1935. 


The revenue from the sale of licences, including dealers’ licences, 


. of which there were 340 at 31st December, 1935, was £P.6,158, 
: “mpared with £P.2,936 during 1934. With the opening of the 


frusalem station and the appearance on the market of much 
cheaper receiving sets the number of licensees may be expected to 


; crease at a greatly accelerated rate. 


al. Village Sets.—In connection with the establishment of a 
roadcasting service it has been decided experimentally to equip one 


' Mndred selected villages and settlements with loud-speaker receiv- 


: 8 sels. These sets will be placed in the villages as advantageously 


zt 


; Possible from the point of view of communal recreation, educa- 
on, dissemination of news, etc. 


a Outside broadcasts for other countries.—Six important broad- 
‘ts for other Administrations were arranged during the year. The 


tesults in al , 
2 : 's in all cases, except one, were excellent; the single failure 
cc bene due to adverse transmission conditions on the radio link 


tWeen Cairo and Rugby. 


242 
Revenue and Expenditure. 

















Value £P. 109,096 103,979 


i a eT 
* Service commenced on 1.12.34. 


| Public Service | Increase or Decrease 
] 
1934. | 1935 Increase | Decrease 
£P | £P £P. £P 
REVENUE. 
Sale of Stamps ae ... | 156,278 199,525 43,247 — 
Commission on Money Orders a 1,205 1,317 112 
Postal Order Poundage _... bas 997 1,237 240 = 
Foreign Parcel Post  ..._~—«.... |_—«:13,688 | 16,332 2,644 | ce 
Telegrams ... ee eee aa 27,970 26,196 — 1,774 
Telephones ... Se ... | 119,359 146,099 26,740 | 
Rent of Letter Boxes wi ee 4,019 4,754 735 | — 
Maintenance of Lines in Sinai... 3,964 2,986 — | 7 
Miscellaneous oh Jes *6,032 4,569 — | 1,463 
Broadcast Licence Fees ee ue — 6,158 — : — 
Total ... | 333,512 | 409,173 79,876 4,215 
EXPENDITURE. 
All services except Conveyance of 
Mails outside Palestine ... | 170,825 232,230 61,405 — 
Conveyance of Mails outside 
Palestine ae es ae 35,257 56,060 20,803 — 
Total se ... | 206,082 288,290 82,208 = 
* Includes £P.2,936 in respect of Broadcast Licence fees. 
Postal Order and Money Order Statistics. 
| | 
Increase 
a or 
1934. 1935. | Decrease 
| per cent. 
Postal Orders issued (Palestine) ... |Number 110,557 136,209 | + 2B. 
Value £P. 83,951 106,472 | + 27 
Postal Orders issued (Imperial) ... [Number 25,463 30,498 + 20 
Value £P. — 16,109 19,045 | + 18 
Postal Orders paid (Palestine) ... [Number 110,355 | 135,077 | + 2 
Value £P. 84,872 | 105,756 | + 2% 
Postal Orders paid (Imperial) —... [Number 6,858 8,564 | + 2 
Value £P. 3,961 4,961 + 25 
Postal Orders paid (Egyptian) ... [Number 6,189 6,008 | — 3 
Value £P. 5,498 5,343 — 8 
*Postal Orders paid (Trans-Jordan) |Number — 3,708 a 
Value £P. ——- 3,039 ae 
Money Orders, Inland, issued _—.... |Number 10,835 12,691 | + 1 
Value £P. 109,702 | 126,774 |; + 16 
Money Orders, Foreign, issued ... [Number 3,602 4,768 + 32 
ao Value £P. 14,942 | 21,959 | + 4 
Money Orders, Foreign, paid —_... [Number 33,943 56,657 ot 67 


243 








: _ Traffic Statistics. 

Increase 
Item. 1934. | 1935. | obese 
per cent. 

letters yy eee ne ae ... | 21,484,100 | 28,960,959 + 35 

~ PotCards ... 0. eee eee | 2,081,800 | 2,874,014 | + 38 
_ Printed Matter and Samples ae ... | 9,604,400 | 18,552,877 + 93 

_ Pareels Inland ee ca ae a 44,000 45,900 + 4 
. Ar Mail Despatched, Total Weight Kgs. 14,100 25,041 + 178 
Parcels, Foreign, Despatched ... —... 31,200 | 30,556 | — 2 
Parcels, Foreign, Received ae ax 112,100 127,742 + 14 
Cash on Delivery Parcels, Despatched... 29 27 — 6 

_ Gsh on Delivery Parcels, Received ae 2,800 2,903 -+ 4 

_ Gah on Delivery Parcels, Inland Posted 490 748 + 53 
J Telegrams eevee | 399,000 | 508,332 | + 27 
Telephone Subscribers’ Exchange Lines 4,773 5,829 | + 20 

” Telephones (Stations) is 8 _ 8,243 10,381 + 26 
—~ Telephone Local Calls dee sie ... | 27,795,200 | 28,735,257 + 8 
Telephone Trunk Calls 1,153,819 | 1,497,256 | + 30 





: SS SSS SSS 


aa 


— 


a 


th 


Estimated Value of Free Services rendered to other Govern- 
ment Departments during the period 1st January, 1935, to 
3lst December, 1935: 

Rendered to Other Departments : 
£P. 


Official Correspondence __... nts ... 8,493 
Customs Services (5 per cent. of £P.82,305) 4,115 





£P.12 608 


XXV._AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND FISHERIES. 


The 1935 season was a better one for the agricultural community 
an that of 1934, which followed three’ unhappy years of drought. 


Yields of cereals and legumes were generally considerably above 


_ Werage over the greater portion of the country. There were, how- 


a exceptions. On account of the failure of the late spring rains 
the eastern and south-eastern areas of the Jordan Valley, and 


' Owing to severe flooding of plain lands in Acre district during 


‘huary and February, poor yields were harvested. In Beersheba 
© crop showed excellent promise until towards the middle of 
arch, but a complete failure of the late spring rains ruined it in 
* astern and south-eastern regions to the extent of 50 per cent. 


va ae disappointing in some areas, much being 


244 


The water melon crops were satisfactory throughout the countr 
Citrus exports continued to show a steady increase. The olive cro 
on the other hand, was again generally poor in all districts, save 
the Acre and Safad Hills. 

The improved yields of the major crops in 1985 compared wi 
1933 and 1934 are reflected in the following table :— 


1933. 1934. 1935. 


Tons. Tons. Tons. 

Wheat oe vas or 44,400 82,000 103,000 
Barley Bae ved ae 34,000 68,000 68,000 
Melons ve ies eee 20,400 40,500 69,000 
Lentils au — a 1,500 2,250 2,600 
Dura a see ae 8,800 42,000 46,000 
Sesame el aie ee 214 2,600 6,900 
Olive Oil ... “ae oe 720 1,329 8,818 

1932-38. 1933-34. 1934-35. 

Cases. Cases. Cases. 

Citrus exports ois ... 4,498,241 5,526,097 7,330,846 


2. Mr. F. A. Stockdale, C.MG., C.B.E., the Agnicultur 
Adviser to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, made a tour 0 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan during March and April. Accompanie 
by members of the Government Departments, he saw all parts 0 
the country, examined all agricultural activities in progress, an 
discussed current problems with farmers and representatives 0 
agricultural institutions. 


3. In consequence of the increased crops, no extensive remission 
of tithes were necessary in 1935. But a cloudburst in the Nablu 
District in February caused damage to some 10,000 dunums 0 
winter crops and some 60,000 trees, including a fair percentage 0 
citrus and olives; the total loss being about £P.20,000. To alleviate 
the distress Government granted relief to the extent of some 
£P.5,000. 


4. Another cloudburst, in November, caused extensive damage 
and some loss of life in the Huleh area. Several kilometres of road 
were destroyed, and the late maize crops of two villages, which 
were on the threshing floors, were washed away. Relief measures 
were adopted and distribution of £P.2,300 was sanctioned, of which 
£P.600 was used on works of a reconstructive nature. 


5. At the approach of the winter sowing season the shortage o 
seed grain in the Beersheba sub-district made it necessary {ol 
Government to issue seed loans in kind to those cultivators whose 
winter crops had failed during the previous season. Some 6 
tons of seed wheat and 75 tons of seed barley were purchased 1 
the sub-district and so issued. 


6. Thanks to the mild weather and early rains, grazing ¥* 
abundant from late autumn onwards, and grasses were, in man} 
instances, higher than the sown crops. The lambing season W4 
satisfactory, and, throughout the summer, hillside grazing ¥* 


245 


plentiful. ‘Little or no loss from attacks of field mice was experi- 
enced by farmers, but Scythris temperatella (El doodeh) again 
made its appearance, especially in Nablus, Ramleh and Jerusalem 
sub-districts, and every effort was made by the staff of the Depart- 
ment to induce farmers to adopt a three-year rotation, and to plough 
their lands immediately after harvest as preventive measures. 


7. A new departmental Station was established on hilly land 
near Ain Arroub adjoining the main road from Jerusalem to 
Hebron. The total area is 300 dunums, of which 200 are being 
devoted to field crops and vegetables and 100 to horticulture. At 
the Jericho Station levelling of the agricultural section has been 
completed, so that the whole area of 88 dunums can now be put 
under irrigation. Some three quarters of a million vegetable seed- 
lings, and 58 kgs. of first class vegetables seeds, were distributed 
from all Stations, and pleasing reports on the results have been 
received from farmers. The crops from selected grain distributed 
from Agricultural Stations again gave appreciably higher yield than 
those ordinarily obtained by farmers using their own unselected 
seed, and as the winter of 1935-36 approached, heavy demands 
for grain were received. To meet these demands, 136 tons of 
wheat and 32 tons of barley, grown from seed originally distributed 
from Agricultural Stations, were purchased and issued on prepay- 
ment to farmers. Where farmers could not afford to pay in ad- 
vance, the seed was issued on loan for repayment in kind after 
the 1936 harvest. Instead of increasing the numbers of small 
demonstration plots, Government has established large seed farms, 
ranging from 100 to 500 dunums and totalling over 2,000 dunums 
in all in various parts of the country. 


8. Potato cultivation is still increasing satisfactorily under the 
protective Import Duty which applied during the main harvesting 
season from April to the middle of July, and in order to stimulate 
the cultivation still further the Department imported 250 tons of 
graded seed from the United Kingdom for sale to farmers on pre- 
payment, such seed having proved more satisfactory than seed from 
Cyprus. It is expected that the total yield of potatoes sown in 
the winter of 1935, plus the small sowing under irrigation, will 
be as much as were the total imports in 1929, namely 6,548 tons. 


Ba following table shows the noteworthy progress which has been 
made :— 


Potato area 

Year. under cultivation. Yreld, 

Dunums. Tons. 
1931 sie w. «2,44 821 
1932 sas we ©2329 1,108 
1933... ...  §,000 2,500 
1934 ite ... 6,234 3,000 
1935 aie ... 12,000 (estimated) 6,500 (estimated) 


9. Tomato cultivation has also made good progress as is shown 
by the following table. Given a reasonable measure of protection, 
34931 I 


246 


there is no reason why Palestine, with its wide range of climate 
should not produce all its requirements of tomatoes throughot 
the year. 


Year. Area. Production. 
Dunums. Tons. 
1931-32 ... oe “ie ed 22,865 7,978 
1932-33 ... ia ae sod 29,566 7,471 
1933-34 ... se ae ak 31,654 11,201 
1934-35 ... ae ae ae 30,092 14,535 


10. The production of forage crops is also becoming larger as ; 
result of departmental propaganda and instruction, and under th 
stimulus of good prices obtained by farmers from dairymen fo 
these crops. Farmers themselves have also noted how their ow! 
domestic and draught stock eat this forage readily and thrive wel 
on it. 


11. Experimental work to improve natural pasturage is bein: 
intensified; imported grasses from Australia have been sown on 
comparatively large areas; additional stretches of hillside grazing 
lands have been divided into sections for trials on a rotational 
grazing system and various types of drought-resistant shrubs and 
grasses have been imported from other countries for trial as well 
as seed of pasturage grasses for testing at Agricultural Stations. 


12. Efforts to promote the increased use of chemical fertilizers 
have met with success, sales by unporting companies showing a 
decided increase over last year. 


General Agricultural Council. 


13. The General Agricultural Council had a busy and fruitful 
year in 1935. It held eight meetings, at which problems of great 
importance to the agricultural community were examined. Many 
of its recommendations have been implemented by departmental 
action; others have been given legislative effect by Government: 
and a vast amount of useful data and information has been accumv- 
lated. Altogether there are 144 members on the Council and its 
Committees for Agricultural Economic and Marketing, Citrus 
Fruits, Agronomy, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Irrigation, 
Agricultural Education, Agricultural Chemistry, and Plant Pro- 
tection. 


14. The reports of all these Committees are reviewed at the 
regular meetings of the Council, but by far the most important and 
difficult work has been done through its Sub-Committees, which 
have devoted considerable time and many meetings to several vital 
questions, such as the Rural Property Tax, and the supply of 
organic manure. 


15. The Council’s recommendation that rules should be made 
requiring all imported eggs to be marked as such has been given 
effect, as a means to prevent competition with fresh PalestiniaD 


247 


egos and the lowering of their price. Further to stimulate the 
development of poultry production, a Sub-Committee has been 
taking evidence on the methods and costs with a view to obtaining 
material to support recommendations for increasing the import 
duty on imported poultry and eggs. The recommendation of the 
Council to abolish the duty on meat and fish meals for poultry 
loods was approved. 


16. The Council has also made recommendations with the object 
- of facilitating the construction of village roads. The proposal of 
~ the Agronomy Committee that large landowners should place some 
. of their lands at Government’s disposal for raising selected seed 
—isued from Government seed farms, has been put into effect. 
. This will help to increase the quantities of selected seed available 
lor distribution each year. 


I. The various and manifold problems of the citrus industry 
- teelve the constant attention of the Citrus Fruit Committee and 
: the Advertising Committee, while the problem of transport and 
~ marketing is being carefully studied by a Special Citrus Transporta- 
- ton and Marketing Committee. 


18. Useful legislation for the control of nurseries, designed to 
- Minimise the spread of disease and insect pests, and to ensure the 
- Propagation of healthy stock true to type, was enacted on the 
. advice of the Council. 


Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm. 


13. This school has completed its fifth year of instruction. The 
_ &lension wing donated by the High Commissioner was completed 
7 during the year, and provides accommodation for 30 boarders, 
0 that 70 students are now in residence. The course is for two 
_ feats and there are 30 students in each of the two classes. Ten 
~ Students of the second year class, who obtain the school diploma, 
~ 4e selected annually by the Department of Education for a further 
Year's training in pedagogy, and are afterwards appointed teachers 
ara schools, so that an agricultural bias can be given to the 
JHadus, 
During the year, the farm was increased by an additional area 
of 200 dunums, This new area will be devoted to main crops, so 
that more of the school farm can be put under irrigation for 
egetables and green crops. 
. The final examination for the second year class held in July 
| Nas satisfactory: only one student failed to obtain his diploma. 
; Special attention was given to the improvement of local poultry, 
and in order to upgrade native cattle, a local herd was acquired 
for the School. 
. _A special course of training was arranged in the Government 
z, , test Reserve at Ras Amr, where the students were instructed 
 'the making of terraces and in the planting of hill lands. The 
34981 I 2 





248 


cultivation of improved varieties of tomatoes was a special feature 
and their canning qualities have been tested. The preservation o! 
vegetables and fruits has been included in the syllabus, and 
gratifying results were obtained. 

The basic principle of the two year course is to teach the student 
practical agriculture in all its branches, so as to fit him to return 
to his farm and develop and improve it. 


Kadoorte Agricultural School, Mount Tabor. 


20. This School, which was opened in June, 1934, is now fully 
equipped. During the year poultry buildings were erected pro- 
viding for the raising of 500 laying hens annually. There is now 
an ample supply of water for the School and Farm. Three dwelling 
houses for the staff were erected from funds generously provided 
by Sir Elly Kadoorie. 

Special attention is given to mixed farming and the area of 
field crops now exceeds 700 dunums, while there are 80 dunums 
of forage crops under irrigation. For this purpose, an area of 100 
dunums of rocky land has been cleared and made suitable for 
cultivation with modern farm-machinery. 


The vegetable garden was extended during the year to 30 dunums, 
on which over 17 kinds of vegetables are being grown with satis- 
factory results. In addition, it was possible for the School to 
supply, from its vegetable nursery, thousands of seedlings to neigh- 
bouring settlements. The vegetable garden is managed on business 
lines : large quantities of vegetables are sent to the market for sale, 
and the School kitchen is supplied with home-grown vegetables 
throughout the year. The School has also made arrangements to 
supply over 60,000 strawberry plants to neighbouring applicants. 

Floriculture has also been successful. Flowers are sold on the 
Haifa market and the students are trained not only to cultivate 
flowers but to prepare and pack them for the market. 

The School raised over 14,000 trees for planting on its own lands 
and to extend the fruit and. citrus orchards. Surplus trees were 
distributed to neighbouring farms and villages. 

Instruction was continued in the preservation of vegetables, fruits 
and olives. Most of the produce was consumed by the School, the 
balance being sold. 

The average yield of the cows has been maintained at about 4,000 
litres per head per year ; and the butter fat content remains at about 
3-8 per cent., which is satisfactory. 

The local flock of sheep numbering 118 head has developed well; 
all the work in the sheep-shed as well as the pasturing of the flock 
is performed by the students. 

The full number of 50 students are now resident. In July, 26 
students passed their first examination and entered their second 
year of study. The new first-year students commenced their course 


249 


in September, 1935, and applicants were so numerous that for each 
available place there were four candidates. 

The state of health at the School is good on the whole. At the 
end of the summer of 1935 there were some cases of malaria, but 
prompt anti-malarial measures were adopted under the guidance of 
the Department of Health with satisfactory results. The students 
. keen on all kinds of sports, including football, swimming and 

xing. 

The students devote four hours to work on the farm and four 
hours to class-room studies daily. Their progress in practical train- 
ing and study is satisfactory, and there is every reason to believe 
that the majority will adopt farming as a career when they leave. 


Veterinary Service. 


21. The general condition of livestock throughout the year was 
good ; rainfall in the spring providing plenty of natural feed, so that 
there was no serious shortage of feeding-stuffs in summer or autumn. 
The early and plentiful rains which have fallen in most districts this 
winter have produced good growth of natural grasses and there is 
every reason to anticipate adequate grazing for livestock up to early 
summer in 1936. 


22. There was a very large increase in the number of animals 
imported for slaughter, especially through the Animal Quarantine 
Station at Haifa ; 466,000 animals (36,000 cattle and 430,000 sheep 
and goats) were imported, as compared with 327,000 (25,000 cattle 
and 302,000 sheep and goats) in 1934; 1,771,000 head of poultry 
were imported as compared with 732,000 in 1934—as well as 19,500 
horses, mules, donkeys and camels and 1,364 dairy cattle. Quaran- 
tine receipts totalled £P.22,684 as compared with £P.13,721 last 
year. Rules were published prescribing and regulating the importa- 
tion of horses, mules and donkeys from European countries ; poultry 
by sea and land routes from any country, and different classes of 
animals from Roumania, Greece, Austria, ‘Iraq, Poland and Juatvia. 


23. No outbreaks of serious epizootic cattle diseases occurred 
during the year. 


24. Further progress has been made in the control and eradica- 
tion of contagious bovine abortion in dairy herds. Highty-two herds 
are now regularly tested under the supervision of Veterinary Officers, 
an increase of 25 herds over last year’s number. Of these herds, 
61 are entirely free of bovine contagious abortion, while in the 
remaining herds the incidence of the disease is being gradually 
reduced. 


25. Tick-borne diseases continue to cause serious losses through 
mortality, disturbance of milk yields, emaciation and debility. Pro- 
gress is being made, however, in the erection of dipping baths and 
the regular dipping of livestock. Hight permanent sheep-dipping 
baths and nine cattle-dipping tanks were erected during the year, 
making a total of 13 sheep baths and 15 cattle tanks now in the 

34931 I 3 


250 


country. Mortality and cases of fever were considerably less among 
stock dipped in such baths and tanks. Dipping demonstrations 
were continued in 12 centres, where about 38,000 sheep and goats 
were successfully treated at intervals during the tick season. 


26. Two thousand nine hundred and sixty horses were tested for 
dourine infection. Seven stallions and 62 mares were found to be 
affected : the stallions were castrated, the mares were branded and 
their use for breeding purposes was prohibited. 


27. Forty-eight outbreaks of anthrax were reported, involving 
15,500 animals of which 665 died; the remainder were protected 
against the disease by vaccination. For some years the Veterinary 
Service has made efforts to induce owners of sheep and goats in 
Arab villages to allow Government to protect their flocks and herds 
against anthrax, by means of vaccination, on payment of ten mils 
to cover the cost of vaccine for each animal. This year, at last, 
most of the owners in Jerusalem District were persuaded to agree 
and 53,000 sheep and goats were vaccinated without accident or 
complication. No deaths due to anthrax have occurred during the 
year among the vaccinated animals. It is hoped that it will be 
possible in future years to extend protective vaccination of livestock 
in view of the encouraging results already obtained. Protective 
vaccination was practised on a larger scale than last year by owners 
of dairy herds in Jewish settlements on their own initiative with 
excellent results. 


28. Three cases of glanders and three of epizootic lymphangitis 
were detected; the affected animals were destroyed. 


29. A few sporadic outbreaks of sheep and goat pox occurred 
but the spread of the disease was prevented by suitable segregation 
measures. 


30. Rabies in animals continues to be prevalent ; 144 cases were 
reported, of which 39 were confirmed by the Government Central 
Laboratories. With the assistance of the Police and Local 
Authorities, 12,593 dogs and cats were destroyed in urban and rural 
areas; 584 suspected biting animals were placed under observa- 
tion and 14 of these developed rabies. 


31. There were no outbreaks of fowl plague but several out- 
breaks of the acute form of cell inclusion disease were reported. 
Fowl] pox is widespread but the disease has been kept under control 
in most of the larger poultry farms where protective vaccination 
against this disease has been regularly practised. Several out- 
breaks of fowl cholera occurred causing heavy losses in a number 
of villages; outbreaks were controlled by the use of anti-sera. 
Spirachaetosis continues to cause serious losses. The experiments 
in immunizing poultry against this pest are being continued. A 
few outbreaks of fowl typhoid occurred and were combated by 
inoculation. 


251 


382. The Veterinary Laboratory was mainly engaged in conduct- 
ing tests for bovine contagious abortion and dourine; 32,000 
agtlutination tests and 6,400 complement fixation tests were made ; 
6,400 other specimens were received for microscopical and other 
examinations ; 147,000 doses of various vaccines and anti-sera were 
prepared. Research work on Enterotoxaemia (pulpy kidney 
disease) of sheep and other diseases was continued. 


33. The establishment of breeding stock at Acre Stock Farm 
was increased by one Arab mare, one Arab colt foal, three Cyprian 
jackasses, one Cyprian donkey mare, one Cyprian jack foal, two 
Guernsey bulls, one Kerry bull, seven Karakul ewes, 11 Damascus 
male goats, four Syrian male goats, one white Yorkshire boar and 
one sow. In addition, there were bred on the farm, one Arab filly 
foal, four jack foals, 10 Lebanese bulls and nine heifer calves, 
77 rams and 73 ewe lambs, 77 male and 68 female kids, and 40 pigs. 


34. The cereal and hay crops of the Farm were satisfactory, 
35 tons of cereals, 60 tons of hay and 60 tons of straw being 
harvested. An abundance of green forage was available throughout 
the summer. 


35. Breeding animals sold during the year realised £P.133, and 
included two bulls, one bull calf, 37 young pigs, 11 rams, two ram 
lambs, 15 Syrian male goats, 39 female goats, five kids, seven ewes 
and three ewe-lambs. 


36. Twelve jackasses were distmbuted in different areas during 
the breeding season, and covered some 400 donkeys and Arab mares. 
Fifty-three Arab mares were covered by the Arab and West 
Highland pony stallions. 


37. Forty-two Government bulls were lent to various villages and 
served about a thousand cows. In addition, 48 village bulls were 
selected and their owners were granted premiums to allow these 
bulls to serve all cows in the respective villages, while all scrub 
bulls in those villages were emasculated. 


38. Sixteen Damascus male goats were lent to villagers for 


crossing with the local breed of goats, and the resulting progeny 
show a marked improvement. 


39. The castration of village male stock was continued, and 770 
bulls and bull calves, 365 rams and male goats, and 1,100 equines 
were treated in the year. 


40. Beekeeping is very popular and the industry is developing 
rapidly. There are at present 19,000 populated modern hives. 
Modern hives are to be found throughout the country, in the 
remotest villages. The honey crop in the orange plantation areas 
was good but in the hills and plains it was below normal owing to 
a hot spell of weather which withered most of the honey plants just 
before the honey flow. 


34931 — I 4 


252 
41. Although the poultry industry expands steadily, the produc- 
tion of eggs and table fowls is still insufficient to meet the increasing 
consumption. The shortage is met by imports, which in 1930 
amounted approximately to 80 million eggs and two million hve 
fowls with a total value of £P.500,000. 


42. Both modern and primitive farmers show keen interest in 
poultry raising and are anxious to extend their flocks provided they 
are protected against the cheap imports. A special Sub-Committee 
of the General Agricultural Council was appointed to examine the 
situation and will shortly submit recommendations as to raising 
the import duty on eggs and live poultry. 


43. Production during the year was normal. Hatcheries equipped 
with incubators of 20,000 egg capacity and upwards were estab- 
lished in various places. The demand for day-old chicks, breeding 
pullets and cockerels was very high. Prices for fresh eggs were 
normal but those for table fowls declined considerably owing to 
large imports. 


44. Government poultry stations and apiaries were extended and 
fully equipped, and distributed to farmers during the year 50,000 
hatching eggs, 5,000 day-old and six weeks old chicks, 2,000 
cockerels, 500 pullets, 500 broody hens and 500 bee swarms. 


45. Two Veterinary Officers with special knowledge of poultry 
diseases were appointed to assist and advise poultry farmers as to 
the measures to ke taken to reduce mortality from various diseases. 


46. Four Poultry and Bee Instructors are engaged in giving Arab 
farmers advice and instruction. Their services are much sought 
after and provision has been made to increase their number to seven 
next year. ‘Temporary Inspectors are also employed during certain 
months to combat the Foul Brood disease of bees. 


47. Short courses of practical instruction in beekeeping for begin- 
ners were held at the Acre Farm and attended by 60 students, most 
of whom have now established apiaries. Four courses of practical 
instruction in poultry and beekeeping were also held during the 
year, each lasting three months, and were attended by 30 students. 


48. One thousand three hundred bee-hives, together with equip- 
ment, were distributed on the hire-purchase system to bee-keepers 
in possession of the native type to encourage them to adopt the mov- 
able frame hive system of beekeeping which is more remunerative 
and to assist them in extending their small apiaries. 

49. One hundred and eighty-five tons of sugar were purchased by 
the Department and sold to bee-keepers free of import duty, owing 
to the partial failure of the honey crop in the hilly and plain areas, 
to enable them to feed their bees throughout the winter months. 


Forest Service. 


50. Approximately one and a-half million plants including forest 
and ornamental species, were raised at 14 official nurseries. About 


253 

~ 1,100,000 were planted in Government plantations at 31 localities in 
" diferent parts of the country. One hundred and eighty thousand 
‘plants were issued free of charge to villages, settlements, institu- 
- tions and individuals. In nine forest reserves, 3,800 kilos of Pinus 
pinea seed were sown in situ. The total area of State plantations at 
the end of the 1934-35 rainy season was 4,047 acres. Afforestation 
by private agency has also made progress, particularly in Jewish 
" settlements, 100 small plantations and woodlots covering 534 acres 
_ having been planted during the year. 


dl. Six new forest reserves were proclaimed, bringing the total 
number to 240 with an aggregate area of 173,513 acres ; 172 of these 
_ Teserves have been demarcated and mapped. The effects of reserva- 
tion and protection are becoming increasingly noticeable in the 
- growth of natural forest in the reserves. 


o2. The reclamation of sand dunes was continued at Gaza and 
Acre with promising results. 


53. Seeds of 220 exotic species of timber and ornamental plants 
were obtained for trial from abroad by purchase or exchange. 


4. Forest revenues totalled £P.4,630; and the estimated value 
of forest produce extracted from forest reserves by right-holders for 
their domestic needs was £P.2,388, while the value of forest produce 
extracted from reserves under trade licences for sale was £P.2,690. 
The estimated value of forest produce sold from privately-owned 
plantations and woods was £P.41,863. 


03. Eighteen thousand one hundred and _ thirty-eight forest 
licences were issued by District Officers including 2,789 to 
nght-holders. Sixty-eight thousand three hundred and fifty-eight 
animals were licensed to graze in forest reserves. Of these, 62,972 
belonged to right-holders. Estimated at 100 mils per head per 
‘num, the value of forest grazing was £P.6,835. One thousand 
nine hundred and fifty-three persons were convicted of forest 
contraventions. 


06. Olives planted by the public numbered 162,261, of which 
‘,148 were wild olive suckers extracted from forest reserves under 
licences and 144,513 were obtained from privately-owned groves or 
hurserieg. Twenty-five thousand wild olive suckers were extracted 
from forest reserves and planted at horticultural stations for budding 
and issue to cultivators. 


OT. Demonstration carob plots varying in area from 4 to 1d 
‘hums were established at nine places ; and 12,000 wild carob trees 
ae kudded in ten forest reserves with Cyprus and local budwood. 

€ stock of carob plants at nurseries was increased during the year 
'0 80,000. 
es Imports of forest produce, including manufactures, amounted 
 Yalue to £P.1,327,579 and exports to £P.16,779. 


254 


Horticultural service. 


59. Citrus exports for the season ending April, 1935, amounted 
to 7,331,000 boxes as compared with 5,526,000 boxes in the pre- 
vious season. The United Kingdom was the most unportant 
market, absorbing 5,270,000 boxes, an increase of 1,765,000 over 
1933-34. Shipments to the continent numbered 1,999,000 boxes— 
about the same figure as for the previous season. There was some 
change, however, in the destinations, shipments to Germany show- 
ing a reduction of 60 per cent. and those to Belgium, France, 
Czechoslovakia, Switzerland, and Poland showing substantial 
increases. 


60. Oranges accounted for 89 per cent. of all citrus exported. 
Exports of grapefruit increased from 318,000 boxes in 1933-34 to 
677,000 boxes in 1934-35. Most of the grapefruit was exported 
to the United Kingdom. On the average, both oranges and grape- 
fruit realized lower prices than in the previous season. 


61. The area under vines increased from 94,000 dunums in 1934 
to 117,000 dunums in 1935. The total production of grapes in 
1935 was estimated at 35,100 tons. Local wholesale prices ranged 
from £P.9-15 per ton. 


62. The olive crop was smaller than for the previous year in 
the south but about normal in the north. Much damage was 
caused to the early ripening varieties by olive fruit fly. Investi- 
gations continue to be made by the Government Analyst into the 
cause of the high acidity of the olive oil. Over 300 olive combs 
were distributed by the Department to demonstrate better niethods 
of picking the crop. 


63. Amendents were made to the Regulations under the Citrus 
Fruit Export Ordinance, whereby citrus fruits exported to Syria, 
Trans-Jordan, and Lebanon are not subject to fruit inspection. 
Exports of fruit to all other countries must be inspected. 


64. The programmes for citrus advertising were considerably ex- 
panded, and the extra cost was met by increasing the advertising 
fee from two to three mils per case of fruit exported. The Director 
of Agriculture administers the Advertising Fund on the advice of 
a Committee consisting of four members nominated by the Citrus 
Fruit Committee of the General Agricultural Council and two 
official members. An advertising campaign is now in progress in 
the United Kingdom, on the Continent of Europe, and in India, 
Ceylon, and Canada. 


65. A comprehensive economic survey of the citrus groves in 
the Acre District was commenced in September, 1935. The method 
employed is to ascertain from the owner or tenant, with the help 
of a printed questionnaire, details of tenure, costs, methods of 
cultivation, and yields. The trees are tabulated according to their 
state of bearing, productivity, and condition. 


255 


66. New regulations under the Plant Protection Ordinance were 
enacted to control plant nurseries. The object is to ensure that 
plants distributed from private nurseries shall be true to name 
and type, and free of pests and diseases. It is hoped that this 
control will stimulate and improve plant production. One hundred 
and four of these nurseries were inspected, of which 66 were 
fit to be registered and licensed for the distribution of plants to 
the public. 


67. At Government Plant Nurseries, which are maintained at 
Horticultural Stations, 114,000 budded fruit trees and 176,000 
grafted vines were raised. ‘Thirty-eight thousand of these fruit 
trees are large enough to permit of their distribution during the 
winter of 1935-36 at reasonable prices. 


68. There are now ten stations at which experimental and demon- 
stration work is conducted in connection with citrus, stone fruits, 
huts, bananas, olives, carobs, grapes, and other sub-tropical fruits. 
There are also twenty-four demonstration plots of vines, deciduous 
fruit trees, dates and olives. At the new Agricultural and Horti- 
cultural Station at Ain Arroub (near Hebron) 100 dunums are 
being prepared for horticultural work. The main problem at this 
station will be the study of indigenous, acclimatized, and introduced 
stocks for stone fruits, in relation to the Capnodis disease. Par- 
ticular prominence will be given to the local almond as a stock. 


69. The horticultural section at the Central Farm at Acre was 
extended by 30 dunums to provide further space for the nursery. 
A form of rotation can thus be practised, so that the same area 
will not have to carry nursery trees year after year. 


10. At Dura village school, a plot of 10 dunums was planted 
with fruit trees from Government nurseries under supervision of 
the Horticultural Service. 


Sericulture. 


Tl. Selected varieties of silkworms were reared in various parts 
of the country, and 20,000 mulberry seedings were distributed free 
of charge to farmers, institutions and schools. The small 
quantities of cocoons obtained by private rearers and schools were 
of excellent quality. In future, work on the development of seri- 
culture will be concentrated in a few villages and settlements with 
4 view to ascertaining whether it is possible to obtain practical 
and profitable returns from this branch. 


Entomological Service. 


(2, Unfortunately, the past year has been very favourable for the 
Spread of insect pests of citrus and other fruit trees, and cucurbi- 
taceoug plants and vegetables. ‘The Mediterranean fruit fly has 
shown a@ notable increase and melons were badly attacked by 


256 


Mytopardalis pardalina, the last bad outbreak of this insect being 
in 1919. 

An awakening interest is being displayed in pest control by 
farmers, and the extension work of the Entomological Service has 
been welcomed by all sections of the community. Special attention 
is given to rural schools, where demonstrations of pest control can 
be arranged not only for the children but for their parents with the 
assistance of the village schoolmaster. A Plant Inspector is now 
stationed at Jerusalem for extension work and education in pest 
control among the fruit growers in the hill area. 


73. There has been a considerable increase of spraying and 
fumigation under private arrangements between growers and spray- 
ing companies and it was only necessary for Government to enforce 
fumigation in the Acre area. Of the total number of citrus trees 
fumigated, two-thirds were treated by private enterprise, which 
represents a notable advance in the growth of the spirit of self-help. 


74. A Field Laboratory was established at Tiberias serving the 
upper Jordan Valley cultivation, and a similar one is being opened 
at Sarafand for the Southern areas. 


Fisheries. 


75. After an exhaustive investigation into the fisheries of Pales- 
tine by Mr. J. Hornell, F.L.S., F.R.A.I., it was decided to re- 
introduce a Fisheries Service in Palestine. A new Chief Fisheries 
Officer will be appointed and among his primary functions will be 
the better economic organisation of the fishermen. In addition to 
essential biological investigations, efforts will be made not only to 
improve the marketing of fish so as to obtain better monetary 
returns for the fishermen by eliminating the middleman wherever 
possible, but also to ensure a more regular supply of fish to the 
consumer at reasonatle prices. 

Fisheries Officers have been active in suppressing illegal methods 
of fishing, in which work the police have shown an excellent spirit 
of co-operation. The provision of a patrol launch on Lake Tiberias 
is proving of great assistance in preventing the use of bombs, poison, 
and other illicit devices for catching fish. 


Meteorological Service. 


76. Ten official Meteorological Stations are maintained where 
readings of air pressure, temperature, humidity, vapour pressure, 
wind velocity and rainfall are recorded by observers. 

The records are scrutinized by the Meteorological Service, Cairo, 
and meteorological summaries are published by the Department 
annually. In addition, rainfall records are obtained from 60 non- 
official stations and monthly statements of rainfall are compiled in 
the Headquarters of the Department of Agriculture and Forests, 
showing comparisons with the averages of previous years for periods 


257 


ranging from one year up to 88 years. These statements, together 
with the monthly weather reports, are published and distributed to 
institutions and individuals interested. 


The rainfall at official meteorological stations up to the 31st 
December, 1935, as compared with the same period last year, is 
shown below :— 


1st June, 1935, to 1st June, 1934, to 
Station. 31st December, 1935. 31st December, 1934. 


Millimetres. Millimetres. 
Acre ... ne 322-0 404-0 
Haifa ... 278-9 261-1 
Jenin ... 114-1 199-1 
Tel Aviv 458°9 345°5 
Jerusalem 83-6 139-2 
Jericho 36°5 64-0 
Gaza ... 131-0 183°5 
Beersheba 58-0 120-0 
Beisan... 91-5 147-8 


Less rain fell in Jerusalem, Jenin, Beersheba and Beisan than 
_ last year, and further rains are not only eagerly awaited but are 
badly needed in these areas. 


XXVI.—_ PUBLIC WORKS AND GEOLOGY. 


Public Works. 


The total expenditure by the Public Works Department was 
approximately £P.1,050,000, compared with £P.808,000 in 1934, 
4nd again included disbursements (about £P.233,600) on schemes 
which form part of the programme of works provided for in the 
proposed new Government Loan of £P.2 million. 


2. Recurrent and maintenance services were carried out satis- 
lactorily. The expenditure on maintaining roads and bridges was 
£P.140,000; this does not include maintenance of sections of arterial 
roads situated within municipal areas of which the cost is borne 
jointly by Government and the municipalities. 


3. The Palestine Archaeological Museum, Jerusalem, under con- 
struction since 1931, was completed and occupied, as were the 
Government Arab College and Press. 


The Palestinian section of the Police Training School on Mount 
copus was also finished, and construction of the General Post 
Office at Jerusalem was substantially advanced. 


Much progress was made, too, with the provision of new town 
schools. In Jerusalem an elementary school for boys is nearly 
_ Teady and a girls’ central school far forward. Contracts had been 
Placed by the end of the year for three schools in Jaffa and a site 
vas acquired for a school in Haifa. 


Building of the Government Trade School near Haifa was begun 
and a project prepared for a telephone exchange at Tel Aviv. 


258 


In addition, a contract was let for the construction of marriec 
quarters for the Palestinian constables in Jerusalem and tender: 
invited for the Chief Secretary’s residence. Police Posts were built 
at Rosh Pinna, Tel Mond and the Dead Sea, at Jisr Banat Yagqut 
and Meiron, and one is almost completed at Nahalal. 


Three pavilions were built at the Mount Tabor Agricultura 
School as staff quarters, from a donation by Sir Elly Kadoorie of 
Hong Kong. 

Other works carried out by the Department comprise a Broadcast- 
ing Station near Ramallah, a Post Office and staff quarters at 
Beisan, a Customs Post at Jisr Damieh, additional buildings at the 
Ramle and Gaza schools and quarters for Immigration Officers at 
Ras en Naqura. 


Apart from these works, many additions, improvements, struc- 
tural alterations and special repairs to police buildings, schools, 
hospitals, quarantine stations, agricultural stations, Customs posts 
and offices were undertaken; water and electricity were installed 
in various premises, Government property was fenced and State 
Domain buildings were reconditioned. 


The Department assisted villagers and other local bodies in the 
construction of small schools from funds subscribed locally and from 
Government grants controlled by the Department of Education. 


Mention should be made of the conservation of the Walls of 
Jerusalem and of an ancient cistern at Anazi, near Ramle, and of 
the protection of mosaics at Beisan. 


4. A programme has been drawn up of major buildings to be 
erected during the next few years and the architectural branch of 
the Public Works Department has been largely engaged on the 
design of buildings in this programme, comprising Central Govern- 
ment Offices at Jerusalem, Law Courts at Jaffa, buildings for Lydda 
Airport, Bethlehem Mental Hospital, Ramle and Haifa hospitals. 
In several cases sites have already been chosen and acquired. 


5. The total length of all-weather main roads in Palestine was 
increased during the year by about 150 kilometres. Special atten- 
tion is being paid to road communications in the citrus belt, more 
particularly by way of providing feeder roads to the Railway. 

Extensive work of new construction or improvement was done on 
the following roads :— 

By-pass from Tel Aviv to the Jerusalem-Jaffa road. 

Hedera railway station to Karkur and Pardess Hanna. _ 

Hertzlia through the Hasharon settlements to the main 
Railway. 

Jenin-Megiddo-El Harithiya road. 

Shafa ‘Amr to the Haifa-Acre road. 

Rehovot-Gaza road. 

Ras el Ain railway station to Petah Tiqva. 


259 


Continuation of the North Road to Tel Mond. 
Widening of Beit Dajan-Rishon le Tsiyon road. 
Culverts on Affula-Beisan road. 

Yibna to the Railway. 

Tulkarm-Nathanya road. 

Gaza-Beersheba, road. 

Samakh-Jisr el Majami road. 
Nablus-Jiftlik-Jisr Damiya road. 
Salama-Wilhelma-lit Tira road. 

Latrun-Beit Sira-Ramallah road. 

El Humeima-Tarshiha road. 

Road to Gaza Port. 

Lydda Air Port to Jaffa-Wilhelma road. 
Lydda to the new Aerodrome road. 


In Jaffa, in connection with the general scheme of improvements 
to the Port and provision of better access to the Port Area, an 
approach road was provided from the north and considerable pro- 
gress was made on the construction of a southern approach. 


Arrangements have been made to transfer the existing Allenty 
Bridge over the Jordan near Jericho to Jisr Damiya further north 
on the river, where it-is needed to improve communications between 
Nablus and Trans-Jordan. It will be replaced by a steel structure. 


A jail labour company, hitherto employed on the Jenin-Megiddo- 
Haifa road, was shifted to Et Tira, south of Haifa, where it will 
work on a northern section of the Jaffa-Haifa trunk. 


Government shared in the cost of widening arterial roads in 
Jerusalem and Haifa, the actual work being executed by the 
municipal eagineers. 


Roads and protective works at Tulkarm to make good flood 
damages and prevent their recurrence were completed. 


6. Construction was begun of a permanent airport near Lydda, 
north-east of Jaffa. Work has progressed steadily on the lay-out 
of runways and steel hangars have been ordered. Work was also 
started at the end of the year on a second airport in the Kishon 
Valley near Haifa. 


7. Development of the Reclaimed Area at Haifa Harbour was 
carried a step further by provision of roads, parking places for 
vehicles, a drainage scheme and a water supply for building 
purposes. 


8. Satisfactory progress is maintained in schemes for improving 
Permanent village water supplies, financed from the provision of 
£P.45 ,000 under the proposed new £P. two million loan. This 
fund is used exclusively for the development of known sources and 
in connection with water for domestic purposes. At the end of 
tne year about 150 such schemes were in progress or had been 
completed, with great and lasting benefit to the villagers. 


260 


The Hebron water supply was practically completed by the end 
of 1935. 


Water from the Ras el Ain source for the Jerusalem Water Supply 
reached the capital at the end of the year and regular delivery has 
begun at the rate of about half a million gallons: auxiliary works 
remain to be carried out before the scheme can be operated to its 
full capacity. 

The Department undertook the installation of water supply 
schemes for Tulkarm and Beisan with funds made available by the 
Municipalities; work at Beisan was nearing completion at the 
end of the year and good progress has been achieved at Tulkarm. 


Further boring operations were undertaken in the neighbourhood 
of Haifa with the Government drilling plant to discover an adequate 
supply of water for the town. 


The three Government deep-drilling rigs have been in operation 
throughout the year and a further rig has been ordered. Two 
bores started in 1934 and three new bores were completed, and 
two are still being made. Water was found in each case. The 
following are detailed reports :— 


Rig No. 1.—The bore hole at Nahalal was completed and a 
supply of water was obtained sufficient for irrigation purposes, 
viz., 60 M3 per hour. The rig was thén moved to Ramat 
David also on the Plain of Jezreel, where only basalt and 
clay beds were encountered, which gave a very poor supply. 


Rig No. 2.—The bore hole at Wadi Fellah in connection 
with the Haifa water supply was completed. Water was found 
in an extremely porous rock which indicates an underground 
stream. To determine whether any nearer site could be 
found, the rig was moved to Wadi Missiliya three kilometres 
to the north, but the water obtained was too saline for domestic 
purposes and a second bore is now being put down in the 
Wadi Fellah. 


Rig No. 3.—The bore hole at Beid Qad, four kilometres east 
of Jenin, was completed and a large supply of water was struck. 
The depth of the water from the surface is 291 ft. and, while 
it is good for domestic purposes it is rather too deep for irriga- 
tion cultivation. The rig has now been moved to Sundella 
which is on the north side of a connected structure where water 
is expected at a much shallower depth. 


In the Plain of Jezreel a deep bore was sunk by private agency 
at the Jewish settlement of Kfar Yehoshua to 300 metres, where 
hard basalt interbedded with clay and gravel gave only a poor 
supply. A bore at Affula in similar strata to a depth of 320 metres 
also proved unsatisfactory. Two deep bores put down by the 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association on the coastal plain at 
Pardess Hanna to a depth of approximately 500 metres entered 
the older Turonian-Cenomanian rocks but gave very little water. 


261 


The general results of boring for water seem to indicate that 
the type of strata underlying the clay formation has no water- 
holding capacity: the depth of the older rocks (Cretaceous) is too 
great to allow of seeking water in this formation, nor is it known 


whether at this depth water in quantity and good quality can be 
found. 


A bore hole was sunk at Faluja in the Gaza district to a depth 
of 200 metres in chalks and marls similar to those occurring in 
the Shephela and gave very little water, which confirms the view 
already taken that prospects of water are unpromising where the 
land is underlain with this series of rocks. 


9. Work on the Jerusalem main drainage was delayed by 
unusually heavy breakages in shipments of stoneware pipes. This 
work will be executed by the enginéering section of the Municipality 
under the control of the Public Works Department. 


The detailed scheme for the drainage of Haifa was elaborated 
and is now being examined by Consulting Engineers, and a 
drainage scheme for Gaza has been put in hand. 


10. Over and above the services already recorded, a number of 
minor works for villages, mostly improvements to roads and water 
supplies, were carried out by the Public Works Department from 
funds controlled by District Commissioners. In 1935-36 these funds 
amounted to £P.10,000. 


11. Irrigation channels and other works, forming part of the 
irrigation system of the Government (Resettlement) Kstate at Tell 
Esh Shauk, were carried out and a distribution system for the 
camp water supply was installed and roads were constructed for the 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force at Beisan. 


12. There has been a further large increase in the total number 
of vehicles licensed. The number (including motor cycles) at the 
end of the year was 11,874 or nearly double the figure of 1933. 


This increase, by swelling traffic, added considerably to expendi- 
ture on the maintenance of roads. For this reason, and on account 
of the gradual introduction of heavier and larger vehicles, a number 
of roads proved to be too narrow and special attention was given to 
widening. An amendment to the Width and Alignment of Roads 
Ordinance, enabling the maximum reservation for the width of 
roads to be increased from 20 to 30 metres, was consequently enacted 
and practical plans affecting certain roads are now under 
examination. 


Weighbridges were installed at Mount Scopus, Jerusalem, and at 
Sarona near Jaffa, to check contraventions of road transport Regula- 


262 


tions ; and the system will be extended year by year over the whole 
network of permanent communications. 


13. Under the Steam Boilers Ordinance, 1927, 38 boilers and two 
prime movers were examined and licensed by officers of the Depart- 
ment and many applications were handled for the establishment of 
oil depots, under the Petroleum Regulations. 


14. The increased activities of the Public Works Department 
have necessitated the acquisition of additional road and building 
plant : the fleet of road rollers was increased from 41 to 61 and that 
of freight vehicles was also appreciably enlarged. 


15. The following matters were dealt with by the Road Board :— 
Draft Rural Roads Ordinance. 
Maintenance of arterial road, Beersheba. 
Construction of roads in citricultural areas. 
Responsibility for the maintenance of roads built wholly or 

partly from private funds. 

Widening of the Jaffa-Petah Tiqva road. | 
Construction of by-pass roads to avoid traffic accidents. 


Amendment to the Width and Alignment of Roads Ordinance 
to provide increased reservation for widening of roads and 
declaration of 30-metre roads thereunder. 


Additions to the net work of roads maintained by Government. 

Revision of rates of contribution by Government and 
Municipalities for the maintenance of arterial roads in towns. 

Proposals for programme of road works to be carried out in 
1936-37. ° 

Construction of the Jaffa-Haifa road. 


Geology. 


16. Field work was concentrated on mapping the area of Palestine 
north of a line east-west through Jenin. It now becomes possible 
for Government to impress the geological data on sectional sheets 
as published by the Survey Department. 


A rapid geological reconnaissance of southern and south-eastern 
Trans-Jordan was prepared on a scale of 1/600,000, a copy being 
supplied to the Bureau D’ Etudes Géologiques et Miniéres Coloniales 
de France for reproduction in its geological map of Africa on a scale 
of 1/5,000,000. 


The geologists of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company completed a 
survey of the Gaza district and submitted a geological map and 


263 


additional reports. Important structures shown by the strata at the 
surface have been proved in depth by a torsion balance survey 
carried out by a French geophysical company. The ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company’s geologists have continued work further north. 


Quarries.—The numbers of licences issued during the year are :— 


Stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) ... 238 
Sand (including zifzif) and clay... ... 429 
Gypsum sis 2 ae de a 2 


Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate. 


17. A Second Parceilation Town Planning Scheme was drawn up 
for that part of the estate abutting on Kingsway and Harbour Street 
to the east of Jubilee Gate providing sites for shops, offices, bank 
and residential flats. The scheme provided for 51 plots, with a 
total area of about 22,400 square metres, three of which were set 
aside for the Railway Station, General Post Office and a Police 
Station. 


18. To obtain a uniform facade for the shop and office buildings, 
fronting on the north side of Kingsway, a consulting architect was 
engaged to prepare a design for the elevation to which lessees would 
be required to adhere. 


19. Forty-seven plots with a total area of about 19 dunums were 
offered for lease by auction. 


The lease offered was for a term of 75 years, buildings reverting 
to Government on the determination of the lease. It provided 
for the payment of rent from 1st July, 1936, thus allowing a year 
free of rent during which lessees could prepare and submit their 
plans. 


20. The accepted bids totalled £P.22,674 per annum or an 
average of about £P.1,445 mils per square metre. The total rent 
roll of the leased portion of the Estate now amounts to £P.30,620 
and the rents collected during the calendar year totalled £P.7,446. 


Fifteen of the warehouse plots have been built on already and 
building operations have begun on three of the shop and office 
sites. 


21. The sewerage and drainage systems for the warehouse and 
shop and office zones were completed and a temporary supply of 
water for building purposes was provided. 


22. The lighting of Kingsway is in hand. 


264 


¥3, An area at the east end of the Estate was set aside for 
lease to the Municipal Corporation as a vegetable and milk market - 


Jaffa Port Improvements. 


24. The foundations of the breakwater and sea wall were com- 
pleted, and the blockwork to the crest and the crest itself 
substantially advanced. 


The new quays were brought into use, together with the electric 
derricks; dredging of the sheltered area continued and lighter 
moorings were laid. 


The South Transit Shed was practically ready by the end of the 
year, while the North shed has been in regular use throughout the 
year. Construction of access roads, with suitable surface water 
drainage, has been in progress for several months and sewers have 
been installed to provide for the requirements of the new works. 
New gates, with weighbridges and Police boxes, were erected at 
the north end of the Port. 


25. The development of the maritime trade of Jaffa continues 
to be so rapid that the High Commissioner came to the conclusion 
that it was desirable to make provision at once for carrying out 
certain additions to the Jaffa Port Improvement Scheme, as hitherto 
approved, which it had been intended to leave for some future date. 
The results will be (a) that the whole area within the breakwater 
will be dredged instead of only a part, and that Government 
moorings for lighters will be laid down in the harbour basin; 
and (b) that additional land will be reclaimed and additional customs 
sheds erected. 


Haifa Harbour Development. 


26. During 1935 good progress was made on construction of the 
Oil Dock, and by the end of the year the roundhead of the West 
Jetty was reached and most of the réinforced concrete piling 
completed. 


Substantial progress was also made with the East Jetty. 


With the exception of fencing, still to be carried out, works 
in connection with the East Reclaimed Area of over 20 acres 
were practically completed, including the roadway immediately 
adjacent to the stone rubble dyke. 


Two new transit sheds, with a total concrete floor area of 
3,340 M?, were completed and handed over to the Port Authorities 
in February and November, respectively. 


265 
XXVII.— RAILWAYS. 
The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated Lines 
is divided as follows :— 


(a) In Palestine. 


Standard gauge 105 em. gauge 
(4 ft. 83 ins.) (Hejaz Railway). 
res 


(excluding sidings). 

Rafa—Haifa ... re ba is — 226 _ 
Jaffa—Jerusalem Sa we sas sis 87 — 
Ras el Ain-Petah Tiqva ss ss 6-5 — 
Sarafand Line ied ae an ie 4°5 — 
Beit Nabala Line 5 — 
Haifa—Samakh — 88 
Haifa (junction at kilo ie Acre — 18 
Nablus-Tulkarm*® ... — 38 

329 144 


Note.—The Ras el Ain-Petah Tiqva line and the Bir Nabala and Sarafand lines, 
shown last year as sidings, are now again included as part of the Railway proper. 


(b) In Stnat. 


El Kantara (Suez Canal)-Rafa_.... ahs 203 — 
(c) In Trans-Jordan. 

Nassib-Amman-Ma‘anf__.... oe ans — 323 

Total length of system (exclusive of sidings) 532 467 


* The section of the Hejaz Railway from Affula, on the Haifa-Samakh line, to 
El] Mas‘udiya, near Nablus, a length of 60 kilometres, was closed in 1932 as a measure 
of economy, and owing to the lack of traffic, but the line has not yet been removed, 
and it was used on several occasions last winter when the service on the main line 
between Haifa-Tulkarm was interrupted by floods. 


ft The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans-Jordan 
runs through Syria as part of the line from Haifa to Damascus, and from Damascus 
to Trans-Jordan, and is administered and operated by the Syrian authorities. The 
Trans-Jordan line formerly continued southwards from Ma‘an to Mudawara, 
(113 kilometres beyond Ma‘an) on the border of Trans-Jordan and Saudi Arabia 
and thence to Medina, but this section of the line has not been reconditioned since 
the damage done during, and in disturbances and by thefts after, the War, and is 
not in use. 

2. The lines operated by the Palestine Railways Administration 
traverse three States—Hgypt, Palestine and Trans-Jordan, and 
serve country of widely differing character: thus, the long stretch 
of dune sand desert in Sinai, one of the most difficult, as regards 
maintenance, with which any Railway has to contend; the alluvial 
plains of Palestine where the foundation consists of treacherous 
clays and black cotton soil; the Judean Hills through which 
Jerusalem, at 2,468 ft. above sea-level, is approached by steep and 
narrow valleys ; ‘the valleys of the western slopes of the Jordan Rift 
down which the line of the Hejaz Railways descends to 324 ft. 


266 


below sea level; the rocky highlands and plateaux of Trans-Jordan 
on the way to Amman and Ma‘an; and the desolate sandy clay 
wastes along the western fringes of the desert of Arabia. 


3. The system which serves Palestine comprises three lines of 
separate and distinct origin :— 

(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jatfa-Jerusalem Line. 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 

(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder line from the Port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway, constructed principally to carry pilgrim 
traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its origin was a 
length of standard gauge line starting from Haifa, built, but 
not completed, by an Knglish Company under an Ottoman con- 
cession. The original concessionaires were bought out by the 
Hejaz Railway Administration and the 105 centimetre gauge Hejaz 
Railway system was laid out of Haifa on the formation completed 
or partly completed by the English Company. 

(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem Line was laid originally as a metre-gauge 
line by a French Company, also under an Ottoman concession. 
At the outbreak of war it was taken over by the Turkish Army and 
converted to 105 centimetre gauge to serve as part of the projected 
extension southwards of the Hejaz Railway as a military track. 
Subsequently the line was converted by the British Army to 
standard gauge and incorporated in the line of that gauge built 
during the war from the Suez Canal to Palestine. 

(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge system 
in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British Army 
in 1918 as the northern extension of the line which had followed 
the Army during the advance from Egypt. 

At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 cm. gauge lines 
come together and at Haifa, in order to use the space available 
for shunting to the best advantage, it 18 necessary to make use of 
many dual gauge tracks. 

4. A summary of the principal operating and statistical results 
in 1935 compared with 1934 is given below :— 


Gross revenue. Working expenses. 
1935. 1934. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
(a) Palestine Railway ee .. 637,028 513,719 608,217 423,437 
(6) Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) Railway... 124,046 111,826 94,501 90,840 
Hejaz Railway ... ae ace 99,451 98,791 104,560 98,505 
(c) Petah Tiqva Railway ... bee 2,797 2,770 840 840 
NOoTEs. 

(a) Working expenses of the Palestine Railway include interest and Sinking Fund 


charges. 
(b) The Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) Railway pays rental charges for the use of Palestine 


Railway engines and rolling stock. 
(c) The working expenses of £P. 840 for the Petah Tiqva Line represent a flat 


annual charge for maintenance. 


267 


Passengers carried ... eee ae aes wes). NOs 
Freight handled wee ae Tons 
Trains run... nee .. No. 
Engine mileage, including Sentinel Cammell Car 
Mileage ... Miles 
Total staff at 30th November (including temporary staff) 
No. 
Total salaries and wages... adi Si She EP 
Passenger traffic. 
Palestine Railways’... 
Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) Railway 
Hejaz Railway .. a 
Petah Tiqva Railway .. 
00d traffic. 


Palestine Railway ne 

Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) Railway 
Hejaz Railway .. ‘i 
Petah Tiqva Railway .. 


1935. 
2,402,000 
1,114,744 

32,520 


1,850,892 


4,837 
356,828 


219, 251 
84,623 
33,636 


337,510 


1936. 
£P. 


373,366 
36,979 
59,386 

2,737 


472,468 


Year ended 31st Decembe> 


1934. 


1,929,107 
942,731 
25,171 


1,544,470 


3,511 
293,774 


182,1 26 
74,804 
26,956 


283,886 


1934. 
£P. 
289,197 
34,660 
63,654 
2,739 


390,250 


The principal increases and decreases in goods traffic in 1935 as 


compared with 1934 were as follows :— 


Cement 

Barley i cae 
Groceries and Provisions 
Kerosene 

Oranges a 
Building Matevials 

Coal 


Stone 

Cereal 

Flour 

Manure 
Miscellaneous 


Increases, 
in Tons. 


77,631 
6,372 
6,684 
9,804 

31,554 

65,733 

36 ,263 


Decreases, 
in Tons. 


23,173 
4 326 
4 568 

30 ,404 
4 953 


268 


The principal commodities carried were :— 


Total 
Tonnage Carried 
Commodity. 
Barley... Sa aes ie te 18,788 
Stone oe Si oe ae: ss 61,584 
Sand sas ae see oa o4 12,645 
Lime at to ae =a ae 10,213 
Cement... Bs ...  %41,5238 
Other oe Materials a ... 144,578 
Cereals... ewe me 42,482 
Coal ae sis me 70,509 
Groceries and Provisions ee on 56,488 
Flour — ae ete _ oe 21,580 
Kerosene ss ae a ae 80,262 
Manure ... — ates née ae 35 ,789 
Melons ... gue ve ae sete 15,515 
Oranges ... es We ae .. 128,718 
Petrol _... nk ae as - 15 ,535 
Salt ee une ses — ae 8,578 
Soap sib i _ ie Me 1,685 
Miscellaneous... ae if, ... 168,212 


1,114,744 


XXVIII.—CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES. 


Mr. F. G. Lowick, who filled the post of Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies since the inception of the Department in 1932, died on the 
8th February, 1935. Mr. A. F. Nathan, O.B.E., Assistant Director 
of Agriculture, was appointed to succeed him and proceeded on a 
tour of the principal centres of the co-operative movement in the 
United Kingdom and Europe. 

2. An Ordinance amending certain sections of the Co-operative 
Societies Ordinance, 1933, dealing with the creation and registra- 
tion of charges, was enacted in February. 


Arab Movement. 


3. Twenty-nine Arab credit and thrift societies were formed in 
rural areas, bringing the total of such societies up to 61. 

The following table shows the position of these societies at the 
end of 1935 :— 


1. Membership ... i oe: ae 2,422 
2. Subscribed share capital ar aa ... &P.11,365 
3. Paid up share capital a a ... £&P.1,709 
4. Accumulated other funds ... bs .. &P.1,772 
5. Borrowed Funds __... ais sgh .. £P.39,013 


269 


4. As in the past, societies have been able to obtain all their 
borrowed funds from Barclays Bank in the form of short-term loans 
and it has been unnecessary to have recourse to the funds of the 
Ottoman Agricultural Bank which, as stated in the report for 1933, 
were allocated for the purpose of the development of the co-operative 
movement among Arab cultivators. These funds accordingly 
remain in reserve and will be used as and when deemed necessary, 
for any of the following purposes :— 

(a) Grant of seasonal loans to Arab credit and thrift socie- 
ties on the understanding that such credit cannot be otherwise 
obtained from commercial banks ; 


(b) Grant of medium-term loans up to five years to Arab 
credit and thrift societies for the purpose of undertaking small 
works of development in cases in which they cannot be other- 
wise financed by commercial banks or as long as no other 
public sources are available. 


These loans are to be granted on the following conditions :— 


(a) The rate of interest to be in any case not less than 5 per 
cent. but usually 1 per cent. atove bank rates, with a maximum 
of 7 per cent. ; 


(6) The maximum amount of any one loan not to exceed 
£P.500 ; 


_(c) The securities to be :— 


(i) In the case of seasonal loans, the unlimited joint and 
several liability of members and, if the Treasurer deems 
necessary , also a charge on the crops of members taken by 
the Society and assigned to Government ; 


(11) In the case of intermediate or medium term loans, 
chattel mortgage or other adequate security. 


d. The rate of interest charged by Barclays Bank on loans granted 
to societies was reduced from 7 per cent. to 6 per cent., in order to 


_ enable the societies in their turn to reduce the rate of interest on 


e4 


loans to their members to 9 per cent., which corresponds with the 
tates charged by the bank to borrowing bodies not organized as 
Co-operative societies. 


_ it is gratifying to note that in all societies, members were regular 
in the repayment of loans granted to them and the year concludes 
without a single case of default or delay in repayment. 


6. In the field of thrift and accumulation of savings or deposits by 
the societies, no progress can be reported. There are, however, 
Many signs indicating that the societies are gradually gaining the 

/-ontdence of the villagers and it may be expected that the drive for 
ular Savings which some societies intend to initiate in the near 
‘—aure will meet with a certain measure of success. 


270 


7. To assist in the supervision of the Arab rural credit and thrif 
societies and in the education of villagers in co-operative method: 
generally, five field organizers were stationed in the rural district: 
after a period of training at Headquarters. These officers are 
called upon to visit villages selected for co-operative development anc 
prepare the people for their task. The number of these officers wi} 
be increased as the movement develops and as the societies wider 
the spheres of their activities. 


8. In the towns, one new Arab transport society was registerec 
while six societies were liquidated owing to internal difficulties. 

The formation of a model olive oil storing and marketing society 
in the Northern District and of a lime-burners’ society in the 
Southern District is under way and if successful these will be 
followed by similar societies in suitable villages. 


Jewish Movement. 


9. The Jewish movement continued its course of self-reliant 
development and consolidation. 


10. The five Audit Unions registered early in 1934 carried out 
their duties satisfactorily and their beneficial influence made itself 
felt in a large number of cases. 

The membership of these Unions rose from 181 in 1934 to 257 in 
1935 representing 50 per cent. of the total number of active Jewish 
societies. 


11. The following table shows the Jewish societies registered in 
the course of the year :— 


Irrigation ... ats see 11 
General Agricultural ve a 20 
Agricultural Settlements . sale 34 
Co- partnerships of Labour ae 45 
Building... ee sca 34 
Credit and Thrift tes ae oe 12 
Consumers ... vail ee _ 6 
Miscellaneous ee — St 2 

164 





An analysis of these figures will show that housing societies. 
whose objects are to provide their members with better and cheaper 
houses, retained, as in 1934, their leading position, which is not 
unnatural considering the general increase in the Jewish popula- 
tion. The large number of labour co-partnerships reflects the 
penetration of co-operative methods in the industrial development 
of the country. But it is in the sphere of agriculture that there has 
been very notable development, and the societies for diverse acricul- 
tural services represent 40 per cent. of the total number of societies 
registered in the course of the year. 


271 


12. The business turnover of all existing societies showed very 
considerable increases over previous years. The Tnuva Society, 
which undertakes the marketing of vegetables, milk and fruit of 
acricultural co-operative groups and units, increased its turnover by 
40 per cent. (£P.422 000 as against £P.302,000 in 1934). The citrus 
marketing societies handled 3,129,894 cases of fruit out of a total 
of 7,283,705 cases marketed by Palestine during the year. The bad 
markets which prevailed for this commodity during the 1934-35 
season led the societies to a very serious attempt early in the year 
towards co-ordinating their activities and the Government Depart- 
nent was requested to suggest a scheme for a joint central society. 
It is to be regretted that these efforts failed, in spite of the full 
realization by all concerned that close co-operation and centralized 
marketing are essential and imperative. 

All other types of societies made a marked progress, and the urban 
credit and thrift societies again closed their year with a very large 
increase in the volume of their business and reserves. The situation 
thich led to heavy withdrawals from commercial business of deposits 
and savings in August and September owing to the Italo-Abyssinian 
dispute left the societies unscathed. 


13. Fifteen societies were liquidated in the course of the year as 
compared with nine in 1934. This increase is a further sign of the 
_ process of consolidation which has been proceeding in the Jewish 
movement. 


14. In the course of the year, 214 societies out of a total of 380 
kocleties, registered prior to the enactment of the Co-operative 
Societies Ordinance, 1933, adapted their rules to conform with the 
Provisions of the new Ordinance. ‘The other societies are in the 
course of so adapting their rules and the Government Department 
exercises continual pressure in this respect. It is gratifying to note 
that, in the course of adaptation, most of the societies were able to 
accept the model rules prepared by the Registrar in consultation 
with an unofficial Jewish Co-operative Advisory Committee. 


General. 


15. Total number of functioning societies : 769. 


Jewish. Arab. German. Others. 
688 14 5 2 


N.B.—In addition, 66 societies are in liquidation and 65 socicties have been struck 
off the Register. 


Classification. 


I. Credit and Thrift Societies : 
(a) Urban se ne oo ee be a 44 
(b) Rural a bie hes ee ie be 126 


272 


II. Agricultural Soctettes : 


(a) Settlement si ve aa: sas a 158 
(b) General Agricultural ... oes ae - 66 
(c) Irrigation ... 2a bi — sai oa 50 
(d) Cattle Insurance ... os a fee ae 3 
Ill. Diverse Societies: | 
(a) Industrial Producers and Service societies _... 141 
(b) Garden cities and Communal housing societies 126 
(c) Consumers Societies she oe Ne ae 37 
(d) Mutual Insurance Societies _... eh se 2 
(e) Audit Unions Me ote sd cea on 5 
(f) Miscellaneous a sm on = oe 11 


XXIX.—OIVIL AVIATION. 


1. The administration of civil aviation in Palestine is now in the 
hands of a Director of Civil Aviation. 


2. Plans have been drawn up for a main air port, suitable as a 
stopping place for inter-continental air services, at Lydda, and for 
a landing ground, suitable for local and Levantine air services, at 
Haifa. <A site of 1,550 metric dunums was acquired at Lydda, 
which is approximately 54 kilometres from Jerusalem and 28 kilo- 
metres from Jaffa and Tel-Aviv. <A road is being made to the 
airport from the main highway and work has begun on the all- 
weather runways, which will be completed during 1936. The 
construction of the necessary buildings will probably be completed 
in 1937. At Haifa a site has been selected and construction of 
the airport will shortly begin; the all-weather runways will, it is 
hoped, be ready before the autumn rains of 1936 and the building 
towards the end of the following year. 


3. Imperial Airways have maintained two services a week in 
each direction between London and Singapore, one continuing to 
Australia. 

The Royal Dutch Air Line introduced the use of the American | 
Douglas Machine on its Amsterdam-Batavia section in May and | 
thenceforth the service was increased from once to twice a week 
in each direction. 


Both these air lines use the Gaza aerodrome. 


4. Misr Airlines, an Egyptian company, maintain a service from — 
Cairo to Lydda and Haifa, which operated on Monday, Wednesday 
and Friday each week until the middle of April. The service then 
became a daily one in each direction. In the autumn this company 
ran several experimental flights from Cairo to Nicosia in Cyprus, 
calling at Lydda. 


273 


TRANS-JORDAN 


I.—INTRODUCTORY. 
Position, etc. 


1. Trans-Jordan is bounded on the west by Palestine, on the 
north by Syria and the Jebel Druze, on the north-east by ‘Iraq, 
and on the east and south by Saudi Arabia. It has a desert frontier 
of about 900 kilometres. In length the country is some 380 kilo- 
metres from north to south and in breadth from east to west is 
150 kilometres at its narrowest and 330 kilometres at its broadest. 
It has an area of some 90,000 square kilometres. 


2. Cultivable area.—Of the total area some 4,600 square kilo- 
metres (4,600,000 dunums) are cultivable. The cultivable land 
is in a strip of territory, broad in the north and narrowing towards 
the south, having an average width of 40 kilometres, and is bounded, 
approximately, by the Jordan and the Dead Sea on the west, the 
Syrian frontier in the north, the Hejaz Railway in the east, 
and in the south by parallel 30° N. This cultivable area com- 
prises :— 

(1) The deep valley (the Ghor), in which the Jordan River 
and the Dead Sea lie, having an area of 550 square kilometres, 
300,000 dunums of which are cultivable. 

(2) The range of hills, running the length of the country 
from north to south and rising in the south to heights of 5,000 
feet, having an area of 6,700 square kilometres, of which 
2,000,000 dunums are cultivable. 

(3) The strip of territory between the hills and the Hejaz 
Railway, a plateau varying in height from 1,500 to 3,000 feet, 
having an area of some 5,250 square kilometres, of which 
2,300,000 dunums are cultivable. This cultivakle plateau 
gradually merges eastwards into the desert which loses eleva- 
tion until, in the Wadi Sirhan, just beyond the eastern frontier, 
the height is only 1,000 feet above sea-level. 


The Jordan Valley and the western hills are well watered by 

springs and streams but the upland plateau depends for its water 
supply on rain water cisterns. 
_ To the south of parallel 30° N., between Ma‘an and Aqaba, there 
18 a sudden fall of 2,000 feet to an area known as the Hasma, 
5,000 square kilometres in extent, which contains small patches of 
cultivation. Beyond this area the land continues to fall, through 
very rough country, to the Gulf of Aqaba. 


3. Desert area.—The desert area comprises some 72,000 square 
lometres. There are oases at Azraq and Jafar which lie re- 
spectively 80 and 45 kilometres east of the railway line, but apart 
from these there are very few water points other than rain pools. 


274 


The grazing is sufficient, after a year of good rain, to support the 
camels, sheep and goats of the nomads who spend their time be- 
tween the highlands to the west in summer and the Wadi Sirhan 
and the Ghor in winter. 


Climate. 


4. The climate on the whole is very pleasant. In summer the 
shade temperatures seldom reaches 100° I’. and the nights are always 
cool. In winter it is cold in the uplands and the rain, which is 
often insufficient for the agricultural needs of the country, only 
falls from November to March. Between the rainy days the 
sky 1s bright, and in the sun and out of the wind it is warm. 
The winter climate of the Ghor is mild and that of Aqaba is most 
attractive, though in both places it is hot and oppressive in summer. 


Population. 


5. No census has been taken of the population of Trans-Jordan 
and any attempt to estimate the number of inhabitants can only 
be approximate. The total probably hes between 300,000 and 
320,000. 

The population of Trans-Jordan is mainly Arab. ‘There are, 
however, about 7,000 Caucasians who were brought into the country 
by the Turkish authorities in 1864 and 1878 and are settled in eight 
villages in the Belga District ; there is one Bahai and one ‘Turkoman 
village and some 250 Druze families most of whom took refuge in 
Trans-Jordan after the Druze revolt of 1927. The Arab Christians 
number some 20,000, and it is interesting that Christianity has 
survived not only in the towns but also among the semi-nomadic 
tribes in the Kerak District. The remaining Arabs of the country 
are Sunni Moslems. 

The Arabs of Trans-Jordan, whether Moslem or Christian, may 
be classified as follows :— 

(a) Settled, i.e. cultivators living in houses. 

(b) Semi-Nomadic, i.e. cultivators living in hair tents and 
still preserving their tribal character. 

(c) Beduin, i.e. nomads who cultivate but little and depend 
for their existence on their herds. 


The Ajlun District is almost entirely occupied by a settled popula- 
tion. In the Belqa District the settled and semi-nomadic population 
are approximately balanced. Kerak District is mostly semt- 
nomadic, and Ma‘an has a majority of nomadic and to a lesser 
degree semi-nomadic tribes, the settled population being confined 
to the townspeople of Ma‘an and Aqaba. 


Constitution. 
6. The constitution of the Amara of Trans-Jordan 1s embodied 
in the Organic Law of 1928. His Highness Abdullah ibn Hussein, 
G.B.E., K.C.M.G., the second son of his late Majesty Kung 


275 


Hussein (formerly King of the Hejaz), is the Amir of Trans- 
Jordan and exercises authority through an Executive Council com- 
posed of the Chief Minister, appointed by the Amir, who presides, 
and other members, not exceeding five in number, appointed by 
the Amir on the recommendation of the Chief Minister, either from 
among the principal officers of the Administration or the elected 
representatives of the people. 

The Mandatory responsibilities of His Majesty’s Government are 
discharged by means of the Agreement of 1928 between His Majesty 
the King and His Highness the Amir, as amended by the Agree- 
ment of 19384.* (See pages 238 and 239 of the Report for 1934.) 

The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by a British 
Resident acting under the direction of the High Commissioner for 
Trans-Jordan (who is also the High Commissioner for Palestine). 
The British Resident resides at Amman and is assisted by two 
British officials and a small clerical staff. 


Legislature. 


7. Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Council with 
His Highness the Amir. The Legislative Council consists of :— 


(a) Sixteen representatives elected in accordance with the 
electoral law, which has regard to the proper representation 
of minorities ; and 

(b) The Chief Minister and other members of the Executive 
Council not being elected representatives. 


The electoral law provides that the sixteen elected members shall be 
made up of nine Moslem Arabs, three Christian Arabs, two Circas- 
sians and two Nomad Beduin. 

Normally the Council has one annual session which lasts from 
the 1st of November for three months. The duration of the Council 
is for three years, but His Highness the Amir has power to prorogue 
it or dissolve it in accordance with the law. 

The election of members is conducted by primary and secondary 
elections. Every male Trans-Jordanian, not being a Beduin, who 
has attained the age of 18 is entitled to vote at the primary elections, 
and any person may be elected as a secondary elector provided he is 
ee register of primary electors for his particular electoral 

istrict, 

The first Legislative Council was opened in Apnil, 1929, and 
continued until February, 1931, when it was dissolved by His 
Highness the Amir owing to difficulties connected with the budget. 
The Chief Minister tendered his resignation at the same time, 
and the new Legislative Council, the elections for which were 

cenly contested, was opened in June of the same year. On assem- 
bling on the Ist of November, 1933, for its third and final ordinary 
*ession, this Legislative Council having lost confidence in the 

‘Xecutive Council, excluded all members thereof from the legal, 
a ee eee 


* Cmd. 4661 of 1934. 


276 


financial and administrative Committees which it elected, and sub- 
sequently prevented the transaction of any business by failing tc 
form a quorum. Thereupon His Highness the Amir dismissed 
the Chief Minister on the 17th of November and appointed Ibrahim 
Pasha Hashim, who is still in office, to succeed him. The Counc}) 
completed its final session on 3lst January, 1934. Elections for 
the next Council were held in October, 1934, and the Council then 
elected is still in being. A number of complaints alleging irregu- 
larities and illegal interference by Government officials in the con- 
duct of the election were subsequently received. Penalties for such 
irregularities are provided under the Trans-Jordan Blectoral Law, 
but it appears that no proceedings were initiated in the courts. 

In the earlier stages of the Council’s existence the elected 
members were inclined to regard their official colleagues with sus- 
picion, believing that efforts would be made to deprive them of 
their newly won powers. This state of affairs, however, passed 
with the demise of the first Council, and, although there have 
been difficulties, the Legislative Body has on the whole worked 
well and a great deal of useful legislation has been enacted. 

Under the guidance of His Highness the Amir, and in close 
and friendly relation with the Mandatory Power, the members of 
the Trans-Jordan Government, having as their common objective 
the welfare of the country, have brought it safely through the past 
decade without disturbance or discontent and with a considerakle 
measure of progress. 


Administration. 


8. The country is divided into four Lewas (districts), namely, 
Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, and Ma‘an, with headquarters respectively at 
Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma‘an. 

Ajlun, the ancient Gilead, is bounded on the north by the Yarmuk 
and on the south by the Wadi Zerqa (River Jabbok) and is divided 
into the sub-districts of Ajlun, Irbid, Jerash, Deir Abu Said and 
Melka. 

Belqa District, the ancient Ammon, lies between the Zerqa and 
the Wadi Mojib (the Arnon) and is divided into the sub-districts 
of Amman, Salt, and Madeba. 

Kerak, the ancient Moab, lies to the south of the Belga and 
includes the sub-district of Tafileh. 

Ma‘an is the southernmost of the four districts and includes the 
villages of Shobek (Montreal) and Aqaba and the ruins of Petra. 

District Administrative Officers have no magisterial powers ex- 
cept under the newly enacted Tribal Courts Law of 1936, but it 
is on their recommendation that the Collective Punishment Law 
and the Prevention of Crime Law would be brought into operation. 

They administer their districts with the help of an Administrative 
Council which sits under their presidency and is composed in addi- 
tion to the President, of two official and four non-official members, 


277 


the latter being selected by a committee presided over by the 
Administrative Officer and composed of two Government officials, 
the President and members of the Municipal Council, the Heads 
of the Religious Communities and the Mukhtars. When the male 
Christian population of the area exceeds 500 souls, one of the 
selected members must be a Christian, and when the number 
exceeds 1,000, two members must be Christian. 


_ Recently the responsibility for revenue collection has been added 
to the duties of District Administrative Officers with very good 
results. 


The eastern part of all these districts constitutes the desert 
area, the western boundary of which is approximately the railway 
_line. This area is administered by the Officer Commanding the 
- Desert Patrol with direct responsibility to His Highness the Amir. 
This officer has magisterial powers under the Bedu Control Law. 


The following positions in His Highness’s Government are 
occupied by British officials :— 


Judicial Adviser. 

Financial Adviser. 

Officer Commanding, Arab Legion, and six other officers. 
Director of Lands. 

Director of Surveys. 

Director of Customs. 

Inspector of Antiquities. 

Chief Audit Examiner. 

Chief Forest Ranger. 


Municipalities. 


9. There are Municipal Councils in the following towns :—Irbid, 
Jerash, Ajlun, Amman, Salt, Madeba, Kerak, Tafileh, Ma‘an. 


- These Councils are wholly elected, except in Amman where the 
- President is appointed by the Chief Minister, and operate in accord- 
- ance with laws which are at present under revision. The largest 
item of municipal revenue is an octroi tax, levied on all commodi- 
. ties imported from foreign countries, which is collected by the 
| Amman Municipality and then distributed. A tax on inflammable 
liquids is collected by the Department of Customs on behalf of 
- Inunicipalities ; in 1985 the receipts amounted to £P.7,850. The 
Government also pays to municipalities 50 per cent. of the lcence 
fees collected under the Road Transport Law (£P.1,300 in 1935) 
. and 20 per cent. of the tax collected within municipal areas under 
_ the House and Land Tax Law of 1926 (£P.1,150 in 1935). The 
municipal estimates are subject to the approval of the Chief 
Minister and during 1935 arrangements were made to subject muni- 
- cipal accounts to audit by the Government’s Audit Department. 
No grants are made by Government to assist Municipal Councils 
in meeting expenditure, but loans have been made to Amman, Irbid, 
’ Kerak, and Madeba under Government guarantee to assist them in 


34931 K 


278 


distributing a pumped water supply over their municipal areas. 
These schemes have all been completed and the loan instalments 
are being repaid as they fall due. A Government loan of £P.1,20) 
has been made to the Municipality of Salt for a drainage scheme. 

The Amman Municipality contributed £P.1,000 for distribution 
to the sufferers from the floods in that town in February and was 
able to take advantage of the demolitions which were rendered 
necessary, to effect a number of improvements under the town 
planning scheme which till then had been impossible owing to 
lack of funds. 

Scavenging in all municipalities is in charge of the Government 
medical officer who controls the funds set aside for that purpose. 

The Chief Minister is assisted in the supervision of municipal 
affairs by the Municipal Advisory Board, which is composed of the 
Directors of Public Health and Public Works, the Administrative 
Inspector, and the Assistant Treasurer. 


Public Security. 


10. Public security is maintained by the Arab Legion, which 
consists of seven British officers, thirty-three local officers, three 
cadet officers and 1,004 non-commissioned officers and men. It is 
commanded by a British officer. The Arab Legion is responsible 
for internal security, the maintenance of law and order, the 
custody of prisoners, immigration and passport control, and the 
licensing of vehicles. It is divided into rural and urban police, 
the former being mounted and the latter dismounted. In addition 
to the normal establishment, fifty police have been specially engaged 
at the expense of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company to protect the 
pipe-line (see Section V of this Report). 

A special section of the Arab Legion known as the Desert Patrol 
is recruited from amongst the Beduin tribes and is under the com- 
mand of a British officer. This section, which consists of 130 all 
ranks, is charged with the maintenance of public security in the 
desert part of '‘Trans-Jordan and is based on forts at Azrak, Bair, 
Jafar, Rum and Mudawara. 

Since 1923 there has been no serious civil disturbance in the 
settled areas of Trans-Jordan, but until the beginning of 1931 there 
was a considerable amount of raiding in the desert area and across 
the eastern and southern frontiers. The activities of the Arab 
Legion, however, have reduced raiding to negligible proportions 
and only isolated cases of theft now occur. The improved cot- 
ditions thus brought about paved the way to the treaty concluded 
between Trans-Jordan and Saudi Arabia in 1933 (see Appendix 
VIII to the Report for 1934) and security in the deserts and along 
the desert frontier is now established. | 

It will be seen from Section V of this Report concerning the 
activities of the Arab Legion that the incidence of crime is coD- 
siderably lower than in 1934. In former years the crime of cutting 


279 


fruit trees and destroying vines for purposes of revenge was preva- 
lent, but the infliction of severe fines, under the Collective Punish- 
_ ment Law, on the section of the village concerned, has had a most 
salutary effect. A law was enacted in December, 1933, amending 
Article 219 of the Ottoman Penal Code so that severer punishments 
might be inflicted for the crime of highway robbery which was 
unduly prevalent. In 1933 there were fifty cases, in 1934 there 
were forty-three, and in 1935 there have been only thirteen. This 
sreat improvement may have been partly due to the change in the 
law but was probably due in a greater degree to the better economic 
conditions prevailing and, of course, to the continuous improvement 
in the efficiency of the police. 


Economic Affairs. 


11. The prosperity of Trans-Jordan depends largely on its 
rainfall. After passing through a series of lean years the good rains 
of last winter were hailed as the herald of fat years, the crops of 
1935 were excellent, over 80 per cent. of the taxes were collected 
in the first nine months, the outstanding debts of the Agricultural 
Bank came in satisfactorily, Customs revenue was well above ex- 
pectations and a substantial surplus balance at the end of the 
current financial year is forecast. But the end of the lean years 
does not seem to have been reached. Although the rains began 
well this winter they fell far short of requirements later, so that 
in the southern two-thirds of the country live-stock died for lack 
of grazing and crops either failed to germinate, or, having ger- 
minated, died. 


Welcome though the rain was in the previous winter the excep- 
tionally heavy fall throughout the northern half of the country on the 
3rd and 4th February, 1935, swept down the valleys in floods of 
unprecedented volume. Some 200 houses either collapsed or had to 
be demolished in Amman and a number of houses were destroyed in 
other towns and villages. Railway traffic with Palestine and 
internal road and telephone communication were interrupted; the 
latter were repaired in a few days, but railway traffic could not be 
resumed until June. Considerable areas of irrigated gardens and 
other low-lying land were entirely denuded of soil at Amman and 
_ Salt and throughout the whole length of the Zerqa valley. During 
these floods and others which occurred later in the year two 
important main road bridges were washed away. 


There has been a welcome development in trade between Trans- 
Jordan and Saudi Arabia. Saudi caravans of animals and animal 
- produce (chiefly clarified butter) have arrived in increasing numbers 
_ In Ma‘an and returned loaded with grain and clothing purchased 
in the Ma‘an market. To foster this trade the Trans-Jordan 
Government have exempted bona fide merchants of Saudi Arabia 
and their servants from quarantine restrictions and from the neces- 
sity of being in possession of passports. 

$4931 K 2 


280 


Three further bores have been sunk with the rig which was 
purchased from a grant made by the Colonial Development Fund ; 
of these one had to be abandoned, a second showed no water when 
the maximum depth attainable had been reached but in the third 
water was found in the same area and at the same horizon as that 
which was successfully reached last year. This water is at a depth 
of 550 feet and may only be economically valuable for watering 
stock. As mentioned in paragraph 3 of this report there are very 
few permanent water points in the desert area. This fact denies 
good grazing areas to the Beduins’ stock, and a further grant from 
the Colonial Development Fund has been made to sink bore holes 
in these areas with a view to making watering points available. 

In addition to the grants from the Colonial Development Fund 
approved for the purposes of searching for water and that for re- 
making the main road between Salt and the Allenby Bridge (see 
page 265 of the report for 1934) the following further grants from 
the Fund have been approved :— 


(1) £P.6,740 for the establishment of an Agricultural Ex- 
perimental and Demonstration Station. 

(2) £P.4,000 for a new telephone exchange at Amman. 

(3) £P.3,060 for the propogation of selected seed over three 
years. 

(4) £P.7,900 for the expenses of a Director of Development 
and his staff to be spread over five years. One of the principal 
duties of the Director will be to prepare wrigation schemes 
which will be considered with a view to the grant of financial 
aid by the Colonial Development Fund. 

(5) £P.30,000 to be spread over six years for the expansion 
of the Lands Department with a view to speeding up the partt- 
tioning of undivided lands. This work is an essential pre- 
liminary to land settlement, and with the aid of the grant, 
should be completed in six years instead of twelve. 


All these grants have been made to carry out schemes which were 
recommended in 1933 in the very valuable report submitted by the 
Committee appointed by His Highness the Amir to study and recom- 
mend improvements in the economic conditions of the country. 

A concession for the exploitation of the thermal springs at Zerqa 
Ma‘in and Zara, in the neighbourhood of the Dead Sea, was granted 
on Ist April for a period of thirty-three years to a group of people, 
four of whom are Trans-Jordanians and two Palestine Arabs. 


Legislation. 


12. The following are the more important of the Laws which have 
been enacted during the year :— 

The Defence Law.—This Law was not enacted to meet any 
special emergency but is designed to give the Government 
greater powers in time of emergency. It will be brought into 
operation by proclamation of His Highness the Amir. 


281 


Collection of Taxes Law.—This clarifies the method of 
collecting taxes and of dealing with defaulters. It provides 
that defaulters shall lose possession of their immovable property 
in exceptional circumstances. 


Crown Actions Law.—Prevents the Courts from hearing 
civil actions brought against His Highness the Amir except 
with His Highness’ permission, and limits the civil actions 
which the Courts may hear against the Government or any 
Department thereof. 

Addendum to Article 111 of the Code of C1vil Procedure.— 
This provides that where the amount of the indemnity fixed 
in a contract is more than half the-sum represented by the 
undertaking, the Court may reduce the amount of the indem- 
nity to such amount as will reasonably compensate the other 
contracting party for any loss he may have suffered. 


Antiquities Law.—See Section VII of this report. 


Penston and Discharge Pay (Ottoman and National Service) 
Law.—This was enacted to define and regulate the terms under 
which Government officials who had served under the Adminis- 
trations previous to that of His Highness the Amir Abdullah 
might count service for pensions and discharge pay. 


General. 


13. His Highness the Amir paid a short visit to ‘Iraq on personal 
affairs in February and again in October. 

A son was born, on the 14th of November, to His Highness the 
Amir Talal, who is the eldest son of His Highness the Amir 
Abdullah. 

In the middle of August, His Royal Highness the Amir Saud, 
heir-apparent to the throne of Saudi Arabia, paid a visit, on his way 
back from Europe, to His Highness the Amir. This visit, which 
extended over three days, has strengthened the friendly relations 
which already existed between the two countries. 


Ottoman Boundaries. 


14. In their report to the Council on the Annual Report for 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan for 1933, the Commission said that 
they would welcome in the next Report information as to the line 
of demarcation between the vilayet of the Hejaz and that of Syria 
in the time of the Ottoman Administration. This request has 
necessitated researches which were not completed in time to include 
a reply in last year’s report, but sufficient information has now 
been brought to light to furnish material for a reply to the Com- 
mission’s enquiry. 

Contemporary official documents bearing on this particular 
question prior to 1904 are no longer available : nevertheless, certain 
information has been obtained from Turkish official year-books 


34931] K 8 


282 


and from persons in Trans-Jordan who were familiar with the 
Ottoman Administration. The following is a summary of this 
information. 

In 1893, a sanjak of Kerak was organized and formed part of 
the vilayet of Syria. The sanjak of Kerak included the kaza of 
Ma‘an, which in turn contained the sub-divisions of Tebuk and 
Medain Salih. These two sub-divisions formed a species of salient 
in the Arabian Peninsula, the southern boundary being a line 
drawn at right angles across the Hejaz Railway between Medain 
Salih and El Ala to a distance of some 70 to 100 miles on either 
side of the railway line. 

In 1904, the vilayet of the Hejaz included the kazas of Aqaba, 
Yanbo and Wejh,but at some time between that year and 1910 
an independent sanjak of Medina was formed which comprised 
Medina and the kazas of Yanbo, Wejh, Aqaba, Sewarikieh and 
El Ala. | 

There is reason to believe that the Aqaba kaza was for some 
period between 1910 and 1915 attached to the vilayet of Syria, 
but it had reverted to the independent sanjak of Medina by the 
summer of 1975. : | 


II1.— LANDS. 


Fiscal Survey. 


In October, 1924, when the present system of financial control 
was put into force, direct taxation was being imposed on the prin- 
ciple which had been applied before the War. For instance, in the 
Belga District the tithe was assessed and collected annually, while 
in the other two districts of Ajlun and Kerak the tithe had been 
commuted to a fixed sum payable by each village or tribe. In Ajlun, 
however, this fixed sum was collected from individuals in proportion 
to the cultivable area possessed by them, whereas in Kerak it was 
divided equally amongst heads of families. As regards werko (land 
tax) and road tax, the amounts due from villages and tribes had 
been assessed many years before and the method of distribution of 
these taxes was the same in Ajlun and Kerak as for the commuted 
tithe, while in Belqa it followed the same system as Ajlun. 

In 1927, Sir Ernest Dowson made recommendations for the 1m- 
provement of this situation after examining the report of a local 
Commission which had been appointed to study the matter. 

It was decided that any return to the tithing system must be 
avoided and that any readjustment of taxation could only be based 
on a reliable fiscal survey. 

With this object in view a Land Demarcation, Survey and Valua- 
tion Law was enacted in 1927, and a British officer was appointed 
to take charge of the work on the lines indicated by Sir Ernest 
Dowson. 

Settlement of village boundary disputes at first caused consider- 
able difficulties, but the inhabitants gradually came to realize the 


283 


importance of demarcation both in regard to existing conditions 
and as @ necessary basis for all future reforms; and eventually 
they accepted the demarcated boundaries as final. 


A specialist was engaged from Palestine until the staff became 
expert in valuation. Valuation was assessed in terms of kilogrammes 
of wheat in all. cultivable land except vineyards, where the assess- 
went was 1n rotls of grapes. 


_ The work of demarcation, survey and valuation initiated in 1928 
was completed during 1933 at a total cost of £P.44,000. The 

progressive cost per dunum including headquarters expenses, iron 

marks, area extraction and map reproduction was as follows :— 


1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
24 mils 9 mils 6 mils 4 mils 3 mils 


Lands Department. 


4. In May, 1929, the Lands Department was formed by amalga- 
mating the Survey Department, the Land Registry and the State 
Domains Department with a British officer in charge. A second 
British officer was seconded from Palestine and placed in charge 
of field survey. 


State Lands. 


3. The record of State Domains was incomplete and little was 
known regarding the extent and cultivation of these areas. In 
1929, the Disposal of State Lands Law was enacted, and, to- 
gether with the Disposal of State Lands (Amendment) Law, 1931, 
gave authority for the disposal, on payment, of land of any category 
belonging to the Government. Payment of the purchase money 
_ Iught be spread over a number of years, but the land might not 
again ke disposed of till payment had been made in full and the 
transaction registered. 


_ It was the Government’s object to dispose of small areas which 
ii Was uneconomic to retain, and to facilitate building. They also 
aimed at putting State land, at a reasonable price, in the hands 
of persons who would render it fruitful. 


(Under these Laws, it has been possible as survey advanced to 
dispose by transfer of an area of 243,389 dunums of land. 


In the Jordan Valley, north of the Dead Sea, an area of 108,000 
dunums, claimed as the property of the Adwan tribe, but registered 
as ‘" Mahlul ”’ (i.e. ‘‘ miri ’’ land which has reverted to the Gov- 
‘fnment) by order of a Turkish Administrative officer, was trans- 
ferred to the tribe on an arrangement for payment of the registra- 
on fee over a period of seven years. 

Further north in the Valley, the Ghazawieh Arabs, who claimed 
Ownership over an area of 60,000 dunums of Medawara land in the 

hor el Arbain have, after protracted negotiations, agreed to accept 

34931 K4 


284 


an area of 46,000 dunums which the Land Department has par- 
titioned amongst them and has agreed to transfer to them at 300 
mils per dunum, payable over ten years, provided they do not upset 
this partition. The balance of 14,000 dunums has been leased to 
neighbouring people who are in need of land at a fixed rent instead 
of on payment of rental tithe ; it will be transferred to them by sale 
should they show that they can cultivate it adequately. 


A similar arrangement has been made in the case of the Sukhur 
el Ghor Arabs still further north. 


Land Tax. 


4. By the end of 1931 the Fiscal Survey had so far advanced 
that the draft Land Tax Law, which provided for the imposition 
of a tax of 6 per cent. of the gross annual yield of the land in place 
of the werko, tithe and road tax, was placed before the Legislative 
Council. This draft Law, which provided that a man would pay 
tax in proportion to the extent of his cultivable land, threatened 
the pockets of the larger landowners, who had hitherto paid less 
than their due, and met with strong opposition in the Legislative 
Council. Eventually the Law was passed in March of 1933 in a 
somewhat modified form. It limited the increase in taxation to 
£P.10,000 and provided that, where the tax on any person exceeds 
by 50 per cent. or more of the previous assessment of werko, tithe 
and road tax, such excess should be payable during the first four 
years at a rate of one-fifth, two-fifths, three-fifths, and four-fifths 
respectively, of the amount of the increase due. 


As the enactment of the Land Tax Law had been so long delayed 
a transitory law for the distribution of taxes in Kerak district 
and amongst the Beni Hassan tribe was enacted in June, 1932, 
whereby, without altering the total of the taxes due from the areas 
concerned, the taxes were distributed amongst the tribal areas in 
accordance with the fiscal survey at Kerak and in accordance with 
the partition and settlement which the Lands Department had 
carried out in the 600 square kilometres occupied by the Beni 
Hassan tribe. 

The limitation of the tax increase to £P.10,000 necessitated 4 
great deal of re-calculation, and it was only possible to declare the 
new tax in force in Ma‘an, Kerak and Belgqa as from 1st April, 1934. 


The reform of the system of land taxation 1s now virtually com- 
plete. The Land Tax Law has been introduced throughout the 
country with the exception of fifty-nine villages where the variation 
between the amounts of the old and the new tax is small enough to 
allow postponement till the arrival of land settlement. The lands 
of all these villages are held in undivided ownership (masha‘a), and 
the method of distribution of the tax amongst individuals will be 
unaffected by the introduction of the new law, so that postponement 
is not harmful to the owners concerned. 


285 


As explained above, the Land Tax Law provides for the imposi- 
tion of a tax of 6 per cent. of the yield of the land and the following 
table shows the aggregate areas taxed at the various rates :— 


Category. Tax Area 
Mils per dunum. (in dunums). 
Irrigated land (intensive cultivation) ... sud 78 4,394 
Vineyards ... aie gs oe 60 75,802 
ligated land (crop rotation) Le ane eee 42 191,839 
~ Ground crop land— 
Grade 1 . soe ae Ses she ei 32 199,474 
i. mas : md 28 532,048 
gs Or eee ne ioe ite sae aie 23 1,395,687 
a “Baas es oes ae Se ae 17 1,005,817 
ae i er 12 247,052 
i Ovees — coe cues sa = 7 273,161 
State Domain and uncultivatable land... = See a ... 6,082,761 
Total ... ... 10,008,025 


For simplicity, minor graduations in the scale have been grouped. 
The gross assessment of the land tax amounts to £P.88,423. The 
gross assessment of the taxes which it has replaced amounts to 
£P.78,641 ; a resulting increase of £P.9,782. 
The number of villages and of fiscal blocks formed in each sub- 
district are shown below :— 


No. of 
Sub-district. No. of villages. fiscal blocks. 

Irbid ... sate ee ea 125 1,244 
Ajlun ... wes bez ses 20 215 
Jerash... Tes sii sess 59 591 
Salt - ... Re Bake ea 40 657 
Amman tas me ess 77 627 
Madeba eats a oF 46 475 
Kerak ... ys di te 65 764 
Tafileh eae oe oe 9 148 
Ma‘an... bisse ee a 13 175 
Total ... ie 454 4,896 


The Land Tax Law provides for distribution of the tax within the 
iscal block by the villagers themselves. Thus the new system 
secures equitable distribution within the village together with equit- 
able assessment throughout the country. 

Progressive improvement in assessment and distribution is secured 
by two addenda to the Land Tax Law which provide that :— 

(a) Consequent upon a more accurate valuation of properties 
during settlement operations the tax may be re-assessed, pro- 
vided the variation does not exceed 10 per cent. of the village 
assessment and provided the total tax of the district remains 
unchanged. 

(b) In villages where land settlement has been completed 
the distribution of the tax shall be carried out in accordance with 
the Land Registry records. 


286 


Loose leaf tax registers have been introduced and are maintainec 
up to date as mutations occur in the land registers. The value o1 
the system is clearly evinced by the results of the current year; ir 
the eleven ‘‘ settled ’’ villages no appeals were lodged in respect ot 
tax distribution. 


Land Registry. 


5. The land registers taken over from the previous Admunistra- 
tion were in considerable disorder and the system left much to be 
desired. It was not, however, possible to introduce an up-to-date 
system in advance of settlement, but some improvement was effected 
by subjecting all transactions to central control. Another difficulty 
was that through lack of confidence in the old registers people had 
got into the habit of carrying out their transactions independently of 
the Department, and efforts have been made to alter this state of 
affairs. 

Inheritance to property was not generally registered and since a 
purchaser of land could not register unless succession transactions 
were performed, he was obliged to pay the succession fee where, 
as was often the case, the heirs of the person registered were no 
longer interested in the property. A Law was enacted in 1929 and 
amended in 1931 providing that no fees should be collected on regis- 
tration of succession transactions, within the period ended the 
31st March, 1933. 

In 1932 a Law was enacted whereby the Land Registry fees 
were considerably reduced and simplified, and in 1935 the fee pav- 
able on registration of succession was reduced to 1 per cent. in all 
cases. That this policy of reducing the rate of the fees was wise 
has been proved by the larger aggregate receipts. 

The Torrens system of registration is used for rights recorded 
during settlement and for all subsequent transactions and mutations. 
Loose-leaf binders are used in order that land registers shall not, in 
future, be encumbered with a mass of dead material. With the 
large increase of transactions in ‘‘ settled ’’ villages, it is apparent 
that the machinery of land registration cannot operate promptly 
and efficiently unless this system is used. A duplicate register of 
rights recorded during settlement and in all subsequent transactions 
is Maintained at a central registry in Amman as a precaution against 
loss by fire or otherwise of the registers in the districts. 

No case of an unregistered disposition has come to notice in 
respect of property recorded in the new registers, while the distribu- 
tion of the Land Tax in accordance with the land registers serves as 
a means of detecting any unofficial sale transaction. 

In order to secure uniformity, documents affecting the transfer or 
modification of rights recorded in the new registers are drawn up by 
Land Registrars on standard forms ; it has been considered advisable 
to bring the landowner in direct contact with the Registrars who pre- 
pare documents of sale, lease, etc., rather than that the Registrar 
should deal with advocates and petition writers. 


287 


Transactions passing through the Land Registry in 1935 num- 
bered 6,831, and £P.5,921 was collected in fees, as compared with 
4,642 and £P.4,176 respectively in the previous year. 


In 1935 there were 634 transactions recorded in the new registers 
as a result of settlement and £P.550 was collected in fees. From 
the beginning of settlement operations the amount to fall due is 
£P.5,324, of which £P.792 has been collected ; the balance will be 
collectable as and when some mutation in regard to the properties 
concerned necessitates an entry in the land registers. 


Land Settlement. 


6. The Land Settlement Law enacted in 1933 has now been 
applied to 27 villages, covering a total area of 728,000 dunums. 


Approximately four-fifths of the Settlement and Survey staff are 
engaged in villages where the lands are held in undivided owner- 
ship (masha‘a). The final partition of these lands is a matter of 
urgency, as under the masha‘a system each co-sharer retains his 
land for only a limited period, after which a redistribution is 
cared out with the result that owners have to move to entirely 
diferent plots of land. This constitutes 4 most serious obstacle to 
development. 


The object of partition is to give each co-sharer, in permanent 
ownership, a plot or set of plots in lieu of his undivided share. If 
area were the only consideration, partition could be effected 
Mathematically, but actually the operation is difficult because of 
the varied quality of land within each village. The cultivators, 
with their intimate knowledge of the minute changes in fertility, 
are themselves best fitted to carry out partition provided that they 
are subject to the supervision of a partition officer who must ensure 
that the lay-out and shape of the plots are suitable for the economic 
development of the land. 


Tn the first few villages partitioned there was difficulty in inducing 
the people to accept fewer and better-shaped plots in place of the 
many long narrow strips to which they had been accustomed. But 
latterly the cultivators have come to appreciate that the value of 
their Properties 1s considerably enhanced by following the method 
fecommended by the partition officer and there is now little diff- 
culty in effecting well laid out partitions. 


An example of the beneficial change of condition following par- 
tition is to be found in the last village completed. This village, the 
‘gest in the country, covers an area of 180,000 dunums. Under 
the masha‘a tenure a co-sharer’s holding comprised fifteen different 
plots many of which were only ten metres broad and as much as 
Ye kilometres in length. Now, as a result of partition, the co- 
sharer has received four large plots, in none of which is the length 
steater than one kilometre. 


288 

All possible steps are being taken to eradicate the injurious prac- 
tice of separate ownership of land and of the trees planted therein. 
The practice is a hinderance to development and an obstacle to clear 
registration of title. Separate ownership was prohibited after the 
enactment of the Turkish Law of Disposition of 1913, but the 
prohibition was never observed although no further legislation was 
provided to safeguard rights in joint ownership. An addendum 
to the Land Settlement Law has now been enacted which em- 
powers settlement officers to effect an arrangement whereby each 
party 1s given a portion of the land and the trees planted therein. 
In the early stages of settlement many difficulties were encountered, 
but the people quickly realised the benefits of such an arrangement 
and now co-operate more readily in an expeditious division of the 
jointly-owned properties. The better cultivation of the ancient olive 
groves is especially noticeable in villages where settlement on these 
lines has been completed. 


To encourage tree plantation and to establish a legal procedure 
for future transactions, a law has been enacted which provides 
that : 


(a) contracts of plantation made with reference to land in 
‘* settled ’’ villages shall be registered in the Land Registries, 
and 


(b) no action in respect of any contract of plantation not so 
registered shall be heard by any Court. 


Thus landowners contracting to have their properties developed, 
conditional on a stipulated division of the produce, are guided by 
Land Registrars in drawing up a suitable form of contract which 
can be properly interpreted in the event of a dispute. 


It is gratifying to note that the security of title and simplicity 
of registration which result from settlement are helping to lessen 
recourse to money lenders. The large number of short term mort- 
gage transactions now carried out in settled villages during the 
ploughing season between the landowners themselves and with the 
Agricultural Bank is significant of the immediate benefits arising 
from settlement. 


The progress of settlement during the year under review, an 
increase of 50 per cent. over the previous year, is most encouraging, 
and is almost entirely due to the more active co-operation with the 
settlement staff. At first, the people, having suffered insecurity 
of title for so many years, because of the discrepancy between 
law and practice, were unable to appreciate the new system, but 
practical results have convinced them of the social and economic 
benefits which accrue from this reform and they now co-operate 
with enthusiasm in all branches of the work. It is this fact which 
gives impetus to the work and which chiefly facilitates progress. 


289 


The following is a comparative statement of the area (in dunums) 
partitioned and settled to date :— 


e 


Final Schedule of Rights and of 


Partition passed to Land Registry. 











Masha‘a Mafruz 
Land. Land. Total. 
August to December, 1933 ... 17,540 18,363 35,903 
During 1934 ae nk ..- 155,070 39,139 194,209 
During 1935 . 268,954 31,006 299,960 
Total . 441,564 88,508 530,072 











The cost of settlement amounts to 29 mils per dunum, including 
survey, iron marks, and area computation. 


The following data have been compiled from records of work 
completed in 1935 :— 


Masha‘a Mafruz 
Land. Land. Total. 
Villages... sp dey ie 4 1 5 
Claims recorded ... 2,077 2,342 4,419 
Number of appeals oe cies 53 46 99 
Appeals allowed ... so ome 23 15 38 


Since the inception of land settlement, 307 appeals have been en- 
tered, of which 112 were allowed. There are no appeals outstanding. 


In the Ajlun District from the commencement of settlement, 
37,000 dunumas of forest areas have been registered as State Domain. 
The limits of these properties have been clearly demarcated and 
mapped and two forest rangers, trained in survey, have been 
stationed in the area to prevent encroachment and felling of trees. 


Expropriation. 

7. As a result of expropriation, all privately-owned lands occupied 
by the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company have now teen registered in the 
hame of the Government and are to be leased to the Company 
at &@ nominal rent. For the area of State Domain occupied by 
the Company a provisional rent of £P.74 has been agreed upon, 
pending the conclusion of a final lease for the whole pipe-line. 


Survey. 

8. Survey in connection with settlement is carried out on the 
1/2,500 scale. During the year, 328 cadastral plans were completed 
2 connection with survey operations :— 

Average area of 





No. of Blocks. No. of Parcels. parcel Dunums. Marks erected. 
Mache'a =, 180 3,098 80 6,455 
Maz =, 20 1,307 24 3,837 
Total ... 200 4,405 10,292 





TS — 


290 


A reduction of cadastral plans to the scale 1/10,000 is being 
carried out to serve as an index map in the Land Registries and 
for sale to the public. Since the beginning of settlement, 250 plans 
have been reproduced by the ordoverax method. 

The people are rapidly learning the value of survey and demar- 
cation, and it is not uncommon for landowners to apply for copies 
of cadastral plans in order to safeguard the limits of their properties 
and if necessary to institute proceedings in Court for encroachment. 


Maps. 

9. The publication of the 1/50,000 scale series is nearing com- 
pletion ; thirteen sheets have been produced and the final sheet is 
in course of reproduction. 

Work has begun on the production of a 1/250,000 scale map 
to be published in three sheets covering the whole country with the 
exception of the desert area east of longitude 36° 30’ E. 


IIIl.—LEGAL AND JUDICIAL. 


The most salient features of the judicial and legal system of 
Trans-Jordan from the constitution of an independent administra- 
tion of justice in Trans-Jordan till the present day are reviewed 
below. 


Basis of the Organization of the Courts in Trans-Jordan. 


CIVIL COURTS. 


(a) Courts of First Instance.—The present organization of the 

Courts largely follows the Turkish model, which was inherited from 
the former Ottoman system. The organization of the Ottoman 
Courts was based upon a District Court known as the Court of 
First Instance, having jurisdiction to try all criminal matters where 
the maximum punishment which could be awarded exceeded one 
year and the fine LT.90, and all civil cases, the value of which 
exceeded LT’.50. 
- (b) Magistrates’ Courts.—Criminal cases where the maximum 
punishment which could be awarded was less than one year and 
the maximum fine less than LT.90 and civil cases where the value 
of the subject matter of the action was less than LT.50 were triable 
by Courts known as Magistrates’ Courts or Courts of the Justice of 
the Peace. 

Courts of First Instance were established in any town of any 
importance or size in the Ottoman Empire. Magistrates’ Courts 
were established in towns possessing Courts of First Instance and 
also in smaller towns where no Courts of First Instance existed. 

Appeal from Magistrates’ Courts lay to Courts of First Instance. 
and appeal from Courts of First Instance lay to regional Courts of 
Appeal. Appeal in certain cases lay from regional Courts of Appeal 


291 


tothe Court of Cassation in Constantinople. In addition to appeal, 
this Court had a jurisdiction by way of cassation from Courts below. 
These Courts were known generally as Civil Courts to distinguish 
them from Sharia and other Religious Courts. 


Modifications. 


2. The principal modifications of this system in Trans-Jordan 
consist in the abolition of regional Courts of Appeal, since they are 
not necessary, and the abolition of the right of appeal from Peace 
Courts to Courts of First Instance. Appeals from Magistrates’ 
Courts now go direct to the Court of Appeal in Amman. Appeal by 
way of cassation has been abolished. The modifications of the 
Ottoman system are therefore little more than simplifications of a 
system which was suitable for a territory of the vast size of the 
former Ottoman Empire, but too complicated for a small country like 


Trans-Jordan. 
Sharia Courts. 


3. Sharia Courts were those Courts which had exclusive jurisdic- 
tion to deal with personal status cases of Moslems. This jurisdic- 
tion was and still is in Trans-Jordan exercised in accordance with 
the provisions of the Ottoman Law of Procedure of the Moslem Re- 
ligious Courts of the 25th of October, 1333 A.H. By personal 
status is meant matters concerning the personal and domestic re- 
lations of the parties, such as marriage, divorce, alimony, mainten- 
ance, guardianship, legitimation and adoption of minors, interdic- 
tion, succession, wills and legacies. These Courts also have jurisdic- 
tion in cases of ‘* Diya ’’ (blood money), this being a cash payment 
to the relatives of any person killed or injured as the result of the 
wrongful act of any other person, in addition to any penalty imposed 
under the terms of the Criminal Law by the Civil Courts. ‘‘ Diya ”’ 
is a part of Mohammedan Law and as such is administered by the 
Sharia Courts. The Sharia Courts also had jurisdiction to deal 
with cases of waqf, established by and belonging to Moslems. By 
waqf is meant a pious foundation instituted by the founder, in most 
cases, from pious and religious motives. 


Religious Community Council Courts. 


4. In addition to the Sharia Courts, there were certain Courts 
known as the Courts of the Religious Community Councils which 
exercised in respect of the various non-Moslem religious communities 
dwelling within the Ottoman Empire much the same jurisdiction 
as that exercised by the Sharia Courts. Each separate community 
had its own Council which had power to set up a Court with juris- 
diction to hear personal status cases arising between members of 
the particular religious community concerned. The principal 
religious communities in Trans-Jordan are the Greek Orthodox 


292 


Community, the Greek Catholic community, the Armenian com- 
munity and the Latin community. The jurisdiction of the Courts 
of these communities is set forth in the non-Moslem Religious 
Community Councils Law, 1933. 


History of the Cuurts in Trans-Jordan, 


5. From the outbreak of War with Turkey at the end of 1914 until 
the establishment of the present administration, the Courts already 
established by the Turks continued to function in a more or less 
haphazard manner. From 1918 to 1921 political conditions made 
any settled judicial administration impossible. 


6. On the 1st April, 1921, an independent administration of 
justice was established in Trans-Jordan, the Minister of Justice 
bearing the unusual title of Judicial Adviser, which must not be 
confused with the purely advisory post of Judicial Adviser at 
present existing. On the llth June, 1928, the title of Judicial 
Adviser was changed to that of Minister of Justice, the Munister 
presiding over the Ministry of Justice at Amman. 

On the 3rd May, 1921, the details of the new organization of 
justice in Trans-Jordan were set forth in the Law for the Organi- 
zation of Justice. This Law in effect authorized the continuance 
of two categories of Courts already in existence in Trans-Jordan. 
These were the Nizamieh or Civil Courts, and the Sharia or Moslem 
Courts having jurisdiction to try matters of personal status. The 
law also recognized the existence of Personal Status Courts for 
the non-Moslem religious communities and a special Court for 
dealing with tribal affairs. Certain Courts known as Military 
Courts were also established, having jurisdiction to deal with 
criminal cases between members of the military forces, political 
offences committed against Government officials in the exercise of 
their duties, and all other cases referred to them by the Government, 
then known as the Council of Advisers. 

The Nizamieh or Civil Courts were divided into Courts of First 
Instance and a Court of Appeal. 


7. Courts of First Instance were established in Kerak, Salt, and 
Ajlun, being composed of a President and two members, assisted 
by a Public Prosecutor and his staff. These Courts had jurisdiction 
to try all criminal, civil and commercial matters in the first 
instance brought within the sphere of their jurisdiction. In 1922 
a court of First Instance was also established in Amman bringing 
the number of Courts of First Instance to four. 

Magistrates’ Courts (or Peace Courts) were established 1m 
Amman, Madeba, Jerash and Tafileh. 

A Court of Appeal for the whole of Trans-Jordan was set up in 
Amman, consisting of a President and of four members, assisted 
by a Public Prosecutor and the necessary staff. The Court of 
Appeal had jurisdiction to hear all criminal and civil cases on 


293 


appeal from the Courts of First Instance and the Magistrates’ 
Courts, and in addition had jurisdiction to deal with appeals from 
the Sharia Courts. 


A Special Committee was set up for the selection of judges and 
judicial officials. 


8. On the 9th July, 1921, a special department of the Govern- 
ment known as the Department of Sharia Affairs was created for 
dealing with Sharia matters. This Department was presided over 
by an Adviser and also had jurisdiction to deal with matters of 
wagfs, or pious foundations of Moslems, the appointment of muftis, 
imams, preachers, etc. The jurisdicton to hear appeals from 
Sharia Courts was removed from the Court of Appeal and entrusted 
to a Court known as the Committee for the Revision of Sharia 
Judgments, established in the Department of Sharia Affairs. 


The Court of Sharia Revision was presided over by the Sharia 
member of the Civil Court of Appeal and contained another member 
of the same Court. 


In the year 1921 eight Sharia Courts were in existence, and the 
title of the President of the Sharia Court of Revision was changed 
to that of Qadt el Qudat, or Chief Judge. 


In 1922 a Department of Tribal Administration was established 
which was designed primarily to deal with inter-tribal disputes 
and cases where only beduins were concerned. Occasionally this 
body assumed jurisdiction in cases ketween beduin and townsmen ; 
it was abolished in August, 1924. 


Apart from this, however, Tribal Courts have been established 
in various forms from the outset in Trans-Jordan. Until the be- 
ginning of 1936, Tribal Courts exercised a limited jurisdiction over 
homadic tribes in accordance with the terms of the Tribal Courts 
Law, 1924. 


Appeal from Tribal Courts went to the Tribal Court of Appeal 
which was composed of two judges of the Civil Court of Appeal 
and two Tribal Sheikhs appointed by the Minister of Justice. 


9. By the terms of the Beduin Control Law, 1929, a Beduin 
Control Board having judicial functions was set up with powers— 


(a) to control beduins and superintend their movements ; 

(b) to determine when necessary the places where they 
should camp ; 

(c) to hear and determine actions within the jurisdiction of 
the Tribal Courts in accordance with the Tribal Courts Law ; 

(d) to withdraw any action pending in a Tribal Court ; 

(e) to investigate raids or other breaches of the peace in 
which beduins are concerned; and 

(f) to seize and sell the movable and immovable property 
of beduins in satisfaction of personal rights and of fines imposed 
upon them. 


294 


By the terms of the Tribal Offences (Settlement) Law, 1933, 
the Officer Commanding the Arab Legion or any officer of the Arab 
Legion nominated by him was given power to deal with cases under 
the terms of the Beduin Control Law, 1929, and to inflict im- 
prisonment or fine or both. 


10. In 1925 a Magistrate’s Court was constituted at Ma‘an. At 
first the Sharia Qadi at that place was given powers to act as Civil 
Magistrate. In 1934 a Civil Magistrate was appointed. 


In 1927, a further change in judicial organization was made by 
the conversion of the Court of First Instance at Salt to a Magis- 
trate’s Court. 


Another change was made in 1929, whereby the membership 
of the Courts was reduced. With the passing of the Courts Law, 
1929, membership of the Court of Appeal was reduced from five 
to three and that of Courts of First Instance from three to two. 
It was provided that if two judges in a Court of First Instance 
disagreed on a point of law, the decision of the senior judge should 
prevail, but if the disagreement related to the credibility of wit- 
nesses, the action should be retried before a Court of three judges. 
In the nine months following the passing of this Law, five re-trials 
were necessary. ‘This reduction of staff was made as a measure 
of economy; it has since been found necessary to increase the 
judicial establishment in Courts of First Instance by increasing 
the minimum membership to three. This has been done in Amman 
and Irbid and it is hoped to find sufficient funds to increase the 
staff of the Court at Kerak. 

An additional judge of the Court of Appeal was later recruited 
to act as a relieving judge and also to perform the duties of 
Inspector of the Courts when time can be found for those duties. 


Grant of Magisterial Powers to Administrative Officials. 


11. On the 7th November, 1921, Mutessarrifs, Qaimmakams and 
Mudirs of Nahias were granted jurisdiction to deal with a limited 
number of criminal cases, having power to inflict a fine without 
appeal not exceeding £P.5. This jurisdicton was abolished on the 
21st May, 1925, as it was found to be unsatisfactory. At present 
no Adminstrative officials have judicial powers. 


Courts at present established in Trans-Jordan. 


12. Civil Courts.—The Courts at present established in Trans- 
Jordan are as follows :— 
(1) A Court of Appeal at Amman having Jurisdiction to hear 
appeals from all lower Courts in Trans-Jordan ; 
(2) Courts of First Instance having jurisdiction in criminal 
matters where the maximum punishment which can be awarded 


295 


is imprisonment for more than three years or a fine, and in 
civil matters where the value of the subject matter of the 
action exceeds £P.50. 


These Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, and Kerak. 


Members of Courts of First Instance proceed to places where 
Magistrates’ Courts only are in existence, in order when 
necessary to constitute Courts of First Instance there, thereby 
saving litigants and others concerned the trouble and expenses of 
coming to the headquarters of a Court of First Instance. 


(3) Magistrates’ Courts having jurisdiction in criminal cases 
where the maximum punishment which can be awarded 1s 
imprisonment up to three years or a fine, and in civil cases 
where the value of the subject matter of the action is not more 
than £P.50, though if the parties agree in writing, the Court 
has jurisdiction up to any amount. 


Magistrates’ Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, Kerak, 
Salt, Jerash, Ajlun, Madeba, Tafileh, and Ma‘an. 


_ Sharia Courts.—Sharia Courts having jurisdiction to hear personal 
status cases of Moslems, cases relating to wagqfs (pious foundations) 
and diya (blood money) are established in Amman, Kerak, Irbid, 
Salt, Ajlun, Tafileh, Jerash, and Ma‘an. 


Tribal Courts.—Tribal Courts are at present established in 
Amman, Irbid. Kerak, Ma‘an, and the Desert Area. 


Religious Community Council Courts.—Religious Community 
Council Courts are established in the following places :— 


Place. Community. 
Amman ... shes ee Greek Orthodox and Greek 
Catholic. 
El Husn _... Sa ae Greek Orthodox and Greek 
Catholic. 
Balt = ae Nae Greek Orthodox only. 


Special Courts.—The only Special Court at present working in 
Trans-Jordan is the Land Settlement Court which is a travelling 
Court and is set up in districts which are declared to be land settle- 
ment areas under the terms of the Land Settlement Law, 1933. 


The organization of the Courts as at present existing in Trans- 
Jordan is one to which the people are well used and which is easy 
to understand. It works well and no serious criticism of it has been 
made. The only point to which criticism has been directed is the 
composition of Courts of First Instance composed of two judges only, 
but, as pointed out above, every effort is being made within the 
limits of the funds available to increase the personnel of the Courts 
to normal strength. 


296 


Nature of the Law in force in Trans-Jordan. 


13. Article 58 of the Organic Law provides that Ottoman laws 
promulgated before 1st November, 1914, and laws _ promul- 
gated after that date and declared by public notice to be 
in force in Trans-Jordan shall remain in force until repealed or 
amended. Ottoman law consequently constitutes the bulk of the 
corpus juris of ‘Trans-Jordan, the only amendments and repeals of 
any importance being those affecting administrative matters, to 
_ which may be added the Organic Law itself, which replaces the 

Ottoman Constitution. 

Ottoman law consisted of several elements which have necessarily 
been taken over by Trans-Jordan under the terms of Article 58 of 
the Organic Law. These elements are Muhammadan Law, French 
Law, Turkish Law, and Personal Status Law of non-Moslem 
Religious Communities. 


(1) Mohammedan Law.—Mohammedan law 1s the law which had 
its origin in the precepts of the Koran as applied by the Prophet 
Mohammed himself and was later developed into a formal legal 
system by Moslem jurists. Mohammedan Law as taken over by 
Trans-Jordan now consists of three main divisions :— 

(a) Civil Law ; 

(b) Personal Status Law of Moslems; 

(c) Miscellaneous Laws affected by Islam, such as wagqf 
(pious foundations) ; and portions of the Land Law, etc. 


The Civil Law referred to in (a) above is contained in a compila- 
tion known as the ‘‘ Mejelle’’. This is a codification by a Com- 
mittee of Moslem jurists, specially appointed for that purpose, of 
those portions of Mohammedan Law dealing with the principal 
contracts such as sale, hire (including employment), pledge, 
guarantee, gift, etc. It also covers civil injuries and the law of 
procedure and evidence, the part dealing with procedure being 
supplemented by the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure. 

The Personal Status Law of Moslems is administered by the 
Sharia Courts. 


(2) French Law.—The Ottoman Government borrowed several 
of their codes of law from France. They are often virtually little 
more than Turkish translations from the French. The principal 
of these Codes are :— 

(a) The Criminal Code; 

(b) The Criminal Procedure Code ; 
(c) The Civil Procedure Code ; 
(d) The Commercial Code. 


The Criminal Law of Trans-Jordan, both as regards substantive 
law and procedure, consequently bears many of the characteristics 
of French criminal law. The Office of Examining Magistrate 
(juge d instruction) has been abolished in the interest of economy, 
the duties being performed by the Public Prosecutors. 


297 


(3) Turkish Law.—Pure Turkish law consists of laws passed by 
the Turks for their own local requirements and not borrowed from 
elsewhere. These are principally administrative laws, such as the 
Ottoman Wilayet Administration Law. 


(4) Personal Status Law of the Non-Moslem Communities.— 
This is the law in matters of personal relations followed by the non- 
Moslem communities of the former Ottoman Empire, which is 
based upon. Christian religious precepts. This law is administered 
by the Special Courts of the Communities. 


The Diwan Khas for the Interpretation of Laws and Regulations. 


14. The Diwan Khas is a body established under the terms of 
an addendum to the Organic Law dated 4th March, 1930. ‘The 
object of the creation of this body was to provide a means whereby 
any points of doubt or difficulty to administrative authorities, which 
have not been the subject of any final decision by the Courts, 
could be made the subject of investigation, the decision taken by the 
Diwan Khas being considered to have the force of law. 


The Diwan is convoked by the Chief Minister at the request of the 
Head of any Department. It is composed of two senior Adminis- 
trative officials and two senior officials of the Ministry of Justice. 
The Diwan is presided over by the Minister of Justice. 


No interpretation of the Diwan Khas of any of the provisions 
of the Organic Law are operative until confirmed by the Amir. 


Ministry of Justice. 


15. The general control and supervision of the Law Courts 
and Judicial Departments is vested in the Ministry of Justice, 
presided over by a Minister who is a member of the Executive 
Council and ex-officio member of the Legislative Council. Attached 
to the Ministry is a British Judicial Adviser, who is a member of 
the Senior Judicial Council established for the appointment, transfer 
and removal of judicial officials, subject to the concurrence of the 
Amir. He is also a member of the Diwan Khas for the inter- 
pretation of Laws and Regulations. These are the only executive 
functions of the Judicial Adviser, who is an official seconded from 
the service of the Palestine Government. His duties include the 
drafting of new laws and regulations, advising the Government 
on points of law, and attendance at the meetings of the Executive 
and Legislative Councils. He attends the meetings of the Legis- 
lative Council with a view to keeping in touch with opinion in the 
Legislative Council with regard to draft legislation submitted to it 
for discussion. He has no right either of taking part in debates 
or of voting. He is not a member of either Council. In addition, 
he joins with the Minister in conducting the day-to-day routine 
work of the Ministry and examines petitions containing complaints 


298 


with regard to specific cases, or in which the Amir is asked to 
exercise his prerogative of pardon. This work is also carried out 
in close collaboration with the Minister. 


The present Minister of Justice, Ibrahim Pasha Hashim, com- 
bines that post with the post of Chief Minister. This arrangement, 
which was made partly in the interests of economy, has worked 
well ever since the Government came into power and has been 
made possible owing to the fact that the Minister is the foremost 
lawyer of Trans-Jordan. 


Journal of the Ministry of Justice. 


16. None of the decisions of the Court of Appeal in Trans- 
Jordan has ever been published, and with the exception of a weekly 
sheet appearing at irregular intervals, there is no press in Trans- 
Jordan. In order to make available the judgments of the Court 
of Appeal and also to stimulate interest in the administration of 
justice generally, it has keen decided to publish a journal, known 
as ‘‘ The Journal of the Ministry of Justice ’’, which will contain 
the more important judgments of the Court of Appeal and occasion- 
ally judgments of the Courts of First Instance, and, in addition, 
will publish articles of legal interest contributed by local authorities. 
The publication commenced to appear as from the 1st November, 
1935. 


A feature of this publication is that it is entirely self-supporting 
and, although an official publication, no charge in respect of it 
falls upon public funds. The Journal, consisting of about eighty 
pages, appears once each month and has a circulation at present 
of about three hundred copies. It has been honoured by the con- 
tribution by His Highness the Amir himself of a series of articles 
on Mohammedan Law. His Highness is a direct descendant of 
the Prophet Mohammed, the fountain head of that Law. 


Printed Compilation of Laws. 


17. Much work has been done towards the publication of printed 
compilations of the legislation of Trans-Jordan. There has been 
considerable legislative activity and the result has been published 
in Arabic in two volumes compiled by the President of the Court 
of Appeal. ‘The first compilation deals with the years 1918-1931 
inclusive, and the second deals with the years 1932-1934 inclusive. 

A similar compilation in English was prepared by a former 
British Judicial Adviser, Mr. C. R. W. Seton, containing the 
legislation from 1918-1930. 

It is now hoped to publish two other volumes which will make 
available in English the legislation passed in the years 1930 to 1936 
inclusive, together with the whole of the Ottoman enactments now 
in force. 


299 


The Judicial Staff. 


18. With the exception of the Judicial Adviser, who is an 
Englishman, the whole of the Judicial and Administrative officials 
attached to either the Ministry of Justice or the Law Courts are 
Trans-Jordanians. 


The Court of Appeal is presided over by Taufiq Bey Sinnu, a 
judge of ability and energy. He has rendered signal service to 
both the administration of justice and the transaction of admin- 
istrative business, by the preparation of the two compilations in 
Arabic of the legislation of Trans-Jordan (referred to in the previous 
paragraph), by the training of police officers in law and _ police 
work, and by editing the judgments of the Court of Appeal and of 
other Courts for publication in the Journal of the Ministry of 
Justice. Both administrative and judicial authorities are under a 
consideratle obligation to Taufiq Bey in these matters. 


The other judges and magistrates perform their duties conscien- 
tiously and well. A serious difficulty which became apparent at 
the outset 1s the absence in Trans-Jordan of a nucleus of persons 
having the benefits of a technical legal education. This shortage 
is in fact rather a matter for commiseration than for reproach, 
since it arises out of the complete absence of educational facilities 
in Trans-Jordan during the Ottoman regime. The necessity for 
economy has up to the present prevented the establishment of a 
Law School, though the possibility of the creation of such a school 
is being carefully considered. Arrangements, however, have been 
made whereby selected students are admitted to the Law Classes 
in Palestine. This matter is referred to in more detail below. 


At present most of the judges and judicial officials are persons 
who have obtained their knowledge of the law by practical 
experience. 


Police Training and the establishment of the Police School. 


19. The relations betwen the Police—in Trans-Jordan known as 
the Arab Legion—and the Courts are good. In 1931, in order to afford 
an opportunity for the training of the Arab Legion in such matters 
as Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure, it was decided to found 
& Police School in which lectures would be given by members of the 
judiciary to selected officers and men of the Arab Legion for a period 
of one year. 


A special course of instruction in such matters as Criminal Law, 
Criminal Procedure, Constitutional Law, the Law of Extradition 
and in the methods of the detection of crime was given, the lectures 
given by the President of the Court of Appeal in the latter subject 
being later printed in book form and circulated to the police. 


At the end of the year the Police School was handed over by the 
Ministry of Justice to the Officer Commanding the Arab Legion. 


300 


Twenty-three pupils attended the lectures, and the examination 
conducted in the Ministry of Justice showed that the pupils had all 
attained a relatively high standard of proficiency in Criminal Law 
and Procedure. 


Admission of Trans-Jordan Students to the Palestine Law Classes. 


20. The truth of the maxim that good judges make good law 1s 
fully realized in the Ministry of Justice, and an arrangement was 
therefore made whereby selected Trans-Jordan students are 
admitted as students in the law classes in Jerusalem held under 
the auspices of the Government of Palestine, without the need for 
personal attendance at the lectures in Jerusalem. Nine students 
have now been admitted to the classes, and while it is still too early 
to say whether the scheme will be a success, it is hoped that the 
result will be to make available a nucleus of candidates for employ- 
ment as judges and judicial officials possessing a relatively high 
degree of knowledge of law and procedure and the principles of 
jurisprudence. 


Pardons. 


21. His Highness the Amir has the right of granting pardons 
and of reducing sentences of imprisonment passed by the criminal 
Courts. This prerogative also existed in the former Ottoman 
Kmpire. The prerogative of pardon is now exercised in Trans- 
Jordan in those cases where persons are suffering from incurable 
or extremely dangerous diseases or where a mistake in law or in 
fact has come to light after the sentence has been awarded by the 
Courts. | 


By way of exception to this rule, a general amnesty was pro- 
claimed in Trans-Jordan on the 8th July, 1928, upon the occasion 
of the publication of the Organic Law of Trans-Jordan ; and on the 
24th November, 1934, a general reduction of sentences being served 
was granted, save in the case of specified crimes, to celebrate the 
marriage of the Heir-Apparent. 


The Amur’s proclamation on the latter occasion read as follows :— 


‘We, Abdullah Ibn E] Hussein, Amir of Trans-Jordan, in 
order to mark the occasion of the marriage of our son the 
Amir Talal and acting in accordance with the powers conferred 
upon us in accordance with Article 23 of the Organic Law, and 
in virtue of the decision taken by the Executive Council in 
its meeting held on the 24th November, 1934, order as 
follows :— 


‘A period of one third shall be deducted from all sen- 
tences which are for a limited period of time and which 
have become final on the 26th November, 1934, or before 
that date. 


301 


‘" All sentences of penal servitude for life or perpetual 
imprisonment in a fortress which have become final on 
the 26th Novemter, 1934, or before that date, shall be 
converted into hard labour for a period of fifteen years 
or to imprisonment in a fortress for a period of fifteen 
years respectively. 

‘‘ All sentences of imprisonment for a period not ex- 
ceeding one week or to a fine not exceeding £P.1 and 
which became final on the 26th November, 1934, or before 
that date shall be totally remitted. 

‘‘ This pardon does not apply to persons who have been 
sentenced for the following offences :— 


(1) murder under brutal circumstances ; 
(2) highway robbery ; 
(3) offences against decency. 


‘* A Committee shall be formed consisting of the Min- 
ister of Justice, who shall be President, and the Judicial 
Adviser and the President of the Court of Appeal to decide 
as to what persons do not benefit by the terms of this 
pardon in view of Article 4 hereof.’’ 


The total number of prisoners who were released or whose sen- 
tences were reduced under this Proclamation was 819. 


Exclusive of these the total number of pardons and reductions 
of sentence granted by the Amir from 1928 to the end of 1935 is 
140. 


Judicial Inspectorate. 


22. Regulations were passed in 1932 superseding the Ottoman 
Regulations on this subject with a view to ensuring the systematic 
inspection of the Law Courts and Judicial Departments at regular 
intervals. These Regulations were put into operation to a limited 
extent for a short period but came to a standstill owing to the 
transfer to the Land Settlement Court of the acting Judicial 
Inspector who now acts as Land Settlement Judge. Since that 
time, Court inspection has been of a spasmodic nature, and it has 
been found impossible to appoint a special Inspector able to devote 
the whole of his time to inspection. It is hoped, however, that 
provision will be made in the near future for the appointment of 
an Inspector who will devote the whole of his time to this work. 


The Land Settlement Court. 


23. The Land Settlement Law, 1933, introduced the beginnings 
of systematic land settlement in Trans-Jordan. In order to deal 
with cases of dispute arising during the progress of land settlement, 
& special Court known as the Land Settlement Court was con- 
stituted to hear and determine all such cases, The services of a 


302 


judge of the Court of Appeal were lent to the Department of Lands 
and the Land Court commenced work on the 12th December, 
1933. Up to the end of 1935, 307 cases were disposed of. 


Budget of the Ministry of Justice. 


24. The following table shows the expenditure of the Ministry 
of Justice for the last eleven years :— 


Year. Amount Year. Amount 

£P. £P. 
1924-25 ee 9,456 1930-31 ... 15,023 
1925-26  ... 11,309 1931-32. ... 15,854 
1926-27 ... 14,847 1932-33  ... 15,676 
1927-28  ... 16,119 1233-34 ... 16,238 
1928-29 ..... 15,945 1934-35 ... 15,826 
1929-30 ._.... ~—s-: 15,835 


Revenue accruing from Fees, Fines and Costs during the years 
1932, 1933, 1934 and 1935. 












Civil. 
Notary 
















Year. Public Total. 
Fines. | Costs Fees on Fees on aoe 
; : Actions. | Execution. 
£P. Mils. | £P. Mils. | £P. Mils. | £P. Miles. | EP. Miles. | £P. Mils. 
1932 1,188: 196 774-559 | 4,590-623 916-535 | 1,216-423 | 8,686-336 
1933 ead | 1,255 -609 1,557 -566 | 3,583 -094 727-359 972-319 | 8,095- 947 
1934 ... | 2,463-251 | 1,673-921 | 3,354-950 668-455 | 1,031-835 | 9,192-412 
1935 ... | 2,052-064 | 1,408-525 | 5,522-250 | 1,303-410 9,428 - 274 





IV.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


1. There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious obser- 
vance throughout ‘Trans-Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows :— 


‘* Article 10. Islam shall be the religion of the State and 
there shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete 
freedom of belief and freedom to practise forms of worship in 
accordance with their customs unless detrimental to public 
safety or order or contrary to morals.’’ 


‘* Article 14. The various communities shall have the right 
to establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their 
members in their own language provided that they conform to 
the general requirements prescribed by law.’’ 


303 


3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law three of the sixteen 
elected representatives are Christians. The law relating to the 
selection of members of the Administrative Councils provides that 
Heads of Religious Communities shall be members of the selection 
committees, and that where the Christian male population is 500 
souls there shall be one, and where it is 1,000 there shall be two, 
Christians in the Council. The present Municipal Law does not 
provide for the representation of minorities, but in the new Law, 
which is now drafted and under consideration, Councils are to be 
composed of Circassians, Christian Arabs, and Moslem Arabs in 
proportion to the number of males over twenty years of age in these 
communities. If this would not give the minorities representation, 
they will be given representation if their numbers are 10 per cent. 
or more of the whole. 


4. Personal status cases of non-Moslem religious communities are 
within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious Community 
Councils according to the provisions of the Religious (non-Moslem) 
Community Councils Law, 1933. 


5. Community and private schools may only be opened after 
obtaining a licence from the Department of Education. Before 
such a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy the 
Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be used and 
to submit the details of the qualifications of the teachers to be 
appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After a school has 
been licensed and opened the Department of Education has the 
right to inspection. Of recent years there have been no difficulties 
in regard to licensing or inspection, though this latter nght is 
seldom exercised. 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the Govern- 
ment services, and hold some of the highest posts. 


8. The Government is not in a position to finance a hospital in 
Salt, but it assists the Church Missionary Society in that town to 
maintain its hospital there by a payment of £P.400 per annum. A 
law was also passed this year enabling the Jerusalem and the Near 
Kast Trust, Ltd., to acquire a piece of land in the Ajlun District 
for the purpose of building a hospital and sanitorium. 


V.—ARAB LEGION. 


Establishment and Responsibilities. 


1. The Arab Legion, a force composed of 39 officers, 3 cadet 
oficers and 1,004 non-commissioned officers and men, 18 com- 
manded by a British officer, and is responsible for public security, 
the maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, imm)- 
gration and passport control, and the licensing of vehicles. 


304 


Organisation and Administration. 


2. The force is organized and administered in the following 
divisions— 

Amman.—Headquarters of the Force, consisting of Public 
Security, Administration, Criminal Investigation Department, 
Passport Control, Traffic and Licensing, Records, and Stores 
Departments. 

Amman.—The Depot where the Reserve and recruits are 
housed, and where general instruction is imparted. The central 
gaol is situated within the Depot area. 

Amman.—Headquarters and five Stations of Amman Town 
Police. 

Ajlun District.—District Headquarters and 13 police stations. 

Belqa District.—District Headquarters and 19 police stations. 

Kerak District.—District Headquarters and 10 police stations. 

Ma‘an District.—District Headquarters and 9 police stations. 


Desert Area.—Desert Area Headquarters and 8 stations. 


Eight wireless stations are in operation, of which seven are per- 
manent and one is a mobile set mounted in a Ford tender; thirty- 
nine of the rural police stations are connected by telephone with 
their district headquarters. 


An officers’ mess and a canteen and dining room for non-com- 
missioned officers and men have been built at the Depot. 


Schools for the education of the men of the Force and their 
children exist at the Depot and the desert posts at Azraq and 
Mudawara. 


Courses of Instruction. 
3. Considerable importance is attached to the attendance of per- 


sonnel at courses of instruction, and during the year the following 
courses were attended :— 


Coatie Personnel 
: attending. 
Study of crime statistics and graphs: 
Palestine Police ern 
Jerusalem ie 2 Officers. 
Metropolitan Police Mounted “Course : 
Imber Court, London _... 1 Officer. 
Wireless Telegraphy, Maintenance and 
Organisation : 


R.AF. Wireless School, Cranwell 1 Officer. 
Motor Repairs and Maintenance : : 
Ford Motor Co. Works, Alexandria 1 Officer. 
3 Men. 


305 


Personnel 
COMIEe: attending. 
Welding and Lathe Work : 

T.J.F.F. Workshops, Zerka .... 1 Man. 


Rifle and Revolver : 


Lancashire Fusiliers, Haifa 1 Officer. 
Vickers & Lewis Gun: 
T.J.F.F. Zerka 2 Officers. 
18 Men. 
Car driving and Maintenance : 
Depot, Amman 3 Officers. 
6 Men. 


Wireless Maintenance and Repair : 
R.A.F., Amman ... ask 

The Law and its application : 
District Headquarters, Kerak 

Wireless Telegraphy Course : 
R.A.F., Amman ... oe ... 5 Men. 


7 Operators. 
10 Senior N.C.Os. 


Crimina] Investigation Department. 


4. A comparative statement, as between 1934 and 1935, showing 
activities in connection with crime, is appended :— 


1934. 1935. 
Enquiries from Courts regarding ante- 1,998 967 
cedents. 
Finger prints taken of suspects 882 347 
Crime files opened sat : 5 207 1,301 
Files opened, absconded offenders, 103 100 
Trans-Jordan. 
Files opened, absconded offenders, 21 29 
from Palestine. 
Files opened, absconded offenders, 30 12 


from Syria. 
In the files opened, the following are the principal crimes 
concerned :— 

1934. 1935 
Murder : 47 19 
Wounding ... 444 349 
Abduction ... 45 43 
Theft 1 646 715 
Car accidents 118 111 
Smuggling ... 37 7 
Drunkenness 70 60 


Drug Traffic.—The use of drugs is unknown to the great majority 
of the population of Trans-J ordan, and pharmacies in which drugs 
are sold are vigilantly controlled by the police and the Public Health 


Department. 


306 


There has been occasional evidence of drug smuggling through 
Trans-Jordan but the police are watchful and the traffic is only 
sporadic. In 1929 one slab of hashish was seized in a Beduin tent 
at Jafar, the oasis east of Ma‘an, and in 1932 98 kilogrammes 
were seized in Irbid while being conveyed in ‘specially constructed 
water and petrol tanks in a car coming from Syria. 


In the year under review a very small quantity of hashish was 
found in an untenanted cave near Amman. 


Passport Department. 


5. The following table shows the work of this Department for 
the years 1934 and 1935 :— 


1934. 1935. 
Applications for Nationality Certificates 556 792 
Nationality Certificates issued bie 530 578 
Naturalization... se bad — 17 90 
New passports issued ... oes 5% 515 721 
Emergency visas issued ~ ae 208 181 
Ordinary visas issued ... aa aia 17 197 
Return visas issued... oid es 55 47 
Registration of foreign passport ve 2,398 1,987 
Endorsements... oe os Sts 121 144 
Passport contraventions pagsed to 807 644 

Courts. 

Trans-Jordan passports renewed a — 354 


Motor Vehicles. 


6. The Force is responsible for the licensing of all private and 
public vehicles and the following details showing the progress gince 
1926 are of interest :— 


Year Incensed. 
1926. 1934. 1530. 
Cars cee Sie Ae a re Mes nes 110 269 274 
Buses... sete ae es a as a 4 19 34 
Trucks and Lorries__... ae abs oe din 16 169 169 
Motor Cycles... bs ae ea'3 she ies 5 7 7 
Totals... wa8 ee oe a bee aie 135 464 484 


Specially enrolled Police. 


7. The police duties along the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s pipe 
line and at the Company’s pumping stations are carried out by 
extra personnel specially enrolled for this purpose. The present 
establishment of this force is one British officer and 58 N.C.O’s. 
and men, who are paid, clothed, and equipped at the expense 
of the Company. 


307 


Relations with Saudi Arabia. 


8. The policy of direct co-operation on the frontiers between the 
Oficer Commanding Desert Area and the Amirs of Kaf, Jauf, 
and Tebuk was considerably extended during 1935. This pro- 
cedure first became possible in 1934 owing to the conclusion of 
the Treaty of Friendship and Bon Voisinage between Trans-Jordan 
and Saudi Arabia in‘ 1933 (see Appendix VIII to the report for 
19384). After an initial period of suspicion, mutual relations 
improved greatly during 1935. Direct wireless telegraph com- 
munication was also established between the frontier authorities 
and the amount of correspondence exchanged by letter and telegram 
increased very largely during the year under report, affording 
plain proof of the increase of co-operation. Relations with the Amir 
of Tebuk were particularly cordial. 


Relations with Jebel Druze Government. 


9. Relations with the Jebel Druze authorities were also cordial, 
and frontier relations have been satisfactory. Any petty thefts 
in the frontier region have been energetically dealt with by both 
Governments in unison, with the result that law and order on 
this frontier have attained a high standard. 


Entry of ‘Iraq tribes into Trans-Jordan. 


10. An illustration of the greatly improved conditions in the 
desert was afforded by the fact that a considerable number of the 
‘Iraq Amarat tribe entered Trans-Jordan, and even penetrated 
nearly to Amman. The Amarat have been at feud with the Trans- 
Jordan tribes for centuries, and never before had they been able 
to cross the frontier unmolested. 


Beduin cultivation. 


ll. Further progress was made with schemes for enabling im- 
poverished nomads to take up cultivation. £P.650 was advanced 
to needy Howeitat for this purpose; while in October £P.250 
was distributed among the Howeitat and £P.250 among the Beni 
Sakhr with the same object. 


Relief Committee. 


12. A committee known as the Arab Legion Relief Committee, 
which is composed of several officers of the Force, exists for the 
telief of distress throughout the country. Its general objects are :— 

(1) to collect funds, food and clothing for issue to destitute 
and needy persons ; 
(2) to assist the unemployed to obtain work ; 


(3) to aid needy prisoners to return to their homes and to 
obtain employment for them on discharge from gaol ; 


308 
(4) to repatriate destitute foreigners; and 
(5) to pay for the hospital treatment of destitutes. 


During the year 1935 the activities of the Relief Committee have 
included :— 
the collection of a large amount of clothing and blankets and 
arrangements for the making of garments; 
the issue to needy men, women and children of 559 garmente 
and 110 blankets ; 
the repatriation of three destitute persons to the Hejaz, tw« 
to Syria and one to ‘Iraq; : 
the issue of a total of 138,808 food rations; and 
assistance to a large number of persons to obtain employ- 
ment. 


Prison Industry. 


13. Prisoners are taught various industries, such as quarrying, 
stone-cutting and shaping, building, carpentry, weaving of carpets. 
and mats, poultry keeping, gardening, cooking, and washing and. 
ironing of clothing. : 

A number of ex-prisoners who prior to entering the gaol are. 
known to have had no settled employment are now engaged 
throughout the country in the trades which they were taught in the ° 
central gaol and are regarded as valuable, law-abiding citizens. 


VI._INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, * 
AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the name of Trans-Jordan. 


(1) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date and place of Signature. 
Syria and Customs Agreement... ... 10.5.1923 Amman. 

Lebanon. ‘ 
Palestine ... Transit Agreement... ... 26.9.1928 Jerusalem. : 


~ Amended 18.12.1928. 
Amended 27.12.1928. 
Amended 23.7.1934. 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Great Britain Agreement ue wee wee 202.1928 Jerusalem. Ratified 
31.10.1929, Amman. 
Nejd ... Hadda Agreement at ... 2.11.1925 Bahra Camp. 
Syria and _ Provisional Agreement in regard 15.2.1928 Amman. 
Lebanon to the Transmission of Judicial 

Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


309 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date and place of Signature. 
Palestine ... Agreement for the taking of 25.2.1929 Jerusalem. 
Evidence on Commission for 6.3.1929 Amman. 
the purposes of any Commer- 
cial or Civil Matter. 


Palestine ... Agreement regarding the Inter- 6.3.1929 Amman. 
change of Judicial Documents. 
Palestine ... Agreement regarding the Con- 1.10.1929 


veyance of Corpses from 

Palestine for Burial in Trans- 

Jordan, and from Trans- 

Jordan for Burial in Pales- 
. tine. 

Palestine ... Agreement as to the Circulation 14.10.1929 Jerusalem. 

of Motor Vehicles. 

Syria and Agreement concerningthesettle- 2.2.1930 Amman. 
Jebel ment of Disputes between 29.12.1929 Beirut. 
Druze. Beduins of Trans-Jordan and 

Beduins of Syria or the Jebel 
Druze, as well as between 
Beduins and Non-Beduins of 
the same States. 

‘Traq ... Treaty of Friendship ... ... 26.3.1931 Amman. 
Syria and Agreement Establishing Tele- Effect from Ist April, 1930. 
. Lebanon. graphic Communication. 

Syria and Agreement for the reciprocal 20.8.1932 Jerusalem. 


Lebanon grant of gratis visas. 5.9.1932 Beirut. 
Saudi Arabia Treaty of Friendship and Bon 27.7.1933 At Jerusalem. Ratified - 
Voisinage. 23.12.1933 at Cairo. 


_ Great Britain Supplementary Agreement ...  2.6.1934 Jerusalem. Ratified at 
| Abbin on 22.6.1935. 
- Palestine ... Extradition Agreement ... 16.7.1934 Jerusalem and 
11.3.1934 Amman. 
Amended 1.9.19365. 

Palestine ... Agreement to Regulate the 23.11.1934 Amman and Jerusalem. 
Service of Judicial Docu- 

ments between Palestine and 

Trans-Jordan. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
Declaration recognising the Right to a Flag of States 20.4.1921, 9.10.1922 
having no Sea Coast. Barcelona. (Ratification). 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit ... 20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 
Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 


Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. _ Barcelona. 
International Convention relative to the Protection of 13.11.1908, 21.83.1924. 


Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.1908. Berne. 

International Opium Convention and subsequent 23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 
relative papers. The Hague. 

International Convention relating to the Simplification 3.11.1923, 29.9.1924 
of Customs Formalities. Geneva. (Ratification). 


34931 L 


310 
Title of Instrument. 


Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol 
of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Ports, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electrical Power, and Protocol of Signature. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 

International Agreement as to Contagious Diseases of 
Animals. 

International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 

International Sanitary Convention 


Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial Naviga- 
tion. 

International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 

International Convention for the Unification of 
Certain Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Conditions of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
‘the Field. 


International Convention relative to the Protection 
of Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

Convention for the Unification of certain Rules relating 
to International Carriage by Air. 


Date of 
Signature. 

9. 12.1923, 
Geneva. 


Date of 
Accession. 
22.9.1925. 


9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 
9.12.1923, 
Geneva. 
9.12.1923, 
Geneva. 
24.9.1923, 
Geneva. 
12.9.1923, 
Geneva. 
25.1.1924, 
Paris. 
25.9.1926, 
Geneva. 
19.2.1925, 25.9.1928 
Geneva. (Effective date). 
21.6.1926, 9.10.1928. 
Paris. 
13.10.1919. 


22.9.1925. 
22.9.1925. 
8.5.1926. 

23.65.1927. 
13.7.1927. 


18.6.1927. 


11.7.1922. 


22.11.1928, 17.12.1930. 

Paris. 
25.8.1924, 

Brussels. 
27.7.1929, 


Geneva. 


2.6.1931 
(Effective date) 
23.6.1931 
(Ratification). 
(Effective date. 
23.12.1931). 
2.6.1928,  1.10.1931. 
Rome. 
30.9.1921, 
31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 
18.5.1904, 
Paris. 
4.5.1910, 
Paris. 
12.10.1929, 
Warsaw. 


2.11.1931. 


6.5.1932 
(Effective date). 
6.5.1932 
(Effective date). 
14.4.1932. 


Conventions applied in 1935. 


International Convention for Mutual Protection 
against Dengue Fever. 


International Convention for the Sanitary Control of 12.4.1933, 


Aerial Navigation. 
International Telecommunications Convention 


Universal Postal Convention 


25.7.1934, 3.5.1935. 


Athens. 
1.8.1935. 
The Hague. 


9.12.1932, 24.5.1935. 
Madrid. 


20.3.1934, 1.1.19365. 


Cairo. 


311 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Date of 
Country. Date of Signature. Application. 
Between United Kingdom and : 
Albania ... sue sae ..- 22.7.1926... sions see ..» 11.7.1927. 
Austria... eae ar ... 93.12.1873/26.6.1901 _... .-- 18.3.1932. 
Belgium ... ... ...—«..-29.10.1901 vee ee wee 14,1932. 
Belgian Congo .... ne .- §.3.1907/3.3.1911 see ... 1.4.1932. | 
Ruanda Urundi ... in ... 28.6.1928/2.7.1928 bs ... 1.4.1932. 
Bolivia... = ae ... 22.2.1892... oes see ..- 33.1932. . 
Chile isis oo ee .- 26.1.1897 ... ... as ..- 18.3.1932. 
Colombia ... Sen rer .-. 27.10.1888/2.12.1929 ... ... 95.12.1930. 
Cuba wae Mae fez .-- 93.10.1904/17.4.1930 .... ... 12.12.1931. 
Czechoslovakia... ae ..» 11.11.1924, Protocol 4.6.26 ... 15.7.1927. 
Denmark ... ate 3 ... 31.3.1873... oak ae ... 29.3.1932. 
Estonia... a oa -- 18.11.1925 oe ee ... 10.3.1927. 
Finland... eae oie -.. 30.5,1924... ss ade ... 25.11.1926, 
Greece i tae ae ... 24.9.1910... oe ie ... 22.4.1932. 
Guatemala... bie ee ... 4.7.1885/30.5.1914 ae ... 30.3.1932, 
Hayti wg eevee, TLDLIBT4. eee 24.2.1982. 
Hungary ... wae Ses ... 9.12,1873/26.6.1901 ... ... 30.6.1932. 
Iraq... — oie me ... 2.5.1932 ... oak eee ... 2.6.1932. 
Latvia ae hiss ale ..- 16.7.1924... ean site ... 7.6.1926. 
Lithuania ... ice at ..- 18.5.1926... Se or ... 11.6.1927. 
Monaco... xe bes ... 17.12.1891 ae She sas 
27.11.1930 ...  ..  .., por t9SI. 
Netherlands oe ae ..- 26.9.1898... sue sass ... §.4.1932. 


Nicaragua ... sae sate ... 19.4.1905... a se ... 6.4.1932. 
Norway... sits _ ..- 26.6.1873/18.2.1907 _... ..- 20.9.1932. 
Panama... = said ... 25.8.1906... nay ean ... 4.6.1932. 
Peru bag ere ae ..- 26.1.1904... wo soe ... 2.3.1932. 
Poland ec see fae we» =1).1.1932... es ca .. 12.3.1934. 
Portugal ... ee sls eee 17.10.1892/20.1.1932 ... ... 23.6.1934. 
Roumania ... aie eee ... 9/21.3.1893 as Sas ... 33.1932. 
Salvador ... ne di ... 23.6.1881... bats sees ..- 18.10.1932. 
Siam bs? ee er ... 43.1911 ... os = we «74.1932. 
Spain se eee ae ... 4.6.1878/19.2.1889 ahs .-. 23.38.1932. 
Switzerland aes ae .. 26.11.1880/29.6.1904 ... ... 9.5.1932. 
United States of America wee 22.12.1931 or ee we 24.6.1935. 
Yugoslavia... re ee ... 23.11.1900/6.12.1900_... ..- 30.8.1932. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list the Trans-Jordan 
Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. Italy. Tunis. 
Ecuador. Liberia. Uruguay. 
France. Paraguay. 

Germany.* San Marino. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition between 

-Jordan and Germany on a basis of reciprocity. The arrangement came into 
force on 28th February, 1933. 


34931 L 3 


312 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. 


Lithuania 
Latvia 
Poland ... 


Czechoslovakia ... 


Finland ... 
Austria ... 
Germany 
Greece 
Hungary... 
Austria ... 
Yugoslavia 
Spain 
Bulgaria ... 


Lithuania 
Japan 


Egypt... 
Spain 


Panama ... 


Poland ... 


T ttle of Instrument. 


Agreement respecting Commerical Relations, 

6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.1923, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.1923. 

Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 

Treaty of Commerce and 
14.12.1923. 

Treaty of Commerce and 
22.5.1924, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and 

2.12.1924, London. 

of Commerce and 


Navigation, 
Navigation, 
Navigation, 
Navigation, 


Treaty of Commerce and 
23.7.1926, London. 


Notes on Trade Marks... _ ay 04 


Treaty of Commerce and 
12.5.1927. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.1922. Revised 5.4.1927 and 31.65.1928. 

Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.1925. 
Notes Modifying the Agreement of 6.5.1922... 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation and 
Supplementary Convention of 30.7.1925. 
Commercial Modus- Vivendi, 5—7.6.1930, Cairo. 
Prolongation until 16.2.1934 by Notes of 
16-19.2.1933. 

Agreement Regulating the Treatment of 
Companies 27.6.1924, Madrid. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.1928. 


Conventions applied in 1935. 


Agreement regarding Trade and Commerce, 
27.2.1935, London. 


Navigation, 


Navigation, 


Date of 
Application. 
24.4.1923. 
25.5.1924. 
19.6.1924. 


5. 6.1925. 
13.2.1926. 


5.6.1926. 
2.12.1926. 
23.3.1927. 
26.7.1927. 
2.12.1927. 
13.4.1928. 
4.4.1928. 
1.12.1928. 
25.2.1929. 


10.12.1929. 
1.6.1930. 


21.8.1930. 
6.8.1931. 


2.9.1932. 


24.7.1935. 


‘(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Country. 


France 


Belgium ... 


Czechoslovakia ... 


Greece 


Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Title of Instrument. 


Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 
Matters, 2.2.1922. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 
Matters, 21.6.1922. 

Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 
Matters, 11.11.1924, London. 


Date of 
A pplication. 
21.3.1923. 
13.3.1925. 


17.2.1927. 


Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of { 21.6.1929. 


Orivin, 21.6.1929. 


5.7.1929 
(Effective). 


313 


Date of 
Country. Tittle of Instrument. Application. 

Germany Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 25.11.1929. 
Matters, 20.3.1928. 

Netherlands Extension to Overseas Territories of the 1.12.1929. 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, (Applicable to 
1.12.1929. British subjects 

only.) 
Spain Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 23.2.1931. 
Matters, 27.6.1929. | 

Italy Notes respecting documents of Identity for 13.4.1931. 
Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.1931. 

Poland ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 17.10.1932. 
Matters, 26.8.1931. 

Estonia ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 11.11.1932. 
Matters, 22.12.1931. (Effective date). 

Portugal... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 30.4.1933. 
Matters, 9.7.1931. 

Denmark Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 25.7.1934. 
Matters, 29.11.1932. 

Netherlands Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 22.9.1934. 
Matters, 31.5.1932. 

Conventions applied in 19385. 

Belgium ... Supplementary Convention to Facilitate the 27.6.1935. 
Conduct of Legal Proceedings, 4.11.1932. 

Finland ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Commercial 4.6.1935. 


_A new and up-to-date, Antiquities 
lines of the Palestine Ordinance has been enacted 
old Law of 1925. It is 


Matters, 11.8.1933. 


VII.— ANTIQUITIES. 
Legislation, 


Law which follows closely the 


in place of the 
believed that the enactment of this new 


Law will considerably facilitate the work of the Department. 


Museum Accommodation. 


2. The Government has not at present the requisite facilities 


for housing, displaying and cataloguing its share of the fruits of 
excavation, and it has therefore been arranged that such material 
is sent to the Palestine Museum in Jerusalem where it is properly 
cared for and displayed whilst remaining the property of the Trans- 
Jordan Government. 

Publications. 


3. A history of Petra and the Nabateans has been prepared by 
the Inspector of Antiquities, and will be published in ten parts 
0 the Palestine Museum Quarterly. 

The first volume of a survey of Trans-Jordan antiquities has 
been published by Dr. Glueck as the annual of the American School 
of Oriental Research. This contains maps, plans and descriptions 
of real scientific value. 

Trans-Jordan was represented at the conference on the map of 
the Roman World which took place in London in September. A 

3493] L 8 


314 


map 18 now in course of preparation by the Departments of Lands 
and Antiquities which will show the Roman road system in Trans- 
Jordan. 


Excavations. 


4. At Siyagah (Mount Pisgah) the Franciscan Bible School of 
the Flagellation, Jerusalem, has continued its operations under the 
direction of Pére Sylvester Saller, O.F.M. The results have not 
been spectacular, as the work has been confined to the monastic 
buildings and the outside walls of the church. The problem of 
conserving this interesting monument so that the very fine mosaics 
may be exposed for the attraction of tourists is now under con- 
sideration. The site can at present be approached by a motor 
road from Amman via Madaba, but a much shorter way for visitors 
from Palestine would be direct from the Allenby Bridge; some 
work has already been done on this road and the uncompleted ten 
miles will be finished when funds permit. 


Tourists. 


5. Petra may now be approached from Amman via Katrani, 
Kerak, Tafileh, Shobek and Wadi Musa, so that the uninteresting 
black desert country between Katrani and Ma‘an, through which — 
the only road hitherto available passes, can be avoided. Under 
the programme of road construction the section of road across the © 
Arnon river should be completed by the end of 1937. This line 
of approach to Petra should prove of great interest to tourists, 
since it passes wholly through fertile and, in many places, beautiful 
country, and follows for a great part of the way the line of the — 
Roman road of the second century A.D., traversing ancient Moab 
and Edom. 

£P.818 was collected in fees from visitors to Petra in 1935 as 
compared with £P.574 in 1934. The entrance fee to Jerash was 
reduced from 250 mils to 100 mils. In 1935 there were 1,359 — 
foreign and 254 local visitors to Jerash as compared with 1,257 and — 
386 in 1934. 

Treasure Trove. 

6. The Arab Legion confiscated a number of gold coins which 
had been dug up at Sakhra in the.Ajlun District. An unknown 
numter of coins had already been disposed of but there were more 
than 1,000 remaining. A number of these are thought to be Arab 
and Venetian coins of the 16th century, but they are now being 
more closely classified by the Honorary Curator of Coins. This 
find has naturally resulted in a certain amount of illicit digging, 
but steps are being taken to put a stop to this. 


General. 


7. The British Assistant Inspector who recently left the Depart- 
ment has been replaced by a Trans-Jordanian. 


315 


VITI.— LABOUR. 


The forced Labour (Prohibition) Law, 1934, was introduced to 
give effect to the provisions of the International Convention con- 
cerning Forced or Compulsory Labour. In 59 villages in the Ajlun 
District the Land Tax has not been introduced and the Turkish 
Road Tax consequently still remains in force. This exception will 
disappear as soon as settlement is carried out in the villages in 
question, and this should not be long delayed, as the settlement 
parties are now at work in the District. 


Except for the very limited professional and artisan classes, 
_‘Trans-Jordanians are dependent for their livelihood on agriculture, 
but although the land is not intensively cultivated there is a very 
considerable landless class; these landless people in the slack times 
of the agricultural year obtain employment on the roads and railway 
and sometimes go as far afield as Haifa. The average wage for 
manual labour is considerably more than it was four or five years 
ago, but last year was abnormally high because of the demand 
for labour following on a good agricultural season. 


2. Women and girls do not work in Trans-Jordan in any indus- 
tnal undertaking or as labourers on the roads or in the fields for 
their husbands or for hire. Their activities are limited to work 
about the house or in the collection of household fuel. 


_ 3. Boys work in the fields with their families or on relief work 
0 bad seasons, and a limited number is employed in the only two 
factories in the country, both of which are engaged in the manv- 
facture of tobacco. The Government has considered whether a 
_ law should be enacted to govern the employment of children in 
factories, even though the number of children so employed is very 
small, but does not believe this to be necessary in view of the 
fact that the two factory owners have discharged the six children 
under 12 years of age who were employed, and have given an 
undertaking to the British Resident and the Trans-Jordan Govern- 
ment that :— 


(a) No child under 12 years of age shall be employed. 


_ (b) No child shall be employed in cleaning machinery while 
it ig in motion. 


_(c) No child shall be allowed to work for a period exceeding 
eight hours, excluding rest, in any period of twenty-four hours, 
and no child shall be allowed to work for more than five hours 
continuously. 


_ (d) Every child employed shall be allowed one day of rest 
In every seven days. 
(e) No child shall be employed between the hours of 19.00 


and 06.00 hours. 


3493] L4 


316 


IX.—EDUCATION. 
General. 


1. The Department of Education is responsible for two main 
branches of work :— 
(a) the direction, supervision and inspection of all Govern- 
ment schools. 
(b) the supervision and inspection of non-Government 
schools. 
Headquarters Staff. 


2. The Headquarters Staff consists of a Director, a First 
Inspector, a Second Inspector, a Chief Clerk, an Accountant, a 
Storekeeper and a Clerk. 


Types of Schools. 


3. The following types of schools are maintained by the Depart- 
ment :— 

(a) Secondary Schools. To these are usually attached all 
the classes of an elementary school. There are four such 
schools, three of which have two secondary classes only, while 
the fourth has four such classes. All secondary schools are 
for boys. 

(b) Complete Primary Schools. These schools, situated 
usually in big rural centres and in the larger towns, have six 
elementary classes apart from the lowest preparatory class. 
There are seven complete primary schools for boys and three 
for girls. 

(c) Incomplete Primary Schools. These schools, situated in 
the smaller towns and rural centres, follow the same syllabus 
as the complete primary schools. The number of classes, how- 
ever, varies from five and a preparatory in some of the schools, 
to three and a preparatory in others. There are six incomplete 
elementary schools for boys and six for girls. 

(d) Village Schools. There are 38 village schools. Some of 
these have gardens attached to them, and in some cases poultry 
runs. This type of school has a maximum of four classes, of 
which the highest is equivalent to the third elementary class; 
but many of them, owing either to the small number of pupils 
in the third class, or because they are newly started, do not 
attain to the standard of the third elementary. 

(e) Schools for Beduin. Two such schools were recently 
started as an experiment and serve the double purpose of 
teaching recruits for the Desert Patrol as well as boys from 
the Beduin tribes. They are accommodated in buildings 
attached to the desert forts at Azraq and Mudawara. There is 
every reason to believe that the experiment has proved 4 
success, and it 1s hoped to open more schools of this type 
in the future. 


317 


Arts and Crafts School. 


4. There is an Arts and Crafts School at Amman, where students 
may learn blacksmithing, carpentry, or cane work. Weaving was 
abandoned as unprofitable, but upholstery is to be added to the 
_ training programme in 1936. 

Students are recruited from the primary and elementary schools. 
_ No student is admitted unless he has successfully passed the fourth 
elementary class. It is left to the student to choose his trade, 
unless, for reasons of health or inaptitude, there are reasons against 
his choice. The Arts and Crafts School is a boarding school, but 
students whose parents live in Amman are admitted as day boys. 
No fees are charged either for tuition or boarding. The school has 
44 boarders and 11 day-students ; 29 are Moslems and 26 Christians. 

Their distribution according to trade is blacksmiths, 22; car- 
penters, 25; cane-workers, 8; total, 55. 

The following table shows the number of students who have 
ee a course of study at the school during the years 1927- 
1985 :-— 


Leather 
Blacksmiths. Carpenters. workers. Total. 
1927-28 sts sae acs 2 7 7 16 
1928-29 ss ie a 4 7 3 14 
1929-30 ey ee is 7 10 2 19 
1930-31 Nes ee ie 4 3 5 12 
1932-33 aay “es sas ll 18 — 29 
1934-35 ae ae be 4 7 — 11 
32 52 17 101 


After 1931-32 the length of the course was increased to two years. 
All students who have so far graduated have found work under 
~ employers in Palestine or Trans-Jordan, or have started workshops 
’ of their own. 
| Matriculation. 


5. The Education Department introduced this examination in 

1934-35 for students completing the fourth secondary class. It is 

. conducted on lines similar to the Matriculation Examination in 
Palestine. 

_ Students who pass are admitted to the Freshman Class of the 

American University of Beirut or the Syrian University at 

- Damascus without an entrance examination. Last year twenty-one 
students sat for the examination, and fifteen passed. 


The Teaching Staff. 


6. The teaching staff of the Department totals 153. Of these, 
- eleven are graduates of the American University of Beirut or have 
similar qualifications. Of the remaining men-teachers, some are 
- graduates of complete secondary schools, and some graduates of 
training schools in Syria. There are still teachers employed whose 


318 


qualifications fall short of the desired standard. The teaching staff 
is distributed as follows :— 


Men Women 
Secondary ... ite i ie ats 15 — 
Elementary ies x si ae 59 32 
Village Beduin ... site ae es 41 — 
Arts and Crafts... sue be ware 6 — 
Total ... sas 121 32 


Training of Teachers. 


7. There is no special school for training teachers, but it 1s 
intended to make good this deficiency as far as possible by holding 
courses for instruction in teaching. Such a course was held last 
year for the teaching of English, and proved most useful; the help 
of the Palestine Department was enlisted for the purpose. 


Finance. 


8. Education is free in all Government schools. 

The expenditure on education rose from £P.12,124 in 1924-25 
to £P.23 ,482 in 1930-31, and to £P.25,123 in the year 1935-36. The 
financial situation has not permitted of any great expansion during 
the last few years. In both town and village schools there are 
applicants for entry who cannot be accepted; other villages are. 
ready to provide accommodation if the Government are able to 
pay the staff, and in certain schools the classes are too large. These 
defects will be remedied as opportunity offers. 

It is hoped to obtain a contribution in secondary schools from 
all but the very poor students, and the possibility of levying 3 
municipal education rate is under consideration. ) 


Books and School Equipment. 


9. Books and other school material are distributed free to all 
pupils in village schools, but only to poor pupils in town schools. 
£P.400 was spent for this purpose. . 


School Buildings. 


10. If possible, the inhabitants pay for the building and mainten- 
ance of village schools or alternatively provide a building where the 
pupils can be adequately accommodated. In towns, however, 
schools whether built by contributions from the inhabitants or at 
the cost of the Government are maintained at Government expense. 

During the past year the Government authorized the collection 
of £P.1,105 from villages, to be spent on repairs and new coD- 
struction work. 


Local Educational Authorities. 


11. Every town and village where schools exist has a Local 
Educational Board whose President is the District Administrative 
Officer. This Board, after establishing the necessity for expenditure 


319 


on school buildings, and after consulting the Education Depart- 
ment, advises the Government to approve the collection of the 
necessary funds from the inhabitants, and when this is approved 
takes the necessary steps to apportion and collect the required sum. 


Scholarships. 


12. Of the scholars maintained at institutions outside Trans- 
Jordan at Government expense, one graduated in 1935 from the 
American University of Beirut, one from the Women’s Training 
College, Jerusalem, two from the Talabaya Farm School in Syria, 
and four from the Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarm. 
Scholars from the Talabaya and Kadoorie Agricultural Schools were 
appointed as teachers to village schools. 

There are still two scholars at Beirut, two at the Women’s 
Training College, Jerusalem, one at the British Girls’ College in 
Jerusalem, and six at the Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarm. 

In addition the Education Department maintains two scholars 
at the Government Stud-Farm at Acre, Palestine, and one, who is 
now learning upholstery, in Jerusalem. 


Scouting and Physical Training. 


13. Five teachers were sent in 1935 to attend the Scout Training 
Camp, and three others to attend a Physical Training Course held 
by the Palestine Education Department. 


School Gardens. 


14. Ever-increasing importance is attached to practical agricul- 
tural education in village schools; land for gardens is provided by 
the inhabitants, who are also required to build a protective wall. 
During 1985 five new gardens were opened bringing the total to 
thirty-two. The Department of Agriculture supplies the village 
schools with the necessary trees and seeds, arranges for the building 
of the poultry runs and houses, and provides food for the poultry. 
All school gardens are under the supervision of the Inspector of 
School Gardens. 


Agricultural Implements. 


15. Agricultural implements are supplied to village schools by 
the Education and Agricultural Departments. Among these imple- 
ments is a new type of plough introduced by the Department of 
Agriculture, which is a great improvement on the old-fashioned 
plough at present used. : 


Training Course for Village Teachers. 


16. By arrangement with the Near East Foundation, ten village 
teachers attended a two-months’ course at the Talabaya Farm 
School where they were able to obtain some useful instruction in 
agriculture. Lectures on village welfare were also delivered by 
a lecturer from the American University of Beirut. 


320 


Health in Schools. 


17. The Public Health Department examines all students, giving 
special attention to eye and skin diseases and malaria. Medicines 
are distributed free and sufficient quantities of quinine are distri- 
buted in areas infested with malaria. ‘Teachers are required to 
administer daily the treatment prescribed by the Medical Officer. 
Every village teacher is required to send in a monthly report showing 
the treatment given during the period. 


Non-Government Schools. 


18. Authorization of Schools.—Non-Government schools may 
only be opened after obtaining a licence from the Department of 
Education. The syllabus is examined and the requirements of the 
Department of Health must be satisfied before a licence is granted. 
During the past year, twelve new elementary Moslem schools and 
two community schools were licensed. 


19. Examination of Teachers.—The teachers in non-Government 
schools are allowed to practise teaching after satisfying the Educa- 
tion Department of their qualifications. 


Statistics. 


20. There are 4,651 boys and 1,191 girls in Government schools 
and 4,257 boys and 1,355 girls in non- “Government schools, distri- 
buted as shown in the following tables :— 


TOTAL DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENTS AND TEACHERS IN GOVERNMENT 








| SCHOOLS. | 
oe 
Students. Religion. Teachers. 
‘> : ae 
Schools. & ; i § Z § : 
el SlalZle)zl sls] sl zl2 
=/e |/sSleg 15 |S/S(E] S| S18 
1. Secondary... —... 44 116) — | 116} 75) 41) 15) —| 15} 13, * 
2. Primary ... _.. | 13/2,459) — | 2,459] 2,147] 312! 69) — | 59} 48) 1 
3. Girls’ Schools sae 9; — 907| 907) 733) 174) — 26| 26 20) 6 
4. Village... _.. | 38]1,987| 18) 2,005/ 1,942} 63| 39; — | 39) 38 ! 
5. Desert Schools... 2 34; — 34 34| — 2; — 2, 2 rk 
6. Kindergarten _... 1| — 266} 266) 254) 12) — 6, 6 4 ; 
7. Arts and Crafts ... 1| 55; — 55} 29) 26) 7 — 7; 6 
Total ... se | 68] 4,651] 1,191] 5,842] 5,214) 628 122 a ta) 131: 3 





es Stl ell eared coat HE elles 


321 


Table II. 


GENERAL DISTRIBUTION IN NON-GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS. 











Teachers 
Schools. ‘ $ | § é | 
Hleleleleielalalele 
=/ a (Slug 13/5 | |S] 
1. Kuttabs ba 60) 1,946; 165) 2,111)2,111) — |2,111) 62 71 69 
2. Latin Schools 17; 928! 771) 1,699} 112) 1,587) 1,699) 46) 29) 75 
3. Greek Orthodox 12} 628) 111} 639 31} 608! 639) 15 5| 20 
4. Greek Catholic 19} 555! 50] 605! 41 oo 605| 24) 1| 26 
5. C.M.S. Schools re 3 719 60| 139 47 92! 139 2 8| 10 
6. Anglican Schools ... 1 5) — 50} 17; 33) 60; 2| — 2. 
7. American Schools . 2 82} 136} 218 40| 178) 218) — 7 7 
8. Sabbatarian Schools 1 21 3 24 20 44 24 1} — 1 
9. Bahai ] 22 24 46 46, — 46, — | l 
10. T.J.F.F. l 26 17 43 23 20 43 ] l 
ll. Armenian ... ] 20 18 38), — 38 38 3 3 
Total “118 4,257| 1,355! 5,612 2,488) 3,124! 5,612} 152) 62] 214 
X.—HEALTH. 
Personnel. 
1. The senior staff is distributed as follows :— 
Appointment. Station. 
Director Amman. 
Medical Officer (Government Laboratory) Amman. 
Medical Officer (Government Hospital) . Amman. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Amman. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Salt. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Kerak., 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Irbid. 
Medical Officer (Government Hospital) Irbid. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Ma‘an. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Jerash. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Madeba. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Tafileh. 
Medical Officer (District Health Office) Ajlun. 


Dispenser (Government Hospital). 


Amman. 


Assistant Bacteriologist (Government Laboratory) Amman. 


322 


Finance. 


2. The following is the estimated revenue and expenditure of the 
Department for the financial years 1934-35 and 1935-36 :-— 


1934-35. 1935-36. 
£P £P. 

1. Revenue ... a: |e ae 750 640 
2. Expenditure : 

Personal Emoluments ... oot 9,197 9,377 

Other Charges oe os 3,893 4,573 

Extraordinary ... ee a 275 530 

Total ae see .. .£P.13 3865 £P.14,480 

Vital Statistics. 


3. The population of Trans-Jordan is roughly estimated at 
300,000, but no census has been taken. 

The number of births notified during 1935 was 11,284 (37-6 per 
thousand) , as compared with 10,742 in 1934 (35-8). 

Deaths notified in 1935 were 6,832 (22-7 per thousand), as 
compared with 7,925 in 1934 (26.4). 

The infantile mortality death-rate was 211 per thousand live 
births, as compared with 242 for 1934. 

The following table shows the birth and death rates in each of the 
past ten years, that is, since the organization of the Department 
of Health :— 


Total Increase 
Number of Births Number of Deaths of Births 
Year. registered. registered. over Deaths. 
1926 or sed ve 3,485 (11-4) 2,939 (9-6) 544 
1927 out dae ome 5,800 (19-0) 3,968 (13-0) 1,832 
1928 gus er ae 8,400 (27-4) 5,009 (16:3) 3,391 
1929 ae we ia 9,845 (32-2) 6,573 (21-5) 3,272 
1930 See sae dag 10,340 (33-8) 6,661 (21-7) 3,679 
1931 ea sa ae 10,697 (35-0) 5,648 (18-4) 5,049 
1932 cae see fe 10,871 (35-5) 5,152 (20-0) 4,719 
1933 ius bbe ste 10,900 (36-3) 7,354 (24°65) 3,546 
1934 se ya se 10,742 (35-8) 7,925 (26-4) 2,817 
1935 ee kis te 11,284 (37-6) 6,832 (22-7) 4,452 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. The 
figures for the early years cannot be taken as accurate, as the notifi- 
cation of births and deaths was not then satisfactory. Even at 
present, especially amongst the Beduin tribes, a number of births 
and deaths are not notified. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4, The total number of cases notified during the year was 8,530, 
with 306 deaths, as compared with 5,896 cases, with 294 deaths in 
1934. 


323 


Measles, malaria, and tuberculosis account for a large majority 
of the cases, as follows :—measles, 1,208 cases with 169 deaths; 
malaria, 5,452 cases with 8 deaths ; tuberculosis, 532 cases with 46 
deaths. 


The following list shows cases of and deaths from infectious and 
communicable diseases notified in 19385, compared with 1934 :— 


1934. 1935. 
Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 

Anthrax et sa ee ve 7 1 2 — 
Chicken-pox ... sin sa ee 42 — 29 — 
Diphtheria... see oa Soe 9 l 8 3 
Dysentery... oe ae ae 221 5 185 5 
Erysipelas... ss on sds 47 2 42 3 
Influenza i... a. — Ms 746 77 254 8 
Measles nea sis ao he 719 77 1,208 169 
Mumps as ar 28 — 12 — 
Cerebro- spinal ‘Meningitis xs ia 25 13 23 8 
Pneumonia ... as bee i 129 28 101 27 
Puerperal Fever... ° ... bit 9 2 8 } 
Relapsing Fever... ee sia l — 8 — 
Scarlet Fever... se; va sa 2 — 4 — 
Small-pox... sat sa ie 4 — — — 
Typhoid sie cia ve ei 120 5 165 16. 
Para-typhoid or oe bi 26 2 27 1 
Typhus abe ne ste oe 60 6 55 4 
Whooping Cough ... as 192 7 157 3 
Acute es alec Rheumatism . 30 — 31 1 
Malaria es see ... 2,736 — 5,452 8 
Schistosomiasis me me se 5 — 1 — 
Leishmanisis ... ~ te a 12 — 6 — 
Tetanus es — — 1 l 
Pulmonary and _ non- Pulmonary : 

Tuberculosis te ae 415 60 532 46 
Venereal Diseases... ane oe 250 6 226 2 


Infectious cases to the number of 209 were treated at epidemic 
posts. Many of the enteric, dysentery, puerperal fever, malaria, 
influenza, tuberculosis, and pneumonia cases were treated free at the 
Government hospitals in Amman and Irbid and a few at voluntary 
hospitals at the expense of the Department of Health. 


Serum was used in the treatment of all cases of cerebro-spinal 
Meningitis, and as a routine measure all contacts of typhoid and 
para-typhoid received free prophylactic inoculation. 


Epidemic and Disinfection Service. 


5. The Department maintained epidemic posts at Amman, Irbid, 
Kerak, and Ma‘an, each with eight beds, and also posts at Jerash, 
Tafileh, and Aqaba with four beds each, and mobile epidemic 
equipment of forty beds, which was used during the year for the 
isolation of typhus cases and contacts amongst the Beduin tribes. 


Free diet was provided for about 200 contacts of infectious 
diseases and for destitute pilgrims for the required period. 


324 


Three Thresh disinfecting machines, three Bactrol disinfecting 
machines, and a number of disinfecting spraying machines are held 
on charge. i : 


Vaccination against Smallpox. 


6. Vaccination against smallpox is obligatory by law, and is 
carried out free of charge. | 
_ The number of vaccinations during the year was 24,500, the total 
for the past five years being 232,285. 

No case of smallpox occurred, in spite of occurrences in neigh- 
bouring territories. 


Malaria and anti-Malaria Measures. 


7. The incidence of malaria during the year, compared with 
previous years, was high. The total number of new cases notified 
was 5,452, as compared with 2,736 in 1934. During the autumn, 
as in each of the preceding years, the Medical Officers of Health 
carried out an examination of children below ten years of age from 
different parts of the country with a view to determining the spleen 
index. Of 9,055 children examined, 1,365 were found with enlarged 
spleen, giving a spleen rate of 15 per cent., as compared with 
25-3 in 1926, 19-0 in 1927, 14°9 in 1928, 9°5 in 1929, 6°6 in 1930, 
5-8 in 1931, 4°5 in 1932, 3°7 in 1933, and 4°5 in 1934. 

Several causes contributed to the heavier incidence of malaria. 
Pools and streams swollen by the abnormally heavy rains did not 
dry up as is usual before the mosquito-breeding season; the large 
crops resulting from the ample rainfall kept the fellahin in the 
Jordan Valley later than usual and prevented them from cleaning 
their water channel}; and, lastly, large numbers of workmen were 
working on the two main roads in the Valley. 

Over 500 cases in badly-infested areas were treated with atebrin 
and plasmochine, and about 44 kilogrammes of quinine were issued. 

In Municipal Areas the Council pays for Sanitary Sub-Inspectors, 
labour and larvicides, but control is in the hands of the District 
Medical Officer. Three Sanitary Sub-Inspectors are employed in 
Amman and one in each of the other Municipal Areas. 


Anti-rabic Measures. 


8. Fourteen persons were bitten by animals suspected of rabies 
and were given vaccine treatment at the Department of Health 
Centres. No cases of human hydrophobia occurred. 


Government Hospitals. 


9. A hospital with twelve beds was opened in Irbid on the Ist of 
April; this and the hospital with twenty beds at Amman are 
the only two which are wholly maintained by the Government, 
though a grant is paid to the Church Missionary Society hospital at 
Salt. Both the Government hospitals are accommodated in ordinary 
living-houses. 


325 


The detention post (capacity six beds) at the Central Prison, 
Amman, was maintained. 


The total admissions to Government hospitals in 1935 was 750, 
and in 1934, 563; the total deaths being 1935, 53; 1934, 56. — 


Government Clinics. 


10. A considerable amount of work devolves upon the Department 
in the treatment of thousands of cases at the different Public Health 
Department clinics. Nearly 98 per cent. of these cases are treated 
free. Cases of eye disease are the most common, but loss of sight 
in one or both eyes and other serious complications have now been 
very much reduced. 


The total number of attendances at the clinics (excluding school 
ophthalmic clinics) during the year reached 177,104, as compared 
with 154,545 in 1984, 132,160 in 1933, 135,426 in 1932, 110,921 in 
1931, and 97,786 in 1930. 


The total number of new cases for 1935 was 40,767, classified as 
follows :—Malaria 3,243, eye diseases 11,471, other diseases 26,053. 


£P.900 was expended on drugs, dressings, and equipment for 
the two hospitals and nine clinics. 


Voluntary Hospitals. 

11. There are the following voluntary hospitals :—(1) The Church 
Mission Society hospital at Salt, capacity ten beds. (2) The Italian 
Hospital at Kerak, inaugurated in June, capacity 36 beds. (3) The 
Italian hospital at Amman, capacity 40 beds. (4) The English 
hospital at Amman, capacity 21 beds. 


Admissions to voluntary hospitals were as follows :— 


Number of Deaths in 
Admissions. Hosmitals. 


Church Missionary Society Hospital, Salt —... ee 534 35 
English Hospital, Amman a seh iss 136 17 
Italian Hospital, Amman a) a 658 29 
Italian Hospital, Kerak.. a ee 201 12 

Total ... a 1,529 93 


Voluntary Clinics. 


12. Attendances at voluntary clinics numbered 28,294, as com- 
pared with 25,331 for 1934 and 21,143 for 1933. 

The number of new cases for 1935 was 18,781, classified as 
follows: malaria, 2,186 ; eye diseases, 1,664 ; other diseases, 11,931 ; 
Total, 15,781. 


Medical Practitioners, Dentists, Pharmacists, and Midwives. 


13. During the year, licences were issued to seven medical prac- 
titioners and two dentists. 


326 


The number and distribution of medical practitioners, dentists, 
pharmacists, and midwives at the end of 1935 was as follows :— 
Medical 








Practitioners. Dentists. Pharmacists. Midwives. 

Amman 8 3 2 

Salt... 2 1 1 1 

Kerak 3 = = l 

Irbid sts eee i 2 — a a 

‘Iraq Petroleum Co. sei 2 — ane = 
Palestine Electric Corpora- 

tion, Jisr el Mejamie ... | — is = 

18 6 4 4 

Government Laboratory. 


14. The staff consists of one bacteriologist and one assistant. The 
following table shows the increase of work in recent years :— 


Year. Total Number of Spectmens 
Examined. 
1928 ot ne ae ie 1,306 
1929 eae os ses 3 1,415 
1930 im a as a 1,903 
1931 a ao ve ee 2,849 
1932 si te ste oe 3,595 
1933 a ve 62 - 4 325 
1934 a a she a 5,491 
1935 os 6,498 


School Medical Service. 


15. The District Medical Officers of Health continued the routine 
inspection of Government and voluntary schools in towns and 
villages. During the year, they examined 7,025 school children, 
as compared with 6,862 in 1934. 1,590 (22-6 per cent.) were found 
to be suffering from trachoma, as compared with 1,546 (22-5 per 
cent.) in 1934, and 705 with enlarged spleen (10 per cent.), as 
compared with 243 (3-5 per cent.) in 1934. 

The number vaccinated or re-vaccinated against smallpox was 
1,083, as compared with 872 in the preceding year. 

The total number of attendances at school ophthalmic clinics was 
307,204, as compared with 232,917 in 1934. The schoolteachers, 
under the instruction of the Medical Officers, conduct the greater 
part of the work required at these clinics. 


Maternity and Infant Welfare. 


16. The needs of economy have prevented the Department from 
making very much progress in thig section of public health. Most 
women are left to the care of unqualified midwives, the number of 
qualified midwives in Trans-Jordan at the end of 1935 being only 
four. 

A scheme has now been started whereby a number of women 
are to be trained at the Government Midwifery Centre in Jerusalem 


327 
and will later be employed as municipal midwives in the different 
towns of Trans-Jordan. It is hoped ultimately to open a training 
centre in Amman. 

There is an infant welfare centre at Amman. It is run by 
voluntary and Government funds. The Public Health Department 
pays the salary of the nurse and provides the required drugs and 
dressings, and one of the Medical Officers of the Department attends 
the clinic. 

Cases registered during the year numbered 131, as compared 
with 148 in 1934. Attendances numbered 11,798, as compared 
with 11,831 in 1934. The number of visits to the houses of children 
made by the nurse was 2,356, as compared with 2,485 in 1934. 


Other Medical and Public Health Services. 


17. (a) Arab Legion.—The Department continued to be wholly 
responsible for all medical and public health services for the Arab 
Legion, including the Desert Patrol. The general health of the 
Force has been very good. 

The Medical Officer of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company at the com- 
pany's pumping stations has helped the Department by taking 
charge of the men of the Desert Patrol at these posts. 

(b) Beduin Tribes.—A British doctor, lent by the Palestine 
Government, carried out an investigation into the health of the 
Beduin tribes. The investigation revealed a disturbing prevalence 
of tuberculosis. To combat this state of affairs a mobile medical 
unit is being formed in charge of a British medical officer. This 
unit will work in the desert area, and will make the health of the 
Beduin its special care. 

(c) Prisons.—Medical Officers of Health inspect all prisons and 
lock-ups. The general health of prisoners has been good. As a 
routine measure, every prisoner is inoculated against enteric fever 
and vaccinated against smallpox. Structural and other improve- 
ments have been made in the prisons. 


Medico-Legal Examinations. 


18. Practically all medico-legal examinations are carried out by 
the Medical Officers of Health. During the year, they performed 
3,274 examinations, as compared with 3,639 in 1934. Out of this 
number, 95 were post mortems, as compared with 98 in 1934. 


Unhealthy Trades and Public Health Establishments. 


19. The licensing and control of all unhealthy trades and public 
establishments is carried out by the Department of Health. 

The total number of licences issued or renewed during the year 
was 1,206 within Municipal Areas, and 837 outside Municipal 
Areas, as compared with 1,190 and 749 respectively in 1934. 

The licence fees collected within Municipal Areas are paid to the 
Municipalities concerned, but no fees are charged for licences 
issued outside Municipal Areas. 


328 
Municipal Sanitation. 


20. To ensure a better scavenging service in Municipal Areas, 
the Government has authorized the Department of Health to take 
charge. On the whole the scavenging service has been satisfactory, 
in spite of the small amount of money available. 

The Municipal Advisory Board, consisting of the Director of 
Public Health, Director of Public Works, the Administrative 
Inspector, and a representative from the Finance Department, has 
given advice on various municipal matters, notably the Municipal 
Estimates. 

Quarantine. 


21. The Department of Health has adopted the same arrange- 
ments as in Palestine for the issue of special latssez-passer booklets 
for Trans-Jordan pilgrims proceeding to the Hejaz via Palestine, 
Suez and Jeddah. Pilgrims are inoculated against cholera and 
vaccinated against smallpox before their departure and are sub- 
jected to the measures required by the International Convention. 
The Department of Health opened the Quarantine Station at Ma‘an 
during the season for returning pilgrims coming from the Hejaz 
either on foot or on camel-back by the desert route. Three hundred 
and seventeen passed through this station, and were subjected to 
the required measures. 

The quarantine compounds at Amman Railway Station and at 
Remtha village (Ajlun District) were maintained with their equip- 
ment of 25 beds. They were not, however, used. 


XI.—FINANCE, 


Revenue (including Grants from His Majesty’s Government) and 
Expenditure from 1st April, 1924, to 3lst March, 1935. 


1. The following statement sets out the annual totals of Revenue 
and Expenditure from the 1st April, 1924, the date of the present 
system of financial control, to the 3lst March, 1935 :— 


Financial Year. Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. <P. 
— 23,958* — 
1924-25 iss 280,673 274,868 
1925-26 282,459 274,573 
1926-27 302,520 274,920 
1927-28 282,073 318,260 
1928-29 307,555 318,950 
1929-30 316,147 338,461 
1930-31 367,516 350,532 
1931-32 338,046 344,983 
1932-33 354,888 340,883 
1933-34 381,412 374,769 
1934-35 377,517 369,395 
3,614,764 3,580,594 
— 34,170T 
Total ... ... £P.3,614,764 £P.3,614,764 


* Surplus balance at 31st March, 1924. f Surplus balance at 3lst March, 1935. 


329 
Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure under Heads (with notes 


explaining the principal variations) are given in the following 
tables :— 


SUMMARY OF REVENUE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 
1931-32 To 1934-35 (a). 


Head of Revenue. 1931-32. 1932-33. 1983-34. 1934-35. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 

Customs and Excise ... ... 65,039 82,397 (b) 103,530 (c) 98,627 
Licences and Taxes... ... 111,384 117,159 101,611 (a) 113,057 
Court Fees and Office Receipts 24,508 29,804 (e) 30,220 32,812 
Posts and tae Depart- 

ment ... - 11,027 14,416 (f) 12,622 12,982 
Revenue fron Government 

Property ae st ae 3,317 3,495 2,972 3,198 
Interest . ie 835 863 609 1,523 
Miscellaneous Receipts... Sous 5,216 4,794 8,906 (g) 11,935 (A) 
Sale of State Domains .. ae 1,577 821 1,037 ; 


Total Local Revenue £P.222,902 253,749 261,507 276,258 
Grant-in-aid of Trans-Jordan 


Frontier Force oe ... 30,444 29,139 30,899 31,959 
Grant-in-aid of Trans- Jordan 

Government . ... 84,700 72,000 65,000 60,000 
Grants from Colonial Develop. 

ment Fund ... — — 24,006 9,300 

Total Grants... £P.115,144 101,139 119,905 101,259 

Total Revenue ... £P.338,046 354,888 381,412 377,517 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on page 173 
of the Annual Report, 1931. 

(b) Includes £P.11,250 on account of the increase, with effect from the Ist October, 
1931, of Trans-Jordan’s share in the import duties of Palestine from £P.25,500 to 
£P.33,000 per annum. 

(c) The improvement in the revenues of the Customs and Excise Department for 
1933-34 results mainly from the revision, with effect from the lst October, 1932, 
of the Customs Agreement with Palestine, by virtue of which, on the one hand, 
Trans-Jordan was allowed to retain duties on all imports arriving in transit via 
Palestine, and on the other hand, Trans-Jordan’s share in the import duties of 
Palestine was reduced from £P. 33,000 to £P.17,000 per annum. 

(d) The decrease in revenue from Licences and Taxes in 1933-34 was principally 
due to remissions of taxation necessitated by bad harvests and the heavy losses of 
livestock suffered by the inhabitants owing to lack of adequate grazing. 

(ec) The improvement in revenue from Fees of Court or Office during 1932-33 was 
the result of increased receipts both from Land Registry Fees and from Pension 
Contributions. The increase under the latter sub-head is accounted for by a decision 
taken by the Government in March, 1932, to bring the rank and file of the Police 
and Prisons Department under the Pensions Laws in force. 

(f) Revenues of the Posts and Telegraphs Department in 1932-33 were inflated 
by sales to collectors from a pictorial issue of stamps which was put into circulation 
on the Ist February, 1933. 

(g) and (k) This improvement is due partly to revision of the basis of computation 
of Trans-Jordan’s ex gratia share of the profits of the Palestine currency, and partly 


to an increase in the contributions paid by the Currency Board to the revenues of 
Palestine. 


330 


SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE YEARS 
1931-32 To 1934-35 (a). 


Head of Expenditure. 1931-32. 1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
ORDINARY. 
Civil List Sis 13,997 14,481 14,560 14,534 
Public Debt and oo Charge 590 590 1,775 1,340 
Legislature 3,730 3,871 3,733 1,986 (8) 
Pensions and Gratuities 4,758 5,430 7,154 9,479 (c) 
Chief Minister and Interior... 3,685 3,745 3,944 3,753 
District Administration 6,885 6,913 10,001 (d) 10,035 
Ministry of Justice ... 15,355 15,676 16,238 15,827 
Sharia Courts... 3,672 3,726 3,877 3,869 
Finance Ministry 14,612 14,696 11,420 (e) 11,032 
Customs and Excise... sas 7,229 7,409 7,831 7,543 
Public Health Department... 11,292 11,960 12,118 12,762 
Education Department 21,744 22,388 23,028 23,324 
Agricultural, Forests and 
Veterinary .. ot 6,121 5,479 5,861 7,151 
Antiquities Depaitinant 2,610 2,630 2,642 2,500 
Public Works Department ... 4,339 4,487 4,544 4,584 
Public Works Recurrent... 16,873 16,868 17,977 18,918 
Post and Telegraphs Dept.... 12,122 12,887 12,637 '”  -13,903 
Lands Department ... 12,864 13,400 12,668 13,509 
Police and Prisons Depart- 
ment— 
(a) Police ... 81,872 98,124 (f) 99,639 99,721 
(6b) Prisons.. 10,702 12,401 11,930 11,549 
(c) Desert Car Patrol 16,166 (g) — — — 
Miscellaneous 9,305 8,561 8,528 9,560 
British Resident 6,507 6,472 6,616 (h) — 
Audit Department ... 3,422 3,295 3,385 3,253 
Tribal Control Board ; 1,198 968 1,091 766 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 29,039 28,284 28,720 27,527 
Total Ordinary Expenditure... 320,689 324,741 331,917 328,425 
EXTRAORDINARYe 
British Resident _..... i 315 — — — 
Public Works... 12,183 11,241 9,590 8,567 
Finance eo ales — — 236 1,987 
Posts and Tolegrapha: bts 1,959 867 1,692 4,432 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 1,405 855 2,179 2,818 
Public Health oe sae — — 357 252 
Police and Prisons ... 5,385 2,198 2,934 — 
H.H. The Amur 
(Land Development) 3,000 (+) — — — 
Write-off of Public Moneys... — — 863 — 
Printing and Collection of 
Laws Hee ae be — — — — 
Expenses, Syria-Trans-Jordan 
Boundary Commission ... 47 — 965 = 


331 


Head of Expenditure. 1931-32. 1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-368. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
EXTRAORDINARY—contd. 


Agricultural, Forests and 


Veterinary ... — 981 214 289 
H.H. the Amir Se wie — —_- — 2,957 (9) 
Relief Measures ae — — — 14,824 (k) 
Colonial Development Fund — — 23,822 4,844 
Total ne ee 

ture . 24,294 16,142 42,852 40,970 
Total Expenditure ... £P.344,983 340,883 374,769 369,395 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on pages 174 
and 175 of the Annual Report for 1931. 

(5) The decrease in expenditure on the Legislature in 1934-35 is principally due 
to a seven months’ hiatus that preceded the election of the Legislative Council, 
during which no commitments were incurred in respect of the salaries of members. 

(c) The gradual increase in expenditure under Pensions and Gratuities arises from 
increased commitments under the pensions laws in force. 

(d@) and (e) The increase in expenditure under the District Administration Vote 
and the decrease in expenditure under the Finance Ministry Vote, result from the 


transfer to the former Vote of the emoluments and expenses of the tax collecting 
staff. 


(f) and (g) The Desert Car Patrol was absorbed into the Police and Prisons 
Department with effect from the lst April, 1932. 

(4) The cost of the British Resident and his establishment was charged to Imperial 
funds with effect from the lst April, 1934. 


(s) This represents a grant made to His Highness the Amir Abdulla for the 
development of his estates. 


(j) This represents a special allotment to the Amir to meet the expenses of His 


Highness’s visit to the United Kingdom, and of the marriage of his Highness the 
Amir Talal. 


(%) The distress caused by crop failure and losses of livestock in 1934-35 necessitated 
relief measures which resulted in this expenditure. 


Public Debt. 


2. The Public Debt of Trans-Jordan at the 3lst December, 1935, 
stood at the figure of £P.19,434, and comprised the following 
items :— 

£P. 
(a) Balance of the Earthquake Relief Loan of 
£P.20,000 obtained from His ee 8 
Government in 1927-28... 7,053 


(6) Balance of the Agricultural os of 
£P.30,000 obtained from the Palestine 
Government in 1933-34 geet - shes 6 ,250 


(c) Loan from Palestine Government for con- 
struction of telephone circuit in Trans- 
Jordan = at ee bist a 6,131 


£P.19 434 


332 


3. Comparative Figures of Revenue and Expenditure for 1934-35 


and 1935-36. 
Actuals, 
1934-35. 
£P. 
A—REVENUE. 
Local . re 276,258 
Grant-in- Aid of Trans-J erdan sg 60,000 
Grant-in-Aid of the Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force... 31,960 
Grants from the Colonial Develop. 
ment Fund... - 9,300 
377,518 
B—EXPENDITURE. 
Trans-Jordan Government— 
Ordinary ... 300,897 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force=2 
Ordinary ... 27,527 
Trans-Jordan Governncnt== 
Extraordinary... 31,694 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Roros== 
Extraordinary. sue 4,432 
Expenditure from “the Colonial 
Development Fund Grants bes 4,845 
£P. 369,395 


C—EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, 
AGRICULTURE, PUBLIC HEALTH, 
Pusitico Works, RELIEF MEa- 
SURES AND DEVELOPMENT. 


" Education, Ordinary 


ie des 23,324 
Agriculture, Ordinary esi es 7,151 
Agriculture, Extraordinary... es 289 
Public Health, Ordinary _... ae 12,762 
Public Health, Extraordinary — 252 
Public Works Department ... ae 4,584 
Public Works, Recurrent iat 18,918 
Public Works, Extraordinary ies 8,567 
Relief Measures 14,824 


Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants— 
(a) Improvement of Water Sup- 
plies .. 4,845 
(b) Reconstruction of the Es-Salt— 
Allenby Bridge Road ‘Se — 
(c) Sinking Artesian Bores in the 
Desert ae ; —- 
(d) Seed Propagation ee —_ 
(e) Land Settlement Ascoleration 
Scheme Pee a ees — 


Approved 

estsmate, 

1935-36. 
£P. 


271,922 
60,000 


33,271 
10,380 
375,573 


327,200 
29,654 
25,033 

3,617 
15,034 
400,538 


Forecast at 
31.12.1935 


for 1935-36. 
£P. 
306,900 
60,000 
33,260 
10,380 
410,540 


320,790 
29,650 
24,300 

3,610 
15,030 
393,380 


24,730 
7,770 


13,920 
530 
4,720 
23,230 


11,530 
150 


1,100 
8,500 


1,750 
1,020 


1,000 


33d 


Comments on the Principal Variations in Revenue. 


4, Local revenue for 1935-36 is expected to exceed the 1934-35 
figure by £P.30,642. The following is a statement of how this 
anticipated increase is made up :— 


Actuals, Forecast, 


Head of Revenue. 1934-35. 1935-36. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
I.—Customs and Excise ... Uae 98,627 104,100 5,473 — 
II.—Licences and Taxes ... .. 113,058 135,430 22,372 — 
IlI.—Fees of Court or Office, etc. ... 32,812 36,000 3,188 — 
IV.—Posts and Telegraph Depart- 
ment... sae vb, 12,982 12,370 — 612 
V.—Revenue from Government 
Property... = sth 3,198 7,100 3,902 — 
VI.—Interest... - sé els 1,522 680 — 842 
VII.—Miscellaneous ... dace or 11,934 8,920 — 3,014 
VIII.—Sale of State Domains... oie 2,125 2,300 175 — 


276,258 306,900 35,110 4,468 
Net Increase ... Aust 30,642 — — 30,642 


£P. 306,900 306,900 35,110 35,110 


The increases shown under Heads I, II, and III reflect the im- 
proved condition of the greater part of the agricultural population 
resulting from good harvests and satisfactory prices of agricultural 
produce. The increase under Head V, Revenue from Government 
Property, is mainly due to the fact that taxes assessed on the 
tenants of state lands, which were formerly credited under Head II, 
Licences and Taxes, are now considered as revenue from state 
lands and credited to Head V. 


The decrease shown against Head VI, Interest, results prin- 
cipally from the early repayment of a substantial proportion of the 
loan due to the Trans-Jordan Government by the Agricultural 
Bank. The decrease in revenue under Head VII results from an 
anticipated shortfall in Trans-Jordan’s ex-gratia share of the annual 
contribution by the Palestine Currency Board to the revenues of 
Palestine, due to the disproportionate increase of currency in cir- 
culation in Palestine and to the over-estimation of the amount of 
contribution expected to be issued by the Board. 


Comments on the Principal Variations in Expenditure. 


o. It will be observed from para. 3 (B) that the forecast of 
ordinary expenditure of the Trans-Jordan Government for 1935-36 
shows an increase of £P.19,893 over actual ordinary expenditure 


334 


in 1934-35. The details of this anticipated increase are shown in 
the following statement :— 


Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Expenditure. 1934-35. 1935-36. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P. £P. ' £P. 
I.—Civil List ... 14,534 15,380 846 — 
H.—Public Debt ‘andl’ loan 
Charges ... 1,340 900 _— 440 
III.—Legislature ... - 1,986 3,760 1,774 — 
IV.—Pensions and Gratuities . 9,479 11,200 1,721 — 
XI.—Public Health 12,762 13,920 1,158 —— 
Pera anion ee ae ded. wee 23,324 24,730 1,406 — 
XIII.—Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary 7,150 7,770 620 — 
XVa.—Public Works Recurrent, 18,918 23,230 4,312 — 
XVI.—Posts and Telegraph Depart. 
ment te 13,903 14,830 927 — 
XVII.—Lands Department 13,509 16,330 2,821 — 
XVIIIa.—Police a . 99,721 102,800 3,079 — 
Other Services 84,271 85,940 2,383 714 
300,897 320,790 21,047 1,154 
Net Increase 19,893 — — 19,893 
£P. 320,790 320,790 21,047 21,047 


The increase shown against Head I follows the increased pro- 


vision, principally of a temporary nature, voted in respect of the 
Civil List; under Head III, Legislature, it results from savings 
accrued in 1934-35 in the salaries of members of the Legislative 
Council; under Head IV it results from increased commitments in 
pensions and gratuities; and under the remaining Heads it is due 
principally to a programme of economy imposed by the Government 
during the latter half of 1934-35 at a time when a serious shortfall 
in revenue was anticipated. 


The decrease of £P.7,394 in the extraordinary expenditure of 
the Trans-Jordan Government and the increase of £P.10,185 in the 
expenditure on schemes financed by the Colonial Development Fund 
are produced by the variations shown in the following statement :— 


Actuals, Forecast, 


Head of Expenditure. 1934-35. 1935-36. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
XXIII.—Public Works  Extra- 
ordinary .. eau 8,567 11,530 2,963 — 
XXIV.—Police and Prisons Extra- 
ordinary .. 2,818 2,600 — 218 
XX V.—Agriculture Extraordinary 289 — — 289 
XXVI.—Public Health Extra- 
ordinary ... 4 252 530 278 — 
XXVII.—Ministry of Finance Extra. 
ordinary .. : gs 1,987 8,600 6,613 — 


335 
Actuals, Forecast, 


Head of Expenditure. 1934-35. 1935-36. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
XXVITI.—Posts and ee 
Extraordinary ... — 890 890 — 
XXXITI.—Relief Measures ... ss 14,824 150 — 14,674 
His Highness the Amir ... 2,957 — — 2,957 
31,694 24,300 10,744 18,138 
Net Decrease — 7,394 7,394 — 
£P. 31,694 31,694 18,138 18,138 
XXX.—Expenditure out of Colonial 
Development Fund Grants : 
(a) Haifa-Baghdad Rail- 
way Survey : e3 — 1,660 1,660 — 
(b) Improvement of 
Water Supplies... 4,845 1,100 — 3,745 
(¢) Reconstruction of the 
Es - Salt - Allenby Bridge 
Road we ae i — 8,500 8,500 — 
(dq) Sinking Artesian 
Bores in the Desert fe — 1,750 1,750 — 
(e) Seed Propagation ... — 1,020 1,020 — 
(f) Land Settlement 
acceleration Scheme — 1,000 1,000 — 
4,845 15,030 13,930 3,745 
Net Increase 10,185 — — 10,185 
£P. 15,030 15,030 13,930 13,930 


6. Financial Position of the Trans-Jordan Government as at the 
31st March, 1935. 


Lnabilities. Assets. 
£P. £Ps 
Deposits ... 16,728 Advances 17,948 
Loans sit 30,879 Imprests 6,549 
Remittances... 481 Loans. 15,750 
Excess of Assets over Liabilities Joint Colonial Fund .. 17,000 
(including £P.4,639 in respect Cash and Bank Balances 25,011 
of Colonial Development 
Fund Grants)... 34,170 
£P82,258 £P.82,258 


Revenue Collection. 


7. Since the Ist April, 1933, the collection of taxes, previously 
under the control of Treasury Sub-Accountants, has tecome the 
responsibility of the District Administrative Authorities and 18 
carried out by tax collectors borne on the District Administration 
Vote. Monthly returns of collections submitted from the Districts 


336 


are subjected to close scrutiny at the Treasury, and the progress 
of collection forms the subject of regular critical comment by the 
Ministry of Interior to the responsible Administration officials. The 
change of control has been amply justified by results, and the 
present system is working smoothly and efficiently. 

Collection of current taxation from the 1st January to the 
31st December, 1935, amounted to £P.121,985. Relative collections 
during previous calendar years were as follows :— 


£P. 
1931 bee oe on ne Sais 99 ,961 
1932 bet ads ae = ag 101,073 
1933 re aed a cob i 64,611 
1934 sis = oe 89 672 


The Assistant British Resident and the Financial Adviser carry 
out a comprehensive annual inspection of the standing crops 
throughout the country shortly before the time of harvest, and make 
joint recommendations for the remission of current taxation in 
respect of areas where the crops have suffered unavoidable damage 
by reason of climatic conditions or pest in such a degree as to 
occasion a substantial decrease in the yield of the land below the 
average gross yield as estimated for the purpose of the Land Tax. 
These recommendations, after adoption by the Government, are 
submitted by the High Commissioner for the approval of the 
Secretary of State, in anticipation of which arrangements are made 
locally for the postponement of collection of the amounts recom- 
mended for remission. Current taxation remitted by these means 
during recent years was as follows :— 


£P. 
1931 se see sire 12 468 
1932 sae see sg 8,397 
1933 ve St nt 14,726 
1934 = Ae ye 19,155 
1935 _ ae sis 13,836 (still under 


consideration) 


Arrears of Taxes. 


8.—(1) Collection of arrears of taxes from the lst January to 
31st December, 1935, amounted to £P.9,671. Relative collections 
during previous calendar years were as follows :— 


<P. 
1931 7 ae — oe a se 3,841 
1932 sie me aM aa oe — 5 ,230 
1933 see ae _ eos a _ 4,021 


1934 Aes a dee ie sats Sas 3,757 © 


337 


The very satisfactory position reached during 1935 in regard to 
collections both of current taxation and arrears was due to the 
improvement in harvests and in prices of agricultural produce, and 
to the commendable efforts of the District Authorities. 


(2) In order to enable a clear distinction to be drawn between 
recoverable and irrecoverable arrears of taxes, a detailed survey of 
all arrears in respect of the years up to and including 1930-31 was 
undertaken by the Treasurer in 1932. In 1933 and subsequent 
years this work has been carried out by District Authoritiés whose 
reports are submitted annually to Government after adoption by 
the District Administrative Councils and scrutiny by the Treasurer. 
The recommendations of the Government for the write-off of arrears 
of taxes shown to be irrecoverable are submittéd for the approval 
of the Secretary of State for the Colonies by the High Commissioner 
_ annually, within three years from the year of first assessment. The 
_ amounts of arrears authorized to be written off by these means 
during recent years were as follows :— 


Year of First Assessment. £P. 
1924-25 to 1930-31 ... et ae sss 63,428 
1931-82 = ts ss ae a 7,789 
1932-33 os i we ae 13,560 
1933-34 ass ane ie a ee 14,227 
1934-35 bag bis Survey not yet completed 


Having regard to the improvement in agricultural conditions in 
1935, the annual survey of arrears in respect of the financial year 
_ 1984-85 was postponed until late in the present year, and is still 
proceeding. 


Revenue Reform. 


9. The progress of the imposition of the Land Tax Law, 1938, is 
described under Section IJ—Lands. The financial effects of the 
teform have been satisfactory. The former arbitrary and in- 
equitable distribution of the taxes which the Land Tax has replaced, 
and which were relics of the Turkish system, reacted generally to 
the detriment of collections, principally because the poorer and less 
influential taxpayers were called upon to bear a disproportionately 
eavy share of taxation. For this reason taxes prior to 1933 were 
hot only more difficult to bring in, but the enforcement of their 
collection bore with undue hardship on those people whose circum- 
stances rendered them less able to pay. It is, however, anticipated 
that the unification of rural taxation, and its more equitable distribu- 
tion consequent on the application of the Land Tax Law, will, 
although this tax is larger in amount than those it replaces, result 
In the collection of not less than 90 per cent. of current assessments 
a year of normal rainfall, and that this result will be achieved 
mith less effort and with less hardship to taxpayers. These factors 


838 


and the general improvement in agricultural conditions in 1935 
have enabled an average of 88-3 per cent. of current assessments to 
be collected in nine months of the financial year. 

This improvement in the percentage of collection should pro- 
gressively increase as land settlement is completed, since in the 
process of settlement each land owner becomes aware of the fixed 
amount of land tax due from him. 


(2) A new draft Stamp Duty Law, designed to replace the exist- 
ing complicated and cumbersome Turkish legislation by a simple 
and convenient enactment, has been published as a bill and is now 
before the legislature. 


(3) A new Tax Collection Law was enacted on the 5th February, 
1935, in supersession of the unsuitable Turkish law on the subject 
which was hitherto in force. 


(4) New and completely revised Financial Regulations were 
brought into force by the Government on the Ist April. 


(5) The terms of the House and Land Tax Law, 1926, were 
applied in the Municipal Areas of Jerash, Ajlun and Zerqga during 
1935. 


(6) Other notable changes in the system of taxation during recent 
years were the introduction of licences for trades and professions, 
and of a simple income tax, on the 1st April, 1933, in replacement 
of the old Turkish ‘‘ temettu ’’ tax. Legislation was subsequently 
enacted providing for the exemption of members of the Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force, except clerks and civilian personnel, from 
payment of the income tax. 


The Agricultural Bank. 


10. The Agricultural Bank in Trans-Jordan is a relic of the 
Turkish regime. This useful institution was founded with the 
primary object of promoting agriculture by providing credit 
facilities to cultivators of limited means at reasonable rates of 
interest. 

The capital of the Bank was formerly derived from the levy of 
contributions on the agricultural community in the shape of a 
percentage of the gross yield of their holdings which was assessed 
by the Finance Department as a part of and collected with the 
tithes. Since 1924 these contributions have been allotted by the 
Government to the Agricultural Bank in the form of a commuted 
annual payment of £P.3,500. 

The activities of the Bank are controlled by an Administrative 
Council, consisting of ten members (five senior officers represent- 
ing various Departments of the Government including the Execu- 
tive Council, the Manager and Assistant Manager, and three elected 
members) under the chairmanship of one of their number, who 1s 
elected by the members themselves and appointed with the approval 
of the Executive Council. 


339 


At the 30th November, 1935, the Bank had a capital of £P.60,348 
and the loans issued and recovered in 1935-36 and in the two pre- 
ceding years were as follows :— 


Loans IssuED. 


Against 
Mortgage 
of Against 
Immovable Collective 
Property. Guarantee Total. 
£P. £P. £P. 
1933-34 ... 6,087 27,381 33,468 
1934-35 ... 4,002 3,170 7,172 
1935-36 ... 15,334 395 15,729 
£P. 25,423 30,946 56,389 
LOANS RECOVERED. 
1933-34 ... 120 4 124 
1934-35 ... — 15 15 
1935-36 ... 7,684 19,283 26,967 
£P. 7,804 19,302 27,106 


In 1933-34 and 1934-385 the collections were insignificant because 
the crop failure was so general that debtors were unable to pay 
the instalments due from them, and no attempt to force them to 
do so was made. 

At one time the Bank was much too prone to seize the immovable 
property of debtors who were late in paying moneys due from them, 
but that attitude has been strongly discouraged, and the position 
at present is as shown in the following table :— 





Number 
of trans- 
actions 
in which 
Number Number _ seizure 
of trans- of trans- and Number 
actions Number actions transfer of trana- 
termin- of trans-  termin- of actions 
Total ated actions ated property out- 
number without passed to through was standing 
of trans- legal pro- execution execution carried tn execu- 
Year. actions. ceedings. _ office. office. out. tion. 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 
1932... 544 330 214 108 19 87 
1933... 426 266 160 70 1 89 
1934 ... 315 248 67 36 — 31 
Totals ... 1,285 844 44] 214 20 207 





Agricultural land registered in the name of the Bank as the 
result of execution comprises an area of 13,146 dunums; of this an 
area of 4,436 dunums has returned to the late owners under the 


340 


provisions of a law enacted in 1933, whereby a debtor can lease an 
eventually re-acquire land seized from him on payment of his debt 
of the balance of 8,710 dunums an area of 367 dunums is leased 

Although in theory a loan issued against collective guarante 
needs no other security, the Bank, in practice, only issues suc 
loans when the borrowers are shareholders in the ownership oa 
communal immovable property. 

This practice of the Bank made it necessary, in the recent ver 
lean years, for the Government to step in when borrowers unde 
collective guarantee were not land-owners and to guarantee to th 
Bank the repayment of loans issued to such persons. 

The position in regard to these loans is as follows :— 

(1) Through the machinery of the Bank a Government loar 
of £P.3,987 was issued in 1931-32, and up to date £P.2,03: 
thereof has been recovered; a further £P.1,381 has  beez 
remitted, and £P.68 remains outstanding. 

(2) Of the £P.27,381 issued by the Bank against collective 
guarantee in 1933-34, the Government guaranteed the repay: 
ment of £P.4,309, of this sum £P.2,285 has been repaid, and 
it 1s anticipated that the balance will be collected by the 
autumn of 1936. 

(3) In 1934-35 seed to the value of £P.8,074 was issued 
to certain villagers in the north-east where crops during the 
previous year had been a total failure, and the remission o 
the whole of this sum has been recommended. 


Loans against collective guarantee, further secured by the im- 
movable property of co-owners in communal land, cause great 
difficulty, since no disposal of any property thus covered can be 
made till all the loans secured by the ‘‘ Kafala ’’ have been repaid. 
In settlement a special arrangement has proved necessary whereby 
the Bank agrees to strike off the roll of collective guarantors any 
of the guarantors who pays his debt. This may in the end mean 
some small loss to the Bank, but it encourages many debtors to 
repay. 

A grant has been made from the Colonial Development Fund 
for the employment of a British official to act as Director of 
Development for five years. It is proposed that this officer should 
inter alia make recommendations for the improvement of irrigation 
and irrigation practice. Provision has also been made in the 1936-37 
Estimates for an Assistant Registrar of Co-operative Societies. 

Under its present Law and Regulations the Agricultural Bank 
issues short-term loans and long-term loans, which latter, except 
with a special decision of the Administrative Council, are limited 
to £P.200. The value of the Bank’s short-term loans is largely 
lost to the cultivator because, for administrative reasons, there 1 
now only one office of the Bank open, namely, in Amman, and 
thus the farmer spends a part of the loan obtained by him in the 
expenses of getting it. 

It is now proposed to confine the operations of the Agricultural 
Bank to the issue of long-term loans, which will not be limited 


341 
to £P.200, and to financing, to the extent desirable, the Co- 
operative Societies; these long-term loans will be issued only in 
cases approved by the Director of Development, and he will also 
hold the title of Registrar of Co-operative Societies, though the 
work of organizing and supervising these societies will mainly be 
done by the Assistant Registrar. 

It must, of course, be some time before the co-operative societies 
can be in successful operation, and the Government, to meet this 
difficulty, is negotiating with one of the large Banks to the end 
that it should engage in short-term loan business in Trans-Jordan ; 
the Government is prepared to make such a Bank an annual grant 
for a limited period and to lay before the Legislative Council a 
bill enabling the Bank to take charges on crops in the same way 
as has been done in Palestine. 


XII.—_CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 
General. 


1. Mr. H. A. Turner, the late Director of Customs and Excise, 
retired in April after eight years’ service with the Trans-Jordan 
Government, and was replaced by Mr. P. Livingstone, who had 
previously been with the ‘Iraq Customs and Excise Administration. 
The Committee which was appointed in September, 1933, to study 

. and make proposals for the economic improvement of Trans-Jordan 
} recommended that an official should be appointed to assume respon- 
sibility for the improvement of trade and industry, but, as the 
financial position of the country makes it impossible that a special 
_ official should be engaged for this purpose, it was decided to add 
these duties to those of the Director of Customs and Excise, and 
the new Director was chosen with this end in view. The Depart- 
ment will in future be known as the Department of Customs, 
Excise and Trade. 
The staff of the Department consists of a Director, an Inspector, 
_ 27 mamours, appraisers and clerks, and 27 guards, porters and 
- watchmen, all of whom are Trans-Jordanians, except the Director, 
who is British. 

A much more comprehensive system of statistics than that 
hitherto maintained has been embarked upon, and the benefit of 
this will be apparent in the year 1936. 


Imports. 


2. In the meantime the only figures of imports which can tiserally 
_ be given are the following :— 

Value of Imports to Trans- 
Jordan in transit through 


(a) Palestine. (b) Syria. 
LP. £P. 
1933 ‘it a ee 217,412 oer 9,903 
1934 se ade es 212,415 ee 30,745 
1935 hy oat me 200,119 ze 82,611 


34931 M 


342 
The increase in (b) at the expense of (a) is due to the fact that 
lighter railway freights are charged from Beirut to Amman than 
from Haifa to Amman. 

Value of imported 
goods on which the 

examination fee of 

+ per cent. is 


charged. 
| £P. 
1933 ee er ns as a 528 ,209 
1934 ... ae an i oe 535,111 
1935 wis ae sis ae = 607 ,624 


The value of the principal articles imported in transit through 
Palestine and Syria in 1935 was as follows :— 


£P. 
Tobacco leaf om 2,150 
Cigarette and cut tobacco 1,049 
Tombac oes 1,566 
Benzine (Gall.) 23 ,041 
Sugar (Kgs.) 21,769 
Rice 6,049 
Flour 6,656 
Samneh 2,132 
Tea 6,404 
Coffee 13,057 
Dates a ses 2,740 
Kerosene (Gall.) 9,005 
Madam 25 374 
Kham a 10,350 
Cotton piece-goods 57,691 
Artificial silk goods 40 590 
Carpets 2,128 
Head dress 3,034 
Cement 1 325 
Matches ... 1,172 
Drill ; 15 ,862 
Cigarette paper ... 2,712 
Motor-cars 8 ,697 
Sewing machines 1,036 
Smoking accessories 3,680 


Total 


£P.269 ,905 


343 


Exports, 


3. The total value of Trans-Jordan local produce and manufac- 
tured goods exported to Syria is as follows :— 


1935. 1934. 1933. 


£P. LP; £P. 
Local Produce ... sat ae ... 11,101 9,220 = 8,731 
Manufactured goods... 7 ... 10,386 — — 


Of these the principal commodities were : 
Made-up wearing apparel of silk and 


cotton... eae 10,386 — — 
Lentils ... ae sale ede aie 3,808 55 22 
Other grains... so ae si 2,075 443 504 
Wheat ... ane ne bom se 635 — — 
Durra_.... siasd disk is vas 342 —- —- 
Animals ... ses nee on a 680 3,500 472 
Wool see his Distg oe «ies 974 717) ~——s«1,555 
Hides and skins... ie oe ee 884 1,351 1,111 
Samneh ... _ ae eo “ae 300 810 2,570 
Olive oil... ses se sa Hes 652 709 285 
Raisins ... ... a i tus 261 233 121 
Intestines ae ich wae me 215 526 196 
Vegetables oa ase ses so 127 362 208 


£P. 21,337 8,706 7,043 


Export of the 1935 cereal crop begins in June, but figures of 
export to Palestine were only kept as from the Ist August. These, 
and the figures for the whole year of export to Syria, are, in tons, 
as under :— 

To Syria. To Palestine. 


Wheat ... Set rr sh 76 12,590 

Barley... ve 8 = 14 7,529 

Durra_.... _ se ea 81 395 

Lentils ... sad oe dose 351 53 

Kersenneh sae ee ee 2 143 

Other Cereals ... Sd até 22, 155 
Transit. 


4. No statistics of the transit trade between Syria and Nejd or 
between Nejd and Palestine or Nejd and Egypt have been kept, 
but the value of goods moved through Trans-Jordan in transit 
between Palestine and ‘Iraq is as follows :— 


From From 
‘Iraq to Palestine 
Palestine. to ‘Iraq. 
aE: Eo tae 
1933 ee one she 11,306 ae 
1934 aa Sie, “fase 35,950 me 
1985 ade soe sh 407 262 280,728 


3493] M 2 


344 


The route followed, which has been very much improved in 
recent years, runs from Baghdad to Ramadi, Rutbah and Mafrak (in 
Trans-Jordan) and thence either to Jisr Mejamie and Haifa or to 
Amman and via the Allenby Bridge to Jerusalem. The principal 
articles transported are (a) from ‘Iraq to Palestine, carpets, fresh- 
water fish, live fowls, eggs, and sheep; and (b) from Palestine to 
‘Iraq, goods of foreign manufacture, hardware, wearing apparel, etc. 
This traffic westwards may prove detrimental to the interests of 
Trans-Jordan (which at present allows the goods to pass free of 
customs and transit duties or dues) since Palestine is Trans-Jordan’s 
present and potential market for an expanding export of fowls, 
egos, and sheep. 


Tariff Changes. 


5. All ae continue to be free of duty. On llth May, 1935, 
import duty on large bottles of beer, porter, cider, and perry in- 
creased from 15 mils to 20 mils. On rice it decreased from 1} mils 
to 1 mil per kilo, and on coffee from 10 mils to 9 mils per kilo. The 
duty on sugar decreased on 16th September, 1935, from 7 mils to 
34 mils per kilo. 


Excise. 


6. The liquors manufactured in Trans-Jordan are cognac, araq, 
and wine. They are all produced from three distilleries, two of 
which are in Salt and the third in Feheis. The output in the last 
three years, in litres, 1s as follows :— 


1935. 1934. 1933. 
Cognac ... ne 10,763 10,352 13,380 
Araq_... bes 24 672 98 ,3850 27 816 
Wine... oe 6,975 6,755 6 325 


The excise duty through these years has been 56 mils per litre 
of cognac and araq and 10 mils per litre of wine of which the alcohol 
content is not more than 25 per cent. 

The quantities of tobacco and cigarettes manufactured and issued 
for sale by the two factories operating in Trans-Jordan are given 
below in kilogrammes :— 


1935. 1934. 1938. 
Cigarettes (excise 300 mils)... san ie ... 20,780 23,171 25,938 
Cut Tobacco (excise 250 mils) aia ns oe 8,148 8,892 8,804 
Cut Tobacco (excise 120 mils) diate ie ... 14,092 15,746 20,866 


Cigarettes and tobacco manufactured in Trans-Jordan contain 
a small percentage of foreign tobacco. 

Tombac and hisheh tobacco continued to be free of Excise Duty 
during the year 1935. 


345 


Customs and Excise Revenue. 
i. The following table gives the Customs and Excise Revenue 


collected during the last three years :— 


1935. 1934. 1933. 
£P. £P. £P. 

Customs ... 89,183 80,507 79,166 
Banderolles 1,767 1,691 1,553 
Porterage 672 750 670 
Storage 172 116 89 
hxamination fea: 3,038 2,675 2,641 
Miscellaneous 88 70 59 
Total 94,923 86,081 84,180 
Liquor Excise ... 1,009 1,068 1,072 
» Licences 235 313 372 
Tobacco Excise ... 9,962 11,064 12,487 
ss Licences 589 569 560 
Total 11,795 13,014 14,491 
Grand total . 106,718 99,095 98,671 


XITI.— POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 
Revenue and Expenditure. 


1. The statement at the end of this section shows figures of 
revenue and expenditure for the five financial years ending 1934-35. 

The increase in the use of the foreign parcel post began in 1932-33 
with the establishment of the trans-desert mail service. 

The decline in revenue from telegrams is explained by the rise 
in the revenues of the telephone service, which show a very satis- 
factory increase. 

The revenue figures given do not include charges against Govern- 
ment Departments for services ; for the year 1934-35 these charges 
were estimnated as follows :— 


£P. 
Rentals of telephones for the Civil List . “ 300 
Inland telegrams and inland trunk calls for the 70 
Civil List. 
Inland postage on correspondence of Government 1,500 
Departments. 
Commission of 5 per cent. on sales of Hejaz and 257 
revenue stamps. 
Rental of 523.5 kilometres of police lines at £P.2 630 
per kilometre, less calls on these lines for which 
payment was made amounting to £P.417. 
£P.2,757 


_— 


34931 M 3 


346 


The figures of expenditure do not include payments made by 
other Departments for services rendered for the Department of Posts 


and Telegraphs. 
follows :— 


These services for the year 1934-35 were as 


£P. 
Rents of buildings _... ae ed a me O97 
Minor works 11 
Furniture ai Sted 24s i = 8 
Printing and Stationery bib as me a 330 
Typewriters and Duplicators 5 rae i 88 
£P.1,034 


2 oe 


The expenditure for 1934-35 may thus be assessed at £P.14,937 
and the revenue at £P.15,739, so that the Postal Administration is 
operating at a profit which may be regarded as a set-off to its 
extraordinary expenditure. This extraordinary expenditure for the 
last five years has been as follows :— 


1930-31 
1931-32 
1932-33 
1933-34 


Total 


£P. 
. 833 Public lines. 
. 1,958 Public lines, £P.499, and Police lines, £P.1,459. 
. 867 Public lines. 
. 1,692 Police lines. 





£P.5,350 





Services Rendered. 


2. Government Departments and Departments of the Mandatory 
Power paid the following amounts in 1934-35 for the use of postal, 
telegraph and telephone services :— 








£P. 
Trans-Jordan Government Departments oes 4,009 
Civil List for foreign telegrams and trunk calls ... 358 
British Resident —... ake dy at ee 210 
Royal Air Force _... he Nas oe 307 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force oh ae se 569 
Hejaz Railway oi Aas seg sae - 17 
5,470 
Less amount paid to foreign countries for their 570 
share in telegrams and trunk calls. 
4,900 
Cost of services not paid for ae ns oat 2,757 
Total value of (i) services for Government ... 7,657 
Total value of (ii) transit services (parcels) ... 650 
Total value of (111) services for public ... age 7 432 


ED 


£P.15,739 


Caen amemeeell 


347 
Posts. 

3. Mail services functioned with regularity throughout the year 
with the exception of a few days in February when the country ex- 
perienced an abnormal flood. ‘Ihe floor of the Post Office in Amman 
was covered with mud to a depth of 5U centimetres and stamps in 
the lower compartment of the safe were damayed. 

Animal transport (except in the case of a few post offices which 
could be served to some extent by the railway) continued to be used 
for the conveyance of mails until 1930, when motor transport began 
to take its place. ‘l'o-day the only post offices where any part of the 
service is done by aninal transport are at Kerak and ‘lafileh. Mails 
to Palestine and to foreign countries (through Palestine) were 
_ until 1980 conveyed by the Amman-Haita Railway, but in that year 
_ 4 motor service trom Amman to Jerusalem was introduced. Mails 
to Syria are still conveyed by railway. Until the beginning of 1931 
ali mails to foreign countries, except Syria, were sent ad découvert 
through Palestine, but in that year they were prepared for Great 
Britain in closed bags. In 1932 the mails for Mgypt also were 
prepared in closed kags, and in the sume year those to ‘Iraq were 
. sent to Baghdad by the trans-desert mail service. 

There are 13 post offices and three branch post offices in 
Trans-Jordan. There are also two travelling post offices, one on 
the railway between Amman and Dera‘a and the other between 
Amman and Ma‘an. 

The comparative table (given at the end of this section) of traitic 

statistics for the years 1044 and 1935 shows an increase in 1935 
- in most of the items. . 
During the year under review, 5,308 items of correspondence 
were dealt with in the Returned Letter Office, out of which 120 
items were registered. Of these, 683 items were returned to offices 
of origin in foreign countries, 1,089 items to senders in Trans- 
Jordan, 2,754 printed papers were destroyed, and 782 items are held 
until claimed by senders. 

The number of air mail letters despatched in 1935 shows a con- 
siderable increase over 1934. This service was started in 1932, cor- 
tespondence therefor being sent a découwvért to Palestine. 


Money and Postal Orders. 


4. The inland money order service showed a considerable increase 
for 1935 ; merchants availed themselves of the facilities offered since 
the only bank in Trans-Jordan is that at Amman. Moreover there 
has been a progressive decrease during the last five years in the 
commission charged, and the Department enjoys the confidence of 
the public. The inland money order service is now used for sums 
above £P.3 only. 

The use of foreign money orders considerably decreased in 1935, 
the main reason being the introduction of the inland postal order 
service which was initiated in November, 1934; these postal orders 
are accepted in Palestine post offices. Another reason is the re- 
duction made by the two banks at Amman in the commission 
charged on cheques issued by them payable in Palestine and other 
countries. 


34931 M.4 


348 
An agreement was made with Palestine during 1935 for the 
exchange of telegraph money orders between the two countries. 
The increase in the number and value of the Palestine postal 
orders used is believed to be due to the use made of this service 
by the Trans-Jordan labourers working in Palestine. 


Telegraphs. 


5. The telegraph service with foreign countries until 1932 passed 
through Palestine on the land-line connecting Amman with 
Jerusalem ; in that year, however, connection was established with 
Syria, from Irbid to Deraa, and telegrams to foreign countries are 
now despatched and received through both countries. 

Telegraph traffic has declined during the last five years, but in 
1935 it showed a tendency to rise again. 


Telephones. 


6. The telephone service has continued to expand during the 
last five years, and should further increase when the trunk line 
from Kerak to Tafileh and Ma‘an is finished. 

Trunk calls are now exchanged with Palestine, Egypt and Syria, 
and on the 27th November, 1935, a trunk service to ‘Iraq was 
opened on the line newly erected on the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company's 
poles. This line links Palestine with ‘Iraq through Trans-Jordan. 


Engineering. 

7. At the end of 1935 the telegraph and the telephone systems 
of Trans-Jordan comprised 2,863 tubular iron poles and 6,668 
wooden poles over a distance of 7123 kilometres on which were laid 
9984 kilometres of metallic circuit, 1814 kilometres of earth-return 
circuit, as well as 92 kilometres of earth-return circuits built on 
Hejaz Railway poles. The Administration uses also 183 kilometres 
of the Hejaz Railway telephone line between Catrani and Ma‘an, 
for which an annual rental of £P.137 1s paid. 

Of these trunk lines, 5233 kilometres are used solely by the police, 
the other 881} kilometres being used by Government Departments 
and the public. 

The ‘Iraq Petroleum Company presented to the Administration 
a telephone line 30 kilometres in length erected on iron poles ex- 
tending between Mafrak and Sukhneh, which they had built mn 
connection with the water-supply scheme at Mafrak. This line 
was extended to Zerqa by the Administration by building an addi- 
tional seven kilometres, thus adding Mafrak to the telephone system 
on a line owned by the Administration. 


General. 


8. During the year under review, 16 cases of damage to the 
telephone and telegraph routes were reported, and action was taken 
against the persons concerned or the villages and_ tribes 
responsible. 


349 


The total number of officers on the classified establishment at the 
end of 1935 was 50, and the total number of unclassified employees 
was 27 linemen, 12 postmen, four apprentices, and 2 orderlies. 


STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE. 
Public Services. 1930-31. 1931-32. 1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35. 


£P. £P. £P. £P. zP; 
REVENUE. 
Sale of stamps .-» 10,263 (a) 2,749 6,209 (6) 3,920 (6) 3,080 
Commission on money 
orders and aes 
orders : . 201 180 233 293 (d) 236 
Foreign parcel post . 247 294 361 (c) 633 800 
Telegrams... .. 1,844 1,346 1,326 1,035 1,171 
Telephones... .. 6,071 6,246 6,077 6,594 7,431 
Rent of letter boxes.. 67 80 68 72 70 
Miscellaneous receipts 83 132 143 76 194 
Total Revenue £P. 18,776 11,027 14,417 12,623 12,982 
EXPENDITURE £P. 11,452 12,122 12,887 12,637 13,903 


(a) The current issue of postage stamps was introduced in this year, and hence & 
large sale was made to collectors and dealers. 

(6) A provisional pictorial issue of stamps was put on sale during these two years. 

(c) The trans-desert service through Trans-Jordan started in June of this year. 

(2) Increase due to pipe-line personnel. 


TRAFFIC STATISTICS. 


Item. 1934. 1935. 

Ordinary Mails : sli aceia sina aie cards, mas 
papers, etc.) eee ... 385,091 440,404 
Parcels, inland sis ras dus nr eas ... 3,415 3,639 
Parcels, foreign, despatched — 63 ss aes vee Si 175 175 
Parcels, foreign, received ... eh as as ae .. 2,155 1,923 
Telegrams, inland ... es ses ies es an 7,184 7,611 
Telegrams, foreign, despatched Bas B60 ne aa .. 3,761] 3,765 
» received ba eon sie ms ... 3,325 3,854 
Telephone, subseribers, number... or a sie Las 472 517 
Bg call offices number ___.... see bee ~_ bs 44 44 
5 Trunk lines, kilometres er as a as 1,430 1,405 
Trunk calls, number ... or oa ae ... 98,747 101,748 
Money orders, inland, number see ene ei shor oy 4,292 2,298 
We - » value oe Lae ide ... £P. 23,001 33,700 
6 és foreign, issued, number... bid Sass se 2,425 997 
7 7 » value oe Sec .. £P. 8,165 3,914 
% » a paid, number otek ae ak Ba 203 222 
»  value.. a see ay SP: 1,566 1,606 
Postal orders: inland: number as cate — uk meh 882 10,171 
ie - » value ee Sas a ia, 32s 706 7,871 
~ »» Imperial, issued, number ae ins ee — 2,126 1,998 
34 3 55 » value... ve vest aes 1,381 1,352 
re re se paid, number... bog he ead 280 215 
¥5 ¥ », value bes wis as 6 EP, 206 116 
is 53 Palestinian, paid, number ... sta als .. 2,631 4,188 
a ws % » value ... deg .. £P. 2,301 3,686 

Air Mail— 

Number of items ee aoe see Eee oa eee 1,696 3,125 


Weight in kilogrammes sr sist ies Bes ies 22 42 


350 


XIV.—AGRICULTURE. 
Agriculture. 


Trans-Jordan is essentially an agricultural and pastoral country 
but, being situated on the border line between the desert and the 
Sown, it suffers from an unreliable rainfall. The harvest of 1935 
was the first which could be described as good in a cycle of drought 
years commencing in 1928. Even so, the winter and summer crop: 
in and south of the sub-district of Tafileh were not satisfactory. 
The grape and olive yields were good throughout the country. 


No outbreak of plant disease or insect pest worthy of note 
occurred. 


Notwithstanding the effects of years of adverse weather con- 
ditions, the area of land placed under cultivation continued to 
increase and, in spite of their innate conservatism, the people are 
gradually improving their primitive methods of cultivation. The 
first development is attributable mainly to the establishment of 
public security, the second to the advice and example given by 
the Department of Agriculture and also the demonstration of the 
use of modern methods afforded by Palestine. 


As in the past, the Palestine markets absorbed the greater 
part of the surplus agricultural produce of Trans-Jordan although 
a growing export trade of cereals to Saudi Arabia has been estab- 
lished during the last few years. Exports of grapes to Palestine 
during 1935 totalled 3,775 tons. 


9. A brief description is given below of the more important im- 
provements introduced and encouraged by the Department of 
Agriculture :— 


(a) Thirty-nine villages have adopted a three-year crop rota- 
tion instead of the previously general system of two-year 
rotation which, in the absence of fertilizers, was exhausting 
the land. 


(b) The introduction and propagation of selected seed have 
been carried out on a small scale since 1928, but the work can 
now be expanded owing to the recent grant from the Colonial 
Development Fund of £P.1,020 a year for three years in order 
to provide for the purchase and distribution of seed. It is pro- 
posed to purchase annually fifty tons of wheat seed, fifty tons 
of barley seed, and twenty tons of other seed of good quality. 
The seed will be distributed to responsible cultivators and each 
recipient will undertake to return at the end of the year one 
and a-half times the amount of seed of the same quality. The 
scheme should enable the Government to obtain and to circulate 
throughout the country a quantity of good seed sufficient 1 
replace entirely the present strains. 


301 


(c) The cultivation of tobacco was started experimentally in 
1926 and has developed to such an extent that the crop for 
1935 was greater than the needs of the two local tobacco 
factories. The quality of the locally-produced leaf still needs 
improvement. 

Prior to 1926, Trans-Jordan imported considerable quantities 
of vegetables from Syria and Palestine but, at the present 
time, Syrian vegetables have been eliminated from the Trans- 
Jordan market and, in addition, supplies are exported by Trans- 
Jordan to Palestine. 

(d) Apart from grapes and bananas, which are exported from 
Trans-Jordan, fruit was imported from Syria and Palestine, 
but large numbers of deciduous fruit-trees were raised in four 
Government nurseries and distributed after grafting. The 
number of such trees issued during 1935 was 30,420. Owing to 
difficulties of acclimatization, the palm nurseries referred to in 
the report for 1934 cannot yet be said to have reached a 
successful stage. 

As a result of financial assistance given by Sir Arthur 
Wauchope, the Trans-Jordan Government was able to estab- 
lish a nursery of 100 dunums in extent which will be entirely 
devoted to the production of grafted carok trees for distribution 
to landowners with a view to encouraging the production of 
carob beans. 

(e) Numerous improved types of agricultural tools were dis- 
tributed to the various school gardens, to which reference is 
made later, for demonstration purposes, but it must be admitted 
that, so far, the general public have shown little readiness to 
abandon their old types of implements. 


3. The number of school gardens was increased to thirty-two in 
1935. Of this number, six were equipped with poultry-houses in 
which were kept selected types of fowls, turkeys, geese, and ducks. 
Apart from those required for the reproduction of stock, the eggs 
produced were issued to the public for hatching. Funds were made 
available at the end of 1935 by the Colonial Development Fund to 
meet the capital expenditure required for the establishment of a 
Government Agricultural Experimental and Demonstration Station 
in the vicinity of Amman. 


Veterinary. 

4. The lack of adequate grazing experienced during the past 
years has had the effect of reducing to a considerable extent the 
livestock of Trans-Jordan; the decreases in 19383 and 1934 were 
12 per cent. and 13 per cent. respectively. ‘The conditions in 1935 
were however more favourable and the animal enumeration returns 
showed a slight increase on the figures of the previous years. 


Owing to the recent losses, the exports of livestock during the 
year were below average; the principal items were 27,000 sheep, 


352 


4,300 goats, and 29,000 poultry exported to Palestine. Animal 
products exported were, 40 tons of wool, 41 tons of hides, and 
9 tons of intestines to Syria. 

The following cases of animal disease were reported: rabies, 1 ; 
goat pox, 96; fowl diphtheria, 198; anthrax 1; piroplasmos, 1,140. 
As @ précaution against rabies, 1,690 dogs were destroyed. 


Forests. 


5. Following upon the appointment of a Chief Forest Ranger, the 
Forestry Section of the Department of Agriculture was entirely 
reorganized. ‘The conservation and exploitation of forests were 
more efficiently controlled and, although a stricter supervision was 
exercised during the period, the number of prosecutions initiated for 
offences under the Forests Law was lower than those for the 
preceding years, a fact which may be taken to indicate that the 
number of offences decreased considerably. 

Certain areas of forest in districts in which land settlement has not 
yet been effected were closed to exploitation as a measure of pro- 
tection, and the people who hitherto drew on the resources of those 
areas for firewood, charcoal, etc., were required to obtain their 
needs from hitherto unexploited supplies of wood. Such supplies 
exist in the Jordan Valley in the form of dead wood along the 
banks of the Jordan River, and thorn trees which have to be cleared 
off irrigated areas. 


6. In districts in which land settlement operations proceeded, the 
policy was continued of securing as State Forest Reserves, forest 
areas, which were hitherto private property, in exchange for the 
grant to the owner of liberty to clear the remainder of his lands 
without restriction. Up to the present the Government has 
acquired without expense 37,000 dunums of valuable forest reserves 
in this way. The owners of land which had been freed from forestry 
control in this manner were warned of the importance in their own 
interests of preserving as many trees as possible and, although 
certain areas have been cleared of trees and brought under cultiva- 
tion, no case of purposeless destruction of privately-owned forest 
trees has come to light. Many of the plots of land which were 
cleared of forest trees were replanted immediately with olives. 

During the year, 44,180 forest trees were issued from Government 
nurseries to private individuals for planting in gardens and estates. 


XV.—PUBLIC WORKS. 
General. 


When the present Administration assumed control some 11 
years ago, the roads, buildings, water supplies, and most of the 
works which normally fall under the control of a Public Works 
Department were in an unsatisfactory condition. The length of 
roads available throughout the country to motor traffic was not more 
than 280 kilometres, of which 30 were macadamized and 250 were of 


303 


earth. The poor alignment, the steep grades, and the almost com- 
plete absence of road ditches and culverts called for extensive re- 
construction. The few Government buildings were in bad repair. 

The length of motor-roads in Trans-Jordan now totals 1,488 
kilometres, of which 19 are of first class bituminous macadam, 65 
are of waterbound macadam, and 1,354, or about 94 per cent. of 
the whole, are mainly earth. Although there is still much room for 
improvement, the present network of roads serves the country very 
well. 

During the last 11 years, 53 Government buildings, large 
and small, have been newly built. This number covers police 
posts, prisons, and other Government buildings, but does not in- 
clude constructions in the T'rans-Jordan Frontier Force canton- 
ments. Seven new village schools and two secondary schools, one at 
Salt and one at Irbid, have also been constructed, and extensive 
repairs and maintenance work have been carried out in other 
buildings. 

Pumped water has been supplied to the municipalities of Kerak, 
Madeba, Irbid, Amman and Zerqa at municipal expense, and many 
village supplies have been improved. 


Expenditure. 


2. The following table shows the allocation of the expenditure for 
which the Department was responsible in 1935 :— 





Item of Expenditure. Amount. 
£P. 
Roads, extraordinary i on oe ee 10 866 
Roads, maintenance _ aad an Ba 14,312 
Buildings, extraordinary ons hs Pas 3,850 
Buildings, maintenance ... ae ve ean 2,550 
Minor new works ... ae a ve i 500 
Water works ss se 4,555 
Survey of Haifa- Baghdad Railway oe = 660 
Rents * ake 5,769 
Furniture (for Government Departments and 900 
Schools) . | 

Personnel ... ae aa ne me 3,779 
Tools and Equipment oe se oa, ae 200 
Miscellaneous wd o vi ofa a 945 
Total ... 48 ,886 


Palestine Grant for Trans-J ordain Frontier 12,895 
Force works. 

Palestine Grant for Mafrak-Jisr Mejamie road 29,800 

Contribution by villagers for school constructions 940 

Drainage Scheme of Salt ron oe oe 1,500 





Grand Total ... fan 94,021 





oo4 


Personnel. 


3. The establishment of the Department is as follows, but, as 
this was inadequate to carry out the work required, additional 
technical and clerical assistance had to be engaged on daily pay :— 
Director, three Technical Assistants, two Draughtsmen, Chief Clerk, 
Accountant, Stores Clerk, Store Keeper, and five Clerks. 

The staff for the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force branch of the 
Public Works Department consists of a Technical Assistant, Clerk, 
and two Foremen. 

Roads. 


4. The total length of roads repaired and maintained during the 
year 1935 was 1,438 kilometres. Of this total, 1,066 kms. received 
continuous attention and maintenance, whilst the remaining 372 
were repaired not more than twice during the year. 

The following is a summary of the new works carried out during 
1935 :— 

(a) Salt-Allenby Bridge road.—Nine kms. were completely 
re-aligned, widened, drained, metalled, and asphalted.  (b) 
Amman-Salt road.—Four kms. were asphalted, and curves 
properly banked. (ce) Mafraq-Jisr Mejamie road.—The worst 
parts of this road, amounting to 36 kms., were completely re- 
aligned, widened, drained, and metalled. This work is being 
done at the expense of the Palestine Government, with the 
object of making this section of the Haifa-Baghdad road _ pass- 
able in all weathers. (d) Kerak-Tafileh road.—The opening 
of this road was completed. Its total length 1s 76 kms. (e) 
Ma‘an-Mudawara road via Batn el Ghul.—Opening completed 
Its total length is 88 kms. (f) Shobek-Wadt Musa road.—Four 
kms. of the track between Ain Nejel and Buqa were opened to 
traffic, thus completing the whole road. Its total length is 
29 kms. (g) Ma‘an-Sadaka-Delaga road.—Opened this year; 
length 21 kms. (h) Madaba-Styagha road.—Six kilometres of 
this road, which eventually will join Madaba with the Allenby 
Bridge, were opened. 


Buildings. 


5. A number of new works and items of reconstruction have been 
undertaken by the Department, and maintenance and repairs have 
been effected in respect of 90 buildings. 


Water Supply. 
6. The following is a summary of the work done this year :— 
(a) The drainage project at Salt. A drainage scheme to 
protect the town water supply from contamination was started 
last year and completed this year. The work done includes the 
laying of 6 in. pipes and the constructing of manholes and other 


accessories. | — 
(b) Water supply at Salt. The problem of water distri- 


bution in Salt was studied and reports on the project were 
submitted. 


300 


(c) Water supply of Amman. Surveys were made to protect 
the Amman town supply from possible contamination. 


(d) Water supply of Jerash. Surveys were made at the two 
springs in Jerash to devise means of obviating the danger of 
contamination. 


(e) Spring in Um el Jose. The spring at Um el Jose, near 
Salt, was examined with a view to increasing its flow. 

(f) Water distribution in Bakura. Three hydraulic sub- 
merged weirs were constructed at Bakura, in Ghor Jisr el 
Mejamia, for the purpose of distributing available water 
amongst owners proportionately to the areas of their lands. 


(g) The operation of the water-boring rig has been described 
elsewhere in this report. 


Bores by hand were made at two places in the desert. One of these 
reached bedrock without water being found, and work on the other 
is still going on. Two further bores were made between Shobek 
and Ma‘an, water being found in each case. 


Technical Studies, Surveys and Designs. 
7. Surveys have been made for a number of roads, bridges and 
buildings. 
Other Works. 


8. The Department is also responsible for the supply of furniture 
and for the renting of Government-occupied buildings. 


356 
APPENDICES.—PALESTINE. 


APPENDIX I. 


Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies. 

(1) Report and Balance Sheet of the Palestine Electric Corporation, 
Limited. 

(ii) Report and Balance Sheet of the Jerusalem Electric and Public Service 
Corporation, Ltd. 

(ii) Report and Balance Sheet of Palestine Potash Ltd. 

(iv) Palestine Land Development Company, Limited (statement of the 
Huleh Concession Account). 

(v) Lighthouse Concession: Dues collected in 1935. 


(i) THE PALESTINE ELECTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED 


(Incorporated in Palestine). 
TwkEtrra ANNUAL REPORT AND BALANCE SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1934. 


Report oF DIRECTORS FOR THB YRAR ENDED 3lst DECEMBER, 1934. 


To be submitted to the Ordinary General Meeting of the Corporation, to be 
held at 3, Bedford Square, London, W.C.1, on the 5th day of September, 
1935, at 12 noon. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounts for 
the year ended 3lst December, 1934. 

The general economic development of Palestine continued throughout the 
year and is again reflected in the results of the operations of the Corporation. 

The total number of consumers has increased from 21,934 at the end of 
the year 1933 to 35,397 at the end of 1934, being an increase of 13,463 
(61-38 per cent). The total number of units sold has increased from 
20,136,839 during 1933 to 34,385,515 during 1934, being an increase of 
14,248,676 (70:75 per cent.). The gross revenue has increased from 
£P.221,128 in 1933 to £P.363,900 in 1934, being an increase of £P.142,772 
(64-56 per cent.). 

The following table indicates the progress made during the past four 
years :— 


Number of 
Units Sold in’ Consumers Gross Revenue 
Year. kWh. connected. in £P. 
1931 oe sag 8,707,917 12,029 139,673 
1932 wee fut 11,590,350 15,113 145,512 
1933 oe ee 20,136 839 21,934 221,128 
1934 net oe 34,385,515 35,397 363,900 


Good progress was made during the year 1934 in the construction of the 
New Haifa Steam Turbine Power House and current is already being 
supplied from this Power House. 

Large extensions have again been carried out to mect the demand for 
energy; 139 transformers with a capacity of 13,630 kVA were put into 
commission during the year on consumers’ premises, bringing the total up 
to 450 transformers with a capacity of 33,960 kVA. The transmission and 
distribution network of the Corporation was increased during the year by 
343 kilometres, making the total on 3lst December, 1934, 787 kilometres of 
high tension transmission lines and 606 kilometres of low tension distribution 
lines. 

In accordance with the Resolutions passed at the Extraordinary General 
Meeting held on 5th November, 1934, the 10,290 Preference Shares of the 
Corporation were converted into Ordinary Shares as from Ist January, 
1934, ranking in all respects part passu with the existing Ordinary Shares 
in the capital of the Corporation. 


307 


By Resolutions passed at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 
10th December, 1934, the Authorised Capital of the Corporation was 
increased to £2,500,000 by the creation of 600,000 Redeemable Cumulative 
Preference Shares of £1 Sterling each, 600,000 ‘‘ A’’ Ordinary Shares of 
£1 Sterling each and 300,000 shares of £1 Sterling each. Issues have been 
made since the close of the year of the €00,000 44 per cent. Redeemable 
Cumulative Preference Shares to the public at par and the 600,000 “A ”’ 
Ordinary Shares to the Ordinary Shareholders at 25s. per share. The 
overwhelming success of both issues was gratifying evidence of the confidence 
felt in the stability and future prospects of the Corporation. 

The outstanding liability of the Corporation to its Managing Director, 
Mr. Pinhas Rutenberg, referred to in the Auditors’ Report, has been finally 
settled in terms of the Resolution of the Corporation passed on the 4th 
February, 1935. 

The £217,900 4 per cent. Guaranteed Debentures and £293,820 6 per cent. 
Second Mortgage Sterling Debenture Stock outstanding on 3lst December, 
1934, have been redeemed out of the new Capital in accordance with the 
conditions of the respective issues thereof. EP. 


The gross profit for the year 1934 was ... : Bae 242 341.991 


After deducting the following appropriations and saraeniae — 
(a) Reserve for Depreciation of Power Houses, Trans- 


former Stations and Transmission Lines ... oe 48,800.000 

193,541.991 

and (b) Interest (net) on the Debentures, Bank, etc. ... aes 28 ,030.973 

there was a net Profit of ... 165,511.018 
spat ae the balance brought forward from the previous year, 

Viz. cae, ade — ee eo si es sos ses 34 050.659 


there is an available balance (subject to the liability to British 
Income Tax indicated in the Balance Sheet) of _... a2, 199 561.677 


Out of this the Directors recommend :— 

(1) The transfer to a Reserve for Income 
Tax and Contingencies of ... ... £25,000 0 0 

(2) The transfer to General Reserve of ... 70,000 0 90 

(3) The payment of a Dividend on the 
Ordinary Shares of 74 per cent. 
free of British Income Tax, absorb- 
ing Lae ee as = ... 70,821 17 6 165,321.875 


leaving a balance to be carried forward (subject to liability 
to British Income Tax) of a os i ae ... £P.34,239.802 


Mr. I. A. Naiditch has for personal reasons resigned his Directorship and 
Mr. Edward S. Baron has been co-opted to the Board. 

In accordance with the Articles of Association, M. Henri Franck, Dr. 
G. Halpern, Lord Hirst and Mr. Edward S. Baron retire from the Board, 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 

The Auditors of the Corporation, Messrs. Russell & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, retire, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, 
READING, 
Chairman. 


Pinuas RUTTENBERG, 
8th August, 1935. Managing Director. 


358 


OSP'PSL‘ISt 








368°9F23'6S> eee eee eee eee ete “049 ‘niajeAs 
UOPNG|Tsp ‘sud BUpywoues ‘ssujprnq 000°000'08 mah GEES RS HER ORS eaoee ag posousy 
pov (sous, UosssIsUVIy AoYeA UoIVYg 000°929‘0F3 So 
692°091'S Ree ee ere ee epae on ee eeads O1aV-10.L O49 fo uospmcasdocy sop oft’ 
e eee ses ees eee eee e s o rr) uormo: 40 9049: 
OPAA WBBe oy} Jo sesuadxo Arvuyuyald OOO'S2ELTT tte aes pipes Se uopuop 
400°L62'8 eee wee aoe eos eee ° g}00f : yn 8 s0uDpLOOOPp Te wornniwedecy 40f sat98ar7 
-o1d guourdopeaop snojrvA uo oN ypuedxqy] gse'oRe reg St 
892'080'F tae ep Se pa ase wojeva0 L¥L'QIL ZS wee se a ae "°° Ss0UB]Yg 4paly 
-U0/) 943 UO sosUedxa 19430 pues [BBa] ‘s90,7 632° 682'R ore — “se “"* syysodaq §,139umsu0) 
000°T ai ee WoOpes9IM0D OY} JO WO}ZeNbo 003°909'221 ae ne ye. oc “* FseIpIIAQ yuvg 
—: OUP 0} OMY PUIAdxyY [eyavp 6ST'S824 OLT ie ss as a 810}; pal) AIpung 
L98°069'289'T ee 836'SZ1'TF EMM mbopenD pocefor 
e s eee @ee aee @ese ‘ ad 
¥26'°SS1'SS eve eee eee eee coe TOyBsE0 000°0Z8'863 
U0) OY} YA WOFPeUUOD Uy sosUadxe 000°08T‘9 oe ae we te Poulse pay —sso7 
Teieues Suypnpuy sesuedxe 1d 000°000‘008 oss ve a ponss} pus pesjioyyny 
SSZ' 11S‘ "098 ‘SABMTFEY JO WOPCOB}I}00q 107 H09f01g > (870988 8, AUBdUIOD 943 UO oFIBYo & Aq pandas) 
TSP'aT FSI ia eH “"*  SUOPABIG JoULIO;suvIT, F PNG asnzuaged burjsng sbvhjsopy puoss %9 
pus ouyy Uojsepmsuvly, AgyeA uUvplor 000°006 213 ae 
¥88°L49‘00F 000°00T 28 oe hs : ad poulsapay—ssoT 
O6F'FZ0'0T “ttt tt SVPIOCEL 000°000 062 aa ae -* —- penssy puv posioyuyny 
Cle’ Ose'szz °° *** (Wo;QOeIe JopuN) > (@j0888 8, AUBdUIOD O43 UO OBreYo ¥ Aq pemoasr) 
esnoH JOMOd ByeH MIN F Sainzusgad peopunsony %>p 
6SF'989'03S *" ee ei ** SCH 000°SZ9' 288 pce ovo TF JO salvyg A1vup1g 4z9‘ze8 
eee @oe 4800 48 "m9 *‘a1078A48 uOoT Na —_ penssy 
“3p ‘syuvjd Bupyvicues ‘ssuypynq ‘puey ee 
—: SULLOG LL pus vyjeH 000°000‘00¢‘Z 
962°088'Z20'T e eae eve eee ee spoog : 
0} ONP SHIOA\ Uvplor 0} ar jo 000°000'008 ae eee HOPI oy} Jo Wof}aIOs1p 
3800 Jo Jud) OOO'OT'dF YO 19}7]1M 89] 04} 9 ponssy oq 07 [F JO sal“YS 000'008 
‘sa10}8 po}eOO]|}"UN pue ‘039 ‘sosuodxa 000°000'009 = se “°° YOBa TZ JO saIBVUg sda 
Te19U03 PUL UO}}IzS]UlUIPs ‘soUT] WO;SsTUL AIya_ CaANVMUMN) sqvursapsy 000‘009 
fuer) “suojye}s JoMIO;sUBIY ‘ATOUTYOuUI 000°000'009 «= ***—- Yous TF JO sarwyg AIvUTPIO V 000'009 
‘syiOM = =oymerpAy ‘sBulpyinq = ‘puey — (PE6T 
: BNO JOMO d]1}09[Q-O1pAH Usplor 4eIy7 ‘JaquUisdaq] OT JO Uo;yNfossey) onssy Ao 
000°T i es WoyssaoUoD 943 JO UOTIEINbo 000°000‘000'T °"* Yous [F Jo saleyg AreappsO 000‘000'T 
—! Bq 0} amypuadxy peydep —: pasjiouyjny 
—: U0lss90U0) uLpLor [yondyg esvys 
‘yu *d3 “su * dF *SLISSV “sul “dF ‘SIN ‘dF *SAILITIGVIT 


6 
“PEBT JOQMI90E] 481g 48 SB JooYG coUTTEg 
(‘ourT}Se/8q Ul poyei1od10ouT) 
“dHLIWIT NOILVAOdHOD OFaLOTIY ANILSAIVG FHT, 


359 


"SEOl ‘Amr yics ‘eye 

"BLOM NY “SPUBNNOIY paiHsvy,) 
“OD P T1EssaAy 

‘Audio ay} Jo syoog aq} Aq WNOYS 8B PUY SN OF TOAIB suo jvuLjdxs sy} puv UO] VINIOJU] MO Jo 480q 94} 0} Bulpi0908 syvye 


8, AUVATUOD JY} JO 924038 9Y} JO ASIA 499II09 PUL ons, BV MOYS OF SB OS UN UMBID AJJodoid S| yoays aoUR[LYg aaoqe vy) UOTUIdO IMO UL ‘Sd}ON ,B1OZIIICZ 92 0} PUT H1vual sty oF 
qoafqng ‘“szunooddy vsAOqe oY} UL PoyrsJodsOoU you eT ‘egET ‘AIBNIQAT UIF ay} UO pessud Auvdwuo0g oy. Jo UOTN[OSOY oY} QA DULPIOVIT UT POUTMJe}ap Ud0q MOU BBY YoyAR 
‘eeel ‘eqmao0q Isle ayy pop Joos eouvug ayy uO yoda Ino UW pouo]WoU RLGQuoMyY “q ‘IGT 0} APWI£Gviy Burpuryszno sy “paynbar savy am Yyorya suoMvuridxe pus 
UOL}TULIOTUL JY} [TU Pouse}qo savy PUY ‘YIIOJ 498 DAOG BB ‘FEB ‘OQWIDI(L WTE VY poyep “pyT ‘uo; vI0dIO;) IJ1;9]q sUpJsajVq ay} Jo JooyS souY[Yg ayy Pey[pN easy a4 


‘SUACIOHTUVHS AWL OL LHOdAY ,SHOLIGAY 


“s0j0040q7 Buribvun py SOUSANALAY SVANIG 

"UDuULLDY) ‘ONIGVAY 

*SJUNOIIY aSay} UL PazyVIOdIOOUT OU ATOJaIIY} PUY palvpap 4aA Jou AVoIg pans998 sey Occ'6' JF JO [vydvyg 
e1vYS B YW “JOYIO VU, “Zulyviedo yas Jou st Auvdurog AIBIPsqng auo ‘gc6[ ‘vouTUIpIQ Setuedulo,) 343 Jo ZOT *9ag 0} JUBNEMgG—'s2undiueD) Naviprisqng 072 sD JUaULAIDIS 
*sarueBd LOD JoyjO Ul JOJ Peqliosqny soivyg Uo po[BVoUN eyIMOUIV Jo JOodSaI UL 0SZ‘8'dzs JO AU[GBl] QUIBUYQUOD B s}EIXO aLVUL (Z) 

*poupuLlazap 

Woaq 394 JOU SBYy YOY JO JUNOUV 943 ‘226 [TAdY OlOlJ SB XBT, BWODT] YSHg 0} 4yoofqns Ss] VA0qv UMOYS BB JUNODDY ssOT puv WZYoIg oy} Jo sIUYIVg JU, (T) 

—"8IJ0N 840p04T 


"juDpunoooy foryd/V 
NVKA1ag ‘¢ 

"L0pJaLICT GBuridouvjy 
‘OUAUNALIY SVANIG 

"UDULLIDYD 
‘ONIGCVAY 


—sLope1uy fo pavog ay} fo fyvyaq UO 





FLO'SEO'SES'S “dF EG SEO SESS ‘d3 
219° 19S ‘661 








SIO'LIS‘S9T = *** ale mi "** Teoh Of} 10} WOIG—ppy 
699°0S0'FE —_—_—- 











O8T'Z6S‘F x ioe “8 puny Ul pun ByuDT yw YsDD 066°689'FZ 000°000‘'0E + “88 BAIO8OI 
S06'488'8 ai a: ae ee oe Injdp,) fo [wlaten 0} pajvoorTy 
BEDILIUT YPN UOLWIIUUOD UL pO Of adn; ipusdry 0S6'689'F* —————— 
LIF'982'66 002828 (sa18qS 
9L¢9°95L'°63 ei ae ee “*  syuMODDW AIpung A1vujp1O 
L¥S'6S0‘02 ose eee see “-syaNoIY ,sloumnsuo,) O7UT 
—! $90UnIDeT 29a pun 34019907 PO9FIBA 
LLE°LE0°ST _ _ “ ** aoUuDApD U2 adnpipusdrl gy -W09 90UI8) 
F6F' 108 SF iis =o *** STBIO 8, Aunduroy oy} Aq BIIVU: 
pepi7se0 sv ‘amwp-7aE pun vfivy yw puny wo 321035 edIuUBLIJ 
8£0°086 "** SJUNCDIV SNOLIVA O} PydIcyS UoMvioaidop -31g UO 
BS0[ 4800 48 ‘alap-jaL pun ofiny yw sdoysyso 4 OSZ°998'SP  sarByg 
O16’ZOL‘T wee eae eee ere eee Uo]}VpPaId Ap ABU PIO 
8691 4800 4B ‘ausudinby pun ainnuing anf uo 
000°802'9 pe *"** JOpPUN JO 4809 4B ‘spuompsaruy Aupungy paisjoap 
StS 9ET'TS ; pusplAlp 
8F8°960 IT eee eee eea eae qImo00 7 qualms) ner od Saal td 
000°OIT OT nee ee eee ee 800 9B ETUOMIZSOATYT eooore'gor 
° 8 pisalo #noiq 90 
—: gayueduio) Aleypisqng eT 4 = in s He op rebel tS a 


ZLY6LO'O ne 4800 48 ‘aay-p] pup vfioH uy puny 


360 


(ii) JERUSALEM ELECTRIC & PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION, 
LIMITED. 


(Incorporated under the Palestine Companies Ordinances, 1921 to 1925.) 


REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 


to be submitted to the Members at the Ordinary General Meeting to be 
held in Hall 43, Winchester House, Old Broad Street, London, E.C.2, 
on Wednesday, 24th July, 1935, at 3 p.m. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
3lst March, 1935. 


The profit for the year, including the balance (£P.4,530.281) brought for- 
ward from the previous year is ... .. £P.44,770,092 
out of which the following payments and appropriations have 
been made :— 


Reserve for Income Tax _... weed ... £P.5,000.000 
Transfer to General Reserve ae ae 5,000.000 
Amount applied in writing down Issue 

Expenses an te 12,875.000 


Dividend, on 225, 000 “pisference "Shares 
for year to 31st March, 1935, less tax 12,206.250 


35,081.250 
leaving a balance of ea £P.9,688.842 
which the Directors propose to “deal with ¢ as 

follows : — 
In payment of a Dividend on 200,000 
Ordinary Shares, of 4 per cent. less 
tax, amounting to ane os 6,200,000 
leaving to be carried forward to next year’s 
Account ... ee hee oe see ae £P.3,488.842 


Further extensions to the plant have been made during the year, and 
the Company’s business continues to increase satisfactorily. 


In July, 1934, 30,000 Ordinary Shares were issued, and the proceeds 
applied in providing funds for the development of the business. 


The Rt. Hon. Lord Rankeillour, P.C., has been elected to the Board to 
fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. J. G. B. Stone. 


In accordance with the Articles of Association Sir Archibald B. Boyd- 
Carpenter, M.P., and the Rt. Hon. Lord Rankeillour, P.C., retire, but 
being eligible offer themselves for re-election. 


The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., Jerusalem, retire and offer them- 
selves for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 


D. C. Broox, 
London Secretary. 


16th July, 1935. 


361 


‘seer ‘Amp vz 

aeeeiis c 
‘Ausdulog 0G} Jo sHoOog oy} Aq UMOUS SB PUY GN Toads suof}euYldxe oy} PUB UO;ZBULIOJUT MO jo 48aq 
24} 0} Buppi0cov syyeyge s,Ausdulod oY} Jo 97878 04} JO MOJA 4901109 PUB ONT} & FqyyxXe 0} sv os dn UMIp AjJodoid av YUNODOY ssoT pus AYOIg puev yooyg soUETeg Yons uosuydo 
MO Ul ‘pelNbel easy OM SUO;VUBIdGxXE PUB UO]}JVULIOJUT 949 [[V PEUTVIGO CABY PUB PO] 40s OAOGS SB JUNODIY ssOT PUB IPOIG pus Joayg sIUB[V_ 94} Paz;pNe srvy 9A 


“CHLINIT NOILVHOdHOD AOIARAS OITAOd FP OMMLOATY KATVSAaae dO SUAGWAY AHL OL SHOLIGAY ABL AO LHOdAY 


‘SpUDpUNODDY poLnsvYD 
‘OO } TITAssay 









aTGON ‘G "HL 
SOPOT) saaavaHS AVITIOM | 
¥99°S80'08F “dF | £99°E80'08F' dF 
006’ SOF ‘OF eee eve woe eve eos eee sigyueg 4u sep 
Sea Saree BFS’ 8896 es E, is Rae "** QUnODY ssOT PUT FYOld 
000°S28‘ZI eee eee ees eoe eee yo Ud}pIIA 837 6SF'2C0'F eae see eee see wee OA1I80Y suey 
000°S28‘°ST 000°000‘0Z Se 
pee eR 000°000‘¢ wee ese eee eee eee wok Supmp poppy 
000°SZE eee eee aoe eee eee vos ou Zutmp poppy 000°000‘ST een ae see wae eee qunodoy 4svl 19d 
ooo;00s‘zI °° sig ne a6 _o qunoooY 4sv] Jog —OAIISIY [VIOUIF) 
—selvyg JO onssy UO OIssTuIMI0D G9 SPER IZ ak ‘a8 "** “9 ‘saBIuyO ponsd0¥ ‘s10II pei AIpung 
SIF'$Z0'6 ee "r "4e ‘soUvApU uf ‘Ssyuoursed 8103497 Arpung 000°000‘GaF —_———— 
100°966‘OT a ‘ gpsuery 000°000° 006 pred Aqmy Gove T'ds JO salud AIVUIPIO 000‘00Z 
uy pas ‘soBeaUR eu} Aq Peyy}190 8B ‘puvy uO sarO}S oo00'000‘Ssza ** pred Ayny ova r d3 
SES IF uolefoeidep Jo solveyg s0UdIIJIIg SsAT}UInUIND %2L 000°S3S 
s8a7 ‘9800 48 “OJ0 ‘orngming ‘“soporyeA JoOjOPY ‘spooy, "SITIN “d3 : panssy 
L09°931'sce ae —_—_——_— 
6FS'SZ0'ES es ar a ie Iva ol} BULIMp suo ppy 000°000‘00¢9' dF 
8c6°SOT OE **° io oe as JUNODY Vl 197 ee 
‘ao *s10)0%§ “SUTUAL ‘AIOUTYOVPY puv Juryg 000°000‘002 a2 o i ty qovs T'dF JO salVvyg ATE 000° 002 
‘sBUPIMG ‘spueT Saypnyjogy * 3809 98 amp pusdxg peydey 000°000‘008 “* Yous [dz Jo Sareyg souolojoig oAl}epnuny ol 000‘008 
000°000‘09 se ae UO[sSIdUOZ) JO 4809 : pasi.oymn F 
“SIN “dF ‘SIN “dF ‘SLOSSV —_— ndng 940" 
SIN 'd 5 ‘SSILITIAVIT 
(; Buy193§ 1F sre 2 I'd3) 
“S86T ‘YDB STE 3B Se yaoYg dUTL eg 
Z60'OLL FF dF | 260° OLL ‘FF dF 
TI8°6&2 ‘OF eee eae one see **“LMOp qysno1g aouvleg “ ZER'RR9'S eee eee ere eee eee ase 490ug souRleg 0} aouvleg ‘é 
T83'089'F Sees 02390421 . “2° ie : _Xv} 8897 ‘1B98 JOY puoplalq oouasajorg 
0¢93°L99'S sig : F XB} 389] 000°SL8°ZT wi a rh Mins sasuad xq anssyT Jo Bury “ 
See TS cawos rom pusplAId Areuypig : ponpaT 000°000'¢ ee ite ee a =e me dAlIseYy [BleUa_) 
TEs"Z80'8 eee . eee qunoo0y 4S] wioly soULl Ug Ag 000°000‘S eee eee wre eee ene eee 9AINS9q XBL eulooUyT OL 
“STA “di "STI “dF “STA “dF 
600'FLL'FF “dF 600‘FLI'FF “dF 
LIR’6E2 ‘OF eee eee eee eee eee eee eee uUMOp PoLdeo a0uvlVg 
é 99T FET : He: ‘ Ks 809,J OJITC IOJ UO[sfAoid 
A a4 ay oe oS sydjoooy Apung puv Zuyjyesedg uo snjdmg Ag 380'08S'S ts ae [e1oUAH PUB UOPPVIYS[UJUIpPY WopuoT oy, 
“S[UL *d 5 
SEE A EL | Oe TRAE a NE ree ae 
>” (-Buyieng 13 spenbo 1-43) 1d 


“ORGT ‘YB ISIE popue Teax oY} OJ JUNODOY SOT PUY IBOId 
(9261 © 1Z6T scousuIpIQ sorusdm0D eUTysO[B™ OY} JOpun pozvi0d.100uy) 


Cre E ESET CoN e TWEE EEEI «ETD T ATOR ortaat @ orw1rosaTs wa1veoug 


362 
ii) PALESTINE POTASH, LIMITED. 


REpoRT OF DIRECTORS 


to be presented to the Fifth Ordinary General Meeting of the Members 
on the 23rd day of July, 1935. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report, together with the duly 
audited Balance Sheet of the Company, dated 3lst December, 1934, and 
the Profit and Loss Account for the year 1934. 


Bromine sales during the year under review have increased by 50 per 
cent. and prices have been maintained. The Company continues to supply 
the bulk of the British Empire market. 


Reference was made in the previous Report to a general fall in potash 
prices. This tendency increased during the period under review but has 
now been arrested. 


The potash produced by the Company secured a ready sale in most of 
the important markets of the world, but prices suffered from the acute 
competition prevailing. 


With a view to strengthening its position and reducing the cost of pro- 
duction, the Company by Special Resolution passed at its Extraordinary 
General Meetings on 3lst May, 1934, and 25th January, 1935, decided to 
raise £350,000 in 54 per cent. Redeemable Cumulative Participating Pre- 
ference Shares which have since been fully taken up. In accordance with 
a further Resolution at the first of these Meetings the capital was con- 
solidated by the conversion of over 94 per cent. of the 74 per cent. Pre- 
ference capital into Ordinary Shares. 


As the Company is still in the development stage of production no pro- 
vision has been made this year for amortization and depreciation. 


The Action against the Company, arising out of an alleged pre-war 
Turkish Concession, to which reference was made in last year’s Report, 
was tried in London on the llth and 17th July, 1934, when the Court 
directed that Judgment should be entered for the Company with costs of 
the Action. 


Directorate.—In accordance with Article 108 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association Lord Lytton, Major Tulloch, Mr. Edward Friedman and 
Abdul Rahman N. Bey el Taji retire, and being eligible offer themselves 
for re-election. Lord Glenconner was appointed a Director by the Board 
during the perrod under review, and his appointment is submitted for 
confirmation. 


Auditors.—Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co. retire, and being 
eligible offer themselves for re-election. 


LYTTON, 
Chairman. 


E. W. D. TEexnant, 
Director. 


June, 1935. 


363 


SPUD pind PY pitaplirif ) a BOUR word COU 

oe yY IAD ‘SHNXC AMWAVA ‘UOpUuo’L 
-<UBdUIO) 243 Jo sHOOg 94} AQ WAOYsS SB Pus ‘sn 07 AAI SUOL}UTYTAX9 aY7 PUR ‘UOTFLUTIOJUL MO Jo 48oq OY} OF FUPPIOIIV LIC HU 8, Auvduio,) dy} JO 9}V3R VYy JO Arof.r Joul1OD PUY ONT} 
@ JqQMmxa 0} sv os dn UMvIp ApIedoid sf Joos aouBlyg Yous ‘romjdo Mo Ut ‘OVA JIQuE “UCM IIdop JO UOTUS|ZIOUI JO} opeU Woo q ZOU BUY UOIMAOIQ ‘PATNI IAvy aAd 
SUOTJCUTIGX PUL UOFPVUIOJU! OY} |[V PaUjRqO BABY PUR ‘VAOgE TIO} Jos Sv ‘SEQT ‘Jequiacde(, IIE PIep “PYT YsvjOT sUupsa[V_ JO JaoYg oouvpeyY oY} pozypne savy 9M 


‘SUMENTN AAL OL SHOLIGAY AHL dO LHOdTY 


‘gcOppry 








0 61 6g9‘cEs 0 61 696'SE3 

; 6 g er|e'9 ane ese eee eee eos owe syuamaon day pup ssivday . 
6 9 FRESE oT FROG BauDIDE 0} parts 4D0{ OY) Lof R80T 3 9 RIC et ee sobsny) YU PUD jossqUT 
9 eT G eae ose eee aes eee eee eee 8307 LOfQUva [ «6 ¥ €I O1t'% oor ese eee eee eee ene UO’MLEUNUMLIY s40poasigg ee 
6 RT GOSS 0 JUNODOY Gurpway, pun Hursngonfnuvyy uo jfosrd seoiy AG | 6 ELK TT UR Bape Pun uopuoTy Up sesuedrT OL 
‘ps 3 ‘p's 3 







‘EEG ‘Aequlvv0g ISTE Papua vad ay} JOJ JUNOIDY SKOT PUY WYOId 
OI 8 $02L'%6S3 OT 8 £02653 


& LT Srg'sl 











6 9 FR8ol sei ie 129K 9Y} IOj s80T + PPV 

¢ OT sets °" use se Qooug souTLeg ysuy 19d sy 
—! JUNO P 88oT pun jiforg “ 
I sso‘T _ as was pupyy ut pun syuvgy pw ysoy © 
OT 92T'O nas goupapy ur sjusufivg pun s4aigeqy fupung “ 

1 #GR‘LG aon eee eee eee eoe wee 10JPIAICT 
suisruvpy 943 Aq poylyi0o ee ‘puny uo syoojg ‘ 

6 O&t‘OT 


€ § ORFS 7" ais ce Teudey Jo uoNesiyszI0Iy 
uo «Ivak) 904g) BuULMp oo OINyIpPUNdNXGE : ppy 
¢ 9 ose. 7°" oe pee qaayg auryeg ysvy] Jad sy 
— "pO “SOL LE2'0F 
VopssyUe;) «= BURIIAJapug = BuIpnpUy “ELET 

Ul ponssy [edu YB UOTOVUUOD Uy sseuadzy “ 





mo oon 


6 ar ae 
“s4ope4i | LNYNNGL Serr 


Il Of ¢3e'¢h = — 
S IT ost's “* Iva oy} BuLMp amnjypusdxy Joy WN : ppy 
g@ ¢ S6L‘Th °" ee me qooyg oouryg, sv] Jod sy 
—! '0}9 ‘SAOAING 
uo amy puasdxq guonbasqns yILA 1J0y39F0} “TEGT 
‘qoquiad0q « 4STE 0} dn amyipuodxa jo souvpeq 
paywooytun yy Bupoq ‘yunovwp puaudojavq “ 





L QL S¥8'L62 
Tt 6 FIZ 7" ss quad oY} BULNP omMIpPTOAXG JY WNT 8 OT O&2‘ST pee tea ae = "* syfpspsaag yung “ 
9 L s69'G8s °° a ah "goes soauyug 3st] Jod sy G SL 66F CRT 
—) UGTIaIN 07 PoyNq1sy7Ww sosusd xa OL RI 61z2‘T9 oe ‘+ SBupULzsINO pus s10zj pol) spvly, 
prayI9A0 Jo UOTWIOdold Zurpuyaul “soy ye “Fuse ¥ ET 62L'0S1 bath aes 7 ale a SOIUTAPY 
-dinby Raping puv snyoavddy ‘fsauiyooyy ‘unig “ —: szoppoty) flapung “ 
0 6° 
L OT T0S'6 a "* ead oy} SUPNP ony puodxy JOypMNT Pieroeee 0 0 4 — ne < “"* IVOLTY Ul STR +» 8897 
$ ST HORS TT QoS COUNT VA billed 0 0 000'268 
V} poynql7js sasMVdx9 PVIY-I9AO JO uojjsodoid 0 0 Z29T'ZZz8 ae “ss yous TF JO BaINYS AIVUIPIO ZOT'LLE 
Buppupouy ‘ys0,) yu ‘shuipying puy puvT pjoyserg * 0 0 k&8'6I - es Yova TF JO SAVYS DuUdI-Ud SER'6l 
—: dQ pean) pun penssy jozidn,) “* 
OL v4 s9sc‘OT aoe eee eee eee WOIsS399DM07) 


YMYMNT pasoyTR YA Woyosuuo0s — Uj; 0 0 000‘0SSF 

Ivok BULINP POLMIU] aNapusd xy [VB] : ppy 
Ino esse oO qos aourtg ysuy Jod sy 0 0 oOO;OsT TT youa TF Jo sareyg 00N‘NST 

—: SaIvYS pred ATM JO JUIUTZO]][E VY} AQ Pops|y As 0 O ZO9l‘ORs oa ‘es -Yyowa TF JO Saivtyg AIVUIPIO SOT OSs 

SIOPUIA BY AQ IPVUL YIOAL AILUMELDIG Ay} Ye 0 O 8&s‘6I oe ** youa [TF JO Savy ausleJolg g£e‘6L 

Jo yyottaq oy} pur Bag pvaq AY} Ul sy]Ug PUB —! pasrioyjne 

B[VIIUJJ JO UOFJIVIYXD OY} JOJ UoOissazu0, fo 7807 AG —: jody) OL 

8 
"TROT Sequraso0q7 WTR JoetysS oouvpwgd "Hd 
oe “OUSLY FISVLOg UNELLA UVIV GT 











OI S gFs‘c9 








6 § TIT‘S6 











364 


(iv) STATEMENT OF THE HULEH CONCESSION ACCOUNT 
AS AT THE 3lst DecEMBER, 1935. 
As shown in the books of the Palestine Land Development Co., Ltd. 


£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
Price of Concession is 191,795.000 
Add 6 per cent. Interest from the [st October, 
1934, to the lst October, 1939 24 643.290 216,438.290 
Payment to Previous Concessionaires on account 
of Drainage Works : 9,000.000 
Survey and Experts’ Tavestization. “Commission, 
Advocates’ Fees, Upkeep, Administration, 
Interest, etc. 26 546.095 
Technical Apparatus, Caray Sundry Equipment, 
etc. a AG 1,363.336 
Buildings and participation i in Road making . 2,793.844 
Total bi .. £P.256,141.565 


Of the Purchase Price, the previous Concessionaires have now received 
£P.91,287.658 mils in cash, and the balance including interest thereon, 1s 
covered by promissory notes to the value of £P.125,150.632 mils which 
mature during the years 1936-39. Certain of these promissory notes to the 
amount of £P.31,287.658 mils maturing on the Ist October, 1939, have been 
deposited with the Company as security for the amount due to Government 
by the previous Concessionaires, and until final settlement has been made 
with them in respect of the exact extent of the area acquired. 

Notr.—A sum of £P.56,466.667 mils has been received by the Company 
from prospective participants in the Development of the Concession. 


The Palestine Land Development Co., Ltd. 
Joshua Hankin, Dr. Jacob Thon, Managing Directors 
We have examined the above Statement with the Books of the Palestine 
Land Development Co., Ltd., and certify the same to be in accordance 
therewith. 
Russet, & Co., 
Chartered Accountants. 
Jerusalem, 
12th February, 1936. 


(v) LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 


STATEMENT OF LicuT DUES COLLECTED BY THE ADMINISTRATION GENERALES DES 
PHARES FOR THE YEAR 1935. 





Other Ports 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside Total. 
Palestine. 

£P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 

January 1,991.509 999.044 -600 2,991.153 
February 2,505.106 776.114 — 3,281.220 
March... 3,195.448 1,367.809 -617 4,563.874 
April ... 2,286.048 1,161.022 -223 3,447.293 
May 2,004.839 1,076.462 -654 3,081.955 
June 1,654.629 1,180.045 -869 2,835.543 
July 2,183.124 1,209.892 3° 733 3,396.749 
August 1,907.811 1,263.732 4-803 3,176.146 
September 2,081.377 1,111.338 2-560 3,195.275 
October 2,042.055 1,130.118 — 3,172.173 
November 2,019.626 1,010.094 -800 3,060.520 
December 1,906.677 1,202.745 -851 3,110.273 
Total £P. 25,778.249 13,518.415 15-510 39,312.174 





365 


APPENDIX II. 


REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CONDITIONS OF SERVICE OF 
UNCLASSIFIED GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES IN TECHNICAI, 
DEPARTMENTS. 

Terms of Reference. 


A Committee, consisting of the District Commissioner, Jerusalem District, 
as Chairman, and the Director of Medical Services and Deputy Treasurer as 
members, was appointed on 7th March, 1935, to enquire into and report 
on the conditions of service, hours of work, and pay of employees in 
daily-wage grades, whether paid on a monthly or a daily basis, in the 
technical departments of Government, taking into consideration among other 
things any rise in house rents. 


In the time at their disposal the Committee only found it possible to 
inquire into conditions of service in those technical departments employing 
considerable numbers of men on a daily-wage basis. In departments where 


such numbers are relatively small, modifications of conditions present little 
difficulty. 


The principal problem was presented at Haifa, particularly in the Rail- 
ways. In the course of the enquiry, continual reference was made to the 
conditions of service in monthly-wage grades with which those in daily- 
wage grades were repeatedly compared. In order to reach a_ solution 
satisfactory to the latter, the Committee have found it necessary to make 
recommendations affecting the former, in spite of the limitations of their 
terms of reference. 


Procedure of Enquiry. 


2. The Committee first proceeded to enquire into the conditions of service 
of employees in the various Government technical departments from the 
Postmaster-General, the Deputy Director of Public Works, the General 
Manager of Railways, the Resident Engineer, Harbour Development Works, 
Haifa, the Director of Customs, the Port Manager, Haifa, the Engineer 
North, Posts and Telegraphs Department, the Assistant Engineer, Public 
Works Department, Haifa, the Resident Engineer, Jaffa Port Improvements 
Works, and the Director of Agriculture and Forests. 


Evidence as to the deplorable housing conditions of some of the working- 
class families in Haifa was given to the Committee by the Senior Medical 
Officer, Haifa. Some of these conditions were inspected. The Committee 
also visited the Railway Workshops and the Jewish Housing Settlement of 
Kiryat Hayim. Representatives of the employees in various branches of 
the Railways explained their grievances to the Committce. A delegation 
of the workmen employed in the Harbour Works were received also. 
Separate interviews were arranged with representatives of the Arab 


Workers’ Society and with those of the Gencral Federation of Jewish 
Labour. 


The Committee then circulated a number of tentative proposals to the 
Heads of Departments concerned, and have since discussed these in detail 
with them. 

The complaints summarized. 


3. The following is a summary of the chief complaints presented to the 
Committee : — 


(1) Increase of Wages.—Many of the unclassified employees on the Rail- 
ways have been in the service since Turkish times but have had no increase 
of wages, with the exception of a few small increases given during the 
Current financial year. Promises have been made that when the financial 


366 


position improved they would be given increases. The Government is now 
spending large sums on capital improvements, but nothing has yet been 
done to improve the condition of the men employed. 


(2) Circular No. 11.—On the 8th March, 1934, Circular No. 11 conceded 
a number of benefits in regard to vacation leave, sick leave, and gratuity 
to monthly-paid and daily-paid unclassified employees. The same circular 
instructed that employees should not be retained on a daily basis for more 
‘ than two years save in exceptional cases but were normally entitled to the 
additional security of tenure which monthly payment provides. The benefits 
promised in Circular No. 11 have not yet been applied in the Railways nor 
in the Harbour Construction Works, although in some Government De- 
partments unclassified employees have profited by its application for over 
a@ year. 


(3) Cost of Living.—No allowance is given to unclassified employees to 
compensate them for the general rise in cost of living. 


(4) /Lousing.—Circular No. 91 dated 24th November, 1934, granted tem- 
porary housing allowances in Haifa and Tel-Aviv, with effect from the 
Ist April, 1934, to married officers in Grades N and O (i.e., with salaries 
from £P.60 to £P.276 per annum) and in equivalent unclassified ranks. 
The promised extension to ‘‘ equivalent unclassified ranks’? was never 
applied to Railway personnel in Haifa and Tel-Aviv, and the Committee 
understand that it was subsequently limited to employees whose pay was 
shown in the Estimates under Personal Emoluments. Numerous cases 
exist in Haifa in which a whole family dependent on wages of from £P.5 
to £P.7 a month can only afford to live in one room the controlled rental 
of which is £P.1} per month. Such cases are by no means confined to 
classified staff, who alone are entitled to the temporary housing allowance 
granted by Circular No. 91. Moreover, the prevalent custom of the country 
by which unmarried men have relatives dependent on them appears to have 
been overlooked. 


(5) Working Hours and Overtime.—Daily-paid employees in the Railway 
Workshops normally work eight hours a day for six days, followed by a day 
of rest. If called upon to work overtime, they are paid at 13 rate on a 
week day, 14 on a day of rest. 


In the Running and Traffic Section, however, daily-paid employees 
frequently have to exceed these working hours and to forgo their day of 
rest. As a measure of economy they are granted time off in lieu instead 
of being paid overtime. Monthly-paid employees on the Railways also 
complain that they work excessively long turns of duty for which they 
receive no compensation. 


(6) Retiring Benefits.—Unclassified employees never acquire a right to 
pension. By Circular No. 11, however, unclassified staff on monthly grades 
became eligible, on retrenchment after seven years and on retirement after 
fifteen years, to gratuity at the rate of one week’s pay for each year’s 
service up to fifteen years. In case of death, such gratuity is payable 
to dependants. 


These benefits, however, only accrue to monthly-paid staff. In the Rail- 
ways it is the practice to keep most of the workshop hands on daily rates 
indefinitely, in spite of the instruction in Circular No. 11 that daily-paid 
staff should normally go on to a monthly basis after two years. Hence 
daily-paid staff are deprived of retiring benefits in spite of long service. 

As explained later in paragraph 9 of this report, the Committee hold 


that in Circular No. 11 the absence of reference to daily-paid categories 
being entitled to gratuity has given rise to a misunderstanding. 


(7) Leave.—Leave on full pay has been doubled by Circular No. 11 for 
monthly rates of over three years’ service, but not for men on daily rates, 
however long they have served. 


367 


(8) Sick Benefits——Sick benefits of men with over three years’ service on 
monthly rates were increased by Circular No. 11 to those of classified staff, 
with the single exception of sick leave on half pay. Men on daily rates, 
however, continue to receive no sick benefits however long their service. 


(9) Punishments and Dismissals —The representatives of Railway work- 
men complained that fines, which could now be as high as seven days’ pay, 
should never exceed one day's pay, and the proceeds should be spent in the 
interests of the men. They also asked that dismissal should only follow 
full investigation in the course of which the accused should be given a 
hearing in the presence of a representative of the workmen. 


(10) Public and Religious Holidays.—Circular No. 11 allows daily-paid 
employees a holiday on full pay on the King’s Birthday but gives them 
no other public and official holidays, nor the weekly day of rest, all of which 
are enjoyed on full pay by monthly-paid staff. 


(11). Travelling Allowance.—Travelling allowance for all unclassified staff 
is given at the flat rate of 100 mils per night however high the rate of 
wage. The expenses are the same for unclassified as for classified staff 
drawing equivalent emoluments. Hence the allowance should be the same. 


(12) Medical Attendance.—The men employed at the Railway workshops 
ask for a Medical Officer to be in attendance daily, as a precaution against 
accident and to lessen the time lost in attending the clinic which is held 
at the Railway Station. 


(13) Shelter for Field Staff.—Plate-layers employed along the railway 
complain of lack of proper quarters for themselves and their families. At 
least tentage should be provided. 


(14) Excessive hours of monthly-paid Railway staff.—Owing to lack of 
relief staff on the Railways, men in responsible posts on monthly rates work 
excessive hours regularly without overtime or other benefit. The hours of 
duty should be reckoned from the time of reporting to the time of handing 
over. 


(15) Promotion in the Railways.—Chances of promotion within the service 
are often spoilt by the engagement of new hands, who have to be paid high 
rates owing to the rise of market wage rates. 


(16) Posting of Departmental Regulations.—Regulations affecting condi- 
tions of service should be notified suitably to the employees concerned. 
At present, such information is often first obtained through outside sources 
such as unions. 


4. Increase of Wages.—In regard to increases of wages, the General 
Manager, Railways, informed the Committee that during the current 
financial year small increases had been given but these did not satisfy 
the men. Owing to the necessity for economy in the past, increases have 
only been given sparingly to rectify particularly bad cases. Increases for 
about one-third of the staff have been provided for in the Railway Estimates 
for 1935-36 and the General Manager, Railways, has asked that these should 
be authorized without delay on the Ist April, 1935. 


Long service coupled with satisfactory conduct and work naturally creates 
a claim for increased wages, similar to the regular increments of’ classified 
staff. It has been agreed that in the Railway service the interval between 
such increases for a competent employee should not normally exceed three 
years. In other words, provision should be made in the Estimates each 
year for one-third of the staff to be given ah increase towards the wage 
limit of their grade. 


The grant of an increase should lie in the discretion of the Head of the 
Department, who should be given authority to withhold, retard, or accelerate 
Increases and in certain cases to halt any employee at that point in the 
scale which represents the employee’s ultimate worth. 


368 


In the United Kingdom, where skilled trades are highly organized, wages 
are normally fixed at union or market rates, and are not subject to regular 
periodic increases. 


In Palestine during the last three or four years there has been a general 
rise in market rates of labour. In Government and notably in Railways 
there has been no machinery for adjustment, nor has pressure exerted 
by organized labour to improve conditions been effective, as it has been 
from time to time in the United Kingdom. In Palestine the supply of 
skilled labour is relatively small. Demand has increased with the growth 
of industrial development. Market wage rates particularly in the building 
and allied trades have attracted many skilled men from Government service. 
The difficulty experienced in replacing those vacancies has sometimes com- 
pelled higher wages to be paid so that long service often implies low wages 
whilst newcomers enjoy the higher rates paid in the outside market. 


The discontent of the long-service skilled hands in the Railways is 
aggravated by the exceptional conditions prevailing since the War, when 
chances of promotion to higher grades by normal causes have been insigni- 
ficant, owing to the age and service of most of the staff being abnormally 
uniform, 


In other Government departments in Palestine regular increases have 
been given, the relatively small numbers involved making financial provision 
possible even in times of enforced economy. In departments such as Customs, 
successive steps of promotion have been possible owing to continual expansion 
of staff. , 


Government-administered railways are not comparable with the privately- 
owned railways in the United Kingdom, where machinery exists for adjusting 
the wage rates from time to time in accordance with changing conditions. 


Moreover, provision is made by Government for the workers in the form 
of old age pensions, National Health Insurance and unemployment relief. 


The Committee understand that the practice in the Colonies is to grant 
increases within recognized wage-scales to compensate workers for the 
absence of the aforementioned provisions. 


The Committee, therefore, after consulting the General Manager Rail- 
ways, the Postmaster General, the Director of Public Works, the Director 
of Customs, and the Resident Engineer Harbour ‘Works, Haifa, have 
reached the following agreed recommendations in regard to wage increases : — 

(1) In the Railways, where financial stringency has prevented the 
grant of increases in the past, the Government should authorize, by 
Departmental Instruction, the immediate and special payment of one 
year’s increases, within the scales prescribed to all unclassified staff 
with a minimum service of three years, it being understood that— 

(a) no individual increase shall exceed £P.6 per annum, nor 
bring the wage beyond that point in the scale which in the opinion 
of the General Manager represents the employee’s ultimate worth; 

(6) that these increases shall be in addition to those for which 
provision has already been included in the 1935-36 Estimates, which 
will benefit about one-third of the staff, selected for satisfactory 
conduct and work. 


(2) In the future, in technical departments in which there is un- 
classified skilled or unskilled labour in regular employ, provision should 
be made in the Estimates for increases in pay, to be conferred at the 
discretion of the Head of the Department, within the prescribed maxima 
for the class of labour employed. It is recognized, however, that in 
certain cases fixed wage-rates are more suitable to market practice or 
the character of the work or because alternative opportunities for 
promotion exist. 

In such cases wage increases would not be applicable. 


369 


(3) Inter-departmental consultations should be held periodically to 
avoid undue disparity between wage-rates of unclassified labour in 
regular employ for similar services in different Departments, and to 
co-ordinate Government rates with market rates, due consideration being 
given to all the conditions of service. 


5. Circular No. 11.—Circular No. 11 appears to have been issued in 
March, 1934, to implement a number of recommendations framed by a 
Committee whose terms of reference were interpreted as excluding con- 
sideration of labour conditions in Railways. The Circular, however, 1s 
worded as if applying generally, and is now quoted by all men claiming 
to be affected as a long-expected promise to improve Jabour conditions in 
Government employ. In some Government Departments the benefits allowed 
in the Circular are being accorded and would be difficult to withdraw. 

In accordance with Railway practice in the United Kingdom and in the 
Colonies, men may remain on daily rates indefinitely. There is no recognised 
transition from daily to monthly rates as envisaged in Circular No. 11 
after two years’ service. To pay skilled artisans in the Railway workshops 
on monthly rates would necessitate considerable increases of staff to provide 
for the leave and sick leave accorded by the Circular, and would involve 
expenditure far in excess of the overtime charges thereby saved. Men 
employed under conditions where working hours and output are under 
constant supervision may be more fairly retained on daily rates even in 
regular employ. On the other hand, monthly rates may be more suitable 
for supervisory staff and for men on constant call. 

The Committee therefore recommend that the claims of men on daily rates 
to be transferred to monthly rates after two years’ continuous service should 
not be encouraged. 

This will involve withdrawal or amendment of the last paragraph of 
Circular No. 11. In fact, the examination of the categories of monthly and 
daily paid employees might lead to the advisability in some cases of trans- 
ferring the monthly-paid categories to daily-paid, provided that men on 
daily rates in regular employ for long periods are allowed to retain suit- 
able privileges in addition to being able to earn overtime. 


6. Cost of Inving.—One of the most insistent demands of the Govern- 
ment unclassified employees in Haifa is some immediate allowance for the 
rise in cost of living, and particularly of housing. Index figures are 
regularly compiled by the Director of Customs from the current retail cost 
of twenty articles normally consumed by an average Arab family depending 
on a salaried official in a clerical grade and living on moderate means. 
The Committee have examined these index figures and also the recent 
variations in the cost of diets in hospitals and prisons. On the present 
data alone there is no evidence to justify any allowance on account of 
cost of living. The procedure at present adopted of calculating the index 
figure is admittedly unsatisfactory and misleading. Moreover, cost of living 
and housing are more appropriately regarded as separate factors affecting 
salaries and wages. 

The Committee consider that the need for a temporary adjustment of 
wages on account of the cost of living as compared with a selected normal 
should be more fully investigated ‘by the Statistical Department of 
Migration. 


7. Housing.—The question of housing is one of peculiar difficulty. The 
Committee believe that the shortage of accommodation is the primary cause 
of the labour agitation for improved conditions and that were it not for 
this factor there would have been no agitation. Government has already 
realized that the problem is largely one of locality, and bas endeavoured 
to overcome the most acute cases of hardship by payment of an allowance 
to married officers in Grades ‘‘'N” and ‘‘O” and to some officers on 
monthly rates of pay in equivalent unclassified categories in the towns of 
Haifa and Tel-Aviv, and is now considering the extension of the allowance 


370 
to unclassified personnel drawing equivalent daily rates of pay. The Com- 
mittee understand that further proposals have been submitted to Govern- 
ment for the extension of the allowances to other localities and for increases 
in the rates of the allowances. 

In the opinion of the Committee the position of unclassified employees 
as compared with those officers employed in classified categories presents a 
separate problem. In the lower grades of manual labour it is probably 
true that wages are fixed at market rates which embrace variation in the 
cost of housing affecting the localities in which the labour is engaged; 
but in the case of more highly-paid skilled labour this statement is probably 
not equally accurate, as the demand is less constant and it is hardly true 
at all when the term of service is considerable, as the original wages paid 
have not been increased in relation to the rising cost of house accom- 
modation, 

On the other hand, Government cannot compete with outside employers. 
It offers instead certain privileges which the workers value. Not the least 
of these is permanent employment, provided that the employee’s output and 
conduct are satisfactory, together with, in the case of monthly-paid labour, 
certain privileges connected with vacation and sick leave which are not 
normally obtainable in private employ. It is largely for these reasons that 
labour prefers to accept Government rather than private employment, and 
it is only when the disparity between the wages and conditions in Govern- 
ment employ and the wages and conditions obtaining outside are too great 
that labour is induced to relinquish Government service. 

Classified personnel look to Government to provide them with a career, 
and in addition to permanent employment they value the privileges of 
pension, leave, etc., which such employment carries. The salaries paid to 
classified staff are therefore seldom equivalent to the salaries paid to similar 
workers in private employment, and there is no market rate by means of 
which comparison can be afforded or pressure exercised. The sacrifice 
involved in giving up Government service to seek outside employment is 
much greater in the case of classified than of unclassified staff, and for 
this reason classified officers are induced to suffer hardships which would 
not be borne by the unclassified ranks who, without forfeiting the same 
benefits and privileges as those enjoyed by classified personnel, seek employ- 
ment outside Government whenever external labour conditions offer greater 
attractions. 

The Committee consider therefore that there is a closer relation between 
Government and private wage conditions in the case of unclassified workers 
than there is in the case of those in classified employ, and the Committee 
therefore recommend that not more than one-half of the allowance paid to 
classified grades should be given to unclassified employees on equivalent 
rates of pay where housing conditions are considered to warrant the pay- 
ment of an allowance. 

The Committee do not recommend the grant of an allowance to unclassified 
personnel in receipt of basic wages amounting to less than £P.5 per month 
whether on monthly or daily rates. 

In its most acute form the housing problem is best illustrated at Haifa 
where there is a serious shortage of accommodation. In most cases the 
disparity between the wages paid in Government service and the wages 
obtainable in private employ is not so great as to prevent Government from 
obtaining an adequate supply of labour, although in the case of the 
Railways some of the most highly-skilled workers have been tempted into 
private employment. But it is difficult to appreciate how an increase in 
the wages paid to Government employees can overcome the shortage of 
houses. In the opinion of the Committee, any monetary increase will merely 
intensify competition for available accommodation, and in the end any 
increase in emoluments will find its way into the pockets of the landlords. 
Moreover, it does not appear that workmen’s dwellings are being constructed 
to any great extent except at Haifa, where a Jewish organization is creating 


O71 


a colony at Kiryath Hayim on the sand dunes north of the town. This 
scheme will probably at most keep pace for a time with the influx of 
Jewish workers in Haifa. It makes no provision for Arabs, of whom large 
numbers are employed by Government, and it will not in itself solve tie 
Jewish immigrant problem in Haifa. 

In regard to Haifa, therefore, the Committee consider that Government 
shouid eudeavour to strike at the root of the problem by providing houses. 
An enquiry should first be undertaken by Heads of Departments into the 
nature and extent of housing required, and the terms on which this would 
be acceptable. Various alternative methods of financing the construction 
of the houses required could then be examined, such as Government 
advances to individual einployees, private bodies, or the Municipality, or 
Government construction on State land. It is recommended that the scheme 
should concern itself mainly with the needs of the Railway staff employed 
in the Kishon workshops, but the Committee recommend that other Govern- 
ment employees in Haifa in regular employ should not be excluded from 
the scheme. Should Government approve of the Committec’s recommenda- 
tions, it will be possible, in Haifa at least, to withhold the payment of 
housing allowances from officers who have the option of occupying | Govern- 
ment quarters. 

It is doubtful however whether sole reliance can be placed on the promise 
of a housing scheme, financed or constructed by Government, as an imme- 
diate answer to the growing discontent of einplovees who are forced to pay 
some 30 per cent. of their wages in housing their dependants in condi- 
tions which invite epidemic. There may be difficulties in the way of the 
inauguration of Government housing schemes, such as land shortage, social 
dificulties, and the framing of suitable arrangements for transfers and 
retirements. 

The Committee have been unable within the time at their disposal to 
consider whether housing schemes would be practicable in other parts of 
the country; but should it be found that such schemes could be justified 
economically, this appears to be the real solution of the problem and one 
which Government should carry out as an urgent measure. It will probably 
take several years before housing accommodation provided by private enter- 
prise 13 adequate for the needs of the fast-growing population of the 
country, and the payment of housing allowance in the meantime would 
picve expensive to Government and might well upset the labour market 
throughout the country. 

The Committee are indeed doubtful whether the grant of a _ housing 
allowance on an extensive scale is justified at all in view of the opinion 
that it will ultimately, and without much delay, fall mto the hands of the 
Jandlords and accentuate rather than ameliorate the present problem; 
but in recommending the grant of half the allowance paid to classified 
grades, the Committee have been strongly influenced by the Heads of 
Departments consulted, who were unanimously of opinion that nothing 
short of an immediate monetary grant will meet the present situation. 
This is held to be particularly true in the case of the Railwavs, and, 
although all Heads of Departments appreciate the Committee’s reasons 
for disparaging the allowance, they consider that temporary allowances 
should be applied until housing schemes are initiated. 


8. Working Hours and Overtime.—One of the most persistent demands 
of the Railway staff, particularly in the Running and Traffic Sections, is 
the establishment of a regular six-day working week followed by one day 
of rest each week. There is no doubt that train crews and station staif 
work excessively long turns of duty. 

In the Posts and Telegraphs and Public Works Departments a 48-working- 
hour week followed by a day of rest is the rule. 

The Resident Engineer, Haifa Harbour Works, has so far adopted an 
8} hour working day, but 1s willing to adopt a 48-hour working week. 


372 


These concessions from existing practice will involve the engagement 
relief staff, especially in the Railways, where the General Manager agwre 
with the recommendation of the Railway Committee that relief train crev 
and station staff should be provided in order to avoid excessive overtim 
and that the need for extra crossing places on the Haifa-Kantara rou 
be explored, as this is said to be necessary in order to avoid undue delay 


With these provisos the Committee have secured the agreement of a 
departments concerned to the following recommendations : — 


(1) For unclassified manual labour in regular employ there shou] 
normally be 48 working hours a week followed by a day of rest. 


(2) In certain cases the 48 actual working hours may at the di 
cretion of the Head of the Department be spread over a longer perio 
in attendance and may be distributed between different weekday 
according to the requirements of the work. 


(3) In emergencies, and to meet the exigencies of the service, th: 
limitation of working hours may be temporarily suspended. : 


(4) Daily-paid manual labour in regular employ should be paid over. 
time by a 25 per cent, increase on ordinary rates, except for work o1 
the weekly day of rest or on the King’s Birthday when overtime should 
be paid by a 50 per cent. increase on ordinary rates. | 


(5) For monthly rates, no overtime should be paid, but in extreme 
cases extra leave should be allowed at the discretion of the Head of 
the Department. 


9. Sick Leave.—The concessions regarding sick leave in Circular No. 1] 
have already caused difficulties in the Railways. The General Manager 
points out that if paragraph 3 of this circular had been fully applied: 
some 2,000 employees would have qualified by sufficient service for the 
grant of a maximum of three months’ sick leave on full pay. Large 
bodies of men are inclined to regard sick leave as a right in augmenta- 
tion of their annual leave. Certification by a doctor can be circumvented. 
After discussion with all Heads of Departments concerned, the Committee 
consider that Circular No. 11 should be amended in order to allow sick 
leave as follows :— 


(1) Monthly-paid employees after two years’ continuous service will 
be eligible for sick leave for fifteen days on full pay followed by 
fifteen days on half pay. 

(2) Daily-paid labour in regular employ will after two years’ con- 
tinuous service be eligible for sick leave on half pay to a maximum 
of fifteen days in any one year of service, provided that no pay will 
be given for the first three days of sickness on each occasion. 


{ 


been some of the strongest claims of the unclassified staff. 


Circular No. 11 allows gratuity on discharge subject to satisfactory 
service to unclassified monthly-paid employees under the provisions of 
Palestine Pensions Regulations No. 13. The Pensions Ordinance in fact 
appears to give this privilege to unclassified staff without distinction, a2 
interpretation which is confirmed by the ruling of the Secretary of State 
dated 5th December, 1932, granting gratuities to three permanent wag? 
gangers on daily rates of pay. 


In the Railway workshops, however, there are many daily-paid em- 
ployees whose services and emoluments exceed those of many unclassified 
monthly employees. The Committee consider that unclassified labour in 
regular employ should receive similar retiring benefits whether on monthly 
or on daily rates, provided their period of service is identical. 


The gratuity provided under Pensions Regulation No. 13 is generally 
considered to be wholly inadequate. 


10. End of Appointment.—Security of service and retiring benefits have 


eh ileal gt 


373 


nx: The Committee recommend that a Provident Fund be instituted at the 
mc earliest date possible for all unclassified labour in regular employ, and 
rai+ pending the establishment of such a Provident Fund the gratuity accorded 
ss. under Pensions Regulation No. 13 should be made more generous. 

iz In regard to notice of termination of appointment of unclassified labour 
‘t-in regular employ, the Committee consider that one month’s notice should 
~:}be given to monthly-paid employees and one week’s notice to those on 

daily rates, unless dismissal is due to misconduct. 


3 Il. Accident.—The Committee, after consulting all Heads of Departments 

concerned, recommend that for unclassified labour in regular employ who 
_, suffer accident whilst on duty, provision of sick benefit during the first 
“three days where incapacity is less than four wecks’ duration should be 
“* eonceded although under section 3 (2a) of the Workmen’s Compensation 
“ Ordinance this cannot be claimed as a legal right. 


12. Travelling Allowance.—At present unclassified staff are paid a travel- 
“ling allowance at a flat rate of 100 mils per day regardless of the actual 
emoluments they are drawing. 


_ The Committee have consulted all Heads of Departments concerned and 
* recommend : — 


(1) Unclassified labour in regular employ who are called upon to 
spend nights away from their normal station and are not accom- 
modated in a Government building should receive the same travel- 
ling allowance as classified staff drawing equivalent aggregate emolu- 
ments, provided that such payment is not precluded by the terms or 
: nature of their employment. 
= (2) Railway relief staff, if not especially engaged for that purpose, 
a should draw a flat rate of half the initial authorized travelling allow- 
ance for the equivalent classified grades for all nights spent on duty 
away from their normal stations. 


13. Leave.—Circular No. 11 allows monthly-paid employees with over 
three years’ continuous service to accumulate their annual fortnight’s 
: leave to a total of 28 days. In the Railways, owing to the numbers 
; entitled and to the paucity of relief staff, this privilege of commutation 
to 28 days has had to be refused, while in other departments this privi- 
lege has not been used to any great extent, as officers have found it 
too expensive. The Committee, however, having consulted the Heads of 
Departments concerned, are not prepared to recommend withdrawal of the 
privilege, it being understood that the grant of leave is always subject 
to the exigencies of the service. 


A more serious objection may be the increased disparity caused between 
monthly-paid employees, and those remaining for long periods on daily 
rates, since the latter never become eligible to more than seven days’ leave 
annually on full pay which is not cumulative. This, however, appears 
to be the general practice, and the Committee see no sufficient reason 
for recommending an amendment in this respect except that where a 
monthly-paid employee reverts to daily rates at the wish of the Head 
of the Department he should retain the privileges he has hitherto actually 
enjoyed. 


14. Punishments and Dismissal.—In the course of discussion with Heads 
of Departments of the procedure regarding punishments, the Committee 
found general agreement that although a fine of seven days’ pay was 
admittedly severe, it was necessary to retain it to preserve discipline in 
cases where the only alternative would be dismissal. The Committee see 
no reason for recommending changes in existing departmental practice, 
under which punishments are inflicted, which in some cases, e.g., Post 
Office and Customs, is covered by legislation. Heads of Departments 
should however ensure that a proper channel of appeal is provided under 
departmental regulations. 


3493) N 


ov4 


The Committee cannot agree that it is desirable that a representative 
of the workmen should be present as prisoner’s friend during the investi- 
gations of offences. 


15. Public and Religious Holidays.—The distinction between monthly and 
daily paid employees in the matter of public and religious holidays follows 
general practice and is based on the assumption that the whole time of 
monthly-paid employees is at the disposal of Government. It must be 
remembered that these officers are not permitted (save in one or two 
excptional cases, e.g., Customs Guards and temporary Postal Clerks) to earn 
overtime and that even the privilege of leave on full pay on public and 
religious holidays is dependent on the exigencies of the service. The Com- 
mittee see no reason for departing from established practice in this matter. 

Official holidays, of which nine are allowed annually to monthly staff of 
each religion, are not always days on which it is convenient or possible to 
close the workshops. Moreover, the payment of nine days’ wages to all men 
on daily rates with no corresponding output would increase the cost, and 
delay of all Government work produced by direct labour. 


16. Medical Attendance.—The Director of Medical Services agrees to 
arrange for an additional orderly for duty at the Railway workshops. 
This will ensure the attendance of an orderly during all working hours, with 
an ambulance and hospital facilities at short call. The daily medical officer's 
clinic is more conveniently held near the Haifa railway station. These 
arrangements appear to the Committee to be adequate. 


17. Shelter for Field Staff.—The Genera] Manager, Railways, agrees with 
the Committee that steps should be taken to improve plate-layers’ quarters. 


18. Excessive Hours of Monthly-paid Railway Staff.—If the Committee's 
recommendations in paragraph 7 above are approved, relating to the provi- 
sion of relief train crews and station staff, the cause of this complaint 
should disappear. 


19. Promotion in the Railways.—It is difficult and beyond the competence 
of the Committee to prescribe definite ladders of promotion in such diverse 
trades as those practised in the Railway workshops. The Committee are con- 
vinced however that Heads of Branches and Departments are always eager 
to secure the retention of a useful hand by suitable promotion and that 
claims of existing personnel are considered before new appointments are 
made to the unclassified ranks. 


20. Posting of Departmental Regulations.—Heads of Departments agree 
with the Committee that regulations affecting conditions of service should 
be notified suitably to the employees concerned. 

The scope of the Committee’s enquiry was limited to technical depart- 
ments employing men on a daily wage basis, but in the time at their 
disposal the Committee have not found it possible to inquire into the condi- 
tions of all departments which might be held to fall within that definition. 
Inquiry has, therefore, been limited to the major departments employing 
this class of labour. ‘Nevertheless the Committee feel that the recommenda- 
tions in this report should not be difficult of application in any Depart- 
ment employing unclassified personnel on daily rates of pay whether paid 
on a daily or a monthly basis. 


21. Casual Labour.—The privileges considered above refer only to un- 
classified labour in regular employ. 

Casual labourers who are re-engaged each day are not considered to be 
entitled to these privileges. 

In works, such as Harbour Construction Works, which, though temporary, 
cover a period of years, the Committee consider that labour in regular 
employ should be entitled to the same privileges after continuous service 
for the respective qualifying periods; otherwise the most valuable men 


375 


employed on such works will tend to be attracted away to competing 
employment. In such cases, the period of service in temporary works alone 
ig never likely to qualify for gratuity. 


22. Summary of Recommendations.—The recommendations reached by the 
Committee may be summarized as folfows :— 


(1) Wage Increases.—That Government should by Departmental Instruc- 
tion authorize to all unclassified staff with a minimum of three years’ 
service in the Railways the immediate payment to a maximum of £P.6 per 
annum of one year’s increases within the scales prescribed, this payment 


being in addition to provision for future increases already included in the 
1935-36 Estimates. 


(2) In the future, in technical departments in which there is unclassified 
skilled or unskilled labour in regular employ, provision should be made in 
the Estimates for increases in pay, to be conferred at the discretion of the 
Head of the Department, within the prescribed maxima for the class of 
labour employed. It is recognized, however, that in certain cases fixed 
wage-rates are more suitable owing to market practice or the character 
of the work or because alternative opportunities for promotion exist. In 
such cases wage increases would not be applicable. 


(3) Inter-departmental consultations should be held periodically to avoid 
undue disparity between wage-rates of unclassified labour in regular employ 
for similar services in different departments, and to co-ordinate Govern- 
ment rates with market rates, due consideration being given to all the con- 
ditions of service. 

(4) Circular No. 11.—The last paragraph of Circular No. 11 should be 
withdrawn or amended to allow Heads of Departments discretion to transfer 
monthly-paid categories to daily-paid, provided that men so transferred 
who have been in regular employ for long periods are allowed to retain 
suitable privileges in addition to being able to earn overtime. 


(5) Cost of Inving.—The need for a temporary adjustment of wages on 
account of the cost of living as compared with a selected normal should be 
more fully investigated by the Statistical Department of Migration. 


(6) Housing.—A Government Housing Scheme for the accommodation 
primarily of Railway staff of the Kishon workshops should be initiated 
immediately. Similar schemes should then be developed elsewhere if 
practicable. 


(7) Pending the provision of such accommodation, half the housing allow- 
ance approved for equivalent classified grades should be paid to unclassified 
staff receiving basic wages aggregating not less than £P.5 per month. 


(8) For unclassified manual labour in regular employ, there should 
normally be 48 working hours a weck followed by a day of rest. 


(9) In certain cases the 48 actual working hours may at the discretion of 
the Head of the Department be spread over a longer period in attendance 
and may be distributed hetween different week-days according to the 
requirements of the work. 


(10) In emergencies and to meet the exigencies of the service, the limita- 
tion of working hours may be temporarily suspended. 


(11) Daily-paid manual labour in regular employ should be paid overtime 
by a 25 per cent. increase on ordinary rates, except for work on the weekly 
day of rest or on the King’s Birthday, when overtime should be paid by a 
& per cent. increase on ordinary rates. 


(12) For monthly rates no overtime should be paid, but in extreme cases 
extra leave should be allowed at the discretion of the Head of the Depart- 
ment. 


376 


(18) Sick Leave.—Monthly-paid employees after two years’ continuous 
service should be eligible for sick leave for fifteen days on full pay followed 
by fifteen days on half pay. 

(14) Daily-paid labour in regular employ should after two years’ con- 
tinuous service be eligible for sick leave on half pay to a maximum of 
fifteen days in any one working year, provided that no pay should be given 
for the first three days of sickness on each occasion. 

(15) End of Appointment.—Unclassified labour in regular employ should 
receive similar retiring benefits whether on monthly or on daily rates, 
provided their period of service is identical. 

(16) That a Provident Fund be instituted at the earliest date possible for 
all unclassified labour in regular employ, and pending the establishment of 
such a Provident Fund the gratuity accorded under Pensions Regulation 
No. 13 should be made more generous. 

(17) One month’s notice should be given to monthly-paid employees and 
one week’s notice to those on daily rates unless dismissal is due to 
misconduct. 


(18) Accident.—Sick benefit should be conceded for the first three days of 
incapacity lasting less than four weeks duration following accident on duty. 


(19) Travelling Allowance.—Unclassified labour in regular employ who are 
called upon to spend nights away from their normal station and are not 
accommodated in a Government building should receive the same travelling 
allowance as classified staff drawing equivalent aggregate emoluments, pro- 
vided that such payment is not precluded by the terms or nature of their 
employment. 

(20) Railway relief staff, if not especially engaged for that purpose, should 
draw a flat rate of one-half the initial authorized travelling allowance for 
the equivalent classified grades for all nights spent on duty away from their 
normal stations. 


(21) Leave.—The Committee recommend no change, but where a monthly- 
paid employee reverts to daily rates at the wish of the Head of the Depart- 
ment, he should retain the privileges he has hitherto actually enjoyed. 


(22) Punishments and Dismissals.—The Committee recommend no change 
in existing practice. Heads of Departments should, however, ensure that 
a& proper channel of appeal is provided under departmental regulations. 


(23) Public and Religious Holidays.—The Committee recommend no 
change. 

(24) Medical Attendance.—The arrangements made by the Director of 
Medical Services appear adequate. 

(25) Shelter for Field Staff.—Steps should be taken to improve plate-layers’ 
quarters. 

(26) Excessive hours of Monthly-paid Railway Staff.—If relief train crews 
and station staff are provided, the cause of this complaint should disappear. 

(27) Promotion.—The Committee recommend no change. 


(28) Posting of Departmental Regulations.—Regulations affecting con- 
ditions of service should be notified suitably to the employees concerned. 


(Signed) J. E. F. Campsert, 


Chairman. 
G. H. Apams, 
Member. 
G. W. Heron, 
Member. 


4th April, 1935. 


377 


APPENDIX III. 


OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE 
No. 18/35. 


It will be recalled that in an official communiqué issued on the 7th March, 
the High Commissioner announced his decision to set up a Committee to 
enquire into and report upon the conditions of service and pay of employees 
in daily-wage grades in the technical Departments of Government. 


Having now received the report of the Committee and having very care- 
fully considered the recommendations in it, His Excellency has decided, 
with the approval of the Secretary of State, to introduce the following 
improvements immediately in the conditions of service and pay. 





A.—Railway Employees who belong to Daily-wage Grades and are paid 
ona Daily Basis. 

(1) Payment with effect from the Ist April, 1935, to men who have been 
continuously in the service for not less than three years prior to that date, 
of an increase of wages within prescribed scales of not less than 10 mils or 
more than 20 mils a day in any case. 


(2) In addition to the payment mentioned in paragraph (1), a maximum 
of one-third of the men who have been continuously in the service for three 
years will be selected in consideration of efficiency and length of service for 
an increase of wages within prescribed scales of not less than 10 or more 
than 20 mils in any case. 


The first payment will be made with effect from the Ist April, 1935, and 
provision therefor has been included in the Estimates. 


It is hoped to make financial provision in subsequent years for similar 
Increases on the same selective basis. 


(3) It has been decided by Government to discontinue the recruitment of 
certain employees at monthly rates and to constitute a cadre, strictly 
limited in numbers, of employees whom it is administratively and technically 
desirable to pay on a non-daily basis. This cadre is shown at the end of 
this communiqué. Consequently certain daily-wage men who are now paid 
at monthly rates but are not included in the approved cadre of monthly- 
Wage grades and should therefore properly be paid at daily rates will be 
allowed to elect to transfer from a monthly to a daily basis of payment. 
Thereupon they will become entitled to the special benefits for men paid 
on a daily basis which have now been sanctioned by His Excellency. Those 
Who do not so elect will not be entitled to any of the benefits granted by 
His Excellency to the men paid on a daily basis or to any of the benefits 
now granted or hereafter granted to the monthly grades other than those 
that they at present enjoy. 


B.—Railway Employees included in the Approved Cadre of Monthly 
Wage Grades. 

(1) Payment with effect from the lst April, 1935, to men who have been 

continuously in the service for not less than three years prior to that date, 
of an increase of wages within prescribed scales subject to a maximum 
of £P.6 per annum in any case. 
_ (2) In additiou, in consideration of efficiency and length of service, an 
Increase of pay each year with effect from the Ist April, 1935, to a maximum 
of one-third of the men with three years’ continuous service, within pre- 
Scribed scales and subject to a maximum of £P.6 per annum in any case 
Provision for these payments has also been included in the current FEsti- 
mates, and further provision will be reviewed annually. 


34931 0 


378 


(3) Such employees resident within the municipal areas of Haifa and 
Tel Aviv who receive pay on scales equivalent to those of grades N and 0 
will receive the temporary housing allowances granted to officers in those 
two grades; and subject to the same conditions. 

Monthly-wage employees will continue to be required, if exigencies of the 
service so demand, to work overtime without additional remuneration. 

They will be entitled to fourteen days’ leave in each year cumulative 
to twenty-eight days; and, in addition, on production of a medical certificate, 
to fifteen days’ sick leave with full pay, followed, if necessary, by fifteen 
days’ sick leave with half pay, in each year. 


(4) Consideration will, however, be given to the question of establishing 
a cadre of weekly-wage grades, such as engine-drivers, on the basis of a 
working week of six days aggregating 48 hours, with payment of overtime 
for any period worked in excess of 48 hours in any one week, and to 
the employment in such cases of relief staffs to avoid the working of 
excessive overtime. 

The appointment and training of additional staff to reduce working hours 
will take time but this will be done as soon as possible. 


C.—All Railwaymen paid on a Daily or a Monthly Basis. 


(1) Provision to ensure the immediate treatment of accident or illness at 
the Railway Workshops by a trained Medical Orderly in constant attendance. 


(2) Improvement of accommodation for platelayers, and in the meantime 
the supply of tentage as required. 


(3) Consideration of the establishment of a Provident Fund or other form 
of insurance. 


D.—Employees paid at Daily Rates in all Technical Departments including 
the Railways, 


(1) In view of the high cost of rents, payment with effect from the 
Ist April, 1935, to men resident in the municipal areas of Haifa and Tel 
Aviv who have been in the service of Government continuously for a period 
of one year preceding the lst April, 1935, and whose daily-wage rate is 
not more than 500 mils, of a temporary increase in the daily rate within 
prescribed scales ranging from a maximum of 80 mils a day to men in 
receipt of a basic daily-wage rate of 200 mils and under to a minimum 
of 20 mils a day to men in receipt of a basic daily-wage rate of 500 mils; 
this arrangement to be subject to annual review. 


(2) Institution for all daily-wage employees, excluding casual labour, of a 
regular working week of 48 hours with provision of one day’s rest in seven 
and with payment of overtime at the rate of 25 per cent. increase on 
ordinary rates for any time worked during the period of six days in excess 
of 48 hours and, if the exigencies of the service require that a workman 
should work overtime on his weekly day of rest or on the King’s Birthday, 
at the rate of 50 per cent. increase on the daily rate. Provided that at 
stations where the work is of an intermittent character, the 48 hours of 
actual work may be spread over a longer period in attendance. 


(3) After three years’ continuous service, and conditional on production 
of a medical certificate, fifteen days’ sick leave in any one working year with 
half pay provided that no pay is given for the first three davs of sickness 
on each occasion. This will be in addition to the ordinary leave on full 
pay amounting to seven days in each year. 


(4) On termination of service, payment of gratuity in accordance with the 
Regulations of Government, namely, under the present Pensions Law, at 
the rate of one week’s pay for each year’s service, provided that the man 
has had at least seven years’ service in the case of retrenchment on grounds 
of economy, and in the case of retirement on grounds of ill-health or age 
at least fifteen years’ service. 


379 


(5) Payment of travelling allowance to— 


(a) employees in regular employ other than Railway relief staff who 
are called upon to spend nights away from their normal station and 
where accommodation in a Government building is not available. These 
will receive the same travelling allowance as classified staff drawing 
equivalent aggregate emoluments, provided that such payment is not 
precluded by the terms or nature of their employment; 

(b) Railway relief staff, if not especially appointed for that purpose, 
will receive a flat rate of one-half the initial authorized travelling 
allowance for the equivalent classified grades for all nights spent on duty 
away from their normal stations. 


(6) Provision by Regulations to provide for due notice of termination of 
employment other than for misconduct, in the case of all daily-wage grades, 
excluding casual labour. 


(7) Provision for suitable and direct notification to the men of any 
Regulations affecting their conditions of service. 


(8) Provision of a channel of appeal to the Head of Department against 
pumishment for offences, through officers in charge of branches or sections 
under whom the men work. 


(9) To facilitate periodical adjustment of wages, consultations will be 
held between Heads of Departments at regular intervals, so as to avoid 
undue disparity between wage rates for similar services in different 
Departments. 


ScHEDULE. 


The following is the cadre of monthly-wage grades in the Railways as at 
present approved :— 


All Foremen (except salaried foremen) Chargemen and Leading Hands. 
Attendants (Power House). 
Chainmen. 

Cook (Saloon). 

Crane Driver (Breakdown), 

Driver (Roller). 

Driver (Internal Combustion Engine). 
Internal Combustion Engine Fitter and Driver. 
Ganger, lst class. 

Ganger, 2nd class. 

Instrument Repairer. 

Medical Orderly. 

Messenger. 

Pump Inspector. 

Storeman. 

Shedman. 

Surveyor. 

Timekeeper. 

Watchman (Head). 

Weighbridge Inspector. 

Locomotive Drivers and Firemen. 
Guards. 

Farrashes. 

Conductors. 

Travelling Ticket Collectors. 


17th May, 1936. 


380 


APPENDIX IV. 


AGREEMENT RELATING TO THE CIRCULATION OF MOTOR 
VEHICLES. 


The High Commissioner of the French Republic in Syria and the Lebanon 
and the High Commissioner of His Britannic Majesty in Palestine have 
concluded the following agreement which shall be substituted for the agree- 
ment of the 21st October, 1925, relating to the circulation of motor vehicles 
between Palestine and the countries under French mandate. 


CHAPTER I. 


PASSENGER VEHICLES PLYING FOR HIRE. 


1. Passenger vehicles plying for hire licensed for the transport of 
passengers in the territory of one of the high contracting parties, may freely 
transport travellers in the territory of the other party, subject to the 
following restrictions :— 

(a) the duration of their stay in the territory where they are not 
licensed shall not exceed four days; 


(b) they shall not accept local passengers in the territory where they 
are not licensed. 


2. Passenger vehicles plying for hire licensed in Palestine are subject to a 
tax, during the whole of their stay in territories under French mandate, of 
22 Syrian piastres, per day, destined to compensate for the heavier charges 
with which vehicles licensed in territories under French mandate are 


burdened. 


3. Empty passenger vehicles plying for hire licensed in the territory of 
one of the high contracting parties are not allowed to enter into the 
territory of the other party, unless they carry a certificate from a tourist 
agency or an organization of pilgrims, stating that these vehicles are hired 
for the purpose of transporting, from a given place, groups of tourists or 
pilgrims, the nuinber of which will also have to be indicated on the 


certificate. 


4. If the length of their stay in the territory where they have not been 
licensed exceeds four days, passenger vehicles plying for hire must carry a 
temporary licence which entails the payment of a taxe de séjour the amount 
of which is calculated according to the following scale :— 


(a) Passenger vehicles which cannot carry more than five persons 
including the driver: 


£P. Mils. 

for a stay the length of which does not exceed one 

week, inclusive of the tree period of four days... 0.500 
for a stay the length of which exceeds one week, 

but does not exceed a fortnight S3 2.— 
for a stay the length of which exceeds. a fortnight, 

but does not exceed a month ... 3.— 
for a stay the length of which exceeds | a . month, but 

does not exceed three months ... 6.— 
for a stay the length of which exceeds ‘three months, 

but does not exceed six months ne oe a 8.— 


(b) Passenger vehicles which cannot carry more than seven persons 


including the driver: 
The above tariff will be increased by 25 per cent. 


ool 


(c) Passenger vehicles which cannot carry more than twelve persons 
ancluding the driver: 
The above tariff will be increased by 100 per cent. 
(d) Passenger vehicles which can carry more than twelve persons: 
The above tariff will be increased by 200 per cent. 
In respect of vehicles plying for hire which are licensed in Palestine, 
there shall be added to the taxes imposed by this article the tax imposed 
by Article 2 of this agreement. 


5. The taxes are pavable in the currency of the country where they are 
levied, the rate of exchange being fixed at £P.1=4 L.S. 

This rate of exchange is subject to revision by an exchange of telegrams, 
between the two High Commissioners parties to this agreement, if the value 
of the Palestine Pound should vary to an extent of more than 15 per cent. 
of its prescnt value. 


CHAPTER II. 


COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PLYING FOR HIRE. 


6. Commercial vehicles plying for hire in possession of a licence for the 
transport of goods in the territory of one of the high contracting parties, 
will be allowed to transport goods into the territory of the other party, 
subject to the following restrictions :— 

(a) the length of their stay in the territory where they are not 
licensed shall not exceed 48 hours from the time when the control for- 
malities are finished at the frontier post of entry; 

(b) they shall not accept local transport of goods in the territory 
where they are not licensed; 

(c) they shall not enter empty. 


7. If the length of their stay in the territory where they are not licensed 
exceeds 48 hours, commercial vehicles plying for hire must carry a tem- 
porary licence which entails payment of a taxe de séjour the amount of 
which is calculated according to the following scale :— 


(a) Commercial vehicles which cannot carry more than 14 tons: 


£P. Mils. 

for a stay the length of which does not exceed one week, 

inclusive of the free period of forty-eight hours ... 1.— 
for a stay the length of which exceeds one week, but 

does not exceed a fortnight 2.— 
for a stay the length of which excendn. a fortnight, 

but does not exceed a month ... 3.— 
for a stay the length of which exceeds : a - month, but 

does not exceed three months ... 6.— 
for a stay the length of which exceeds three 2 months, but 

does not exceed six months age 8.— 


(b) Commercial vehicles which can carry more than 14 ‘tons, but not 
more than 23 tons: 
The above tariff will be doubled. 
(c) Commercial vehicles which can carry more than 2} tons, but not 
more than 3 tons: 
The above tariff will be trebled. 
(d) For commercial vehicles which can carry more than three tons, 
the amount of the trebled tariff shall be increased by one third for each 
additional ton or fraction of a ton. 


8. Commercial vehicles plying for hire and licensed for the transport of 
goods are not allowed to transport passengers. Provided that this restriction 
shall not apply to persons accompanying the convoy. 


382 


CHAPTER III. 


9. Private vehicles licensed in the territory of one of the high contracting 
parties will be admitted to the territory of the other party free of all 
charges, for an uninterrupted or fractional stay not exceeding six months 
per year, provided that the owner is among the passengers and does not 
have legal domicile in the territory where his car is not licensed. 

If any of the above conditions is not fulfilled, the procedure laid down in 
Chaper 1 of the present agreement will be applicable to private vehicles. 


10. The provisions of Article 9 above may not have the effect of depriving 
bearers of triptyques or carnets-de-passage of the rights and advantages 
conferred upon them by international conventions to which the two con- 
tracting parties have adhered. 


CHAPTER IV. 


CoNDITIONS RELATING TO COMMERCIAL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE VEHICLES. 


11. Vehicles mentioned under Chapters I, II and III of the present 
agreement may in no circumstances and notwithstanding the payment of 
regular taxes, stay in an uninterrupted manner in the territory in which 
they are not licensed for an uninterrupted period of more than six months 
in the case of vehicles plying for hire, or of more than a year in the case 
ot private vehicles. 


_ On the expiry of these periods customs dues payable at the time of entry 
in the country where the vehicle is not licensed must be paid. 


12, Temporary licences mentioned under Articles 4 and 7 of the present 
agreement are delivered, every day: 


(a) in Palestine: 
at all hours at the frontier posts and between 7 a.m, and 5 p.m. 
at the District Police Traffic Offices at Haifa and Jerusalem ; 

(b) in the territories under French mandate: 
at all hours at the frontier posts by the Police and between 8 a.m. 
and 6 p.m. by the Police Authorities at Beirut, Damascus, Latakia, 
Aleppo and Alexandretta. 


13. A car which overstays the normal periods in the territory where it 1s 
not licensed through a cause of force-majeure, is not subject to the payment 
of taxes during the period of the forced stay, if it is not put into circula- 
tion during this period, and if the competent authority has been advised 
within 24 hours of such case of force-majeure. The competent authority is, 
in Palestine, the nearest Police Post and in the countries under French 
mandate, the nearest Police or Gendarmerie Post. 


14. The drivers of commercial, public and private vehicles circulating 
provisionally in the territories of one of the high contracting parties through 
the advantage afforded by the present agreement must, on being requested 
by the local authorities, present forthwith their driving licence and, where 
required, the temporary licence mentioned in Articles 4 and 7 above, as 
well as the certificate mentioned in Article 3. 


15. In the case of abuse the deposit of all or part of the import dues 
payable on the vehicle provisionally admitted, through the advantage 
afforded by the present agreement, to the territory where it is not licensed, 
may be demanded by the competent customs authorities. 


16, No discrimination will be made between the vehicles of the two high 
contracting parties concerning the application of each territory's inter ior 
regulations, where this is not in contradiction to the special conditions 


laid down in this agreement. 


383 


17. No vehicle may enter from one territory to the other except through 
the frontier posts of Nakoura, Kirbey and Benat Yacoub on one side and 
Nakoura and Rosh Pina (via Metullah or Jisr Benat Yacoub) on the other. 


18. The present agreement, valid for one year, is renewable by tacit 
understanding and can be cancelled at three months’ notice. 


Le Delegué Genéral, 


LAGARDE. 
J. HarHorn HALL, 


18th September, 1935. Officer Administering the Government. 


APPENDIX V. 


GOVERNMENT OF PALESTINE. 
AMENDMENT OF PALESTINE-SyRIA CustoMs AGRFEMENT, 1929.* 


Whereas His Britannic Majesty’s High Commissioner for Palestine and the 
High Commissioner for Syria and the Lebanon being desirous of regulating 
in so far as concerns Palestine on the one hand and Syria and the Lebanon 
on the other, the conditions on which the importation and exportation of 
goods to and from these territories should be regulated, entered into an 
agreement (hereinafter called the principal agreement) which was signed by 
Sir John Robert Chancellor, High Commissioner for Palestine, on the 
fourth day of May, 1929, and by Monsieur Ponsot, High Commissioner for 
Syria and the Lebanon, on the eighteenth day of May, 1929, which said 
agreement was published in the Palestine Gazette dated the first day of 
June, 1929, and came into force with effect from that day. 


And whereas the High Commissioner for Palestine and the High Com- 
missioner for Syria and the Lebanon are now desirous of making certain 
amendments to the said principal agreement. 


Now therefore it is hereby agreed between His Excellency Sir Arthur 
Grenfell Wauchope, High Commissioner for Palestine, and M. de Martel, 
Ambassador, High Commissioner for the French Republic in Syria and the 
Lebanon, Beirut, acting in virtue of the powers which have been respectively 
conferred upon them in this behalf that the said principal agreement shall 
be amended by the substitution of the following Article in place of 
Article 5:— 


Goods of foreign origin sent in transit to Syria and the Lebanon 
or Palestine. 


5. Goods of foreign origin imported into Palestine or Syria and the 
Lebanon whether manifested as being in transit or otherwise may be 
despatched in transit to Syria, the Lebanon or to Palestine by railway 
or sea, provided that such goods have not at any time been removed from 
the Customs Warehouses or Bonded Warehouses in Palestine or in Syria 
and the Lebanon as the case may be. Goods of the following five categories 
may be despatched in transit to Syria and the Lebanon or to Palestine 
as the case may be by road. 


Provided that in the case of the goods mentioned under headings (a), 
(c), (d) and (e) below transport by road shall be effected by mechanically 
propelled vehicles only and the goods transported may be sealed by the 








* See pages 223 to 226 of Report for 1929. 


384 | 
Customs Authority in Palestine or Syria respectively should it be con- 
sidered necessary, 


(a) Postal packages weighing less than 10 kilos and parcels weighing 
over 10 kilos arriving by airways in Palestine on the one hand and in 
Syria or the Lebanon on the other hand, and despatched from one 
of these territories to the other. 


(b) Live animals. 


(c) Goods, the property of or consigned to or from H.M. Forces in 
‘Traq. 


(d) Bona fide passengers’ baggage including necessary and appro 
priate wearing apparel and personal effects but not including articles 
for sale or trade. 


(ce) Stores, equipment, materials and other things whatsoever neces- 
sary for the work of the undertaking of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Cvu., Ltd., 
and for its transportation purposes including all equipment for offices, 
houses, hospitals or other buildings being the property of the Company 
and used for its operations. 


D. pE MarTEL, 
High Commissioner for Syria and Lebanon. 


J. HatHorn HAt., 
Officer Administering the Government. 


22nd October, 1935. 


(34931—49) We. 361)—3808 1876 4/36 P.St. G. 3877 











