This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 





Issued by the Colonial Office. 
ee eanenemmens 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United 

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 

lreland to the Council of the League of 
Nations on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN 


FOR THE YEAR 


1931 


(For Reports for 1929 and 1930 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 47, 1930, and Colonial No. 59,1931, 
Price 7s. 6d. and 10s. Od. respectively.) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY's STATIONERY OFFIOE 
be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE a 
Adastral House, Kingsway. London, W.C.2; 120, George Street, Edinburgh 
York Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff 
15, Donegal] Square West, Belfast 
or through any Bookseller 


1932 
Price 8s. od. Net 


t the following addresses 





[COLONIAL No. 75.] 


58-75. 0; 


: 
— 
= 
fy 
ae 
ES 














(= i é a) T, 
Issued_by the Colonial Office. 


REPORT 


by His Majesty's Government in the United 

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 

Ireland to the Council of the League of 
Nations on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN 


FOR THE YEAR 


1931 


(For Reports for 1929 and 1930 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 47, 1930, and Colonial No. 59, 1931, 
price 7s. 6d. and 10s. Od. respectively.) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M.STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses 
Adastral House, Kingsway. London, W.C.2; 120, George Street, Edinburgh 
York Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardi 
15, Donegall Square West, Belfast 
or through any Bookseller 


1932 
Price 8s. od. Net 
[CoLONIAL No. 75.] 


58-75. 


ee on, eee ae ‘ SR 


N 
fe a: eR has 


Loe 


il 


CONTENTS. 
Page 
Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission . iv 
Index of Replies in the Report to General and Special Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twentieth Session 
in June, 1931 ate ix 
Note regarding arrangement ‘of the ‘Report. x 
PALESTINE. 
Intraductory 1 
1. Jewish National Home 14 
11. Autonomous Administration 16 
Hil. Jewish Agency 17 
IV. Immigration and Emigration 20 
V. Land Regime 30 
Vi. Nationality ... 40 
Vil. Judicial System 43 
Vill. Economic Equality 51 
IX. Holy Places us 51 
X. Freedom of Conscience 52 
Xi. Military Clauses 52 
Xl. International Agreements, Conventions, and “Treaties 57 
Xitt. Antiquities sa 66 
XIV. Official Languages ... 67 
XV. Holy Places... 67 
XVI. Trans-Jordan 67 
XVil. Labour 67 
XVII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs, Arms, and d Liquors 80 
XIX. Education . ; a . 87 
XX. Public Health 101 
XX. Public Finance 110 
XXti. Demographic Statistics 135 
XXII. Customs, Excise, and Trade 140 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones 150 
XXV. Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries 154 
XXViI. Public Works, eenene and oe 161 
XXVIII. Railways ‘ 168 
TRANS-JORDAN. 
1. Introductory 170 
ll. Finance : 172 
lii. Customs, Excise, and Trade 176 
IV. Legal and Judicial 178 
V. Education 184 
Vi. Health. 185 
Vil. Dangerous Drugs, Arms, and intoxicating “Liquors 187 
Vill. Posts and Telegraphs . 189 
1X. Agriculture is 191 
X. Lands ... 192 
Xi. Public Works . 193 
Xi. Antiquities 194 
Xttt. Arab Legion 194 


iil 


APPENDICES. 
Page 
Il. Palestine (Western or Wailing Wall) Order in Council, 1931 ... 196 
Il. Palestine Citizenship (Amendment) Order, 1931 bak ... 200 
lll. Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation ... sae dee ... 202 
(ii) Jaffa Electric Company . ae - ... 204 
(iii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Conseration ... 205 
(iv) Palestine Potash Limited see . 206 
(v) Figures of the Receipts of the Lighthouse Conieeay 207 
IV. Map of Haifa Harbour ae ae oe ... facing page 206 
V. Protocol relative to the Settlement of the Frontier between 
Syria and the Jebel Druze on the one side and Trans- 
Jordan on the other ... dee ee age — ... 207 
Vi. Treaty of Friendship between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan ... 210 
DIAGRAMS AND MAPS. 
l. To dastral tri lati sits 
pocadastral triangulation ; pacts paser Se 
ll. Cadastral survey = 
Ill. Monthly variations of water-level in inland seas gia .- 38 
IV. Cadastral survey... ee = ane Le sae “ie: 39 
> 
hee 
2 
Q 
a 
= 
me 
.e) 
=) 
y 
qQ 14213 A? 


1377167 


iv 
Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the establishment of the national home of the Jewish 
people ? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


2. Y@.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the development of self-governing institutions? 

What are the effects of these measures ? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as will 
safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants of 
Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


IIl.—Autonomous Administration. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


III.—Jewish Agency. 


1. Q@.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency been 
officially recognized ? 

2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administration 
in the past year? 

If so, in what form and in what connexion? 

3. Y.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social, and other matters? 

4. Q@.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


5. Q@.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of all 
Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the Jewish 
National Home? 


IV.—Immuigration and Emigration. 
1. @.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 
2. @.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the rights 
and position of other sections of the population ? 


Vv 


3. @.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with the 
Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews on the 
land (give figures) ? 

4. @.—What are the effects of these measures? 

Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, pro- 
fession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural] districts. 

Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Regime. 
1. Q.—How have State lands been defined and delimited? 
2. 9.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited ? 
3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration of 
real property ? 
VI.—Nationality. 
1. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality law ? 


2. @.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as to 
facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judicial System. 
1. @.—When did the new judicial organization begin to operate? 


2. Q.—What special features does it include with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee of 
their rights as laid down in Article 9? 

3. Q@.—What special measures have been taken to assure respect 
for the personal status of the various peoples and communities and 
for their religious interests ? 

4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs been 
assured ? 

5. Q.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate? 


VIII.—Economic Equality. 

1..Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the develop- 
ment of the country in respect of public ownership or control of 
any of the natural resources of the country or of the public works, 
services, and utilities? 

2. @.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country— 
and, if so, under what circumstances ? 


14213 A8 


vi 


3. Q.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names and 
nationalities of the concession holders. 


4. @.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings and 
the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such reports 
and balance sheets are not available, give all information relating 
to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the uses made 
of profits. 


5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality as 
regards :-— 
(a) Concessions ? 
(b) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to pro- 
specting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(ec) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 


6. Q.—What regulations has the Mandatory Power made for the 


application of the clause providing “‘ freedom of transit under equit- 
able conditions *’? 


7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? 


If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken for the assumption by 
the Mandatory of responsibility in connexion with the Holy Places 
and religious buildings or sites, including the responsibility of pre- 
serving existing rights and of securing free access to the Holv 
Places, religious buildings and sites, and the free exercise of 
worship ? 


2. Y@.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the immu- 
nities of which are guaranteed ? 


X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom of 
conscience and religion? 


2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free exercise 
of any form of worship in the interest of the maintenance of public 
order and morals? 

What are the effects of such restrictions? 

38. @.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights of 
communities to maintain their own schools for the education of 
their own members ? 


What educational requirements of a general nature are imposed 
by the Administration? 





vil 
What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of such 
supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all faiths or 


nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance 
of public order and good government? 


XI.—Military Clauses. 
1. Q.—What is the form of military organization and training? 


2. Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory? 

What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 

Racial and religious composition of these two forces. 


3. Q.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
Palestine to contribute to the cost of the maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 

If so, to what extent? 


4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its right to use the roads, 
railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed forces 
and the carriage of fuel and supplies ? 

If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged ? 


X1lI.—International Conventions. 


1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration ? 

2. Q.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against disease, 
including diseases of plants and animals? 


XIII.—Antiquities. 

.—Has the Mandatory enacted a Jaw of antiquities according to 
the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 

Give the text. 

XIV .—Official Languages. 

1. @.—Have the three official languages been used simultaneously 
and on an equal footing in legislative and administrative documents 
and in the Courts? 

If not, what languages are used? 

2. Y.—To what observations does the application of this system 
give rise? 

XV.—Holy Days. 

Q.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various com- 
munities? 

X VI.—Trans-Jordan. 

1. Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimited and organized? 


14213 A4 


a a ae 


Vill 


2. Q.—In what way does the political and administrative regime . 
established in this territory differ from the regulations laid down for -. 


Falestine? 
’ XVII.—Labour. 


1. O.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accordance | 


with Part NIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the consideration of 
conventions or recommendations of International Labour Confer- 
ences ? 


2. Y.—Are these conventions or recommendations being carried 


into effect ? 


3. Q.—What other regulations are in force in regard to labour? ~ 


4, Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling labour 


contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both on the part of - 
employer and employed, and what powers does it possess to prevent — 


any abuses in this respect ? ! 


5. Y.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour © 


legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application | 


of such legislation ? 


AVIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


@.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or the | 


control of the importation, of the production, and the consumption 
of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX.—Education. | 
1. @.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 
Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it free ? 


2. Y.—What measures have been taken for higher education ; for 
example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 

3. QY.—In what languages is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools ? | 


AX.—Public Health. 


1. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health and 
sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases? 
2. QY.—What is the regime for medical assistance? 


3. Q.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution and 
what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XXI.—Public Finance. 
Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of the 


territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature and the) 


assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statistics. 


Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, emigra| 
tion, and immigration. 


: : 


ix 


Index of replies in the Report to special and other 
observations of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its 
Twentieth Session in June, 1931. 


A. SpecraL OBSERVATIONS. . 


Page 231. Detailed figures as to the amount assigned See page 115. 
from the £9,000,0U00 non-recoverable grants 
to civil administration and economic 
development. 

Page 231. Labour statistics See page 70. 


(Section XVII, paragraph 3 3. ) 


B. OTHER OBSERVATIONS. 


Page 87. 


Page 94. 


Page 105. 


Page 107. 


Page 103. 
Page 107. 


Page 107. 


Page 107. 
Page 108. 


Page 108. 


Page 110. 


Page 110. 


Page 101. 
Page 101. 


Page 101. 


Page 106. 


Page 89 ) 


Acceptance of long-term loans as part quali- 
fication for capitalist immigrants. 
(Section IV, paragraph 4.) 

Details of Jewish and non-Jewish advocates. 

Qualification in Moslem Law of legal 
practitioners. 

(Section VII, paragraph 5.) 

Labour statistics wie 
(Section XVII, paragraph 3) 

Registration and development of Trade 
Unions. 

(Section XVII, paragraphs 13 and 14.) 

Illicit handling of arms : se 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 8.) 

Consumption of intoxicating liquors 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 9.) 

Alcohol content Of intoxicating liquors 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 9 ) 

Substances treated in distilleries 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 9.) 

Drug traffic with Egypt see 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 4.) 

Relations between wine manufacturers and 
grape growers. 

(Section XVIII, paragraph 10.) 

Expenditure on public health. Details of 
private hospitals and other charitable 
institutions. 

(Section XX, paragraphs 12 and 14.) 

Lists of Jewish and non-Jewish doctors etc. 
(Section XX, paragraph 13.) 

Usurious rates of interest : 

(Section XXIII, paragraph 9.) 

Credits obtained by Palestinian merchants 
in Syria. 

(Section X XIII, paragraph 10.) 

Effects of new system of taxation on 
tobacco on the cultivation of tobacco and 
on revenue 
(Section XXIII, paragraph 11.) 

Statistics of earnings and output at the 
Haifa Harbour Works. 

(Section XXVI, paragraph 49.) 


Page 90. Fs Land Development 


Page 91.] 


See page 22. 


See page 44. 


See page 70. 


See page 74. 


See page 81. 
See page 82. 
See page 82. 
See page 82. 
See page 80. 


See page 86. 


See pages 105-109. 


See page 106. 


See page 144. 


See page 144. 


See page 1144. 


See page 166. 


See page 3. 


x 


NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- © 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the sec- 
tions of this Report might be arranged in the order of subjects ° 
adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, that is, © 
in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the Palestine 
Mandate, namely :— 

I. Jewish National Home. 
II. Autonomous Administration. 
III. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. | 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 
2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience. 


the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and placed 
at the end of the Report. 


An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works. 
and Railways are also included in the Palestine portion of the 


Report. There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United 
Kingdom of Great Britainand Northern Ireland 
to the Council of the League of Nations on the 
Administration of Palestine and Trans-Jordan 


for the year 1931. 


PALESTINE. 
INTRODUCTORY. 


Personnel. 


1. The term of office of Sir John Robert Chancellor, G.C.M.G., 
G.C.V.0O., D.S.O., High Commissioner for Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan, came to an end on the 3lst October, 1931. He was 
succeeded by Lieutenant-General Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, 
K.C.B., C.M.G., C.I.E., D.S.O., formerly General Officer Com- 
manding, Northern Ireland. 


2. Mr. Norman de Mattos Bentwich, O.B.E., M.C., vacated the 
office of Attorney-General in October, 1931; and Mr. H. H. Trusted, 
Attorney-General, Cyprus, has been selected in his place. Mr. 
Drayton, Solicitor-General, has been appointed Legal Draftsman 
to the Palestine Government; and Mr. L. I. N. Lloyd-Blood, 
Assistant Attorney-General, Nyasaland, will be appointed Solicitor- 
General to succeed him. 


3. The Jerusalem Division has been elevated to the status of a 
District, and now includes the Sub-District of Hebron. Major 
J. E. F. Campbell, O.B.E., has been appointed District Commis- 
sioner of the new District. Mr. C. F. Colvile, C.M.G., District 
Commissioner, Northern District, retired on grounds of ill health. 


4. Colonel E. R. Sawer, O.B.E., Director of Agriculture and 
Forests since 1920, also retired on grounds of ill health during 1931. 


5. On the transfer of Mr. A. S. Mavrogordato, Commandant of 
Police and Prisons, to Trinidad as Inspector-General of Constabu- 
lary, Mr. R. G. B. Spicer, M.C., Commissioner of Police in 
henya, was appointed to succeed him in Palestine. 


Public Security. 


6. There were no serious disturbances, but the excitement caused 
by articles in the Arabic Press, on the subject of the establishment 
of sealed armouries in isolated Jewish settlements, led to a demon- 
stration on the 23rd August by the townspeople of Nablus. Stones 
were thrown at the police, and the officer in charge and several 
of his men were hurt. The police made several baton charges to 
disperse the crowds, and one small party of policemen was obliged 


2 


to fire. There was no loss of life. Eleven of the demonstrators 
were injured in the baton charges, and three were struck by bullets. 
Only five rounds of ammunition were fired by the police. 


7. The facts in respect of the so-called arming of Jews were 
announced in a Government communiqué on the 5th August in 
the following terms :— 


‘“The following statement is published for general infor- 
mation in regard to the sealed armouries which have been 
deposited by the Government in certain Jewish colonies. 


‘‘The practice of providing for the security of isolated 
colonies from attack by marauders by the installation of sealed 
armouries, to be opened only in case of emergency, has been 
in existence for nearly 10 years. 


‘* There is a strict rule that the seal is not to be broken 
unless the colony is attacked, and there has not been a single 
case of contravention of this rule. 


‘‘ The armouries used to contain rifles. Within the last 
two years it has been decided that they are to contain shot-guns 
of a type specially adapted for defensive purposes. Effect has 
been given to this decision, and no armoury now contains any 
weapon other than these shot-guns. 


‘‘ The Government, acting upon expert advice and upon its 
own considered judgment, has decided that the installation of 
these armouriesg is a proper measure, and it has no intention 
of altering its policy in this matter. 


‘‘ The agitation which has been conducted recently against 
this policy on the ground that it constitutes a danger to the 
Arabs and entitles them to provide themselves illicitly with arms 
for the purpose of self-defence, has no foundation in fact. 
This agitation is moreover a serious menace to the tranquillity 
of the country. 


‘“The Government requires that it shall forthwith cease, 
and it is hereby notified that after the publication of this state- 
ment any newspaper which publishes and any public speaker 
who utters statements which are calculated to foster the belief 
that the existence of these armouries is a menace to the law- 
abiding population of Palestine, will be regarded by the Govern- 
ment as deliberately and wantonly endangering the pubhe 
safety, and will be dealt with accordingly.”’ 


8. In accordance with the scheme decided upon after the dis- 
turbances of 1929 (see paragraph 3 on pages 6 and 7 of the Report 
for 1930*) 74 sealed armouries were installed in Jewish settlements, 
equipped with Greener shot-guns. All settlements are linked by 
road and telephone to the main centres of reinforcement and some 


—— 


* Colonial No. 59. 


3 


are equipped also with Verey-light apparatus for signalling. There 
are posts manned by British police in the larger colonies, and in 
the strategic centre of each group of smaller settlements. 


9. Towards the end of the year there was an outbreak of highway 
robbery in Palestine under the leadership of a gang of escaped con- 
victs from Amman, Trans-Jordan, and several occupants of motor 
cars were held up on the main roads at dusk and robbed. By the 
end of the year, the gang was scattered and most of its members 
were captured. 


Policy. 


10. Following upon the discussions between the Jewish leaders 
and His Majesty’s Government referred to in paragraph 25 on 
page 12 of the Annual Report for 19380, a letter was addressed by 
the Prime Minister to Dr. Weizmann, dated 13th February, 1931, 
the text of which has already been communicated to the Permanent 
Mandates Commission. The object of this letter was to remove 
certain misconceptions and misunderstandings which had arisen 
as to the policy of His Majesty’s Government with regard to Pales- 
tine, as set forth in the White Paper of October, 1930 (Cmd. 3692). 


Development. 


11. The Director of Development, Mr. L. French, C.I1.E., 
C.B.E., formerly Chief Secretary, Punjab Government, took up 
his duties in August. The following is the text of a despatch dated 
the 26th June, 1931, from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, 
in regard to the Development Scheme :— 


“ Sr, 

‘* As you are aware, I have recently had under consideration the 
initial steps to be taken to give effect to the policy of His Majesty’s 
Government in regard to agricultural development and land settle- 
ment in Falestine. 


‘*2. The need of a more methodical agricultural development 
was made apparent by Sir John Hope Simpson’s Report on Immi- 
eration, Land Settlement, and Development in Palestine (Cmd. 
3686). The Statement of Policy (Cmd. 3692) issued simul- 
taneously with that Report, gave (in paragraphs 21 to 25) a brief 
outline of the policy to be adopted by His Majesty’s Government 
in this matter, and the policy was further explained in paragraphs 9 
to 13 of the Prime Minister’s letter to Dr. Weizmann, dated 13th 
February, 1931. It is the intention that the funds required for 
this purpose should be found by means of a loan which Parhament 
will be asked to authorize His Majesty’s Government to guarantee. 


‘* 3. I have already been in correspondence with you in regard 
to the initial steps to be taken for carrying out the policy of His 
Majesty’s Government in regard to agricultural development and 
land settlement. As a result of this correspondence, the outline 
of a scheme was drawn up, in consultation with yourself, which 


4 


was communicated to the representatives both of the Jewish Agency 
and the Arab Executive for such comments as they might desire 
to offer. 


‘“ 4. T have since had the opportunity of discussing the question 
orally with you during your recent visit to England. After full 
consideration of your views, and of the comments received from 
the quarters mentioned above, I have approved the revised proposals 
set out in the following paragraphs. 


‘“5. (i) His Majesty’s Government will take steps for the 
appointment at an early date of a Director of Development and a 
nucleus of staff. The Director will be subordinate to the High 
Commissioner but will be independent of existing Government 
Departments in Falestine, though in carrying out the work of 
development he will be in liaison with them. 


‘* (ii) The Jewish Agency and the Arab Executive will be invited 
to nominate one member each to assist the Director in an advisory 
capacity. 

‘ Gii) The Director of Deyelonuient will proceed to carry out the 
following preliminary work. 

‘* (a) He will prepare a register of such Arabs as can be 
shown to have been displaced from the land which they 
occupied in consequence of the lands falling into Jewish hands, 
and who have not obtained other holdings on which they can 
establish themselves or other equally satisfactory occupation. 
The Director in preparing the register will have the assistance 
of a legal assessor, whose duty it will be to scrutinize claims and 
advise the Director as to the sufficiency of evidence in each case 
before the claims are admitted. 

‘“ (b) After the preliminary work of registration, the Director 
will draw up a scheme of resettlement of registered displaced 
Arab families with as close an estimate as possible of the cost. 
When the scheme has been approved by the High Commissioner 
the resettlement will be carried out as quickly as possible. 

‘‘ (c) Further, the Director will investigate the methods to be 
adopted to give effect, within the limits of the funds available. 
to the intention of His Majesty’s Government as to the policy 
of Land Settlement as outlined in paragraphs 10 and 11 of the 
Prime Minister's letter to Dr. Weizmann in the following 
terms :— 

‘* In framing a policy of Land Settlement, it is essential 
that His Majesty’s Government should take into considera- 
tion every circumstance that is relevant to the main pur- 
poses of the Mandate. 

‘* The area of cultivable land, the possibilities of irriga- 
tion, the absorptive capacity of the country in relation to 
immigration are all elements pertinent to the issue to be 
elucidated, and the neglect of any one of them would be 
prejudicial to the formulation of a just and stable policy. 





O 


‘‘ It is the intention of His Majesty’s Government to 1n- 
stitute an enquiry as soon as possible to ascertain, mter 
alia, what State and other lands are, or properly can be 
made, available for close settlement by Jews under refer- 
ence to the obligation imposed upon the Mandatory by 
Article 6 of the Mandate. This enquiry will be compre- 
hensive in its scope, and will include the whole land re- 
sources of Palestine. In the conduct of the enquiry pro- 
vision will be made for all interests, whether Jewish or 
Arab, making such representations as it may be desired to 
put forward. 


‘* The question of the congestion amongst the fellahin in 
the hill districts of Palestine is receiving the careful con- 
sideration of His Majesty's Government. It is contem- 
plated that measures will be devised for the improvement 
and intensive development of the land, and for bringing 
into cultivation areas which hitherto may have remained 
uncultivated, and thereby securing to the fellahin a better 
standard of living, without, save in exceptional cases, hav- 
ing recourse to transfer. 


** (d) Such investigation will also include the following 
items :— 


‘“ (1) The feasibility and advisability of providing credits 
for Arab cultivators and Jewish settlers, and if so, the 
best method of achieving this purpose. 

‘* (2) Proposals for draining, irrigating, and otherwise 
reclaiming land not at present cultivated or cultivated only 
to a limited extent. 


‘“ (e) It is the intention of His Majesty’s Government to 
authorize the High Commissioner to incur expenditure not ex- 
ceeding £P.50,000 in the foregoing investigation including all 
necessary surveys and experiments, such expenditure being met 
in the first instance from Palestine funds. 


‘* (f) The Director will make in reference to each of the above 
enumerated matters in (c) and (d) estimates as close as the cir- 
cumstances will allow of the cost of the works proposed, and 
give an intimation of their order of preference. 


‘* (iv) The Director will submit his Report or such Interim Report 
as can be completed, not later than 31st December, 1931. The High 
Commissioner will take the Report into consideration and will, 
before submitting recommendations to His Majesty’s Government, 
invite the observations of the Jewish Agency and the Arab Execu- 
tive upon the practical proposals of the scheme, and will afford 
them an opportunity of making representations regarding such pro- 
posals as have not already received the concurrence of the Jewish 
and Arab Advisers. 


6 


‘ (v) ‘The Report or Interim Report as above mentioned will be 
transmitted by the High Commissioner along with any representa- 
tions of the Jewish Agency or the Arab Executive thereon to His 
Majesty’s Government who will decide whether effect should be 
given to the Report and its recommendations, or to which of them 
and in what manner. 


(vi) The Bill for the guarantee of the development loan will 
not be settled until the Report or Interim Report as above men- 
tioned of the Director of Development is received and considered 
along with the representations, if any, to be made as provided for. 


6. Tam taking the necessary steps for the selection at an early 
date of an officer for the post of Director of Development and will 
address you further upon the subject as soon as I am in a position 
to do so. 

I have the honour to be, 


Sir, 
Your most obedient, humble servant, 
(Signed) PASSFIELD. 


High Commissioner, 
TLieutenant-Colonel 


Sir J. R. Chancellor, G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., D.S.0O., ete., 


etc., etc.’’ 


Agriculture and Land. 


12. For the first time in four years, Palestine was frée from anv 
serious plague of locusts. The farmers in the south, however, 
suffered from shortuge of rains and there was a recrudescence of 
field mice in the north which caused considerable damage to standing 
crops. 


13. It is interesting to record the spread of modern methods of 
agriculture among the Arab rural community; the increasing fre- 
quency of applications by fellahin to the Government Department 
for selected seeds and seedlings, for pedigree stock, and for advice 
generally in up-to-date husbandry is evidence that Arab conservatism 
in agriculture is being broken down by the realization of the benefits 
attending scientific farming. 


14. In 1931, several further important measures were introduced 
for the benefit of agriculturists. First, the Protection of Cultivators 
Ordinance which ensures that no tenant of, or possessor of bene- 
ficiary rights over, land shall be dispossessed unless the High Com- 
missioner is satisfied that he is adequately provided for on other land 
or in other occupation. Secondly, the Law of Mortgage Amendment 
Ordinance preserves the status of tenants in the case of the sale of 


7 


land in foreclosure of mortgage : hitherto tenants’ rights were deemed 
to be extinguished by forced sale of the landlord’s estate. Thirdly, 
the oppressive Ottoman Law as to imprisonment for debt, which 
weighed heavily upon the fellahin, was replaced by an Ordinance 
which requires proof of means to pay, before imprisonment is 
ordered, and reduces the maximum term of imprisonment from 91 
to 21 days. 


15. In Beersheba, where the fellahin were impoverished by the 
drought of 1930, a sum of £P14,000 was made available for short- 
term loans to enable them to buy seed for the summer sowing. 
Further substantial remissions of commuted tithe in respect both 
of 1930 arrears and 1931 dues were granted, owing to the continued 
fall in the price of agricultural products, and as compensation for 
losses from the ravages of field mice. The total revenue thus re- 
linquished by the Government in 1930 and 1931 was nearly 
£P300,000. 


16. In the north, district authorities were empowered to postpone 
collections of arrears of tithe and werko and of instalments of 
agricultural loans, in any case of genuine mability to pay. This 
relief was of special application to the Jewish settlements. 


17. An official Committee was appointed in December to con- 
sider the replacement of the present commuted tithe and werko by 
a single land tax. 


18. Arrangements are also being made through a Commission 
of Government officers to classify comprehensively outstanding 
arrears of tithe, werko, and agricultural loans, with a view to 
consideration of the possibility and desirability of writing off 
arrears which are evidently irrecoverable or reducing indebtedness 
in cases of real hardship. 


19. Progress in the fiscal survey has been maintained and lands 
in 95 villages, covering an area of 1,165,780 metric dunums, were 
divided into fiscal blocks and the land in each block was valued. 


20. The Commutation of Tithes Ordinance, 1927, is in force 
throughout the country except for two Bedu areas in the extreme 
south of Beersheba, and two villages in the north of Palestine which 
were ceded by Syria and Trans-Jordan respectively in 1930. The 
annual redistribution of the commuted tithe was carried out during 
the year. 


Commerce and Industry. 


21. The stability of the economic structure which has been built 
up in Palestine in the short space of ten years is shown by the 
steadiness with which the country resists the universal depression. 
The falling off in invisible exports, remittances and investments 
by foreign charitable organizations, Jewish and non-Jewish, and 
by Zionist enterprises, is naturally reflected in a diminution of 


8 


purchasing power which again shows itself in a decline in receipts 
from Customs. On the other hand, real progress is to be recorded 
in the principal industries, citrus, cement, and oils; activity in 
building is being displayed on an unwonted scale in Jerusalem 
and Tel-Aviv; the business of the Post Office on the whole increases 
uninterruptedly and showed a profit in 1931 of nearly £P62,000 ; 
the harbour at Haifa is now so far advanced that large steamers 
find shelter within the main breakwater ; construction of the pipe 
line from Mosul to Haifa is imminent, the first shipload of materials 
being expected in the spring of 1932; and the survey of the Haifa- 
Baghdad Railway is complete. 

The new Government House, on an eminence to the south- 
east of Jerusalem, was occupied in March. 


22. The Imperial Airways, which already maintain an aerodrome 
at Gaza, instituted during the year a junction at Lake Tiberias- 
Samukh on the air route to India. Passengers are brought by sea- 
plane from Athens to the lake, and continue their journey from 
the Samakh landing ground. 


23. The Palestine currency, based on sterling, has been subject 
on foreign exchanges to the fluctuations of the pound; but there 
has been no untoward sign of inflation of prices locally. 


24. The motor transport industry has been a source of concern 
during the year. Owners and drivers complained that the industry 
was called upon to bear an undue burden of taxation, in the form 
of import duty on petrol, motor cars, spare parts, tyres, and 
tubes, and in the form of licence fees. To call attention to their 
grievances, a peaceful one-day strike was declared by the Union of 
Owners and Drivers on the 6th-7th August. Their principal 
grievance related to the licence fee on motor cars, representing a 
periodical commitment of a substantial amount, which could only 
be met with the greatest difficulty from the daily earnings of 
drivers, as these barely sufficed to cover day-to-day expenses for 
petrol, oils, accessories, and repairs. Indiscriminate competition 
by unorganized drivers tended to depress fares to an uneconomic 
level. 


25. The Government therefore introduced an appreciably lower 
scale ol licence fees, as an immediate measure of relief, with effect 
from the lst July, and appointed a Board to enquire into the situa- 
tion of the motor transport industry and to devise means towards 
its efficient organization with a view to giving proper and_ 
economical service to the public whilst assuring a reasonable liveli- | 
hood to those occupied in the industry. | 


26. For financial reasons the Government found itself unable to , 
accept the recommendations of the Board that licence fees should 
be waived with effect from the lst July. The Union of Owners 
and Drivers, in consequence of this refusal, declared a second 
strike, which began at midnight on the 2nd-38rd November and 


9 


lasted until noon on the 11th November. No incidents occurred, 
and the behaviour of the strikers was good. 


27. As a result of proposals formulated by the Government of 
Palestine on the basis of the Board of Enquiry’s other recom- 
mendations, the following changes in taxation were brought into 
force in the interests of the motor transport industrv. 


Scale of Scale of 


| Scale of Licence Juicence Licence 
Fees on 1.1.31. Fees on |; Fees on 


en 1731; 1.1.32. 


: 1 
| . | ; Private Private 
Private. | Public and Public.and Public. 





Private or public vehicles: 


Having a seating capacity £P8- £P12- £P4 £P2 
not exceeding = seven £P18 £P18 
persons including’ the According to 
driver. horse |po wer 

Over seven persons .. | £P20 plus| £P20 plus| £P4 plus | £P4 plus 


£P1 per | £P1 per | £P1 per | 500 mils 
seat over | seat over | seat over | per seat 


12 12 7 over 7 
Commercial vehicles: 

Where thecarrying capacity £P20 £P20 £P9 | SP6 
does not exceed 1,000 | 
kilograms. 

Wherethecarrying capacity £P30 £P30 £PI8 | £P12 
does not exceed 1,500 | 
kilograms. 

Where the carrying capacity £P50 £P50 £P36 £P24 
exceeds 1,500 puceteie 

Motor-cycles ... En £P2 £P2 £P2 £P1 
Motor-cycle combinations oa £P4 £P4 £P2 | £P2 


283. The import duty on motor cars was increased from 15 to 25 
per cent. ad valorem with a view to limiting the introduction of 
hew vehicles and so tempering competition. At the same time 
the import duty on tyres and tubes was reduced from 60 mils to 
00 mils a kilogram. 

To make good the loss in revenue from these reductions the 
excise duty on tobacco was increased from 250 mils to 350 mils a 
kilogram. 


29. At the end of the year steps were being taken to set up the 
permanent Central and District Advisory Boards, composed of 
oficial and non-official members, which will advise Government on 
questions affecting the motor transport industry. 


30. Reports on the working of the Jordan Hvdro-Electric, 
Jerusalem Electricity and Dead Sea Concessions will be found in 
Section XXVI (Public Works, Geology, and Mining—paragraphs 


10 


27-29 and 38-39) of this Report. Negotiations with the Power 
Securities Corporation which has taken over the Mavrommatis 
(Turkish) Concession for the supply of water to Jerusalem are still 
proceeding ; and in the meantime it was found necessary to expend 
£P8,600 on supplementing the existing sources by an installation 
at Ain Fawwar, a syphonic spring north-east of Jerusalem. 


31. The Tiberias Hot Springs Company failed to raise the 
required capital of their undertaking by October, 1931, and the 
agreement for the grant of a Concession (see Annual Report for 
1930," page 230) accordingly lapsed. It is proposed to grant the 
company a contract for the management of the Baths for five years, 
on the condition that it spends £P1,500 on their repair and pays 
the Municipality an annual revenue of £P2,250; the company wi! 
be allowed at any time during that period to take up, if it so wishes, 
the larger scheme on the terms expressed in the original agreement. 


32. The revenue in 1931 amounted to £P2,333,895 and the 
expenditure to £P2,374,866, leaving a surplus. balance _ of 
£P585,.189 at the 3lst December. The receipts from Customs 
totalled £P921,945. 


Financial Commission. 


33. In the early part of the year a Financial Commission visited 
Palestine for the purpose of examining and reporting on the 
revenue, expenditure, and general organization of the Palestine 
Administration. 


384. The Commission consisted of Sir Samuel O’Donnell, 
K.C.S.1., K.C.I.E., formerly Secretary to the Government of 
India, Home Department, and Mr. H. Brittain, a Principal on the 
staff of His Majesty’s Treasury. The Report of the Commission 
was printed in July as a confidential document. On the basis 
of its recommendations, many officers, British and Palestinian, 
have been retrenched, a number of Departmental] services have been 
circumscribed or abolished, and the programme of maintenance 
and extraordinary works over a period of years has been curtailed. 


Jewish Affairs. 


35. The Zionist Congress was held at Basle in June. Mr. 
Nahum Sokolow was elected President of the Jewish Agency, 
and a new executive of the Jewish Agency was appointed, con- 
sisting of five Zionists and four non-Zionists but, on the principle 
of parity, the five Zionists exercise only four votes. The Zionist 
element is a coalition of two members of the Labour Party, two of 
the Central or General Party, and one Mizrahi (Orthodox). The 
Jerusalem Executive, drawn from the general Executive, consists 
of three Zionists and three non-Zionists. 


* Colonial No. 59. 


11 


36. The Jewish community in Palestine, in the face of world- 
wide depression and the interruption in the flow of new Jewish 
capital and contributions, was for the most part preoccupied with 
its own economic affairs, which were conserved with a success that 
speaks highly for the degree of independence of external support 
already attained by the community. 


37. The Central Agudath Israel has apphed for the separate 
recognition of its congregation under the Religious Communities 
Organisation Ordinance, 1926, with power to tax its members and 
compulsory powers over them in matters of personal status. The 
Government has not been able to grant this application, and is 
satisfied that there is nothing in the Jewish Community Regula- 
tions (see Section IIT of the Report for 1927*) which infringes the 
nights or liberties of the members of the Central Agudath Israel] or 
prevents them from carrying out their communal services in their 
own way subject to the requirements of good order. 


Moslem Congress. 


38. Any apprehensions which might have been entertained that 
the holding of a Moslem Congress in Jerusalem would lead to 
disorders proved to be unfounded. 

The Congress took place from the 6th to the 16th December 
under the chairmanship of Haj Amin eff. el Husseini, President, 
Supreme Moslem Council, and it was attended by 145 delegates, 
including visitors from Trans-Jordan, Egypt, Syria, ‘Iraq, North 
Afnica, and India. 

39. The original purpose of the Congress was to promote the 
establishment of a Moslem University in Jerusalem to attract 
Moslem students from abroad and so assure the place of Jeru- 
salem as a principal centre of Moslem religious and intellectual 
development. 

In fact, the discussions ranged over the following subjects :—the 
Moslem Holy Places and the Buraq (or Wailing Wall) in parti- 
cular; the restoration of the Hejaz Railway to the Moslems; and 
the preparation of an Organic Law for the Moslem Congress, as a 
permanent body. 

It was resolved that a Congress should be held every two years 
in a different Moslem centre, but that it might be convened at 
any time in case of need. 


Religious Matters. 


40. In 1931 it became necessary to appoint an Armenian 
Patriarch, following the death of His Beatitude Elisée Turian in 
1930. 

The electoral rules which were in force under the Turkish 
regime were found to be inapplicable in certain instances. 





* Colonial No. 31. 


12 


A General Assembly of the Armenian Congregation was there- 
fore convened and the rules were duly amended so far as to permit 
of the election taking place, further revision being left to the new 
Patriarch if he thought fit. The amended rules were approved by 
the Palestine Government. The election was held in June, 
resulting in the choice of the Most Reverend Thorgom Kouchagian, 
Lord Archbishop of the Armenian Community in Egypt. The 
election was confirmed by His Majesty, and the Royal Commis- 
sion of Appointment was formally presented to His Beatitude by 
the High Commissioner on the Ist September, 1931. On the 
same day His Beatitude was enthroned in the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre. 


41. His Beatitude Damianos, Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem, 
died on the 14th August, after a tenure of office that had lasted, 
with a brief interruption, for 34 years. Keladion, Metropolitan 
of Ptolemais, was elected locum tenens. The Executive Com- 
mittee of the First Arab Orthodox Congress, representing the Lav 
Community, at once demanded of the Government that the reeom- 
mendations in the Bertram-Young Report (Oxford University 
Press, 1926) for the amendment of the Constitution of the Patri- 
archate should be put into force before the election of a new 
Patriarch. No amendments to the law governing the election of a 
Patriarch were, however, proposed by the Patriarchate, and the 
Government did not deem it advisable to intervene during the 
interregnum. The locum tenens issued the notice required by 
law, inviting the lay members of the Church to elect parish priests 
to represent them at the election. ‘The laity refused to participate 
in the election unless their demands were satisfied, and the elec- 
tion proceedings were postponed, while the parties endeavoured 
to find a solution of their difficulties. The Patriarchal Synod, on 
the ground that it was unable to commit the future Patriarch, 
refused to give any assurances that the reforms sought by the laity 
would be introduced after the election; and the extreme elements 
of the Orthodox Arabs demanded the election of an Arab Patriarch, 
going so far as to propose the formation of a separate Orthodox 
Arab Church. A compromise was therefore impossible. The 
Confraternity of the Holy Sepulchre accordingly proceeded, without 
the co-operation of the representatives of the laity, to the first stage 
of the election, consisting of the nomination of persons deemed 
suitable to occupy the Patriarchal Throne. The law provides for 
the attendance of lay representatives at this stage but not for their 
participation in the proceedings. A list of candidates was sub- 
mitted to the Government, in accordance with the law, in the form 
of a proccs verbal, recording that the Synod had questioned the 
eligibility of three names on the list, on the grounds that they were 
not, as required, subject to the Patriarchal Throne of Jerusalem, 
and had concluded by a majority of sixteen to seven that these 
candidates were ineligible. 


13 


42. The High Commissioner decided not to exercise the power 
vested in Government of excising any name from the list, and 
approved of the election being held. Before it could take place, 
however, the Executive of the Arab Orthodox Congress applied 
for an order from the High Court requiring the locum tenens to 
show cause why he should not be ordered to stay the elec- 
tion on the ground that it was not being carried out in accordance 
with the law. The matter was still pending at the end of the year. 


43. The Report of the Wailing Wall Commission was presented 
in December, 1930, and published as a Colonial Office publication. 
Copies of that publication have been forwarded by His Majesty’s 
Government to the Council of the League of Nations. The findings 
were brought into force in June by means of the Palestine (Western 
or Wailing Wall) Order in Council, 1931, of which the text is set 
out in Appendix I to this Report. The findings were received 
without enthusiasm by Moslems and Jews alike, but except for 
tormally-recorded protests on the part of the Supreme Moslem 
Council and discussion at the Moslem Congress, there was no signi- 
ficant public comment, unfavourable or otherwise. No serious 
difficulty has been experienced in administering the regulations 
prescribed in the Order in Council. 


In accordance with the findings of the Commission, the Chief 
Rabbis of Jerusalem have appointed a representative to deal with 
matters appertaining to the Wall. 


A police post is established at the Wall under the charge of a 
British officer with British and Palestinian constables. 


Press Bureau. 


44. In March, 1931, Mr. R. A. Furness, C.B.E., was temporarily 
appointed to reconstitute the Press Bureau of the Government. 
As a result of his recommendations, a self-contained Press Bureau 
has been established, as an organ of the Secretariat, under the 
direction of a Junior Assistant Secretary. 


The principal objects of this reorganization are to secure a close 
contact between the Government and the Press, to co-ordinate the 
administration of the Press Law by District Commissioners, to 
ensure a stricter and more punctual scrutiny of newspapers, and 
to furnish editors with information and guidance. So far as has 
been observed in the short period during which the Press Bureau 
has been operating, the tone and standard of accuracy of the news- 
papers show some improvement, and editors use and appreciate the 
facilities which have been placed at their disposal for obtaining 
authentic information. 


A new Ordinance is under consideration, designed to replace the 
Ottoman Press Law. 


14 


Miscellaneous. 


45. A Labour Legislation Committee has been set up with an 
official chairman, and with official and non-official members, to 
eliquire into existing labour legislation in Palestine and to make 
recommendations for its amendment, if necessary. In accordance 
with the suggestion of the Permanent Mandates Commission, the 
Committee will consider in particular the question of the applica- 
tion to Palestine of International Labour Conventions. 


46. Reference to the Wadi Hawareth lands case appears on 
page 88, last paragraph, of the Minutes of the Twentieth Session 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission. It has not yet been 
possible to resettle the displaced Arabs of the northern section of 
that tribe on land elsewhere, but every effort is being made to 
effect a satisfactory solution of this problem. Meanwhile, the 
Jewish Agency has co-operated with Government in a temporary 
solution of the difficulty by arranging a 22 months’ lease for the 
Arabs of an area of 3,200 dunums belonging to the Jewish National 
Fund in the Wadi Hawareth. The Government is the lessee of 
this area, and will sublet it to the Arabs. 


47. The second Census of Palestine was held on the 18th Novem- 
ber, and the total population was provisionally declared on the 
following day to be 1,035,154. The distribution by religions was, 
799,952 Moslems, 175,006 Jews, 90,607 Christians, and 9,589 
others. Further information regarding the census is given in 


Section XXII of this Report. 


48. The Urban Property Tax was applied to the towns of Safad, 
Nazareth, Beersheba, Jenin, Ramallah, Bethlehem, Bait Jala, 
and Hebron. It has been applied also to Haifa and Acre, where 
it will come into force on the 1st April, 1932. 


I.—_JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


1. The measures which have been taken since 1920 to place 
Palestine under such political, administrative, and economic con- 
ditions as will secure the establishment of a Jewish National Home 
Were fully described, and the policy which the Mandatory and the 
Palestine Government follow in this respect was defined in Sec- 
tion I of the Report for 1930.* 


2. Details of the measures taken in 1931 will be found in the 
Sections of the present Report dealing with the activities of the 
several Departments of the Palestine Government. The follc wing 
facts may be mentioned here. 


3. Four thousand and seventy-five Jewish immigrants were 
admitted to Palestine, of whom 850 were working men and women 
authorized under Labour Schedules. A special relaxation o° the 


conditions governing the registration of persons of indepe ident 
oe ee, 


* Colonial No. 59. 





15 


means was granted to facilitate the registration as permanent 
settlers of the many Jews who were in the country without per- 
mission. More than 3,000 Jews, who were responsible for 5,000 
dependants besides themselves, took advantage of this concession. 


4. The census taken in 1931 shows that the Jewish population 
of Palestine has increased from 65,570 to 175,006 or by nearly 170 
per cent., an unexampled advance in the course of eleven years in 
a country of new settlement which in itself indicates striking pro- 
gress in the estabhshment of the Jewish National Home. 


5. The Customs exemptions of particular interest and advantage 
to Jewish industry included the following :—fibres of sisal, jute, 
hemp and manila for textile manufacture, soda ash for soap boiling, 
cut paper for manufacture of envelopes, ground-nuts for oil-crush- 
ing, galvanized or coppered wire for netting, anhydrous ammonia, 
and sugar to be used in the manufacture of fruit juices for export. 
The import duty on carbonic acid and that on burnt gypsum were 
rendered protective on the application of Jewish firms. 


6. The Government is assisting in many ways the Levant Fair 
to be held in the spring of 1932 at Tel-Aviv; Departmental exhibits 
are being arranged and various facilities have been extended to the 
Jewish promoters of the Fair, and to exhibitors, in matters of 
Customs and immigration formalities and railway fares. 


7. Jewish labour is particularly interested in the review of labour 
legislation which is being undertaken at present by a Government 
committee. 


8. Government again purchased a large number of plants for 
afforestation from the Girls’ Farms of the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour. 


9. The determination of the Jewish share of employment on 
public works, taking into account the Jewish contribution to revenue, 
is being discussed between the Executive of the Jewish Agency and 
the Government Treasury, with a view to devising an applicable 
formula. For this purpose all relevant financial statistics have been 
supplied by the Treasury to the Executive. 


10. At the Haifa Harbour Works over a hundred additional Jews 
were engaged; the comparative figures at the 3lst December for 
1930 and 1931 were 183 and 340, respectively. 


11. Work on the construction of the Haifa-Acre and Jaffa-Haifa 
roads was assigned in part to Jews at rates higher than those which 
were paid to Arabs for the same labour ; and most of the work at the 
Kadoorie Agricultural School at Mt. Tabor is in Jewish hands. 
Representatives of the Executive of the Jewish Agency and of the 
General Federation of Jewish Labour were recognized by Govern- 
ment for the special purpose of recruitment of Jewish labour as 
required by Departments. 


16 


The principal employer among the local authorities of Palestine, 
in so far as concerns areas with mixed Arab and Jewish populations. 
is Jerusalem. The permanent staff of the Fublic Works branch of 
this Municipality consists of 194 persons, of whom 63 are Jews. 
The amount of work done during 1931 in terms of men-days, was 
10,067, of which 2,935, or approximately 32 per cent., were allotted 
to Jews. . 

12. The figures for Jaffa at the 31st December, 1931, were, as 
regards recurrent municipal works, 35 Arabs and 6 Jews, and as 
regards extraordinary works, 35 Arabs and 8 Jews. The bulk of 
Jewish municipal labour in the Jaffa District is, of course, engaged 
in Tel-Aviv. 

13. A Treasury officer is advising the General Council (Vaad 
Leumi) of the Jewish Community in revising its financial system 
and preparing its budget for the coming year. 


14. The Jewish township of Tel-Aviv was assisted by Govern- 
ment In raising temporary bank accommodation in connexion with 
the relief of local unemployment; and the Government Treasury 
is assisting the Local Councils of Rishon-le-Zion and Petah-Tiqva 
in reducing their long-outstanding debts. 


15. The Government Geological Adviser has advised Jewish 
settlements with regard to water-supplies; and the Government 
drilling plant is placed at the disposal of the settlements for testing 
the possibilities of underground water. 


16. Government road rollers are lent, at nominal charges, for 
internal road construction in Jewish as well as Arab villages. 


17. There is now a complete network of roads and telephone 
routes connecting the Jewish settlements with the principal centres 
of administration for defensive purposes; Verey lights are provided 
in some cases as an additional form of signalling ; sealed armouries 
with shot-guns have been installed and selected colonists instructed 
in their use; and British police are stationed in every important 
colony and in the strategic centre of each group of smaller settle- 
ments. 


II1.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


1. The Local Government Bill (vide paragraph 4 on page 30 
of the Report for 1930) is still under consideration. 


2. Elections to the Municipal Council of Safad took place in 
January, 1931: four Moslems and three Jews were elected. By- 
elections were held at Acre, Haifa, and Jaffa to fill the places of 
Arab Councillors who died or resigned. 

8. Orders were made by the High Commissioner under the De- 
termination of Areas of Municipalities Ordinance, 1925, fixing the 
limits of Hebron, Ramallah, Bethlehem, Bait Jala, Beersheba, and 
Jerusalem. By-laws were approved by Government dealing with 


li 


road transport, control of noises, begging, and sale of intoxicating 
liquors in Acre, Nablus, Haifa, Tiberias, Lydda, Ramleh, Tel-Aviv, 
and Jaffa. 


4. Outline Schemes for the urban section of the Town Planning 
Area of Jaffa and for the Haifa Town Planning Area were pre- 
pared and provisionally approved by the Central Town Planning 
Commission. Schemes for the new and old cities of Tiberias were 
also approved. 


In Jerusalem three schemes for major suburbs and a number of 
small schemes were approved. These schemes involve the detailed 
planning of areas covered by the Outline Scheme for the city. 


Several small schemes for the Tel-Aviv section of the Jaffa Town 
Planning Area were also approved. 


The Central Commission were also concerned with the prepara- 
tlon of a detailed scheme for the area at Haifa which will be re- 
claimed when the new harbour is complete and for the important 
commercial area adjacent to the coast. 


5. The Local Council at Tireh in the Northern District was 
abolished on grounds of inefficiency. 


6. The electoral rules of the Jewish villages of Rehovot and 
Ramat Gan were amended, and the Arab village of Tarshiha was 
granted further powers of taxation. 


7. The Government sanctioned a number of by-laws for Jewish 
Local Councils in respect of road transport and closing hours of 
shops. 


IiI.—JEWISH AGENCY. 


1. During the year under review, the Jewish Agency was con- 
sulted by the Palestine Government in regard to various matters, 
including immigration and the census. A nominee of the Agency 
was appointed to be a member of the Labour Legislation Commit- 
tee, and a representative of the Agency appeared on several 
occasions before the Government Standing Committee for Com- 
merce and Industry as adviser and spokesman of Jewish applicants 
for customs and other facilities. 


2. As regards Immigration, the Agency advised the Palestine 
Government, on the basis of its survey of the existing economic 
conditions, that there was a reasonable prospect of absorbing 1,415 
new Jewish workers, men and women, in the half-year beginning 
at the Ist April. A Labour Immigration Schedule of 500, in- 
cluding 200 women, was authorized by the Government on this 
application. 


3. A second application for 1,720 workers was made by the 
Agency in respect of the half-year beginning at the 1st October, 


18 


1931, but the Government found itself unable to authorize a 
Labour Immigration Schedule of more than 350 as, after full con- 
sideration of the Agency’s application and conferences with its 
representatives, the Government came to the conclusion that the 
economic situation did not justify a larger schedule. 


4. The Agency made representations to the Government for a 
reduction of the financial qualification of immigrants of in- 
dependent means, and for exclusion of certain classes of adult 
dependants from the Labour Immigration Schedule. 


5. It was instrumental also in preparing and submitting appli- 
cations for registration as immigrants under the special Order 
mentioned in Section IV, paragraph 2, on behalf of Jews who 
were in the country without permission. 


6. The Agency submitted representations, oral and written, to 
the Financial Commission (see Introductory Section, paragraph 33) 
on general questions of administration. 


7. The Agency renewed its representations to Government for 
an increased grant-in-aid to Zionist Schools, and for a larger parti- 
cipation by the Government in the expenditure on Jewish Health 
Services. Financial stringency has not allowed the Government 
to meet these demands, but arrangements are being made to 
extend the hospital facilities provided by the Government in the 
Northern District, in view of the curtailment of the activities of 
the Hadassah (Jewish) Medical Organization in that District. 


8. The Jewish Agency co-operated most helpfully with the 
Palestine Government in finding a temporary solution of the 
problem of the Wadi Hawareth Arabs, referred to in paragraph 
46 of the Introductory Section of this Report. Among the other 
matters in which the Agency co-operated were the campaigns 
against field mice and cattle disease, and the recruitment of Jewish 
labour as required for Government Departments. 


9. The Agency is directly interested, as a shareholder, in the 
public utility concessions for hydro-electricity and _ irrigation 
(Palestine Electric Corporation) and for extracting minerals from 
the Dead Sea (Palestine Potash). 


10. Government officers attend the meetings of the Education 
Department of the Jewish Agency, which receives a block grant of 
£P20 ,000 from the Government towards the cost of maintaining the 
Jewish Public School System in Palestine. 


11. During the year 5690 (1st October, 1930—30th September, 
1931) the Jewish Agency, the Emergency Fund for Palestine, and 
the Hebrew University expended £P797,000 on social, cultural, and 
economic services. The income was derived from the following 
sources :— : 


19 


£P 

Keren Hayesod (through the Jewish eenaen 318 ,000 
Jewish National Fund os .. 151.000 
Hadassah Medical Organization . ae : ... 94,000 
Women’s International Zionist Organization ... 23,000 
The Palestine Emergency Fund . eee ... 166,000 
The Hebrew University ... ia me ... 45,000 

Total... ... 797,000 


In addition, the Sick Fund of the General Federation of Jewish 
Labour expended £P52,500, towards which the Keren Hayesod 
eranted £P3,000. 


12. The Keren Hayesod Funds were assigned to the following 
purposes :— 


£P 

Agricultural Colonization vce the ene 
mental Station) ... ; .. 112,267 
Education... ait .. 64,741 
Investments in Land and Buildings ate .. 38,509 
Immigration and Public Works ... ane .. = 25,209 
National Communal Institutions ... wed ... 21,830 
Public Health and Sanitation _... ane fae 5 828 
Urban Colonization .. ane 2 45 
Religious and other ‘* * Mizrahi i Tnstituuons oo 1,792 
Administration and Miscellaneous oie sie. 253393 
Total... ... 818.044 


ey 


13. In the year 5691 (1931-1932) the Jewish National Fund 
acquired 9,978 dunums of rural land, which brings the area in its 
possession to 288,605 dunums. The Fund has completed the drain- 
age works in Haifa Bay, and has installed water-supply and irriga- 
tion systems in several settlements. Afforestation of hills and 
swamps was continued. The Fund has, in all, afforested 6,000 
dunums with 1,250,000 trees. 


14. The Jewish Agency carried out irrigation works at a cost 
exceeding £P20,000, which will permit the cultivation of 4,200 
dunums of grapefruits, vegetables, and forage in the plain of 
Esdraelon and in the Jordan Valley; and has constructed farm 
buildings in many colonies. 


15. The Agency has now concluded contracts with its settlers for 
repayment of colonization advances. Generally, repayment is to 
begin five years after the completion of settlement, with interest, 
for the first ten years, at 2 per cent. on the outlay. The capital, 
with that interest, is to be paid off during the 40 years following. 
For colonies in the Maritime Plain, the period of repavment is 27 


20 


years and the interest 4 per cent., but the capital debt has been 
written down by 395-45 per cent. 


16. The Women’s International Zionist Organization has main- 
tained its training farms and has opened a new farm in Ness-Zionah, 
near Jaffa, where 30 pupils are already at work. 


17. Since its establishment, the Central Bank of Co-operative 
Institutions has advanced £P1,062,000 for agricultural and credit 
purposes, and £P125,000 as long-term loans for development of 
orange-groves and establishment of auxiliary farms. 


18. Mortgage loans for construction of buildings and workers’ 


suburbs in the villages are granted by the Palestine Mortgage and 
Credit Bank. 


19. With the organization of the Jewish community, steps have 
been taken to transfer to local communities the responsibility for 
the hospitals hitherto maintained by the Hadassah Medical 


Organization at Tel-Aviv and Haifa, and for some 30 rural dis- 
pensaries. 


20. The Hadassah Medical Organization continues to supply the 
greater part of the budget for these institutions; and the Govern- 
ment makes a grant in respect of the Tel-Aviv hospital. 


21. There were 10,003 patients admitted to Hadassah hospitals 
during 1931 and 80,000 out-patients were treated in dispensaries; 
98,000 school children were under the supervision of the Hadassah 
Department of Hygiene. 


22. The Sick Fund of the Jewish Labour Federation has a mem- 
bership of 37,000 (including dependants of members). 


93, There are 22,533 children in the schools conducted by or 
affiliated with the Department of Education of the Agency. This 
figure exceeds two thirds of the number of all Jewish school children 
in Palestine. The expenditure on these schools in 5691 (1931-32) 
was £P185,072, towards which the Agency contributed £P75,720 — 
and the Government £P20,000, the balance being made up by 
tuition fees and grants of Jewish communities. 


IV._IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1. Financial stress abroad adversely affected the collection of | 
funds from Jewish sources for the settlement of immigrants i 
Palestine; opportunities for the employment of labour have con- 
sequently been less and the need to introduce additional workers 
has been small. On the other hand, the difficulty in finding satis 
factory investments for capital in other countries has induced some 
small capitalists to look towards Palestine. , 

The general tendency of such persons has, however, been to leave - 
their money behind, transferring it only when they are ready to 
turn it into land or, as in most cases, into buildings. Investment 


21 


In orange plantations has slackened, and not many new merchants 
or shopkeepers of any consequence established themselves during 
1931. 

Immigration into Palestine has on the whole remained relatively 
constant during the past five years. 5,533 immigrants, of whom 
4075 were Jews, received permission to settle in Palestine in 1931. 
The average for the previous four years is 4,920 (3,771 Jews). 


2. Steps were taken to regularize the position of a large number 
of persons in Palestine who, having originally entered as travellers, 
or without permission, had succeeded in establishing themselves 
on a reasonably sound economic basis in the country and were 
completely absorbed into its economic life. This action was con- 
sidered to be desirable on general grounds, and also in view of the 
possibility that the persons concerned would otherwise be deterred 
from registering at the Census by fear of Pereemien for the offence 
of illegal presence in the country. 

For this purpose an Order was made in the summer under the 
Immigration Ordinance, 1925, empowering the Chief Immigration 
Oficer to register as immigrants of independent means persons 
possessing a capital of less than £P1,000. The Order applied 
only to persons already in the country on the date of its publica- 
tion; and remained in force until the 3lst December. The great 
majority of those who took advantage of it were Jews. Altogether 
3.258 applications, affecting nearly 8,000 individuals, were made 
for registration and granted. 


3. Of the 5,533 immigrants registered during the year, 269 with 
338 dependants belonged to the class of capitalists with means, 
including long-term loans, amounting to £P1,000 per family and 
upwards. 1,896 with 620 dependants were members of the working 
class; 1,058 were near relatives and dependants of residents in 
Palestine ; and 507 were men and women in religious occupations, 
elderly dependants of residents abroad, orphans, and students. 
Among these classes were the following Jews :—233 capitalists with 
286 dependants; 1,603 working men and women with 569 de- 
pendants; 813 dependants on residents in Palestine; and 57 men 
and women in religious occupations, elderly dependants of residents 
abroad, orphans, and students. 

Of the Jewish working men and women 850 were authorized 
under half-yearly Labour Immigration Schedules: 200 men and 
300 women for the period from April to September and 150 men 
and 200 women for the period from October to March, 1932. The 
second Schedule was authorized to provide mainly for working- 
class relatives of residents in Palestine and Zionist refugees from 
Russia. 

The Schedules are considered by Government after the details 
have been the subject of consultation between the Director, Depart- 
ment of Immigration, and representatives of the Executive of the 
Jewish Agency at Jerusalem. 


22 


4. The iong-term loans which are in certain cases regarded as 
part of the capital of immigrants of independent means are those 
granted by responsible institutions such as the Zionist Organisa- 
tion, the Jewish National Fund or the Palestine Jewish Colonisa- 
tion Association.* 

5. 54,764 travellers and 31,617 returning residents were recorded 
as having entered Palestine during the year, and 52,790 travellers 
as having left. Among the returning residents are many 
Palestinians who emigrated to America some years ago and are 
mow compelled by industrial depression to return home. 

As recorded, 5,533 immigrants (2,293 men, 2,323 women, and 
917 chiidren) were admitted, including 4,075 Jews (1,604 men 
1,863 women, and 608 children). Among these immigrants wer 
1.580 persons who were in Palestine illegally (Jews 939, Christian: 
502, Moslems 137, Druzes 2) but received permission to remait 
permanently in.the country. 2,701 of the immigrants came fron 
Fiurope east of a line drawn from Danzig to Trieste, 1,146 fron 
North Africa and Western Asia including ‘Iraq, Persia, an 
Afghanistan, 341 from Central Europe, 382 from the United State 
of America, and 546 (including 197 British Police) from the Britist 
Empire (apart from Aden, which is included in Western Asia). 

401 prospective immigrants who failed to compiy with the Immi 
gration Regulations were refused admission. 

6. 282 Palestinian citizens (188 Jews, 88 Christians, and 5! 
Moslems) and 1,064 aliens (528 Jews, 485 Christians, and 5. 
Moslems) were recorded as having left Palestine permanently. ( 
these emigrants, 895, including 143 Jews, had settled in Palestin 
since 1920; 182 were members of the British Section of th 
Palestine Police who left the country on termination of engagement 

The figure of emigration is the lowest yet recorded. The follow 
ing table illustrates the downward trend in emigration so far 4 
new countries of emigration are concerned. Emigrants to othe 
countries are for the most part persons returning to their countric 
of origin or to Syria and Egypt. : 


Emigration. 
Latin South Africa, Australi 
Year. U.S.A. Amverica. New Zealand. | 
1929 6 724 985 295 
1930 ee 624 1,290 181 
1931 ae 272 205 34 


The census of the population of Palestine taken in Novembe 
disclosed an unrecorded emigration of not inconsiderable dimen 
sions, consisting of residents who, on leaving Palestine, declare 
their intention of returning shortly. The number of these un 
recorded emigrants during the six years ending the 3lst December 
1931, exceeds 15,000. 


* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission 
page 87 


23 
7. Forms of application for all of the services performed by the 
Department of Immigration are available in practically every town 
in Palestine; naturalization certificates are delivered wherever there 
is a District Officer and replies to personal applications are, wherever 
practicable, sent by post. An applicant need therefore appear in 
person only once at any Immigration Office. 


8. Arrangements have been completed for relieving Police Officers 
of the duties connected with the reception and transmission of 
applications, which they had hitherto carried out on behalf of the 
Department of Immigration at certain places; and the Passport 
Control work on the Northern Frontier 1 18 to be performed 1 in future 
by Customs personnel. 

9. The institution of a junction at Tiberias-Samakh by Imperial 
Airvays on the air route to India has necessitated the establish- 
ment of a new Passport Control; and the increasing overland traffic 
with Egypt has made a similar control necessary at Beersheba. 

10. Close settlement by the Jews on the land -is one of the 
subjects covered by the instructions to the Director of Develop- 
ment, see Introductory Section, paragraph 11. 


Provenance of Immigrants. 
Country of last permanent restdence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. Total. 


Europe— ; 

Austria ee as Sis Sue 41 3 — 44 
Belgium tas gus ioe — 13 3 — 16 
Bulgaria wag ee aaa ied 21 —~ =r 21 
Czechoslovakia : stad 30 7 — 37 
Danzig ets 3 _ — 3 
Denmark wae 8 l — 7 
Esthonia Pee 5 1 — 6 
Finland fee — I — 1 
France si 27 82 — 109 
Germany 122 102 — 224 
Greece 94 23 —— 117 
H wee sha ees — 29 4 — 33 
aly wee eee oes eee 8 75 = 83 
Latvia. , 61 — — 61 
Lithuania . =179 = = 179 
Malta ... — 3 — 3 
Netherlands 13 1 — 14 
Norway — 1 — 1 
Poland aee 1,667 12 — 1,679 
Portugal 4 — — 4 
r 249 © 3 — 252 

Russia é 369 2 — 371 
Spain .., I 19 — 20 
Sweden name 1 — ] 
Switzerland . 6 " 6 — 12 
United Kingdom and Irish Free State 31° 426 — 457 
Yugoslavia ... ae an a 13 2 — 15 
Total ... 2,992 778 — 3,770 


14213 B 


24 


Country of last permanent residence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. 


Aden ... veg oe sits see 84 
Afghanistan ... ave aes soe 37 
Cyprus =e ae au Sk ll 


Hedjaz eee << 
India ... ive 5 
‘Iraq ... : 113 
Persia see cas 39 
Straits Settlements .. See Sa 7 
Syria ... se ise was 28 
Trans- Jordan... ou bee or — 
Turkey =i a _ ies 54 
Yemen ee io ae ee. 209 


Total ... pie eee .-- 604 


Africa— 

Abyssinia _... as see ae 2 
Algiers sae oe ane bis 1 
Egypt... sas sats re és 63 
Morocco sis ao. 25 a l 
Nigeria eee ae mae aie —_ 
Sudan... ies — 
Tanganyika . — 
Tunis ... — 
Union of South Africa 7 
Total ... 74 
America— | 
Canada a see sae nee 21 
U.S.A. wee «= OO 

Central and South Ameri¢a— 
Argentine ... ive oe igs 9 
Brazil oe wes re a 8 
Mexico aes a 12 
Other Countries of Latin ‘America 18 


Total ... weg ous ..- 400 


Australia ee ei sae bee 10 
New Zealand ... ee ais ins — 


Unspecified ae a ao a 5 
Grand Total ... Oss .-. 4,075 


SUMMARY. 
British Empire ee Aden) ... 92 
Central Europe... eas ee eeO 
Eastern Europe nan Ses eo. 2,530 
Balkan States... EP asi oo. 128 
Other European Countries a és 78 
North Africa... 65 


Western Asia (including Turkey, ‘Iraq, 564 
Persia and Afghanistan). 

U.S.A. ... ais .. 332 

Central and South America ... aids 47 

Other Countries and Unspecified... 14 


Total... ey Soa ee 4,075 





pat 
[Sil axel al | wo 


3 
© 


toms — 
wo | ee 
~] bes AD et eet tees BD = OO 


am | 


1,245 


* Including 2 Druzes. 


| fe 6] pa 
nome l earn! | | | 


pot 
put 
=>) 


oti echins © | lelipiereeii | 


5 


Classification of Immigrants and Emigrants. 


1. By AGE AND FAMILY GROUPS. 
(a) By Age Groupe. 


Immigrants. 

















Under 18 years ... ie 714 367 1,081 
From 18 to 35 years ... | 2,375 782 3,157 
From 36 to 45 years i... 256 | 142 398 
Over 45 Sepia of se ahi 730 | 162 892 
Not stated . en ee | 5 5 
Total ... | 4,078 | 1,458 | 5,533 
(6) By Family Groups. 
ren ao fe | 2,009 | 1,045 | 3,064 | 408 520 928 
Heads of families accom- 782 127 909 88 57 145 
_ panied by their families. 
Members of families accom- | 1,284 286 1,570 | 170 . 103 273 
panying heads of families. 7 
| Total ... oo. | 4,075 1,458 5,533 666 680 1,346 
(c) Size of Families 
Families consisting a — | 
2 persons ... ae 531 53 584 44 33 77 
ae ee ee 121 98 149 25 9 34 
4, ae ibe ae 61 24 8u 6: 10 16 
J yy 37 11 48 9 4 13 
6 hy sue xs Sas 16 6 22 3 — 3 
aa and over mn 16 5 21 l l 2 
Total ... Sey 782 127 909 88 57 146 





14313 B2 


26 


2. By OccuPatIONn. 











* Including British policemen. 


Immigrants Emigrants 
7 Non- Non- 
Jews pee Total. | Jews Juae 
Agriculture 289 5 294 29 54 
Skilled Urban Tradesp— - -—-|..- .- os 
Mining and mineral Pocus l l 2 — l 
Textiles ube 40 — 40 _— — 
Chemical works 7 3 10 — — 
Wood works .. 58 1 59 13 9 
~ Metal and mechanical works 73 7 11 84 20 11 
Building i 20 3 23 9 4 
Printing 17 — 17 _— 1 
Food products and tobacco 26 15 41 3: 3 
Clothing and millinery 265 6 271 15 9 
Boot and shoe making _.... 33 6 39 ll 5 
“~ Transport and communication 10 ll 21 5 5 
Other Skilled oe: re 35 25 60 4 9 
Unskilled Labourers 560 7 | 667 124 3 
Professional— | 
eee surgeons, den- 26 10 36 2 l 
Perna senor 13 10 23 2 — 
Education ai 60 47 107 10 8 
Arta od 2 - 9 3 _ 
Other liberal professions 11 7 18 4 — 
~ Religious occupations - 28 | 249 277 20 48 
Miscellaneoun— 
Commerce (manufacturers, 207 45 252 24 55 
merchants, dealers, etc.). 
Clerical and commercial ser- 166 272 438 24 206 
’ vice, civil service.* 
Domestic and general service 41 86 127 5 25 
Students (18 years and over) 68 40 108 45 40 
| Total ... ... | 2,061 gu2 | 2,923 | | 372 497 
Persons living on income— | 
No occupation : 
.... Men sas <ne 176 12 188 13. 8 
- Women ... 429 152 581 981 47 
Individuals under 18 years... 125 146 271 20 25 
‘Members of families accom- | 1,284 | - 286 1,570 170 103 
panying heads of families. 
Grand Total 4,075 1,458 6,533 666 680 











27 





preM0} pole) 


** o SIOS0}eO Ul SUOSIed Jo syuBpuedeq *7O 
os qgueuAhojduie 0; Zura00 suosleg :O 
PoINsse SI COUBUSJUIVUL OSOYA HJUEpNyG : (TI) g 
* (8) € £1080480) ul suosied jo syuspuedeq : Zz (1) g 
wo1yedno00 SNOMT]OL Jo suosleg : (1) g 
SUOTINIIWSUI OF ZuTUIOD suUBYydIO : (I) q 
*** wy A£1030}%9 ul suosied jo syuepucdeq : ZV 
‘urd PF JO OUlOOUT WMUITUTU JO BUOSIOg : (AI) VY 
“ONsF WET} BB] 40u 
jo yeqidvo @ Jo uoIssossod ul sUvsTIzIe PoTTyg °: (IM) VW 
"009 Weyy sso] 40U Jo [vyId¥o ¥ Jo 
wih mat UI suOoIssejoid [eleqy Jo Hlequieyy :(N) V 
‘spremdn pus QOO'IF WIL suosieg :(1) V 


‘atsobaqn) 


"TSE6FE AVOX OY) ZULINP SPUVIZIUIWI] SC pelE7S]Z01 SUOSIOg JO UOISSJUIPY JO Se]I0Z0}8D 


B 8 


14213 


“puysugq Ul peyMioel ueMeotod YysIyWg 16] Surpnyouy , 





Sorl| IFI | S8T | 09F TPO, 


V (1) y Aso#azep ut suossed jo synupuedeg : Zy (1) V 
"Teer ‘4joe 
JO YIP] 04} JO JouOIsETUTMIOD YST OY} JO Jop1Q a4} 
Sq Ajyuouvuried A1yuN00 99 Ul UTBUTEI 04 pezzTULIEd 
QI9M yNq 89110Z0}80 pouoIzUCUI-0A0qe oy} JO OU UI 























= — 19 UOoIsNoUr Joy peygiyenb 40u ere oy sucBleg : Y (I) V 
« COUSTIPIO UOTeISTOTUL] 
g —sé«éiT Lg L2G eq} jO suorstAcid oy} oJy poyduloxe suoslog : Y 
9 ©6699 |: SOT L ae eulyse78q JO sUEpieal Jo syuvpusdag : q 
tr 6L3G PEF pivMtos 4qZN0Ig 
“OL 4opun 
"7090,T, "uauo | ‘Uap 
"941 | 8 
ida 91419 | ‘shog enibaes 
"9 (--UONT 





"‘pyU0OI—[ EB} IVOX OY} ZULINP SJUCIZUIWY SV pol1Ej;s{Z01 SUOSIOg JO UO[SsTUIpYW JO 8011030389 


29 
Emigration (persons recorded as leaving permanently during the 























year 1931). 
]. DESTINATION, RELIGION AND NATIONAL STATUS OF THE 
EMIGRANTS. 
Jewe. Christians. Moslems. Total. 
Destination, g g g 3 
= = @ | 8 
Pe]gssyayslals 
Ry A, A, 
Egypt... 6 as — | 19 6 | 74 
Syria is ds wee | 1 ele 1 | 29 
Other countries of North 2 — 2 15 4 43 
Africa and Weetern 
Asia. 
Poland ... — — — — — 166 
Roumania — = — — — 19 
Russia ... — 13 — —_ 13 82. 
Baltic States = == _ ete _ 16 
Balkan States —_ — — 3 — 10 
Central Europe ? ] = Sy} ee 1 | 52 
United Kingdom and 1 — — — 1 | 222 
Irish Free State.* | 
Other European Coun- 3 1 — 4 62 
tries. 
Central and South 25 57 45 y's) 127 78 
America. 
US.A. . Sa er 68 13 7 6 88 184 
South Africa, Union ... | 19 — — — 19 9 
Australia and New 2 — — — 2 4 
Zealand. 
Other Countries Il 3 2 16 14 
138 88 56 282 | 1,064 
Total 




















* Including 182 British policemen. 


2. SEX AND AGE oF EMIGRANTS. 





30 


3. NATIONAL STATUS AND PLACE OF BIRTH OF EMIGRANTS 
(INCLUDING MEMBERS OF FAMILIES ACCOMPANYING THEM). 








| Palestinians of | Palestinians by 
Ottoman Origin. | Naturalization. 


-| Born in| - Born 


Pales- | abroad. 
. tine. 
Jews ... 48 . 23 
Christians 62 22 
Moslems- - 54 Bo 
Total 164 45 
a 


_ 4, Periop oF STay IN PALESTINE. 


Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 


Uptolyear  ... sets | 104 76 180 
From 1 to 2 years es edi es abs 119 190 309 
From 2 to 3 years sah dG sae ‘ai 30 70 100 
From 3 to 4 years he aa rr bag 2 21 23 
From 4 to 5 years 27 24 51 
More than 5 years but not prior to 1 9. 1920 . 16] 71 232 
Children of persons enumerated above born in 33 | 6 (39 
Palestine. | ee 
(Total... 4. eae | 478 458 934 
Persons born in Palestine, settlers previous to 190 222 412 
1.9.1920 and children under 16 accompanying 
a them. a 
Granp Toran ws ws | 86 680 |_:1,346 





V.—LAND REGIME. 


1. A feature of the year’s operations in the Land Registry has 
been the absence of any large transactions in agricultural land, 
of which Jewish interests acquired less than in any of the past 
eleven years. 


The total area of agricultural land sold to Jews in 1931 was 
41,226 dunums; and of this area, 22,641 dunums were purchased 
from Jewish vendors. 


31 


- 2. There was an unusually large number of small transactions 
in town and suburban building plots. This is said to be due to a 
desire to secure capital against currency depreciation. Another 
factor is the Imprisonment for Debt Ordinance which, in 
circumscribing usurious activity, has the effect of leading money- 
lenders to invest their funds in real estate. 


3. 14,263 transactions in land were registered during the year 
and £P74,245 was collected in fees. | : 


4. Ninety applications under the Correction of ‘Land Registers 
Ordinance 1926 were disposed of ; 618 applications are still pending. 


5. Apart from the original entries resulting from Schedules of 
Rights deposited by Land Settlement Officers, 2,222 transactions 
were recorded in the new registers based upon settlement. The 
public shows a lively appreciation of the facility and promptness 
with which transactions can be carried out on these registers. 


6. Claims to all categories of State Domain in villages under 
settlement are submitted by the Department of Lands on behalf 
of the Government; and in disputed cases the claims of Govern- 
ment are conducted by the Department before Settlement Courts. 


7. The policy of assigning large areas of State Domain to the 
Department of Agriculture for afforestation has been continued. 
The demarcation, survey, ahd registration of State Domain pro- 
ceeded during the year; 327 such properties were leased and the 
revenue from rents amounted to £P4450.580 mils. 


Land Settlement. 


8. The staff engaged in Land Settlement and in the office of the 
Commissioner of Lands consists of 18 Administrative officers and 
43 officers in clerical] grades and a Shari’a Judge. 


9. Ghor Mudawarra Agreement, 1921.—155 claims of landless 
Bedu, preferred under Article 9 of the Agreement, were decided. 


The demarcation of p&rcels was stated in the Report for 1930 
(page 48) to have been completed, but on examination of the records 
of the Demarcation Commission, it was found that in three villages 
there were unallotted areas of cultivable land which were available 
for certain entitled transferees, for whom the minima areas under 
Article 8 of the Agreement had not been hitherto available. 


These plots were demarcated and the area was found to be 5,157 
Turkish dunums, the maximum requirement being 5,669 Turkish 
dunums. The area will be allotted in 1932. 


Land Schedules were compiled for 125 registration blocks. 


32 


At is anticipated that the work under the Agreement will be 
completed during the spring of 1932. 

Since the commencement of work under the Agreement to 31st 
December, 1981, 5,082 claims were dealt with, and land was de- 
marcated, surveved, and allotted to transferees as follows :— 


Turkish Metric 
Dunums. Dunums. 
Irrigated ass ae sa ... 121,340 111,552 
Unirrigated _... ue ues ... 185,565 124 629 








Total allotted to transferees... ou 
Land allotted to villages and tribes 
as Matruka, under Article 5 of 
the Agreement ss ae 


256 ,905 236,181 


2,227 2,047 








Total area transferred ae ... 259,132 238 ,228 
Area unallotted to transferees ... 156,286 143 ,679 








Total for the whole of Agreement 


Area ... 415 ,418 381 907 


10. General operation of Settlement.—The marked progress 
achieved in 1931 reflects the increasing proficiency and experience 
of the staff, and the absence of the disturbing factors which retarded 
operations in 1929 and 1930. 


The recording of claims and their preliminary investigation were 
completed in an area of 255,947 dunums, compared with 212,992 
dunums during the preceding thirty months. 


Final investigation, including the hearing of 430 actions, was 
completed in an area of 217,621 dunums, compared with 144,662 
dunums during the preceding period. 13,346 claims were settled 
by Settlement Officers in 1931. 


The process of Settlement had reached 57 villages by the end 
of the year. Since the commencement of Settlement operations 
approximately £P8,000 has been collected in fees. 


11. Urban Property Tax.—The Urban Property Tax Ordi 
came imto force in 1931 in Safad, Nazareth, Heareheks Jenin, 
Ramallah, Bethlehem, Bait Jala, and Hebron. The Urban Tax 
has now replaced the Ottoman House and Land (Werko) Tax in 


all towns except Haifa and Acre, and will! replace it th 
Ist April, 19382. Place 1 there on the 


The annual revision under Section 18 of the Ordinance was 
carried out in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Gaza, Ramleh, Lydda, Tulkarm 
Baisan, Tiberias, and Nablus. 





33 


During the year 19,446 parcels were surveyed and valued under 
original assessment afd revision operations; 3,164 objections were 
lodged of which 1,447 were allowed. There were 219 appeals of 
which 111 were admitted. 


Proposals are under consideration to apply the Ordinance to 
village built-on areas where the sites and buildings are of value, 
and a programme has been prepared for its application to 20 such 
villages in 1932. 

In the areas in which the Ordinance came into force this year, 
house property 1s exempt if occupied by the registered owner and 
of an annual value of not more than £P5 in Safad, Nazareth, 
Jenin, Beersheba, Hebron, and Bethlehem, and £P3 in Bait 
Jala and Ramallah. 


12. Commutation of Tithes.—The commuted tithe for a village is 
a fixed aggregate amount paid annually. It corresponds to the 
average amount of tithe that was paid by the village during 
the four years immediately preceding the application to it of 
the Ordinance. The tithe is distributed by village committees 
under official supervision on the basis of the productivity in 
cereals of the land held by individuals. The commuted tithe 
has replaced the annual estimation of crops for tithe throughout 
the country, with the exception of two villages and two tribal 
areas in the extreme south of the Beersheba Sub-District. 


The annual redistribution of the commuted tithe under Sec- 
tion 14 of the Ordinance was carried out in 1,040 villages and 76 
tribal areas and covers all the areas in which the Ordinance is 
in force. 

In addition to the remission of 30 per cent. of the commuted 
tithe of 1930 granted in July, 1930, owing to the fall in the price 
of agricultural products and a slump in the cereal market (see 
Annual Report for 1930, page 52), the following additional re- 
missions were granted during 1931 owing to the continued fall 
in the price of agricultural products and the consequent aggrava- 
tion of rural depression :— 

(i) An additional remission of 20 per cent. on the com- 
muted tithe of 1930, bringing the total remission for that 
year to 50 per cent. of the total payable in 1930; 

(ii) A remission of 50 per cent. of the commuted tithe pay- 
able in 1931; 

(iii) A special and variable remission of the balance of the 
commuted tithe of both 1930 and 1931 payable in respect of 
land of which the crops were destroved or damaged by locusts, 
field mice, or drought. 


34 


_The effect of these remissions is as follows : — 





20 per jen: of 
80 per cent. , Total 
— 1930, 50 per | Special. oor 
of 1980. cent. of 1981. . Remissions. 
| £P £P £P £P 
Commuted Tithe, 1930 74,006 50,128 9,536 183.670 
Commuted Tithe, 1931 — 123,646 26,612 150,258 





Total ane .. | £P74,006 | £P173,774 £P36,148 | £P283,928 


No remission was granted on the commuted tithe in respect of 
areas plamted with citrus trees. 


‘13. Proposals for Land Tax.—Schedules of Valuations for Land 
Tax have been prepared to date for 251 villages, in 2,313 fiscal blocks 
covering an area of 3,284,153 dunums. The total value of the land 
in these blocks, is £P9,156,245. The lands in 61 villages were 
divided into fiscal blocks, the land in each block was valued, and 
schedules of village valuations completed in 1931. In addition, field 
operations of survey amd valuation work were completed in 1931 in 
34 villages comprising an area of approximately 452,322 dunums, 
The Schedules of Valuations and the final fiscal block maps will 
be completed early in 1932. 

Im April, 1931, the Commissioner of Lands submitted his report 
on the completion of the operations which he had carried out for 
the substitution of the present Werko and Tithe taxes by a simple 
Land Tax. A Committee has been appointed by the High Com- 
missioner to consider these proposals. The Committee has visited 
some of the principal centres of Palestine in order to discuss the 
proposals in question ve representatives of the agricultural 
community 


Surveys. 
14. The present distribution of staff is as follows :— 

Office. Field. 

British officers, senior service es ae 3 3 

Palestinian officers, senior service ... _— 1 

British officers, junior service 4 — 

Palestinian clerks, and storekeeper ... 7 — 

Palestinian computers ae — re 9 — 

Palestinian draughtsmen .... oat .. 984 — 
Palestinian surveyors ... . shee a oS 70* 

Printer ... Ss ses — _ ca 1 — 

58 74 





* Includes 4 Cypriots. 


35 


Five surveyors are employed on triangulation, 16 on topo- 
cadastral survey, 36 on cadastral survey, 4 on contouring, 8 are 
attached to Land Registries, and one is attached to the Department 
of Lands. 

During part of the year four cadastral surveyors were employed 
- for Urban Assessment purposes, and two topocadastral surveyors 
00 census revision. » 

15. The health of the staff continues to be good on the whole 
There were 1,633 man-days lost through illness, of which 34 only 
_ were attributable to malana. 

16. The training of seven student-surveyors and five student- 
draughtsmen is now in progress. 

17. Progress during the year has been much facilitated by the 
increased accommodation in the new Survey building at Sarona, 
near Jaffa, which was completed at a cost of £P9,000 and occupied. 
in the first week of January. 

18. During the year three parties were employed principally on: 
‘opocadastral triangulation in the Sub-Districts of Acre, Safad,. 
Jerusalem, and Bethlehem. 

The progress for the year 18 as shown below (vide also 
Diagram I):— © 


TABLE I, 








Srd Order. Topocadastral.| 4th Order. Traverse. | Graphic.* 
ne ec Beret ee ee | 
No. of | Area | No.of | Area | No. of | Area} No. of | Length| No. of 
points.| Km?. | points.; Km’. | points.| Km?, | points. Km. points, 




















| 
13) — 1,096 | 22,700 | 179 189 988 148 1,455 
| (addi- 
; tional 
| points). 





* Controls on block boundaries. 


19. The monthly variations of water-level in the inland seas 
are shown in Diagram ITI. 


20. Surveys have been completed on the 1/10,000 scale cover- 
ing Nazareth, Jenin, part of Tiberias, and the eastern half of 
Ramleh Sub-Districts. 

One party was moved in September from Tiberias Sub-District 
to carry out a 1/10,000 survey of the Huleh basin. 

1,886,470 dunums have been surveyed during the year at an 
average freld-cost of 2.7 mils per dunum, bringing the total area 
surveyed to date on the 1/10,000 scale up to 7,408,470 dunums. ° ' 


36 


The area covered by the topocadastral survey is shown in 
Diagram I. 

21, 27 sheets were contoured on the 1/20,000 scale covering an 
area of 2,325 km’, and bringing the total up to 43 sheets, cover- 
ing an area of 3,875 km’. 

In November, contouring on 1/4,000 scale block plans was begun 
in Baisan for irrigation purposes, and 15 blocks, representing an 
area of approximately 7,750 dunums, were dealt with. 

22. The survey of the extension of the Jaffa Urban Area has 
been completed. 

23. Batsan Lands.—The parcellation schemes of Bawati, 
Ghazzawiye, and Masl el Jisl, were completed, demarcated and 
handed over to the transferees at the end of the year. 

24. 17 villages, containing 412 blocks amd covering an area 
of 149,485 dunums were completed, and 370 preliminary block 
plans, with schedules of claimants, areas, and survey fees, were 
issued to Settlement Officers. 

18 villages, containing 229 blocks with an area of 97,064 dunums, 
have been surveyed, and examination on the ground is now pro- 
ceeding. 

Survey has been taken up in 8 villages, of which 60 blocks are 
surveyed. 


The details of the 17 completed villages are shown in Table II. 


TaBLE IT. 
Details of completed Blocks. 





Average cost of surté 
per dunum.* 


a a eee (Kereta Cen 






Arab Masha’a 27 14,459 970 
Mafruz 205 | 110,874 | 10,554 

Built-on Area 26 728 2,696 

Hawakir ... 135 13,063 3,732 

Jewish ... | Mafruz 13 | 6,960| 446 
German Mafruz 6 3,401 24 
Total ... aes wan 412 | 149,485 | 18,422 






* Includes all costa except overhead charges, and reproduction. 


The progress of the Cadastral Survey is illustrated in Diagrams II 
and IV. 


Metnil#>: 
LS; 













































De ese 
iff ; 
U } Wao Paniaa 
; : 
0 'Tibnin i A 
i Op 
j ! 
SKETCH MAP j 
of ; 
vf ke Fah ‘ 
PALESTINE , dete A ? 
—— Z . fone : 33 
SCALE 1:750,000 “bh ‘ ‘ (uisr Benat Ya'akub - 
KiLOM 10g = 10 20 20 KILOM. / thy “s+. Jebel Jarmuk Ye MT H 
ee BAL IR we NG 
REFERENCE /, ‘, hi 
: | v 
International Bdries.... .cocexrense.—eemon 









RAMWAY So. ocee ce cae a A 






Metalled Roads...........W-—-—=—_—_—_——_—_— — 


Other Roads & Tracks... ._..-<---c--- 







Heights in Metre s.......cccccecccseseeeeene-.21073 








S limit of Present Cadastral Area 









4,4 


Towns surveyed for Assessment Purposes......@ 





*Athlith 





ep 


ay. Nazaret 





Progress to Dec. 318° 1931. 


Gi pv; ti, BY Atiule — 
a scent Ae ns cath a Page saan te a4 y 7 RSS eo, 
hi, Y Y | ; ira \ \ N 7 






- 
er 
- 





















CD al Wi, VL DOS. OSS y 
ITP Cwsaren 4 : . / LAMA fd , ; Loy of Reisen. ul! Jisr Sh Husein H ) 

| Surveyed. ... - ... CB , 7. y en, ty SAAS i Fs ; , i ‘ 
Topocadastral Survey ie a SNe GILLS ISA GWA, ifs | } We Kessth \ 
Published bigs fp, a7 ips Ss ine 


Limits of Areas covered by land Valuation 


NOTE Mumeipal Surveys were utilized for 
Assessment purposes in Jaffa & Tel-Aviv 





TEL AVIVA LE 


JAFFA Be 


/ A 
AL’ * 
7 - - 






32° 


; 





~ o 






) rT - 

> ' 

} Bir ez ARP, 

VIA; KEES 
: germ nere _ 















‘ 
TA a sy a. 
vA y 
‘is 
‘ 


Jericho 






— ‘Ain Karem G7 | 

PFA pa SA IIERUSALEM 
LAP EL A ogee pata 

LX ELN Lg git 1 Bethichem bp 


Oe, x -———— = ew 3 Var y 


bee 
t ses f 
“-, 7 ff 
4 Par, 
CFO L9 
. 






Medabe 








a 
- 
oe” 









: ; 
: ; 
(Beit Jibrin, 
~ (4 - 












~ 
Po ok 
iy 
ee 
aon wales ———o ~ 
-——— hon ~ - — —_-— ee Oe 


y 
- 
-- 
-— 


J. 
Au 
x 
W 


fi ee 


- 


Beersheba ~~~_____ 


—_—o 
~ 
~ 





/ 


a kl nee Tee ie 





°458 








\, +337 





35° Survey of Palestine, Jatta.193' 36° 





Digitzedlby Google 





33 














a 


Metulla~ 
Yt). 
/ r i 













j |, Banias 
; j 
f 
Orimin jf {Le 
| aad . 
j ! 
i 
i 





SKETCH MAP 


~ 
































of = 
Take Pi oN x 
FRE ee 
AT Et EE OFT TEETER eo 1 
‘ { We ? “6 i 3 
SCALE 1:750,000 . ‘ disr Benat Ya’akub ie 
oat : ~s~. Jebel Jarmuk 
KILOM.10 5 0 10 20 30 KILOM. ‘ N - *< 
21 / \ 1073 yo"? ve \ 904 
REFERENCE i) \ 
Bes at, PO aes i 
ee ee, eee 0 IS as Vg aes 1 
International Bdries.......... eet on tae panteeric ' 
\ 
RM WAYS cin ccerrccanagetpssccotens cae \ ae U 
7 o -~ *} sf | 
Metalled Roads resect siveeetsees ——————————— HA ! a 
Cape Carmel zo | me 
Other Roads & Tracks........-----~----- = ~ \ 
Heights 17 Metre.i.e...secccccccceceseseeseee- ...21073 \ iberi a 
S. Limit of Present Cadastral Area. .ccccc.ccesees ; : ia N ei 
's 
Towns surveyed for Assessment Purposes......@ ‘athlith 4 wo aN 
AS ; 
os 








Caesarea A | : i Jisr Sh.Husein : 
2 \ ' 
i s 
}; W. Kassih H ‘ 
P e st pe i 1 
rogress to Dee. 31% 1931 1088; ; 
a / 
Uf 7 mex / 
Surveyed. mine Sah i conse * Y, ‘Ajluno” = / 
: / 
Cadastref Survey -330 / » H 
i <= ‘ 
CT 11 CY) en rere eee aes f ~-O Jerash 
| Be 
a ye 





Limits of Areas covered by Land Valuation ... om a= a= 
Ww Lerka 


oo 









NOTE. Municipal Surveys were utilized for 
Assessment purposes in Jaffa & Tel-Aviv 








Sh eS Apo $ 
TEL AVIV 5 Seco aie 
JAFFA f2 ~ CAN A cee |) 
nN S' | 
j Ys i wee 
PA i Bir ez RRO. 


-“=s 
Po tape 


- 

-~ 
as 

7 Oe eres S 





«eee 8 
i: “Tug JERUSALEM 
; — — 3 ttt ala, 
Bitte? Des x Bethlehem 










. 
Tee 






Beit Jibrin i Peco 










- 
- ‘\ 
ia oan ene O x 
atte Soi . 
f 
: 
Pa i 
7 j 
4 : ¥ 
wee 8 1 - ~~ 
a . . ' 
” i ‘ Pr H b 
ia x 
4 : ie c ron 
* 
: °*952 


S) 
9 
% 







~ 
‘ 
Vg STE SE” | 
pry 


- 
nee 
- 





me, 
—oe 
nt oe, ay 


Beersheba ~~~____ - 


~ eS 
_—— 
ow ow anwar” 








‘; 
\, 
\ 
\, 
EGYPT * 
. - \, 
(Sinai) ‘ 
‘, 
133 N, 
3 . 
\ 
. °337 
Si | z 
% MAP/82 35° Survey oF Palestine, Jaffa 19F' 36 


bighized by Google 





Il WVaOVIG 


37 
Maps, Plans, etc. 


25. The progress of publication of the 1/20,000 scale topo- 
cadastral series in 3 colours is shown in Diagram I, and covers 
issues during the year of the undermentioned 15 sheets :— 


10/11 Ashkelon. 10/10 Bait Hanun. 
11/11 El Majdal 11/10 Bureir. 

12/11 El Faluja. 8/9 Deir el Balah. 
9/10 Gaza. 8/8 Khan Yunis. 
9/9 Wadi Ghazza. 9/8 Abasan. 

10/9 Khirbat el Mashrafa. 7/7 Rafah. 

11/9 Kofakha. 8/7 Khirbat el] Adas. 


7/8 Tall Rafah. 


The 32 sheets published to date cover the Maritime Plain from 
Rafa to Tulkarm. 

The Jaffa-Tel-Aviv 1/10,000 scale map mentioned in the Report 
for 1930 has been contoured, and is now issued in black and brown. 

A 1/10,000 scale town map of Gaza and environs in 2 colours 
has also been published. 

The 1/125,000 scale map of Palestine was revised, re-drawn, 
and printed. 

Maps, plans, and graphs of various kinds were prepared and 
printed for Departments of Government and for His Majesty’s 
Forces in Palestine. 


26. The supervision of area-computations and printing of village 
plans were continued throughout the year for the Trans-Jordan 
Survey. 


27. 155 block plans, covering the towns of Beersheba, Jenin, 
Safad, Nazareth, Acre, Haifa, and the Jaffa Extension, were drawn 
during the year, and five copies of each were printed and dis- 
tributed. 

274 block plans were received for revision, of which 138 have 
been dealt with. 


28. 1,108 plans for Registration purposes, covering an area of 
73,785 dunums, were checked during the year. These include 
692 plans, covering an area of 63,023 dunums, prepared by private 
licensed surveyors. 

The ‘otal cost of this service, inclusive of that of the computers 
and Land Registry surveyors and that involved in the various 
duties in connexion with State Domain and in other work for 
the Land Registry amounted to £P2,824; the return in survey fees 
was £22,037. 


29. 27,025 zincographed prints, 4,162 ordoverax prints, and 
5,724 sun-prints were produced during the year. Of these, 13,648 
Were issued to various Government Departments. 

Sales to the public realized £P570. 


38 


DIAGRAM III. 


bEGE “SAG EEL “gd JO '§ 





v3S av3a 


~ * 
2 Ss 
= 





SVINAGIL 3XVI garages 


‘STUART FNVT AO SNOILVIYVA 


CADASTRAL SURVEY. 
PROGRESS OF REGISTRATION. 


BLOCK PLANS, 1981. 


39 


DIAGRAM IV. 
a s.— Gt 
$3 ses FS FFF & FRx yess 
$ 









Oct. 


| 
at 


aa 


Sept. 






Aug. 





















iN . 
3 
\\ 

= v 
i NY 
Ni - 
i) 
+ <\ ~ 2 
: 3 
| . 
2 
on 
4 3 3 | ; 
AS i tw} N ny sg § 
‘I FS i <. 
g 
; Q 
S 

538 § 8 § g 8 g 8 

2 * ~ nN ~ ~ ~ 


40 


VI.—_ NATIONALITY. 


1. Reference is invited to paragraphs 1-4 on page 58 of the 
Annual Report for 1930. 


2. The proposed amendment of the Palestine Citizenship Order 
in Council, 1930, referred to in paragraph 6 on that page. was 
duly effected during 1931. The text of the amending Order is 
reproduced in Appendix II to this Report. 


3. Of the 17,477 individuals and families, representing about 
27,000 souls, who have acquired Palestinian citizenship under 
Articles 5, 7, and 9 of the Order in Council, nearly 95 per cent. are 
Jews. 


4. 1,167 applications for naturalization were made under Article 7 
of the Order in Council during the year under review. 256 certifi- 
cates of citizenship were granted under Article 5 and 1,200 certifi- 
cates of naturalization under Article 7. In addition two 
certificates were granted under Article 9 (2) to minors unable to 
comply with the terms of the Order. Nine applications under 
Article 5 and 32 applications under Article 7 were rejected. 
Twenty-four certificates granted under Article 5 and nine granted 
under Article 7 were revoked, in most cases on the ground that the 
recipients had settled abroad and severed their connexion with 
Palestine. 

5. Of the 1,458 persons whose applications for Palestine citizen- 
ship were granted, 1,394 were Jews. Of these Jews, 1,230 had 
settled in Palestine subsequent to July, 1920. With the 1,458 appli- 
cants, 1,262 members of their families, including 1,171 Jews, also 
acquired Palestinian citizenship. 


6. 6,161 Palestine passports, 839 Identity and Travelling Docu- 
ments, 5,845 visas and 1,159 endorsements were issued during the 
year, and 1,069 passports renewed. 


7. In accordance with the recommendations of the Third General 
Conference on Communications and Transit, new forms of travel 
documents were introduced in the course of the year for issue to (a) 
persons without nationality or of doubtful nationality and (b) persons 
who possess a definite nationality but are unable to obtain national 
passports in Palestine for the reason that there is no accredited 
consular representative of the country to which they belong. These 
documents have taken the place of the Documents of Identity pre- 
viously issued to members of both these classes. 


8. 298 changes of name were registered in the course of the year. 


Citizenship and Naturalization Statistics. 
A. Applications Accepted. 


Article 7 1,163 
Article 7 (5) bot seis she da ae 4 
Article 9 (2) tag — as i ae 2 


oe 


1,169 


— 


41 


B. Certificates Granted. 


Article 5 ss a ie on ie i 256 
Article 7 7 sels ibe Jas do Ne 1,198 
Article 7 (5) aig Tes a ie ee 2 
Article 9(2) fs o ae ae ae ys 

1,458 


C. Applications Refused. 


Article 5 sas and cok a mh ele 9 
Article 7 ae Mic sae ae ae ve 32 
"41 


D. Certificates Unclatmed on the 31st of December. 


Article 2 eins ish bee — oe sae 110 
Article 4 hid es ee ane bs bie 2 
Article 5 se he des is ia — 309 
Article 7 ne oe ss ig oe i 525 
Article 9 (2) aut Sais ee “i ig 1 

947 


E. Certificates Revoked. 


Article 5 vas wd ee ee ans bas 24 
Article 7 oe bee sa aise yt - 9 
33 


CLASSIFICATION OF PERSONS ENUMERATED UNDER “‘ B’’. 
F. By Class and Family Groups. 


1. Number of persons receiving Citizenship and Naturalization 
Certificates (individuals and heads of families) :— 


Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 


Resident prior to July, 1920 ... 164 42 206 
Settlers subsequent to June, 
1920... ae sit ... 1,230 22 1,252 


Total ae es .. 1,894 64 1,458 








42 


2. Number of additional persons included in Citizenship and 
Naturalization Certificates (members of families) :— 
Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 














Families of Residents ... way 221 57 278 
Families of Settlers ... os 950 34 984 
Total ... = _ .. 1,171 91 1,262 
3. Total number of Persons. 
Residents and their families ... 484 
Settlers and their families ... 2,236 
| . Jews 2 ,o6d 
Total 2,720 [eco ce 155 
G. By Previous Nationality. 
Jews. Non-Jews. 
American (United States) eds se 5 — 
Argentinian she ee. “ole. athe 1 — 
Austrian oe Sake, thee = ee. ee: | — 
Austro-Hungarian a mic mas ee — 
British tue ac See Hee, 66h a. 266 re) 1 
Bulgarian ... ss ve a is ee Lo) — 
Czechoslovakian 2 — 
Dominican — 1 
Egyptian 1 17 
Esthonian ... 1 — 
French (Algiers) 1 — 
German 1 = 
Greek 9 6 
Hungarian 4 — 
‘Traqi 16 — 
Latvian 20 —_ 
Lebanese — 1 
Lithuanian 60 — 
Moroccan ... 2 1 
Persian oe sii te a .. 16 4 
Polish ace Bat sod me sua ... 494 — 
Roumanian set cae ace : 97 — 
Russian a a ar oe . 537 3 
Spanish... ee | aa ar ae eats 6 — 
Sudanese... — ve he ae . oo 1 
Syrian oe toe ee ee a as 2 8 
Turkish... ae ae aie sod .. 4 18 
Yugoslav... bas as ve ae a 2 — 
Undefined ... ae sie ae ae .. 50 - 3: 
Total ... sie ae ae sat 1,394 64 
od 


1,458 


43 
VII.— JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 
Legislation. 


1. The most important Ordinances enacted during the year are 
the following :— 


(1) THE IMPRISONMENT FOR DEBT ORDINANCE. 


The Ottoman Law provided that a debtor could be imprisoned 
more than once for the same debt and that the period of im- 
prisonment should not exceed 91 days. The law was oppressive 
and led to congestion of the gaols and to abuses on the part of 
creditors. The new law provides that, as a general rule, proof of 
means to pay is essential before imprisonment can be ordered, that 
the period of imprisonment shall not, except as provided, exceed 
21 days and that a debtor shall not be imprisoned twice for the 
same debt. | 


(2) THE CENSUS ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinance provides for the taking from time to time of a 
census and for otherwise obtaining statistical information regard- 
ing the population. 


(8) THR PROTECTION OF CULTIVATORS (AMENDMENT) 
ORDINANCE, 1931. 


This Ordinance amends the Protection of Cultivators Ordinance, 
1930, and provides for the better protection of tenants and 
occupants of agricultural land. 


2. Orders in Council.—The Orders in Council passed during the 
year consisted of the Palestine Wailing Wall Order in Council and 
the Palestine Citizenship (Amendment) Order in Council, the texts 
4 which are given in Appendices I and II respectively to this 

eport. 


3. Advocates.—Seventeen persons were admitted as advocates 
before the Civil Courts during the year. Of these, 14 were graduates 
of the Government Law Classes and two were foreign advocates who 
had passed the special examination for such advocates that is held 
annually. One licence was granted to a retired Judge without 
examination. 

Twenty-one advocates were reported to the Chief Justice for 
disgraceful, fraudulent, or unprofessional conduct under Section 15 
of the Advocates Ordinance, 1922. In four cases the charges were 
sufficiently substantiated to justify the convening of Courts of Dis- 
cipline, with the result that one advocate was warned and repri- 
manded and ordered to refund to his clients the sum of £P200, a 
second was reprimanded, and a third suspended for a period of three 
months. 


44 


4. Law Ciasses.—The number of students enrolled in the Law - 
Classes for the session 1931-32 is 91. 


5. The following tables show the admissions to the Palestine Bar ~ 
prior and subsequent to July, 1922, when the Advocates Ordinance 
was enacted, and the number of persons licensed to practise in the - 
year 1931.* 


Jews Non-Jews - 

Admitted prior to July, 1922 ... .. 38 85 

Admitted during period July, 1922- 
December, 1931: 

Foreign Advocates ... a («AT 12 

Local Inhabitants... oe .. 80 36 

Total ... —... 165 133 

Advocates licensed to practise in 1931 .... 137 93 





While it is not correct to assume that Jewish advocates are 
instructed only by Jews and non-Jewish advocates by non-Jews, . 
the statistics given above appear to indicate that the increase in the ~ 
number of advocates is due to the increase of the Jewish population — 
and to the fact that the Jewish community is highly organized. _ 

By article 46 of the Palestine Order-in-Council, 1922, the jurisdic- 
tion of the Civil Courts is exercised in accordance with the Ottoman 
Law in force in Palestine on 1st November, 1914, and such later 
Ottoman Laws as have been or may be declared to be in force by > 
Public Notice, and such Orders in Council, Ordinances, and Regula- . 
tions as are in force in Palestine at the date of the commencement — 
of the said Order or may thereafter be applied or enacted; and 
subject thereto and so far as the same shall not extend or apply. 
shall be exercised in conformity with the substance of the common | 
law, and the doctrines of equity in force in England and with the | 
powers vested in and according to the procedure and practice 
observed by or before Courts of Justice and Justices of the Peace 
in England according to their respective jurisdictions and authorities | 
at that date, save in so far as the said powers, procedure, and 
practice may have been or may hereafter be modified, amended, or — 
replaced by any other provisions. Provided always that the said — 
common law and doctrines of equity shall be in force in Palestine 
so far only as the circumstances of Palestine and its inhabitants 
and the limits of His Majesty’s jurisdiction permit and subject to— 
such qualification as local circumstances render necessary. 

Before obtaining a licence to practise before the Civil Courts. 
an applicant must in accordance with Section 7 of the Advocates 


* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandate Commission, 
page 94. 


45 


Ordinance, 1922, satisfy the Legal Board that he is adequately 
qualified by examination as to his knowledge of law to practise as 
an Advocate in Palestine. An applicant for a licence to practise 
before the Moslem Religious Courts must satisfy the Legal Board 
that :— 


(a) he is adequately qualified by examination as to his know- 
ledge of Moslem law to practise before the Moslem Religious 
Courts ; 


(b) he is certified by the Supreme Shari’a Council to be a 
person qualified to practise by his knowledge of Moslem law. 


6. Companies.—Twenty-seven new Palestinian companies were 
registered and nine foreign companies. The principal Palestinian 
companies were the Palestine Grape Fruit and Orange Company, 
the Yovne Citrus Growers, the Jaffa Investment Company, the 
King Solomon Bank, and the Eretz Israel Jewish Agricultural 
Trust. 

Among the foreign companies registered were the ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company, the National Fire Insurance and Helvetia Fire Insurance 
Companies, the British Trust Association, and Belpetrole (Egypt). 

The total number of companies now registered is 342, of which 
110 are foreign. 

Nine Palestinian companies were in compulsory liquidation in 
1931 ; two liquidations were concluded. 


7. Co-operative Societies.—Forty-six new co-operative societies 
were registered, of which thirteen were agricultural societies, seven 
building societies, seven loan and saving societies, five transport 
societies, five consumers’ and producers’ societies, three insurance 
societies, and six were other forms of societies. 

The Registrar cancelled the registration of three societies on 
account of bankruptcy. 

The total number of co-operative societies now registered is 355. 

By a judgment of the Court given in a test case, all co-operative 
societies in liquidation now fall under the jurisdiction of the Courts 
and the Official Receiver of Companies. The Official Receiver was 
instrumental in two cases in causing the public examination of 
officers of concerns in liquidation with a view to criminal prosecution 
for misfeasance. 


8. Trade Marks.—193 applications were received for registration 
of trade marks and £P1,350 was taken in fees. 

The increase in local applications reflects the improved business 
methods in Palestine and indicates that local manufacturers and 
firms are gradually beginning to realize the importance of trade 
- marks in the promotion of their trade. 


9. Patents.—Forty-five patent applications, many from local 
residents, were filed, and £P320 collected in fees. 


46 


Judicial. 


10. Orders made by the High Commissioner and ails made by 
the Chief Justice during the year will be found in the annual volume 
of subsidiary legislation, copies of which have been sent a the 
Permanent Mandates Commission. 


11. Municipal Courts exist in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Gaza, Tel-Aviv, 
and Acre; at Jerusalem and Jaffa under the presidency of a Stipen- 
diary Magistrate; at Gaza, Tel-Aviv and Acre, of an Honorary 
Magistrate. | 


10,967 cases were entered, and 11,664 decided. 


12. Magistrates’ Courts.—The number of civil cases entered in 
Magistrates’ Courts was approximately 65,000. 

About 1,450 were pending at the end of the year. 

On the criminal side, 24,516 cases were entered, which is approxi- 
mately the same as last year, and 25,312 were decided. There were 
539 pending at the end of the year. The criminal lists at Bethlehem 
and Baisan, and the civil list at Ramleh, are particularly heavy. 


13. District Courts.—4,658 cases were entered in the District 
Courts during the year and 4 ,679 were decided; 839 cases were 
pending at the end of the year. 


14. Land Courts.—566 cases were entered in the Land Courts 
and 493 decided ; 646 cases were, however, pending at the end of 
the year. 


15. Supreme Court.—193 civil appeals were entered and 304 were 
decided during the year. 

The arrears in civil cases, which had grown up at the end of 1930 
owing to the accumulation of criminal cases arising from the 1929 
disorders, have been wiped off. 

There was a considerable drop in the number of criminal appeals, 
the number entered, 172, being the lowest yet recorded ; 201 cases 
were decided and only eight were pending at the end of the year. 

The progressive reduction in criminal cases is no doubt due to the 
abolition by the Trial Upon Information (Amendment) Ordinance, 
1929, of the provision by which an automatic appeal lay from everv 
sentence of not less than five years’ penal servitude and by which a 
right of appeal lay from every sentence of imprisonment exceeding 
six montks or a fine exceeding £P100. A might of appeal is now 
given only from sentences of imprisonment exceeding twelve months 
or fines exceeding £P100; and there is an automatic appeal only 
from death sentences. The prosecution of frivolous and fruitless 
appeals, which occupied a great deal of the time of the Supreme > 
Court, is thus prevented. 


16. Court of Criminal Assize.—EHighty-six persons Were tried on 
charges involving the capital penalty ; 10 were sentenced to death, 25 
to imprisonment, and 51 were acquitted. 


47 


Seven death sentences were confirmed by the Court of Criminal 
Appeal, two were reduced to 15 years’ penal servitude and one was 
quashed. The High Commissioner commuted the death sentences 
in two cases to penal servitude for life. 


Three death sentences passed by the Court of Criminal Assize in 
1930 were confirmed by the Court of Appeal during this year; and 
im one of these cases, also, the High Commissioner exercised his 
prerogative of mercy. 


Fifty other cases were decided by the Court of Criminal ne in 
the course of 1931. 


17. High Court.—Seventy-eight petitions were entered in the 
High Court, and eighty-four were decided. 


The policy is to dispose of High Court applications with the least 
possible delay, priority being given, if possible, over ordinary civil 
suits. 


The petitions entered in 1931 may be classified as follows :— 


(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus pro- 
ceedings under sub-section (1) of section 6 


of the Courts Ordinance, 1924 ke Nil 

(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) in Execution 
matters ... o4 

(3) Other petitions under sub- section (2) for orders 
directed to public bodies or public officers ... 18 

(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for change of 
venue... 3 
(5) Petitions under the Contempt of Court Ordinance Nil 
(6) Not coming within the above heads _.... ine 1 
76 


18. Special Tribunal.—One case was entered in 1931 and one 
was decided. 


19. In July, Mr. C. A. Hooper was appointed President of the 
Land Court of Jaffa and subsequently seconded to Trans-Jordan in 
the capacity of Judicial Adviser in succession to Judge C. R. W. 
Seton, who resumed his duties as President of a District Court. 


Judge R. Copland assisted the Law Officers for a considerable part 
of the year, and Judge A. H. Webb was seconded to act as legal 
assessor in connexion with the preparation of the register of dis- 
placed Arabs. 


Mr. P. E. F. Cressall assumed duty as British Magistrate in 
Jerusalem in June, 1931. 


48 


Religious Communities. 


20. An account was given on pages 69-71 of the Report for 1930 
of the Religious Courts exercising jurisdiction in Palestine, their 
distribution, composition, the codes they apply and the rates and 
fees which they charge to litigants. 


There is nothing of a general character to add to that account. 
The following are particulars of the activities of the various Courts 
during 1931 :— 


(1) Moslem Community.—4,179 cases were entered and 
4,131 were decided ; 6,171 marriage certificates were granted 
and 996 decrees of divorce were made. The revenue from fees — 
was £P4,500. 


(2) Jewish Community.—248 cases were Leard by the Chief 
Rabbinical Court of the Jewish Community during 1931, of 
which 120 concerned matters of personal status, 60 concerned — 
matters of guardianship, and 20 were arbitrations. 

The Court at Tel-Aviv heard 394 cases, mainly of personal 
status, succession and guardianship, and that at Petah-Tiqva 
heard 155 cases. 


(3) Maronite Community.—Twenty-eight cases were entered 
in the Religious Court of the Community during 1931, of which 
ten were of a matrimonial character, nine testamentary, and 
the remainder concerned matters of guardianship and religious — 
endowments. 


(4) Greek Catholic Community.—T wo cases of alimony and 
one of maintenance were heard, and five cases concerning wills. 


(5) Greek Catholic (Melkite) Community, Northern District. — 
—There are Courts of First Instance which sit in the towns of 
Acre, Haifa, Nazareth, Tiberias, and Safad, and a Court of | 
Appeal wkich sits in Haifa. 

The Courts of First Instance heard 119 cases during the year, 
of which 31 dealt with matters of succession and 9 with matri- | 
monial affairs. 
-- The Court of Appeal heard 15 cases, of which 10 dealt with © 
matrimonial affairs, 2 were concerned with wills and 4 with 
the appointment of guardians for minors. 


(6) Greek Orthodox Community.—351 cases were entered in 
the Religious Courts of First Instance of this Community at 
Jerusalem, Acre, Haifa, Jaffa, Nazarett, and Gaza during 
1931; and seven cases in the Court of Appeal at Jerusalem. 
145 cases concerned marriage and divorce, 128 concerned in- 
heritance and wills, 42 concerned questions of guardianship, 
succession, and adoption, 30 concerned changes of religion, and 
one dealt with a chantable trust. 


49 


(7) Synan Orthodox Community.—There is only one Re- 
ligious Court for this Community ; it sits at Jerusalem, and con- 
sists of the Bishop of the Community and two priests. No 
advocates appear before the Court, and no fees are collected. 
Thirteen cases were heard in 1931 concerning inheritance, 
maintenance, and divorce. 


(8) Armentan Catholic Community.—No cases were Leard in 
1931. 


(9) Armenian Community.—Three cases concerning succes- 
sion and guardianship were heard, and seven concerning 
divorce. 


(10) Latin Communtty.—Eight matrimonial suits were heard 
during the year; fourteen cases concerning the guardianship 
of minors; and thirty-seven transactions with regard to wills 
were carried out. 


21. Wagqfs.—The administration and control of Moslem Waafs is 


one of the functions of the Supreme Moslem Council. Information 
in regard to the constitution and organization of this Council will 


be found on pages 100 and 101 of the Annual Report for 1926.* 


22. Information in regard to the extradition agreements made 


between the Mandatory and other foreign powers is given in 
parts I (A) and II (B) of Section ATI of this Report. 


Cases decided in the Year 1931, 
Including Appeals in all Courts of Palestine other than Religious Courts. 


Courts. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
Supreme Court... aoe oe 304 201 505 
High Court sis Des 84 — 84 
Court of Criminal Assize — 50 50 
Special Tribunal 1 — 1 
District Courts 2,289 2,390 4,679 
Land Courts ag 493 — 493 
Magistrates’ Courts 65,240 25,312 90,552 
Municipal Courts — 11,664 11,664 
Persons charged before “Magis- — 17,637 17,637 
trates holding special warrants. 

Total 68,411 57,254 125,665 

1930 66,940 51,677 118,617 

Increase ... 1,471 5,577 7,048 





* Colonial No. 26. 


























50 


Cases pending, entered and decided during 1981. 














‘Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.31. during during $1.12.81. 
year. year. 

SupREME Court 307 366 505 168 
Hicu Court 25 78 84 19 
Court OF CRIMINAL ASSIZE 24 38 * 60 12 
SpPeEcIAL TRIBUNAL... 1 1 1] 1 
District Court.—Civil ... 515 2.401 2.289 627 
Criminal 345 2,257 2,390 212 
Total 860 4,658 4,679 839 
Lanp Cotvrts 573 566 493 646 
Macistrates’ Courts.—Civil _... 1,796 64,873 65,240 1,429 
Criminal 1,335 24,516 25,312 539 
Total ... 3.131 89,389 90,552 1,968 
MounicrpaL Courts 834. 10,967 11,664 137 


Revenue of all Courts in Palestine other than Religious Courts, 1931. 

















Supreme District Magistrates’ Land Municipal 
Month. Court. Courts. Courts. Courts. Courts. 
| £P.mils. £P. mils. £P. mils. £P.mils. LP. mils. 
January 86-715 2,843-208 3,833 +283 183 +285 140-750 
February ... 93-790 2,629:613 3,621-233 115-878 151-700 
March 83°610 3,377°801 4,316-776 190-268 216-120 
April 93-070 2,482:595 3,325: 381 196-145 136 -090 
May 114-450 2,955 +528 4,103-776 108-500 218-780 
June 310-550 2,891-420 4,311-118 163-856 255-170 
July 62-100 3,081-561 4,254-929 249-050 273-410 
August 55-140 1,682:971 1,925: 485 177°615 153-640 
September "57-890 1,969: 160 3,802 - 329 135-716 193-450 
October. ... 94-620 2,282-126 4,415-475. 211-055 191-505 
November... 96-085 2,475-745 3,745: 989 140-485 261-150 
Decemher ... 99-480 2,675-650 3,486 -893 - 210-865 313-060 
Total 1,247°-500 31,347°378  45,142-667. 2,082-717 2,504-825 
Advocates’ 32-000 411-400 4,409: 483 46-500 — 
Procura- 
tion Fees. 
Grand Total 1,279°500 31,758°778  49,552-150 2,129-°217 2,504-825 
ToTaLs :— £P. mils. 
Revenue ae ahs we ' 82,325-087 
Advocates’ procuration fees 4,899-383 
Advocates’ licence fees yas 508-000 
Advocates’ annual practising fees 1,307 +500 
Fees on registration of clerks under 
service in an advocate’s office 54-000 
GRAND TorTAL 89,093 -970 


51 


Statement of Total Revenue and Expenditure of all Courts in 
Palestine other than Religious Courts, and number of cases 


decided in each year. 


Expenditure. 

















| Total Hd re of IN Cases decided 
Year. | Revenue. Pers BE rpendi-| ve we og | 4 0. of shhh ok ec 
| ersonal Other cave | Oven Kx- in each year. 
| Emolu- Char penditure. 
: LaTgd es. 
| ments. 
cr. | £P. £P. £P. LP. 
1922* | 54,325 42,229 4,240 46,462 7,863 1922 43,087 
1923* 58,343 | 42 282 4,844 17 126 11,217 1923 60,478 
1924" | 68,511 | 43,127 2.899 46 026 22 485 1924 70,645 
1925" | 77919 | 46087 3,123 49 210 28,709 1925 80,545 
1926" | 90,510 47,184 3,905 51,089 39,421 1926 98,220 
1927+ 67,875 38,297 3,523 41.820 26.055 1927 109,104 
19287 91,087 | 53,299 5,470 58,769 32.318 1928 109,346 
1929 85,867 54.605 5.275 59.880 25,987 1929 114,287 
19307 90,848 55,490 5,834 61,324 99 524 1930 118,605 
19317 89,093 60,297 6,328 66,626 22,467 192] 125,665 
Th aE TA [aA ae } Sewer as 
fotal | | | 
£P\ 774,378 | 482,890 45,441 528,332 | 246,046 | Cases:—! 929,982 
. The financial year was from lst April to 3lst March. 
+ Figures for lst April to 3lst December. 
¢ The financial year was from Ist January to 3lst December. 
x .B.—The revenue includes (1) Court fees, (2) fines, (3) Advocates’ procuration 
ees, (4) Advocates’ licence fees, (5) Advocates’ annual practising fees, and (6) fees on 


egistration of clerks under service in Advocates’ offices. 


VIII.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


1. Reference is invited generally to the corresponding Section of 
the Report for 1930, pages 74 to 76. 


Concessions. 

2. As stated in paragraph 31 of the Introductory Section of this 
Report, the Agreement relating to the Tiberias Baths Concession 
has lapsed. Apart from this there is no change to record in the 
list as given on pages 226 to 230 of the Annual Report for 1930. 

The latest balance sheets of the Palestine Electric Corporation, 
the Jaffa Electric Company, and the Jerusalem Electric and Public 
Services Corporation, the Palestine Potash Limited, and figures of 
the receipts of the Lighthouse Company, are printed in Appendix 
III to this Report. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES. 

1. As stated in paragraph 43 of the Introductory Section of 
this Report, the findings of the Wailing Wall Commission were 
accepted and brought into force by means of the Wailing Wall 
Order-in-Council (Appendix I to this Report). 


2. Some repairs to various Christian Holy Sites were effected or 
begun in 1931. It is usually possible to arrange for the three 
Principal Christian communities to co-operate in such matters on 


52 


the basis of equal division of the cost of the work. A few differences 
arose in regard to the improvements carried out, but were composed 
without much difficulty. In general, there appears to be an in- 
’ creasing tendency on the part of the Christian communities to 
co-operate with each other and with Government for the mainten- 
ance of the Holy Sites. 
3. The International Conventions and Commercial Treaties to 
which Palestine has adhered are set out in Section XII of this 
Report. 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


1. Reference is invited to pages 77 and 78 of the Annual Report 
for 1930. 

2. Reference is also invited to the provisions of the Wailing 
Wall Order-in-Council (Appendix I to this Report). 

8. The draft of the new Education Ordinance referred to on 
page 78 of the Report for 1930 will be published early in 1932. 


XI.— MILITARY CLAUSES. 


Police and Prisons. 


1. The estimated cost of the Palestine Police in 19381 was 
£P466,000. The strength on the 3lst December, 1931, was as 
under :— 


Officers and Inspectors. Other Ranks. 
Chris- Chris- SZ 3 
—- tans. trans. = Ss. 
} . | E 34 
3 3 3 5 33 
3S e« = ao} ; Ss = 
2 8 g 2 << 6: ge 2 S$ 6S 
z 6 § S 5 3 ; 6§ 8 33 
? s 3 $ 3 3 c S = . 3 
Sa_aes eS AQ Ss 8 & & 
District 47 19 42 200 1 1283 — 224 917 28 $8 1,392 1,521 
Police 
British Police 3 — — — — 3 645 — — — — 645 648 
Prisons and 8 1 5% 2 — 166— 42 178 16— 236 282 
Jail Labour 
Companies 
Municipal — — 41] 1 2— 29 224 s9 — 342 344 
Police 
Total ... 58 20 48 23 1 150 645 295 1,319 253 3 2,615 2,765 


Mr. A. S. Mavrogordato, O.B.E., Commandant of Police and 
Prisons, was appointed to the command of the Trinidad Con- 
stabulary in May. He was succeeded by Mr. R. G. B. Spicer, 
M.C., formerly Commissioner of Police, Kenya. 

The health of the Force hag been uniformly good throughout the 
year. 


53 


2. Proficiency Pay E.camination.—During the year. one 
hundred and ninety-nine Palestinian constables and forty-nine of 
the Prisons staff sat for the proficiency pay examination; twenty- 
two qualified. 


3. Police Training School_—Two hundred and twenty-one 
recruits passed through the training courses, but fifteen of them 
were discharged as unlikely to become efficient policemen. 

Ten Inspectors and seventeen non-commissioned officers attended 
refresher and promotional courses at the School; and a corporal 
and twelve constables were trained in farriery and veterinary first 
ald. 

4. Colloquial examinations in Arabic and Hebrew have been in- . 
troduced for British personnel qualifying for promotion. Nine’ 
members of the British Section, including District Police Officers, 
passed in Arabic, out of twenty-nine candidates. 


5. Wireless Telegraphy.—Eight permanent wireless-telegraphy 
stations are now maintained by the Police Force and twenty-four 
fully-trained operators are employed for the purpose. 


6. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners has been uniformly 
good. 

On 3lst December, 1931, there were 11 inmates in the Criminal 
Lunatic Section and 13 inmates in the tubercular ward of the 
Central Prison, Acre. 

Eight prisoners escaped from custody in Central Prisons or Jail 
Labour Companies, of whom five were re-captured; and fourteen 
escaped from lock-ups, of whom seven were re-captured. 

There were 6,987 prisoners released under the Penal Labour 
Ordinances and employed on various services of public utility. No 
wages are paid to the prisoners for this work. 


7. Convicted prisoners in Jail Labour Companies work on road 
Making, quarrying, and railway ballasting. 

In the Central Prisons the convicts are employed on making 
and repairing furniture for public offices, making earth baskets for 
the Public Works Department, prison clothing, mats and sandals, 
iron grilles and doors, and on mending carpets and mail bags. They 
recelve no payment for their work. 


8. Jail population on the 31st December, 1931. 
Convicted. Unconticted. 


Central Prison, Jerusalem ec ... 280 106 
Central Prison, Acre... eas w. 415 94 
Jail Labour Company No. 1 ... ... 804 — 
Jail Labour Company No. 2 ... .. 393 —~ 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem ... ie, 2D 6 
Jerusalem District Lock-up ... ...._ (101 32 
Northern District Lock-up _... ve ALD 40 
Southern District Lock-up _... ae 122 32 
Nablus District Lock-up ... es .. 123 42 


Beersheba District Lock-up ... we AT 3 


54 


9. There were seventy-five convicted offenders and ten boys 
awaiting trial in the Boys’ Reformatory School. The average age | 
on admission was fourteen years. | 


10. Criminal Investigation Department.—The Criminal In. 
vestigation Department is controlled by a Deputy Commandant of 
Police. His principal assistant ranks as a Deputy Superinten- — 
dent and: there are in addition three senior Police Officers in the ~ 
Department. : 

“The subordinate staff consists of four British constables, six 
Palestinian constables, one sergeant and six Inspectors all 
Palestinian. There are also three detective sergeants and twenty © 
constables, of whom one is British, on duty in the Districts. 


11. The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are to | 
prevent and detect crime by the collection and communication of | 
evidence and by investigations; to watch and report upon political | 
movements; to repress seditious activities; to maintain criminal 
records and a Finger Print and Photographs Bureau; to examine 
the regular organs of the Press and occasional pamphlets with a 
view to action in case of seditious or inflammatory articles; to pre-— 
vent smuggling of arms and drugs; to scrutinize applications for 
naturalization ; to arrange deportations and extradition ; and to pre- 
serve liaison with the corresponding Departments in | eypt, India, 
‘Iraq, and the United Kingdom. 


12. The Criminal Record Office and Finger Print Bureau hold 
18,367 convict dossiers, and dealt during the ° year with 2,425 finger- 
print slips. In 564 cases previous convictions were traced. 


Crime. 
18. Indictable and Non-Indictable Offences. 


1928. 1929. 1930. 1981. 


Indictable Offences ... ... 4,218 4,723 56,015 4,815 
Non-Indictable Offences ... 24,396 22,804 29,086 28,008 


Incidence oj, Sertous Crime. 
1928. 1929. 1980. 1931. 


Murder fe: ... 188 178 126 124 
Attempted Murder re ie 90 232 179 145 
Manslaughter a3 at 41 58 73 «71 
Highway Robbery _... sis 70 34 28 42 
Burglary ) 

Housebreaking és ... 269 250 193" 220 
Shopbreaking 





* The figure of 1,857 was given in error in the Report for 1930. 


55 
Extradition, 


Seventeen absconded offenders were extradited from Palestine to 
Trans-Jordan, seven from Trans-Jordan to Palestine, eight from 
Palestine to Syria and five from Syria to Palestine. 


Orders of deportation were made against 605 persons, including 
221 Egyptians, 212 Syrians, 24 Russians, and 27 Polish nationals. 


Of these persons 450 were ordered to be deported for being in 
Palestine without permission, 137 as a result of recommendations 
by the Courts following conviction on criminal charges, and four 
who were noted communist agents and agitators. on the ground that 
their deportation was conducive to the public good. 


14. There were 101 persons prosecuted under the Criminal Law 
(Seditious Offences) Ordinance, 1929, in connexion with their sub- 
versive communist activity, and all save fifteen were convicted. 
Most of these convicted persons were recommended by the Courts 
for deportation as indicated in the preceding paragraph. 


T'wenty-nine persons were bound over under the provisions of the 
Prevention of Crime Ordinance on account of their objectionable 
political activity. 


15. Orders were made for the exclusion from Palestine of 120 
foreigners whose presence in the country was deemed to be 
undesirable. 


16. General.—During the summer there was some agitation 
against the establishment of sealed armouries in Jewish colonies. 
Public meetings were organized for the purpose of demonstrating 
against this policy and, as a result of minor breaches of the peace, 
the Government prohibited a demonstration which had been pro- 
claimed to take place in Nablus on the 23rd August. 

Notwithstanding the prohibition, a crowd of from three to four 
hundred persons, headed by women, proceeded to demonstrate. On 
being called upon by the District Police to disperse, they threw 
stones, injuring several policemen. 

The police exercised admirable restraint in the face of the crowd, 
and it was only when a British constable had been disarmed by 
demonstrators and the senior officer in command, being severely in- 
jured by stones, felt himself unable to control the situation any 
longer by the use of batons, that the police fired. 

Fourteen of the demonstrators were injured. 

The mob thereupon dispersed and, although tension continued in 
the town for a few days, no further violence was offered. 

Seven participants in the riot were convicted under the Criminal 
Law (Seditious Offences) Ordinance, 1929, and 35 under the Police 
Ordinance, 1926 ; sentences were imposed varying from two weeks’ 
imprisonment to one year. 


14213 C 


56 


17. Highway Robbery.—On the 22nd March, 1931, at an iso- 
lated point on the main north road near Jenin, three armed men 
held up nine cars and robbed the occupants, 34 persons in all, of 
property and cash to the value of £P542. 

One passenger who attempted to resist was shot, but not fatally. 
Patrols and trackers quickly overtook the gang who were captured 
in Trans-Jordan within two days. Almost all the loot was 
recovered. 

The escape of nine convicts from the Central Prison at Amman 
in September and their flight across the Jordan led to a series of 
highway robberies in Palestine. Twenty-five hold-ups took place 
within a few weeks, the most serious being of 13 cars on the 
Jericho-Jerusalem road when money and portable property to the 
value of £P327 were stolen. 

On this occasion, several of the gang were identified as escaped 
convicts from Amman. 

The Jericho valley was therefore patrolled intensively and before 
the end of the year seven members of the gang had been arrested, 
including four of the convicts. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


19. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, including 
the Reserve, at ‘the 31st December, 1931, was 1,039, made up as 
follows :— 





Arabs. 
-_ 

“ 2 | 

= 8 ry 
2 2 € @€ € F 8 8 
~ Con) & be od 
sas 2 S§ &§ S&S @& & : 
Officers ... 23 8 6 2 8 1 — 48 
Warrant Officers 7 — — = — ae ie i 
Staff Sergeants... aes 3 — — — — — — 3 
N.C.O.’s and Troopers... — 437 162 32 163 15 38 847 
Total 33 445 168 34 171 16 38 905 
Reserve N.C. 0. 8 sand Men aan 91 20 1 13 9 =. 134 
Total ine a 33 536 188 35 184 25 38 1,039 


Recruits enlisted during the year numbered 126, of whom 64 
were Arab Moslems, 30 Arab Christians, 16 Circassians, 12 Jews 
and 4 Druzes. 

There were 37 Arab Moslems, 7 Druze, 7 Arab Christians, 
6 Circassians, and a Jew enrolled as reservists, all of them former 
members of the Frontier Force or of the Palestine Gendarmerie. 

There were 119 men discharged on termination of contract, or 
otherwise ; and 8 reservists were discharged on medical grounds or 
otherwise. 


oF 


Of other ranks 116 elected to serve for a further period. 

Four men were tried by Court Martial, and one deserted. 

The general health of the Force during the year was satisfactory. 

There were 434 treated in the hospitals attached to the Frontier 
Force and 38@ elsewhere. 

There were 51 cases of malaria, 13 primary and 38 secondary : 
and only two instances of cutaneous leishmaniasis as compared 
with 80 in the previous year. 

The operating theatre at Zerqa is now equipped to deal with 
practically all surgical cases that occur. 


Remounts.—Government ownership is now general. The animal 
strength on the 31st December was 473 horses, 131 camels, and 
li mules. 

During the year 62 horses and 38 camels were purchased in 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


20. Operations and Training.—The presence and activity of the 
Frontier Force; in co-operation with Royal Air Force patrols, in 
the desert area of Trans-Jordan have contributed to the decrease 
in inter-tribal raiding, and detachments of the Force rendered assist- 
ance in maintaining security in the Jordan areas in Palestine. 

Frequent air co-operation exercises were carried out. 

The annual courses for rifles and light automatics revealed a 
noticeable improvement in the standard of marksmanship through- 
out the Force. 


21. Edacation.—The standard of literacy of the Force is steadily 
rising. Selected men from each unit, having been trained for the 
purpose, give instruction in arithmetic, reading and writing in 
Arabic, and the Education Officer holds classes in English, geo- 
craphy, and map reading. 

The estimated cost of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in 1931 
was £P206,700 (including £P21,245 extraordinary expenditure), 
towards which an estimated grant-in-aid of £P141,000 was pro- 
vided by British funds. 


XII.—_ INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 
AND TREATIES. 


PART I.—PALESTINE. 
(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Palestine. 
(1) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 

Country. Name. Date of Signature. 
Egypt... ... Provisional Agreement cee ... 7.8.22, Ramleh. 
Syria Ses ... Provisional Agreement ... ... 11.7.21 (Palestine). 

| | 15.7.21 (Syria). 
Addendun _... ie ae ... 10.1.24 (Palestine). 


28.1.24 (Syria). 
14213 C 2 


Country. 


Syria 


Trans-Jordan 


Egypt 


France 


Great Britain 


‘ Traq 
Switzerland 
Syria 


Syria 
Syria 


Trans-Jordan 


Trans-Jordan 
Trans-Jordan 


Trans-Jordan 


Egypt 


58 


(11) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Customs Agreement... 


Transit Agreement ... ae at 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Convention concerning the Reciprocal 
Enforcement of Judgments. 


Convention of good _ neighbourly 
relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of the territories 
of Palestine on the one part and 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 


Agreement between the Post Office 
of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland and the Post 
Office of Palestine for the Exchange 
of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement 


Parcel Post Agreement 


Agreement concerning the rapes 
tion of Antiquities. 


Agreement to provide for the Distri- 


bution of certain Receipts from 
Animal Tax. 


Parcel Post Agreement 

Money Orders Agreement ... oi 

Agreement regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 


Agreement for the Taking of 
Evidence on Commission for the 
purpose of any Criminal or Civil 
Matter. 

Agreement as to the Circulation of 
Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents.. 
Agreement regarding the Convey- 
ance of Corpses from Palestine for 
Burial in Trans-Jordan and from 
Trans - Jordan for Burial in 

Palestine. 


Agreement concluded in 1931. 


Agreement concerning the Measures 
to be applied for the Control of 
Dengue Fever. 


Date of Signature. 
4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 


26.9.28, Jerusalem, 
Amended— 

18.12.28, Jerusalem. 

27.12.28, Amman. 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Beirut. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 
Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 


17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 


25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 


14.11.29, Jerusalem. 
25.2.29, Jerusalem. 


6.3.29, Amman. 
1.10.29. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


39 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Name. 


International Convention prohibiting the Use of White 
(Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches. 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 


Intemational Opium Convention and subsequent 
relative papers. 


Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. 


Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 
Waterways of International Concern. 


Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. 


Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 
having no Sea Coast. 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 


Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 
matters). 


International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Fonmalities. 


Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways and Protocol of Signature. 


Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Porte and Protocol of Signature. 


Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electric Power, and Protocol of Signature. 


International Locust Bureau 
International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Exploration 
of the Mediterranean Sea. 


International Convention for the unification of certain 
Tules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 


International Radio-telegraph Convention _... sis 
Universal Postal Convention... ve igs 


Agreement Concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 


14213 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
Berne. 
13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
Berlin. 
23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
The Hague. 
20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
Berne. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 9.10.22 
Barcelona. (Ratification) 
12.9.23, 23.5.27. 
Geneva. 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
Geneva. 
3.11.23, 29.8.24 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
9.12.23, 22.9.25 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
20.5.26, 18.8.27. 
Damascus. 
21.6.26, 9.10.28. 
Paris. 
26.4.29, 19.12.29. 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31 
Brussels. (Effective 
date) 
24.4.26, 4.12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date) 
25.11.27, 15.8.30. 
Washington. 
28.6.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
28.6.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
C8 


60 


Name. 


Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial Navi- 
gation and Additional Protocol of May, 1920. 


International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 
International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 


1931 Adhesions. 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Fields. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 


Date of 
Signature. 
13.10.19. 


22.11.28, 
Paris. 
19.2.25, 


Geneva. 


25.9.26, 
Geneva. 


2.6.28, 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 


Geneva. 


27.7.29, 
Geneva. 


18.5.04, 
Paris. 

4.5.10, 
Paris. 


Date of 

Accession. 
Palestine is not 
a party to this 
Convention, 
but certain of 
its provisions 
were applied to 
Palestine by 
the Air Navi- 
gation (Man- 
dated ‘Terri- 
tories) Order in 
Council, 1927. 

17.12.30. 


25.9.28 
(Effective 
date) 
18.6.27 
(Ratificatiors). 


1.10.31. 

26.56.31. 

23.6.31 
(Ratification). 


(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 


6.5.32 
(Effective 
date). 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 


Traffic in Women and Children. 


Geneva. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine 


Date of Application. 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


Country. Date of a ia 
Between United Kingdom 22.7.26 
and Albania. 
Austria 3.12.1873 
26.6.1901 
( 29.10.01, ] 
Belgium } 5.3.07, | 
Belgian Congo 3.3.11, r 
Ruanda-Urundi 8.8.23 and | 
2.7.28 J 
Bolivia 22.2.1892 
Chile ae vie .» 26.1.1897 
Colombia wee x Seek ..» 27.10.1888 
2.12.29. 
Cuba ... 3.10.1904 
17.4.1930. 
Czechoslovakia | .. 11.11.24 
- Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Denmark 31.3.1873 


vs 23.1.28. 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


18.2.28. 


13.1.28. 


5.12.30 (Effective date). 


12.12.31 (Effective date). 


15.7.27. 
10.2.28. 





Rumania eke 
San Salvador 

Siam oii 
Spain ee 
Switzerland ... 


Yugoslavia 


61 
Date of Signature. 

20.9.1880 see 
18.11.25 
30.5.24 ... 
14.5.1872 and 10.12.1928 
24.9.10 ... ae 
4.7.1885 
7.12.1874 


3.12.1873 and 26. 6. 1901 


16.7.24 .. 
16.12.1892 
18.5.26 ... 
24.11.1880 
17.12.91 
27.11.30. 
26.9.1898 
19.4.1905 
26.6.1873 
18.2.1907. 
25.8.1906 
--- 12.9.1908 
.» 26.1.1904 
. 21.3.1893 
23.6.1881 
4.3.1911 


4.6.1878 and 19.2.1889 


26.11.1880 
29.6.1904. 
6.12.1900 


Date of Application. 


19.1.28. 
10.3.27. 
25.11.26. 


17.8.30 (Effective date). 


19.4.28. 
11.9.29. 
13.1.28. 
25.4.28. 
7.6.26. 
16.10.28. 


29.3.27 (Ratification). 


28.1.28. 


5.7.31 (Effective date). 


27.1.28. 
12.1.28. 


13.12.29. . 


24.1.28, 
16.1.28. 
16.1.28. 
11.1.29. 


8.8.30 (Effective date). 


27.2.28. 
13.2.28. 
19.9.29. 


1.11.28. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list and to 


those in list (A) (i), 


applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. 
France. 
Italy. 


Portugal. 
San Marino. 
Tunis. 


the Palestine Extradition Law has been 


United States of 


America. 
Uruguay. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. 


Between Great Britain 


and 
Austria ee 


Czechoslovakia 
Finland es 


Germany 
Latvia 
Lithuania 
Poland 


14213 


Name. 


Treaty of Commerce and 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 

Treaty of Commerce and 
14.12.23. 

Treaty of Commerce and 
2.12.24, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and 
92.6. 23, London. 


Navigation, 


Navigation, 
Navigation, 


Navigation, 


Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 
tions, 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 


Treaty of Commerce and 
26.11.23. 


Navigation, 


Date of 
Application. 

5.6.26. 

2.12.27- 
13.4.28. 
5.6.25. 

13.2.26. 
2.12.26. 
25.5.24. 
24.4.23. 


19.6.24. 


C4 


Country. 
Spain 


Hungary 
Bulgaria 


Greece... 


Greece... 


Yugoslavia ... 


Egypt 
Japan 


Spain 


62 


Name. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 

Treaty of Commerce, 23.7.26 

Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 
Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
12.5.27. 

Commercial Modus-Vivendi, 5/7.6.30, Cairo 

Prolongation—14/22.2.31, Cairo 

Treaty of Commerce and N avigation, 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 


Agreement applied in 1931. 


Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 


Date of 
Application. 
1.12.28. 


9.7.29. 
25.2.29. 


23.3.27. 


21.6.29, 
9.7.28 
(Effective 
date). 
4.4.28. 


11.6.30. 


14/22.2.31. 
1.6.30. 


6.8.31. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Country. 


Belgium 


Czechoslovakia 


France 


Germany... 


Italy 


Netherlands ... 


Countries which apply to Palestine 


Name. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 21.6.22, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 11.11.24. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 2.2.22, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proc 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 20.3.28. 


Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certificates 
and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 25.1.29. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 


Conventions applied in 1931. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 28.8.30, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 30.1.31, 
London. 


Date of 
A pplication. 
13.3.25 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 


11/25.8.30. 


1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 


23.2.31 


27.6.29, 
London. 
3.9.31. 


14.11.31 
(Effective 
date). 


63 


PART IT.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
(A) Agreements concluded in the name of Trans-Jordan. 
(1) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. | 


Country. Name. Date of 
Signature. 
Palestine Transit Agreement ... 26.9.28, 
Jerusalem. 
Amended 
18.12.28, 
Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, 
Amman. 
(i) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 
Great Britain... Agreement... sae ae 20.2.28, 
Jerusalem. 
Ratified 
31.10.29, 
Amman. 
Nejd *... Hadda Agreement 2.11.25, 
Bahra Camp. 
Palestine Agreement for the Taking of Evidence on 25.2.29, 
Commission for the purpose of any Jerusalem. 
Criminal or Civil Matter. 6.3.29, 
Amman. 
Palestine Agreement as to the Circulation of Motor 14.11.29, 
Vehicles. Jerusalem. 
Palestine Agreement regarding the Interchange of 6.3.29, 
Judicial Documents. Amman 
Palestine “is ... Agreement regarding the Conveyance of 1.10.29. 
Corpses from Palestine for Burial in 
Trans-Jordan and from Trans-Jordan 
for Burial in Palestine. 
(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 
Name. Date of Date of 
Signature. Accesston. 
International Convention relative to the Protection of 13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 
International Opium Convention and subsequent 23.1.12, — 21.8.24. 
relative papers. The Hague. 
Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. Berne. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit .. 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
| Barcelona 
Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 
Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 
Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 20.4.21, 9.10.22 
having no Sea Coast. Barcelona. (Ratification). 
International Convention for the Suppression of the 12.9.23, 23.5.27. 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. Geneva. 
Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
matters). Geneva. 
International Convention relating to the Simplification 3.11.23, 29.8.24 
of Customs Formalities, Geneva. (Ratification). 
Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol § Geneva. 


of Signature. 


64 


Name. 


Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Ports, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electrical Power, and Protocol of re 

International Locust Bureau ae 


International Sanitary Convention 


International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 

International Convention for the Unification of certain 
Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


International Radio-telegraph Convention 
Universal Postal Convention 
Agreement concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 


International Convention relating to International 

Exhibitions. 
1931 Adhesions. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Fields. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Trafiic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


25.11.27, 


Washington. 


28.6.29, 
London. 

28.6.29, 
London. 

22.11.28, 
Paris. 


2.6.28, 
Rome. 

27.7.29, 
Geneva. 


Geneva. 


25.9.28 

(Effective 
date). 

18.6.27 


(Ratification). 


2.6.31 
(Effective 


17.12.30. 


1.10.31. 
23.6.31 


(Ratification). 


(Effective 
date 
23.12.31). 


eas 


(Effective 
date). 
2.11.31. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. | 
Date of Application. 


Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United Kingdom 
and 
Albania 22.7.26 ioe 
Colombia ... ea, 
Cuba ms 3.10.04/17.4.30 . 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24, 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Estonia 18.11.25 
Finland 30.5.24 
Latvia 16.7.24 
Lithuania ... 18.5.26 
Monnes 17.12.91 


* | 27.11.30 


29.1.27 (Ratification). 
5.12.30 (Effective date). 
12.12.31 (Effective date). 


15.7.27. 


10.3.27. 
25.11.26. 
7.6.26. 


29.3.27 (Ratification). 


5.7.31 (Effective date). 


6d 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list the Trans- 
Jordan Extradition Law has been applied to the following 


countries :— 
Argentine. 
Austria. 


Hungary. Rumania. 
Italy. Salvador. 
Jugoslavia. San Marino. 
Liberia. Siam. 
Luxemburg. Spain. 
Netherlands. Switzerland. 
Norway. Tunis. 
Nicaragua. United States of 
Panama. America. 
Paraguay. Uruguay. 
Peru. 

Portugal. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which have been applied to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. 
Between Great Britain 


and 
Austria 


Czechoslovakia 
Finland 


Germany 


Latvia 


Date of Signature. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22nd May, 1924, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14.12.23. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2nd December, 1924, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 

Agreement respecting Commercial Relations, 
6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27 and 31.5.28. 

Treaty of Commerce, 23.7.26 

Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 
Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
12.5.27. 

Commercial Modus- Vivendi, 5/7.6.30, Cairo 

Prolongation, 14/22.2.31, Cairo 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 


Agreement applied in 1931. 


Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 


Date of 


Application. 


5.6.26. 
2.12.27- 
13.4.28. 
5.6.25. 
13.2.26. 
2.12.26. 
25.65.24. 
24.4.23. 
19.6.24. 
1.12.28. 


9.7.29. 
25.2.29. 


23.3.27. 


21.6.29. 
9.7.29 
(Effective 
date). 
4.4.28, 


21.8.30. 


14/22.2.31. 
1.6.30. 


6.8.31. 


66 
(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
| Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Name. Date of 
Application. 
Netherlands ... ... Extension to Overseas Territories of the 1.12.29 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, (Applicable to 
1.12.29. British sub- 
jects only). 


XITI.—_ ANTIQUITIES. 


1. The policy of the Palestine Department of Antiquities is 
based on the requirements of the Mandate, which are implemented 
by the Antiquities Ordinance, 1929, and the Regulations made 
thereunder. The texts of the Ordinance and Regulations were 
printed in Appendices VII and VIII to the Report for 1929.* 

That policy is to preserve unimpaired, so far as is possible, exist- 
ing opportunities for adding to the knowledge of Palestinian 
archaeology and history and to ensure that the best use shall be 
made of those opportunities. 


2. The work of the Inspectorate has been continued with a view 
to preventing damage to antiquity sites, acquainting the inhabitants 
with the terms of the law, and obtaining data for the compilation 
of an archaeological survey. 


3. Additional materia] bearing on Palestine archaeology has been 
collected by the Library and Records Office of the Department. 


4. The Department has continued the works of research and 
conservation, begun in 1930, at the Crusaders’ Castle of Athlit. 
Accounts of this work and of other investigations are published, 
from time to time, in the Quarterly of the Department. 

Progress has been made in the building of the new Museum. 
provided for by funds given by Mr. J. D. Rockefeller, Jnr. 


5. Licences have been issued for archaeological excavations et 
the following sites :— 
(a) Saffuriyeh, by Dr. LL. Waterman, for the University «{ 
Michigan. 
(b) Tall al-Sultan (Jericho), by Professor J. Garstang, fcr 
the Institute of Archaeology, University of Liverpool. 
(c) ‘Ain Shams (Beth Shemesh), by Dr. E. Grant, fcr 
Haverford College, Pennsylvania. 
(d) Wadi al Mughara, by Miss D. A. E. Garrod, for the 
British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 
(e) Ztkhron Jacob, by Mr. F. Turville-Petre, for the Britis: 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 
(f) Jerusalem (Government House site), by Dr. E. I. 
Sukenik, for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. | 
a es By; 
* Colonial No. 47. 


67 


(g) Saffuriyeh (Tombs), by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(h) Balata (Nablus), by Professor Sellin and Dr. Welter, 
for the Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft. 

(i) Khirbet al-Tubiqga, by Professor Sellers and Professor 
Albright, for the Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Chicago, 
and the American School of Oriental Research, Jerusalem. 

(j) Giveat Eliahu (near Khirbet Salih), by Dr. B. Maisler, 
for the Jewish Palestine Exploration Society. 

(k) Magharat Abu Toubk (near Nabi Musa), by Monsieur 
René Neuville, for l’Institut de Paleontologie Humaine, Paris. 

(1) Erg-el-Ahmar, by Monsieur René Neuville, for 1’Institut 
de Paleontologie Humaine, Paris. 

(m) Carmel Range (Caves), by Miss Garrod and Mr. 
Turville-Petre, for the British School of Archaeology in 
Jerusalem. 7 : 

(n) Batsan, by Mr. G. M. FitzGerald, for the University 
Museum, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 

(0) Deir Ghassaneh, by Professor W. F. Albright, for the 
American Council of Learned Societies. 

(p) Tall al-Ajjul, by Professor Sir Flinders Petrie, assisted 
by Mr. Starkey, for the British School of Archaeology in 
Egypt. 

(q) Tall al-Mutsallem (Megiddo), by Mr. P. L. O. Guy, 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(r) Hedera Colony (Tombs), by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES, 
Reference is invited to page 97 of the Annual Report for 1930. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 
Reference is invited to page 97 of the Annual Report for 1930. 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
See separate chapters on Trans-Jordan on pages 170 to 195. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


1. Reference is invited to the general statement given in Section 
XVII of the Report for 1930. 


2. The position as regards the application in Palestine of the 
International Labour Conventions to which His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment in the United Kingdom is a party has been re-examined. The 
following is a summary of the results of this review, with reference 
to the provisions of the relevant Palestine legislation already in 


68 


operation, and statements as to the reasons in cases where any of 
the Conventions are still considered to be inapplicable, or as to the 
modifications which may be necessary in the law. 


Jit may be added that a further and closer enquiry into the ques- 
tion of applying those Conventions which it has not yet been found 
possible to apply is now being carried out by the Committee of 
official and non-official members mentioned elsewhere in this Report, 
which has been set up for the purpose of enquiring into existing 
labour legislation, and of making recommendations for its amend- 
ment, if necessary. 


1.—Convention concerning unemployment. 


Article I, requiring the communication of all available informa- 
tion regarding unemployment to the International Labour Office, 
is complied with. Otherwise, this Convention has not yet been 
applied in Palestine. Palestine is a semi-tropical country where 
the majority of the population are peasants engaged in agricultural 
pursuits on their own or leased lands; and wage-earning employ- 
ment is to them a supplementary and not a principal source of 
livelihood. Special arrangements are in force under the Immigra- 
tion Ordinance and Regulations, through the system of half-yearly 
labour schedules, for adjusting the supply of immigrant labour to 
the absorptive capacity of the country from time to time. 


2.—Convention concerning employment of women during the night. 


This Convention was applied in Palestine in 1927 by the provi- 
sions of the Industrial Employment of Women and Children 
Ordinance, 1927. 


3.—Convention fixing the minimum age for admission of children 
to industrial employment. 


This Convention was applied in Palestine in 1927 by the provi- 
sions of the Industrial Employment of Women and Children 
Ordinance, 1927, with the following modifications :— 


(1) The age limit is 16 instead of 14. 


(2) No child may be employed in trades declared ‘‘ dan- 
gerous "’ by the High Commissioner or on the work of cleaning 
machinery while in motion. The hours of employment of 
children in industrial undertakings are restricted. 


4.—Convention concerning the night work of young persons 
employed in industry. 


This Convention was applied in Palestine in 1927 by the pro- 
visions of the Industrial Employment of Women and Children 
Ordinance, 1927, with the modification that no child under 16 may 


be employed in any industrial undertaking between 7 p.m. and 
6a.m. : 


69 


5.—Convention fixing the minimum age for admission of 
children to employment at sea. 


This Convention has not yet been applied in Palestine, because 
there is no mercantile marine, as such; and few, if any, children 
are employed at sea except in so far as they may accompany their 
parents on short fishing or coastwise expeditions in small boats or 
sailing vessels. 


6.—Convention concerning unemployment indemnity tn case of 
loss or foundering of the ship. 


This Convention has not yet been applied in Palestine, because 
there is no mercantile marine (see also under 5), but the question 
will be considered further at the end of 1933, on the opening of 
Haifa Port to full traffic. 


7.—Convention concerning the rights of association and 
conibination of agricultural workers. 


This Convention is applied in Palestine. There is no legislation 
in Palestine which discriminates against agricultural workers in 
the matter of rights of association; and in Palestine most of the 
Jewish agricultural workers are organized within the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour. 


8.—Convention concerning workmen’s compensation in 
agriculture. 


The Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927, is based upon 
the first English Act of that character; and it was not considered 
that the time had yet come, when the Ordinance was drafted, to 
include certain classes of agricultural workers (see also under 15). 
That extension will now be examined by the Labour Legislation 
Committee. 


9.—Convention fixing the minimum age for the admission of 
young persons to employment as trimmers or stokers. 


This Convention is not applied in Palestine, because there are 
no vessels of Palestine register which are steam-propelled. 


10.—Convention concerning the compulsory examination of — 
children and young persons employed at sea. 


This Convention is not applied in Palestine, for the reasons given 
under 5 and 6. 


11.—Convention concerning workmen's compensation for 
occupational diseases. 


This Convention has not yet been applied in Palestine. The 
scheduling of occupational diseases to the Workmen’s Compensa- 
tion Ordinance, 1927, was considered when that Ordinance was in 
preparation, but was judged to be impracticable. 


70 


12.—Convention concerning equality of treatment for national and 
foreign workers as regards workmen’s compensation for accidents. 


This Convention is applied in Palestine, and in the Workmen's 
Compensation Ordinance, 1927, there is no specific discrimination 
between Palestinian and foreign workers. The application of this 
Convention to Palestine was announced by Notice in the Official 
Gazette of the 16th May, 1929. 


13.—Convention concerning seamen’s articles of agreement. 


This Convention is not yet applied m Palestine for the following 
reasons :— 


No seamen’s articles of agreement are entered into in 
Palestine except in respect of categories of vessels which are 
excluded from the scope of the Convention under Article 1, 
namely :— 

(a) Government vessels not engaged in trade. 

(b) Vessels engaged in coasting trade. 

(c) Fishing vessels. 


It is not anticipated that the development of the Haifa Port will 
bring into commission, in the measurably near future, any sea- 
going craft of local registration to which the Convention would 


apply. 
14.—Convention concerning the creation of minimum wage 
fixing machinery. 
This Convention is not yet applied in Palestine, but its applica- 
tion is now being considered by the Labour Legislation Committee. 


15.—Conventions concerning sickness insurance for :—(i) workers tn — 
industry and commerce and domestic servants ; and (ii) agricul- 
tural workers. 


Neither Convention is yet applied in Palestine (see also under 11), 
but the possibility of application in the future is to be considered. 
The Labour Legislation Committee is examining the matter. 


3. Unemployment stqtistics.—The collection of reliable statistics — 
of unemployment still presents considerable difficulty. Further in- 
provements in method are in contemplation which it is hoped will 
give satisfactory results. In particular it is proposed to arrange 
that the District Officers, who will be primarily responsible for the 
collection of information about unemployment in towns and 
villages, except Jerusalem, Haifa, and Jaffa-Tel-Aviv, where the 
work will be in the hands of Immigration Officers, shall be assisted | 
by the officers of the Departments of Health, Agriculture, Forestry. 
and Education. If financial circumstances permit, a special officer 
will be appointed to the Department of Immigration to keep in 


(pt 


touch with and advise the District and departmental officers engaged 
in this service and to correlate and criticize their monthly reports 
of the state of unemployment. 


4. Unemployment.—Unemployment was considerable among 
Arabs and Jews throughout the year. A noticeable feature was the 
increase of unemployment in the Jewish agricultural settlements 
and among women. Arab unemployment was at its highest in the 
summer ; Jewish unemployment was relatively constant through- 
out the year, amounting to 8 or 9 per cent. of the Jewish working 


population. 


5. Labour disputes.—Twenty-eight strikes, five lock-outs, and 
seventeen disputes (between employers and labour organizations) 
came under notice during the year. Six thousand man-days were 
lost. Arab workers were involved in three cases. 


One strike was of teachers employed by the Jewish Agency; 
reference is made elsewhere to the strike of motor-car drivers and 
its results. 


Demands in regard to wages and hours of work, protests against 
reduction of wages, change of the pay-system, or discharge of com- 
rades, and insistence on recognition of the Labour Organization and — 
its principles of allocation of work, were the different causes. 


In twenty-six instances the workmen succeeded in securing their 
demands, in eleven they failed, and in eleven the result was a com- 
promise, 


6. At the beginning of the orange season disputes arose over 
the employment of non-union labour in some of the Jewish agricul- 
tural settlements of the maritime plain. A compromise was reached 
in most cases and as a consequence a larger number of organized 
Jewish labourers was employed. 


Negotiations regarding the recruitment of labour for orange- 
picking by Jewish growers were started in the summer. The de- 
mand of the General Federation of Jewish Labour was that the 
farmers should include in the contracts with the merchants to whom 
the fruit was sold a clause securing the employment of a sufficient 
proportion of local Jewish labour. In the post-war settlements this 
demand was on the whole accepted. Relations were somewhat 
strained in the pre-war settlements, where the workers picketed 
the groves, and: the intervention of the police was again required. 
By the end of the year, however, tension disappeared as the volume 
of employment expanded. 


7. Census of Jewish labour.—Estimates were again made of the 
number of Jewish working men and women, in the Jerusalem, 
Haifa, Jaffa, and Ramleh districts, apart from such as clerks, shop- 
assistants, hospital nurses, chauffeurs, and domestic servants, The 


(2 


comparative figures for June, 1930, April, 1931, and October, 1931, 
are given below :— 


; October, 
peers June, 1930. | April, 1981. 1981. 








| 

| 
Factories... a oss we 4,407 | 3,980 3,929 
Building _... — fa: a 2,424 2,586 2,299 
Public Works de sie = 928 | 1,069 1,166 
Agriculture ... sad se sha 6,155 6,991 6,957 
In the service of small employers 2,582 — 2,621 2,472 
Government and Municipalities 579* 475 479 


| 
(permanent labourers). | 





a 


Totalemployed ...0 0.00... 17,075 | = 17,722 17,302 
Unemployed fas bas sed 1,198 1,530 2,000 


*Including railway personnel in other districts. 


8. Wages.—As was to be expected in the financial circumstances, 
wages showed a downward tendency in many urban trades as 
well as in agriculture, and there was no industry in which an appre- 
ciable increase of wages could be reported. In the four industrial 
disputes which arose during 1931 from proposals of the employers 
to reduce wages, the workers were in the end obliged to accept 
some reduction. Increased unemployment also had the effect of 
depressing wages. 

A slow but constant decrease in the rates of pay for Jewish and 
Arab workers was visible in the building and alled trades, and 
in the metal work's. Wages also decreased, on the average, in the 
textile industry, and were unchanged in the furniture, tobacco and 
cigarettes, cardboard boxes, and food-stuffs trades. In the print- 
ing industry wages were stationary, although employment in this 
industry declined. 

The salaries of Government employees such as clerks, teachers, 
and hospital nurses were reduced by a 50 per cent. cut in the cost- 
of-living allowance. 


9. Hours of Work.—Hours of work remained in general un- 
altered. The Jewish Clerks’ Union succeeded in securing an agree- 
ment with Jewish merchants in the larger towns regarding the 
closing hours of shops but, in the absence of power of compulsion 
except where appropriate municipal regulations exist, the agree- 
ment was not in every case observed by employers. 

The Bakers’ Union was active in demanding the abolition of 
night work in bakeries, and had the support on this occasion of the 
owners of some of the bakeries. Resistance of the smaller under- 
takings, however, prevented the success of these representations. 


10. Collective agreements.—Many of the industrial disputes 
already recorded were duc to differences connected with the re- 
newal or interpretation of collective agreements; others were due 
to the desire of employers to discharge labour. 


73 


The general demands of the unions in regard to the discharge of 
labour may be summarized as follows :— 


(1) no dismissa] shall be made without definite reason, 

(2) notice or payment of compensation in lieu must be given 
In every case, 

(3) length of service and family conditions should be taken 
into consideration, 

(4) discharges should be made with the agreement of the 
union, in the absence of which the parties should have re- 
course to arbitration. 


The fourth demand is regarded as oppressive by many employers 
and was not an infrequent source of dispute. 


ll. Recruitment of labour.—The stipulation that Jewish labour 
should be recruited only through the General Federation of Jewish 
Labour in Palestine was invariably included in the collective agree- 
ments proposed by the unions. Employers and organized labour 
were vigorous in defence of their respective rights in this connexion, 
with the result that there was continuous struggle over the system of 
allocation of work. The refusal of employers to employ union 
labour, attempts to replace organized labour by non-organized, 
and preference given to the recently established Revisionist Labour 
Organization, were contributory causes in nearly 50 per cent. of the 
industrial disputes which occurred in 1931. 


12. Labour Legtslation.—The handling of goods by manual or 
mechanical means on lighters, on shipside, and on board ship when 
within the area of a port by persons other than members of the 
ship’s crew, was added to the schedule of employments in which 
compensation for injury is payable under the Workmen’s Com- 
pensation Ordinance, 1927. 

A committee was appointed under the chairmanship of the Dis- 
trict Commissioner, Jerusalem District, with the Directors of the 
Departments of Health, Posts and Telegraphs, Education, and Im- 
migration, and the Welfare Inspector as members, and with Arab 
and Jewish non-official members representing employers and 
labour, to consider the operation of existing labour legislation and 
t0 make recommendations for its amendment if necessary. The 
Committee has been requested, in particular, to review the pro- 
visions in force as regards the protection of children in wage-earn- 
ing employment, the prevention of the evils of ‘‘ sweating ’’, 
compensation for industrial accidents, and compulsory sickness 
Insurance ; and also to examine the questions 

(i) of creating minimum wage fixing machinery in Palestine, 

(ii) of creating special legislation for registering trade 
unions, 

(11) whether measures should be introduced with a view to 
ensuring that in all Government and Municipal works, whether 
carried out by the Government or Municipality direct or 


74 


through contractors, there shall be conditions of labour similar 
to those guaranteed in works carried out under the Palestine 
and East Africa Loans Act, 1926, and 

(iv) whether the fixing of a higher minimum wage for Arabs 
is likely to cause an influx of Arabs to the towns swelling the 
ranks of unskilled labour in the town. 


An official Committee was engaged during the year in considering 
the question of the protection of labour at the ports of Palestine. 
Its recommendations were still under discussion at the end of the 
year. 


13. Arab Trade Unions.—The promise held out in 1930 of a 
development in the organization of Arab trade unions was not 
fulfilled. The activities of these unions dwindled and most of them 
became practically dormant. The Federation of Arab Labour 
Unions established by the first Congress of Arab Labour in 1930 has 
not expanded into a national organization as was intended by tke 
Congress. Eindeavours to open branches in important urban centre: 
failed. The parent union at Haifa continues to exist, but does not 
show signs of increasing vigour. The Christian (Orthodox) Labour 
Union and the Arab Carpenters’ Union, both of Jaffa, the first with 
a membership of about 300 and the second with a membership of 
150, are the only active Arab unions in Palestine; they provide or 
assist to provide medical assistance for their members, and also 
help them, when unemployed, to find work. 

There was a movement towards organization in the transport 
services, Which took the form of a union of all parties interested in 
the industry, not of the employees alone. The Motor Car Owners 
and Drivers’ Association was formed during the year and organized 
general strikes of drivers in protest against high taxation. In this 
association Arabs and Jews co-operate. An account of the strikes 
and their outcome is given in the Introductory Section. 

An organization of Arab lightermen and lighter-owners came 
into existence at Jaffa during the year. 


14. Trade unions are not registered as such, but as societies 
only, in accordance with the Ottoman Law, by District Commis 
sioners*. The question of separate registration of trade unions as 
such is being considered by the Labour Legislation Committee. 


* Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, page 107. 


75 


pe eee ee NE ee ee 


*(3u3poy pure 




















08-02 08-0F | O0T-09 = = OOI-09 | OzI-08 a preoq Wiis) muvAloS UTE] pure aIAMOG’T “OT 
- 08-0g | O0ZI-08 11-6 = QLI-OST | 00Z-GLT 6-8 __[exoUe8 ‘eramoqvys “6 
og 08-09 | O0I-08 a = OSZ-O8T | 092-081 x ie yiom Aired, °g 
= = 092-091 6-8 = 09-002 | 008-092 g ee Surqoed pus doyddeim ofuwiQ *L 
09 08-09 | O0T-08 6-8 = OLI-OST | 00-9LT 8 =o + Surgoid eueiQ “9 

08-0F | 08-09 | O0I-0L 6-8 | O0&I-08 OST | 008-9LI 8 “(049 “souta ‘seaqjo) Surqord ymig “g 
— — OST-00I 6-8 — 008 00€-002 8 “* perrys “yiom Arosa “Buyueyd oor], “> 

08-0F 08-09 | 0ZI-08 II-6 = ogT 093-002 6s | 7" " Sayscarey “Suryseryy “Buidvoy “¢ 
= = 031-08 11-6 = a 092-002 6-8 Burqsnolg *% 
i a 008-002 a — — 00F-008 — soruByooul 7 sant “soymeqoenr 10jOVI], 

> FIOM OUTQOVAT *T 
“wasPnYd | warn M | "ua yson =| “Maly | waruo M | ua y4on 
fo ssnoy fo sinoy 


WHOM dO SUHONVAG 








anodwy OLLVISY anodvy Nvadowny | 


"TS6} ‘ounseteq—jucufojdugy jemynojasy uy yIOM JO SIMO pus sosemM—y 


Soe see 


rete 


OST—-00I 
022-081 


066-081 


S8U[D pug 
sil wT aro paaq [20}8 PUT SIOYIOM 93010U0D ° 
BSYIO Pug 
SEBO 4S] * SIOABTHOUIG ° 
SSE/9 Pug 


BSUlO IST : SUOBUTY ° 
81039-30048 
seelo pug 
SSUlO 4S] ° SUISSeIpP 9U0}G * 


ar Bulysnsd suo} : sIaMogVy] 
YIOAM [VNUs] 
""* HIOM OUIYORPL : SUTYTRUL 9[Ty pus YOUg 
** peTTH{s- Tales 
i Pes 
: Surystjod pus ‘Surusisep ‘Zuryeul o7e][q 


> SUTYBUL o[qIVUL PUB OUO}s [VIOYIZIV ‘ety ‘you ° 


s10IN0gv’T 
§19}}N9-9U0}8 pus uoMTALIUN? 
: dutAiienb 21049 ° 


‘SopDLy, pay pup burping *] 


ee ee NO) ed eT es 


“UduLo Mf 


“spt us sabon inog 


"ua 


"HQOdVT OLLVISY 


OI-6 re OSE—-00E 6-8 
oI-6 ro 009-00F 6-8 
OI-6 =r 00-096 6-8 
01-6 = 009-00% 6-8 
OI-6 = 00F 6-8 
01-6 = 009-009 6-8 
OI-8 = =. 6-8 
01-8 oe 00-086 6-8 
01-8 — 00F—-00€ 6-8 
01-6 a 096-006 8 
OI-6 — 096-066 8 
0I-6 = OSF—-OSE 8 
01-6 0€<¢-081 00€—-086 8 

a 3 00F 8 
01-8 =e 00¢ 6-8 
OI-8 = OSE—-00E 6-8 
"yon "UDUO ua y4on 

fo ssnoy | ————_'———__ fo sanoy 

inoqg ‘epius us sobon fino Anog 


"anOadvyT Nvadouny 


“NOLLVdQ000 UNV AULSOGNT 


“18G] ‘ouNsereaq—sojsisnpu] poyoojog uy HOM Jo SINOH SZupyeacsg pue sosem—a 


PAG 
foe ae 


| | 


17 
aye Wot Wade de ee 
Eb Ps ele ey 


lek dead 
Fa is a a | 


SyeTUNOwUL BUTYIOM-POO AA 
sia194sjoyd 
** Surysiusea “Surysyog 
SSBlO PU 
“a SSUIO YS] © SIa}zUOdI¥BO ‘sIOHVUI YOUTGeD 


°°" PaTTP{s- Teg 
re PPTEIS 
oo yews) SYIOM [BJU [BIUO+) 
RUS ee 
8881) Pug 
BEBO YS > SUBINLIZOI]G 
SSUID PUZ 
SSU]O 4ST : BIOWINY, 
v* BSED Pus 
BSBIO IB] 3 sIopuNog 
“** S8BlD Pug 
"* BEBIO IS] : SOTUBTOOT 
_ SSRTD PUZ 
BSUIO 4B] © SYYTUISHOO'T 
bussconnbeg ‘8y40M TOW — "IT 


siamog yy] porTysuy) 
PenLAs ‘siaquinyg 
ssu[O PUZ 
SSB[O IS. * SOUIVG 
"+ SBE] PUZ 
“"* SSBlO IST > BIOIOBSUTT 
geu[O pug 
BHUIO QeL : KUOUTOL ‘sIaQUad IBD 


"OG 
a 
‘06 


61 


“ST 
“LT 


‘91 
‘GT 
FI 
‘EI 
BI 


‘IT 
‘OI 


6 
8 


“L 


78 





7 O9S-OUL 8 gaged 
— 083-003 009-098 8 oe ‘Say o4701uZ10 puw BZuryyno oooegoy, - 
‘saesD) pun oxv9oT—TA 
— @A0Q® 8B 00% 082-002 8 on 89110408} [Ivars sone ‘Zuryeul dvog 
= O8I-001 ee 00E-002 8 eee eos s1dINOGeT 
me OFI-0ZI 002 == 8 i | Banjoed 
= 06-00 oe 00-008 8 ‘ adoreye pus Sutyqno deog - 
= 002-001 = = 8 7 te" Syffor [eure “useoid IO 
= = =e 00F-0ZE 8 ““+ gau10jo8y Zutuger pue Suteseid [10 ° 
tO pun dvog— A 
08-09 as 8 Inoq¥] P[Tyo ‘FIOM [enUE_] : SIoAVUL XOq-p1vOgplyy) ° 
021-08 O0SI-08 OST-O0T =a 8 YOK PenUEHy 
= ae 3 00€-006 8 FIOM OUTYORVAL > GIOAVUI XOG-plvod pAw) * 
= <— 006-021 002-091 8 ne ov SSE]O pug 
= = OSE—-096 8 ° BSB 48] + Mepulq Yoo ° 
ce 096-091 — 083-006 8 8SE]o Pus 
— 00S-008 — 00F-008 8 “* seuO 48]: puwy ‘s1041s0dm10/) 
— 00S-00€ — 009-00? 8 eineaiaies poyrys-q3rq ‘s10ye10do edAjoury ° 
"ofa ‘fisquotny ‘burputsg— 4 J 
"UIULO M "u2 "UT M U2 WW "y40n 
Se ———____—_—_——————|_ fo sanoy 
‘enw us sobom Anog "onus us sahon Anny inoqg ‘NOLLVUND0Q ANV AULSOGNI 
“aNOdVy] OLLVISY ‘anOaV] NVvadoungy 





“(ponusjuco}—[ E61 ‘oupsored—sopysnpuy pozoojeg Uy HOM Jo SINOH Supywacig pus solem—g 


19 


001-08 001-08 ** Surgsem ‘2u13730g 


; P = 
OST-OOI 6 06! 0°$-092 8 "**  - gaoyeredo eulqoeyy “Le 
eee ain? een ne WW 44D YM payosap— x 


= aa oI-8 00Z-O8T | 092-002 g tsetse Boryoed paw Buryeur ymosig “9g 

= 008-002 oI-8 — 0SE-098 6-8 sr tee ae ee ga rey STB 

— —-| 00F-008 01-8 — 099-00F 6-8 sr tests ss parTYS | peaq—aroyeg, “og 
‘eaLsoyog —YX] 

= pie ael ar bs apece Par a a a en ee ee 

pases 00-002 OI fae Ore 6-8 ante ce eee ees ose eee ponrys ‘SI0TT TY "he 


“SIA 4noY— TITA 


031-09 001-09 6-8 on 008 8 FIOM [enUEH] 
ere a3. 6-8 eos 00£ g ace eos eee [eoraeqooyy : > SULAGO AA "Fe 
~ — 6-8 | 0g2-021 — g se aS es (A300) Suuredar ‘Buryeray 
_ = 6-8 092-081 00F—-0S¢ 8 _ os ae at Bury Ty [BoraBqooyy “EE 

"saptixa, — TTA 
08-09 6-8 — — 8 “-* mMoqey prgo ‘Buryoed o7j01eF10 pus 3uiz108 yuoyT “IE 

08-09 ocI-09 6-8 O2T—-00T co 8 ra ke as ""* Samlequy ‘Bure 
O8-09 Oz1-O9 6-8 Oz1-001 = 8 "co yom purnuuur ‘13208 JUT “OE 


80 


XVIII._TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS, AND LIQUORS. 


Drugs. 


Syria continues to be the chief source of the hashish smuggled 
into Palestine. The majority of the consignments seized were 
being conveyed by the direct route across the northern frontier of 
Palestine, but a certain amount penetrated by way of Trans-Jordan. 
It is believed that most of the hashish was not intended for con- 
sumption in Palestine but was destined for Egypt. 


2. The total quantity of drugs confiscated during the year was 
506,102 grammes, including 502,639 grammes of hashish. 


3. 206 persons were prosecuted for offences connected with the 
drug traffic. Of these, 130 were convicted, 71 being imprisoned and 
59 fined. The average fine was £P7. 


4. The closest liaison is maintained with the Central Narcotic 
Bureau in Egypt and with the police authorities of Syria and Trans- 
Jordan for the control of the drug traffic, and special funds are 
assigned to this service for preventing the entry of narcotics to 
Egypt. 


Drug traffickers display much ingenuity in the concealment of 
their contraband, but in view of the strict watch which is kept br 
the police there is little opportunity to smuggle any considerable 
quantity into or through Palestine without detection. 


Details follow of the important captures effected in 1931. 


In January, two Syrian smugglers, professing to be wood 
merchants, arrived in Jerusalem from Trans-Jordan and were 
found in possession of about 37 kilograms of hashish compressed 
into cakes. The cakes were neatly fitted into chambers hollowed 
out in the edges of deal planks, a veneer of the same wood having 
been affixed along the edge to conceal the device. 2,500 grammes 
of opium were also found in the false bottom of a tin kettle in the 
possession of one of these merchants. Sentences of six months’ im- 
prisonment and a fine of £P10 were inflicted. 


In May, information was received from the Syrian authorities 
that large parcels of hashish had been purchased in Damascus and 
were to be shipped on a fishing vessel at Tyre for the port of Gaza, 
no doubt to be carried from there piecemeal into Egypt by Sinai 
Beduin. The smugglers were in due course captured by the police 
in possession of 75 kilograms of hashish; the two principal 
offenders were each sentenced to one year’s imprisonment and their 
four accomplices to six months’ imprisonment each. 


81 


5. International Opium Convention.—Sixty-nine import certifi- 
cates were granted in 1931. Imports were as follows :— 


Grammes. 
Opium ae . ae he seh ee 7,000 
Opium preparations | .. 11,425 
Morphine, in the form of salts ‘and prepara- 
tions ee ae oe 905.48 
Heroin and the hydrochlorides ae sess 230 
Cocaine in the form of salts and preparations ste 3,913.6 


Cocaine in preparations containing more than 
0.1 per cent. of cocaine made direct from the 


leaf oa: ane on 552 76 
Pantopon and preparations a ae a 326.4 
Dicodid and preparations ... cars see as 286.25 
Eucodil and preparations ... 2. sis “as 5.91 
Extract of Cannabis Indica bs sie ak 1,055 
Tincture of Indica ... sac sah a ae 1,225 


6. The regulations under which the Palestine Government con- 
trols the traffic in dangerous drugs are comprised in the Dangerous 
Drugs Ordinance, 1925, as amended by the Dangerous Drugs 
(Amendment) Ordinance, 1928. During 1931 benzoil morphine 
was added to the drugs included under Part I of the Schedule to 
the Ordinance, of which the import is forbidden; and dicodid, 
eucodil, and dilaudid to the drugs in Part IT of the Schedule, which 
may only be imported with the permission of the Director of Health. 


The following drugs are included in the list of prohibited imports 
and exports :— 

Prepared opium. 

Raw opium. 

Coca leaves. 

Indian hemp. 

Hashish, or the resin prepared from Indian Hemp or from 
the plant ‘‘ Cannabis Sativa ’’, and any preparation contain- 
ing the resin except those mentioned in Part II of the Schedule 
to the Ordinance. 


7. The Palestine Government has decided to raise the penalties 
for offences under the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance to a term of 
five years’ imprisonment, or a fine of £P500, or both these 
penalties. 


Arms. 


8. The number of persons prosecuted during 1931 for illegal 
possession of arms was 732, and 799 firearms were confiscated 
under the Firearms Ordinance, 1922.*..  - © eee 


* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, 
page 103. 


82 


The following were the largest parcels of arms confiscated :— 


(i) Six firearms and 380 rounds of ammunition in the house 
of a Jewish resident of Talpioth, a suburb of Jerusalem. 


(1) Twenty-five firearms in Khirbet Abu Falah, an Arab 
village in the Jerusalem District. 


(111) Fourteen rifles in Dahrieh and Durra, Arab villages in 
the Jerusalem District. 


(iv) Sixteen rifles in the lands of Masfara, an Arab village 
in the Jerusalem District. 


Liquors. 


9. The Permanent Mandates Commission enquired as to the 
consumption of intoxicating liquors in Palestine. t 


PRODUCTION OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS IN PALESTINE, QUANTITIES 
DELIVERED FOR HOME CONSUMPTION, BXPORTS SINCE 1928, AND 


IMPORTS. 
Wine Arak. 
Delivered Delivered 
Year. | Produced.* | for home Exported. | Produced.* | forhome | Exported 
consumption consumption 
litres. litres. litres. In litires of alcohol|. 
1928 1,813,924 876,636 1,166,877 84,738 86,609 3,782 
1929 3,581,391 858,354 1,028,018 66,539 78,251 3,813 
1930 4,250,926 918,467 1,074,807 81,762 184,273 3,011 
1931 2,838,652 724,831 1,014,565 52,568 243,743 575 
Cognac Other Spirtis 
Delivered Delivered 
Year. | Produced.* | for home | Exported. | Produced.* | for home | Exported 
consumption consum ptton 
In \litres of alcojhol. In |litres of alcohjol. 
1928 137,720 34,801 21,885 414,837 238,057 24,383 
1929 153,210 29,488 13,682 426,321 284,765 7,007 
1930 238,789 33,702 13,594 371,171 133,386 11,104 
1931 147,250 34,324 21,030 196,802 72,069 4,040 


* Quantities produced from raw material on first distillation. 


+ Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, 
page 107. 


83 


Imports oF INTOXICATING Liquors. 





1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 

litres. litres. litres. litres. 
Arak eae 354 223 284 250 
Brandy and d Cognac ‘ee 6,452 8,110 5,701 4,618 
Rum sae 229 479 7124 277 
(rin ae ues we 2,989 3,217 3,004 4,838 
Whisky... eee 21,639 22,057 21,565 23,571 
Beer, Cider, and Perry .. 491,988 624,418 888,766 828,763 
Sparkling Wines ase sau 277 1,067 1,425 1,472 
Champagne a 1,428 2,244 2.748 1,769 
Liqueurs of all kinds wc 1,848 3,067 3,308 2,030 
Uther Wines Joe vei 47,719 106,658 50,212 39,779 


Arak is defined in the Intoxicating Liquors Ordinance, 1927, as 
spirits made from fruit and the aniseed plant by distillation; and 
cognac (which includes brandy) as spirits distilled from the fer- 
mented juice of grapes. Other spirits are those made from molasses 
or grain. After production, the spirits (alcohol) are prepared for 
marketing by the operations of re-distillation, blending, mixing, 
and dilution. Thus alcohol primarily distilled from the fermented 
juice of grapes may be re-distilled with the aniseed plant and so 
converted into arak; so that, although the alcoholic content ts 
unchanged, the resulting intoxicating liquor passes into home con- 
sumption as arak. Thus, in 1931, 174,713 litres of alcohol dis- 
tilled from the fermented juice of grapes in 1930 and 1931, and 
therefore classified as cognac on production, were subsequently 
converted by the operation of re-distillation into arak. This ex- 
plains the apparent discrepancy between the amount of arak pro- 
duced in 1931 and the amount delivered for home consumption, 
VIZ. i— 





[itres. 

Produced by primary distillation vas .. 52,568 
Converted cognac alcohol ... a oe ... 194,713 
Total... bie fs oe ... 247,281 

Delivered for home consumption .. oat ... 243,743 





The same explanation applies to the similar divergence which 
appears in respect of previous years; and it will be seen that, 
correspondingly, the production of cognac 1s shown to be greater 
than the amount of cognac delivered for home consumption. 

In 1928, the Excise duties on the different kinds of intoxicating 
liquors were as follows :— 

Muls per litre. 
Arak ee bes bse ébJ a sg .. 50 
Cognac se Ss ‘i bot ie sis ... 60 
Other Spirits ie a ee se oe .. 10 


84 


At first, arak manufactured from other spirits by re-distillatior 
was preferred by the consumer, and most of the intoxicating liquo. 
purporting to be arak which was delivered for home consumptior 
in 1928 and 1929 was therefore classified as other spirits. In 
1930, to some extent owing to a revision of Excise duties, the 
preference veered towards arak distilled from fruit alcohol. But. 
on the whole, it may be assumed that the actual consumption of 
arak is represented by the totals shown as delivered for home con- 
sumption in respect both of arak and other spirits, as follows :— 


tS Litres. 
1928 1... et, ee i - we '... 824,666 
1929 ... 8... Sse sie — a5 ..- 863,106 
1930 ... 0... soe ae wy sea ... 317,659 
1931 . ; be as a oe .. 315,812 


There is, therefore, in fact a progressive decrease in consumption 
“since 1929. 

The figures of production of wine, arak, cognac, and other spirits 
‘given on page 169 of the Report for 1930 have been corrected in 
the present Report so as to show the actual quantities produced. 
The figures given in the 1930 Report were estimates only, as at 
the time of its preparation the final statistics were not available. 


_COMPARATIVE TABLE OF LICENSED DISTILLERIES AND WINE PRESSES 
AND OF WHOLESALE AND RETAIL LICENCES FOR THE SALE OF 
INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 





Intoxicating Liquors. 
Year. Distilleries. Wine Presses. |——_——_—__._—_____—_—_ 
Wholesale. Retail. 
| 
1928... 25 19 | 89 916 
1929... ed 25 19 92 927 
1930... oa 22 16 108 955 
1931 a. “as 22 14 98 965 


It should be borne in mind that the population of Palestine 18 
annually augmented by immigration as well as by natural increase. 

The progressive increase in revenue is, however, chiefly due to 
increased rates of duty and of licence fees. 

No records are kept by the Excise Department of the alcohol 
-cor 2°‘ of spirits, as the degree of alcohol is different in almost 
eve.y barrel. The stills are of comparatively small capacity and 
consequently each distillation varies in its alcoholic content. 

Wine is limited to two graduations, namely, not exceeding 15° 
of alcohol and not exceeding 25° of alcohol. 

The average degree of alcohol of all other spirits produced in 
Palestine is 45°. 

The production of intoxicating hquors is controlled by Excise 
officers; each factory or distillery is supervised by an officer with 
whom the keys of the cellars are deposited. 


85 


The bases used in the distillation of arak and spirits are aniseed, 
molasses, figs, raisins, dates, and durra. 
The following table shows the rates of Excise duty in respect of 
intoxicating liquors manufactured and issued for home consump- 
tion in Palestine and the licence fees to manufacture intoxicating 


liquors :— 


FEES FOR ‘MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS, 


Description of 
licence. 





Manufacturer’s licence in | When the quantity of intoxicating 


respect of intoxicating 
liquors other than 
spirits. 


Manufacturer’s licence in 
respect of spirits. 


Annual licence duty. 


liquors other than spirits manu- 
factured during the preceding year 
does not exceed 50, 000 litres 


When the quantity exceeds 50,000 
litres :— 
For the first 50,000 litres 
For the second 50,000 litres or 
fraction of 50,000 litres 
For every further 100,000 litres 
or fraction of 100,000 litres ... 

In the case of a person applying 
for a licence for the first time or 
in respect of premises for which 
no licence has been issued during 
the preceding year, or for which a 
licence has been in force but no 
intoxicating liquors other than 
spirits have been manufactured 
there during the preceding year ... 

The preceding year shall be taken 
to be the year ending the 3lst 
December. 

When the quantity of alcohol con- 
tained in the spirits manufactured 
during the preceding year does 
not exceed 10,000 litres ... 

When the quantity exceeds 10, 000 
litres of alcohol :— 

For the first 10,000 litres of 
alcohol 

For the second 10, 000 ‘litres of 
alcohol or fraction thereof ... 

For every further 20,000 litres 
of alcohol or fraction thereof ... 

In the case of a person applying for 
a licence for the first time, or in 
respect of premises for which no 
licence has been issued during the 
preceding year, or for which a 
licence has been in force but no 
spirits have been manufactured 
therein during the preceding year 


£P 


2, 


25 
25 
25 


25 


25 


25 


25 
25 


25 


Rate of | Rate of 
fees 
1927 

to 1929. | to 1931. 


fees 
1930 


£P 


86 
EXxciszE Duty IN PALESTINE. 





Duty Duty 
Description of liquors. Unit. 1927- | 1/4/30- 
31/3/30.| 1931. 
Mils Mils 
Beer, cider, and perry ... | For each litre not exceeding 15 
degrees of alcohol .. ' 5 5 
Wine _... acs ... | For each litre not ‘exceeding 15 
degrees of alcohol .. Ss 3 6 
For each litre exceeding 15 degrees 
of alcohol but not exceeding 
25 degrees of alcohol ss 6 12 
Arak... ae ... | Per litre of alcohol ... us a 50 75 
Cognac ... Pee ... | Per litre of alcohol ... oP athe 60 90 
Spirits made _ from | Per litre of alcohol ... 70 , 100 


molasses or grain and 

other spirituous mix- 

tures and preparations | 
| 
| 


containing spirits. 





10. The Permanent Mandates Commission also enquired as to 
the relations between the co-operative societies which manufac- 
ture wine and the cultivators of grapes.* The answer is that in 
the majority of cases the cultivators are organized in the co-opera- 
tive societies in question; the wine produced by the societies 
belongs to all the members who are the cultivators themselves and 
it is sold on their account. 


It will be observed that there is a progressive decrease in con- 
sumption of wine and in imports of intoxicating liquors, except 
whisky and gin. The decrease in consumption of wines may als 
be ascribed to the temporary decline in tourist traffic and the 
reduced purchasing-power of the population. The increase in 
imports of beer, whisky, and gin is attributed to the larger Bnitish 
Garrison. 


The figures show that Palestine is most abstemious; the pet 
capita consumption of the urban population, which numbered 
386,787 in November, 1931, 1s less than five litres annually. The 
townspeople are naturally the principal consumers; the peasants, 
largely Moslem, observe the Qoran injunction against the drinking 
of spirits. 


It cannot therefore be maintained that there has been an 1D 
crease in the consumption of liquor in Palestine since the War 
or that the consumption is excessive. Drunkenness is almost 
entirely unknown in Palestine and certainly it has not increased 
since the War; and prosecutions for intoxication in the Courts ar 
extremely rare. 


— 


* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, 
page 108. 


87 


There has been an increase in the number of wine-shops in Pales- 
tine conducted by Jews, but this is understandable in view of the 
fact that nearly 105,000 Jews have immigrated into the country 
since 1920; but there is no evidence of increase of excessive 
drinking among Jews, whether old residents or new arrivals; nor 
can it be said that there is any perceptible tendency on the part 
of Moslems to consume drink in public places. 


In this connexion it is important to note that most of the licences 
for the sale of intoxicating liquors in Palestine are in respect of 
consumption off the premises. It is also important to note that 
licensed ** premises ’’ in Palestine are mostly small single rooms, 
without back-door or windows and incapable of ecoweere ne 


more than a few people. 


It was suggested in paragraph 11 of the Report of the League 
of Nations Union of 24th April, 1929, that the Palestine Govern- 
ment has exempted from all taxes the wine presses of foreign 
educational institutions, monasteries, and convents. This sugges- 
tion is misleading. Section 5 (a) of the Intoxicating Liquors 
Ordinance, 1929, merely maintains immunities formerly accorded 
under the Turkish Law, in the same way as exemptions from 
Customs duties and other forms of taxation are granted to those 
institutions. 


Special licences free of licence duty are granted to religious 
institutions to manufacture wine for the sole consumption of the 
members of such institutions. 


The Palestine Government is about to undertake the revision 
of the present controlling legislation. This revision will be directed 
to the following ends :— 


(1) To permit of restricting the number of licences issued ; 
(2) To empower refusal of a licence without assigning a 


, reason; 


(3) To increase licence fees. 


AXIX.—EDUCATION. 


The educational work of the Government Department during the 
year has been normal and general progress has been made. 


2. The number of classified officers employed by the Department 
on 3lst December, 1931, was 773, of whom 12 were British. The 
remainder, with very few exceptions, are Palestinians. 

3. The expenditure on education in 1931 was £P145,704. 

14213 D 


88 


Details of Actual Expenditure. 
(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Arab and Hebrew). 
£ 














£P 
Salaries “a 13,707 
Other Charges 263 
13,970 
(b) Schools: 
(i) Government. : 
Salaries 97 ,556 
Books and Equipment 3,881 
Scholarships, maintenance 
allowance, etc. 3,470 
——— 104,907 
(11) Non-Government. 
Block grant to Jewish 
Agency 19,190 
Per capita grants to other schools : 
Jewish 1,289 
Moslem 624 
Christian (including foreign) 1,085 
22,188 
(c) Miscellaneous : 
Grant to Board of eee 
Studies — 500 
Transport and Travelling . 3,598 
Other Minor Charges 541 
4 639 
Total £P145 ,704 





The revenue from the sale of books and school materials 
amounted to £P1,337, and that from school fees to £P2,708. 


4. There are no exact figures of the total expenditure of private 
bodies and foreign organizations on education in Palestine. 


5. The distribution of educational benefits to Arabs and Jews 
continued roughly in the proportion of 5: 1 on the basis of the 
estimated population of the two races. 


6. The following amounts were expended in 1930 by the Govern- 
ment upon educational services outside the budget of the Education 
Department :— 


£P 
Hygienic and medical care of pupils sae 1,520 
Supply of trees for Arbor Day .. aon 10 
Printing and Stationery .. = 262 
Cost of living and house allowances 8,584 


Rents, repairs, furniture and water- 
supply sie ae sts iia ee 5 ,860 


89 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 

7. In September, 1931, ten additional teaching posts were filled. 

Of the 734 teachers employed by the Department in December, 
1931, 729 were Arabs (532 Moslem, 197 Christian) four were 
British, and one was an American. 

A British Inspector of English language teaching was appointed 
in April. 

8. Elementary Education.—There were this year 306 elementary 
shools with a population of 24,153 pupils. The number of pupils 
who applied for admission to Government schools was 9,667, but 
lack of accommodation made it necessary to refuse as many as 4,310. 


9. The same cause has checked the earlier improvement in the 
grading of classes by age. 

10. Wastage no longer offers a serious problem, but serious diffi- 
culties are still caused by stagnation, of which the principal causes 
are insufficient staff and space. The number of pupils who repeat 
the preparatory class is excessive. The figures for other classes 
were more satisfactory but showed an increase in rural schools. 
This appears due to a prolongation of school life unaccompanied by 
a corresponding increase in class-rooms. The average length of 
school life is now not less than four years even in rural schools. 

11. Town Schools.—The number of town schools was 51 and of 
the pupils in them 10,333. There was a sixth class in 18 schools 
with an attendance of 264. Of these senior pupils 164 are continu- 
ing their studies in secondary schools and 42 are known to have 
found employment. 

12. Headmasters of town schools for boys are authorized to collect 
an annual fee of 100 mils from well-to-do pupils to meet expenses: 
on the school library, sports, garden, and the like. 


13. Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by want of space, 
it has been possible steadily to increase the number of children 
under education, mainly by internal reorganization in the schools. 
The two upper elementary classes are restricted to chosen pupils, 
superannuation is applied, and pupils are admitted to the lower 
classes to the numerical limit allowed by the health regulations. 


14. Rural Schools.—There were 255 rural schools (including 8 
for girls) with a total attendance of 13,820, including 669 girls. 

Three schools were closed during the year, either on account of 
low attendance or on the recommendation of the Department of 
Health, One new school was opened. 

Over £P3,300 was raised in various villages, either for school 
repairs or for school furniture. 

During the year 21 teachers were appointed and paid by villages 
to work in Government schools. 

15. Most rural schools have now developed a third class, thus 
affording four years of instruction. In 1927, 93 such schools had no 
second class; now there are only seven without one. 


14213 D2 


90 


16. An enquiry in the Gaza and Majdal area with a view to 
ascertaining the permanence of literacy among ex-schoolboys in 
villages revealed a better state of affairs than might have been 
expected in what is a somewhat backward area. 

Standardized tests of literacy have now been prepared for use 
in all parts of Palestine. 

Steps have been taken to establish village lending-libraries in 
the schools under the control of the teachers. 


17. The seasonal holidays in rural schools are subject to local 
arrangements and vary with the time of the harvest ; the total period 
allowed is ten weeks in the year. 


18. Secondary Education.—There was a total attendance of 365 
pupils in the twelve schools with secondary classes. 


19. Government Arab College.—The new students admitted to 
the College in September, 1930, numbered 33. 

Twenty-five students of the fourth class were entered for the 
Palestine Matriculation Examination; eighteen passed and six 
qualified for the school certificate. 

Of the students who completed the fourth class in July, 1931, 
eleven were selected for training in the fifth class of the College, 
six were offered temporary teaching posts under the Department, 
and two were elected fo Government scholarships at the Beirut 
University and at the Cairo Institute of Education, respectively. 

Kight students of the fifth class obtained the teachers’ certificate 
and were appointed to permanent teaching posts. 


20. Women’s Training College.—In September, 1930, there were 
64 students, all boarders, divided as follows :— 


Class. Moslem.| Chr'st- | Bahai. \Jew.| Total. | Scholar.| Fee | Ta 
wan. Paying. 

IV 12 8 — — 20 8 12 2 

Ii! 12 1 — — 13 4 9 l 

I 8 3 ] — 12 5 7 l 

I 15 1 — 1 17 1 16 L 

Attending Jerusalem 1 1 — — 2 1 1 

Girls’ College 

Total cae ae 48 14 1 1 64 19 45 6 


Seventeen students in the fourth class passed the College Diploma 
Examination in July, and were offered teaching posts under the 
Department. 


21. Scholarships.—Two Government women scholars at the 
London Day Training College and at Helwan Training College, 
respectively, completed their course and were appointed to teach 
for the Department. A scholar at Beirut also qualified and was 
similarly appointed. 


91 


Hebrew Public System. 


22. Various proposals for the improvement of the present adminis- 
trative machinery of the Jewish educational system were discussed 
at meetings of the Zionist Congress and the Administrative Com- 
mittee of the Jewish Agency in July and August, but no final de- 
cisions were taken. 

The work in the Jewish schools was hampered by financial diffi- 
culties and by the opposition of the Teachers’ Association to changes 
in the existing salary scale. Nevertheless, graduated reductions in 
salaries, averaging 5 per cent., were effected as from April, 1931. 


23. Distribution of Schools and Pupils by Groups. 


TABLE [. 
1929-30. 1930-31. 
Group Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
General ... hs ‘ia 124 12,982 138 13,856 
Mizrahi... bes se 54 6,392 60 6,739 
Labour... se age 51 1,506 59 1,798 
Totals ne ee 229 20,880 257 22,393 


Distribution of Schools by Grades and Types. 


TABLE II. 
1929-30. 1930-31 
Schools. Pupils. Schools Pupils 
Kindergartens... ae 126 4,650 138 5,000 
Elementary ... .. 90 13,705 106 15,031 
n eee ae 4 1,465 4 1,489 
Training Colleges ses 4 526 4 500 
Commercial : oe 2 384 2 269 
Trade 3 150 3 104 
Totals ... is 229 20,880 257 22,393 
24. Budgets 1929-30 and 1930-31. 
REVENUE (ORDINARY BUDGET). 
1929-30. 1930-31. 

l. Central Authorities. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Jewish eoeey sapioa sas Keren ha- pee) 76,207 74,365 
Government . 19,195 19,175 
PICA .. os wes abe oes eee 5,645 5,620 

——§ 101,047 ——_———-. 99,160 
3. Local Sources: 
Tel-Aviv Township ... eee sae ous 12,000 14,000 
Other local authorities ne a eas 4,070 4,199 
School fees... ee be es --- 10,009 12,017 
26,079 ———_—__ 30,216 
3. Miscellaneous ae bee bse ape 224 51 
Totals... no £P127,350 £P129,427 


14213 D 8 


92 
EXPENDITURE (ORDINARY BUDGET). 


1929-30. 1930-31. 

1 Administration. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Staff — wis aes --- 6,602 5,493 
Departmental expenses oes 65 . 1,492 1,759 
School secretaries ... eae ies me 534 588 

—— 17,628 ——— 7,840 

2 Schools: Salaries. 

Kindergarten teachers’... oy. ... 8,253 7,943 
Elementary teachers Pe -- 70,797 73,637 
Secretary and Training Colleges t teachers 10,115 8,916 
School servants... os 5,846 6,025 

—— 96,011 ——— 96,521 

3 Schools: ais be etc. 

Rent ee a an wes .. 8,877 7,680 
Repairs ws ie “aie 1,425 1,150 
Furniture and equipment... sis .- 4,275 4,755 

—— 14,577 —— 13,595 

4 Grants-in-ard. 

Labour schools ___... sate ae . 4,450 4,935 
Other schools ner ait ‘o mer 3,072 ~ 3,810 

—— 17,522 —— 8,745 

5 Miscellaneous. 

Pension Fund, compensations, etc. eae 2,315 2,470 
Unforeseen expenses re pis Ait 297 256 
—- 2,612 —— 2,726 
Totals re bee £P127,350 £P129,427 


25. Apart from the contribution of the Jewish Agency itself, the 
various sources of revenue came up to expectation. ‘The shortage 
in the Agency’s contribution amounts to approximately four months’ 
personal emoluments. 


26. Elementary Schools.—Achievement tests in Hebrew, arith- 
metic and English were again applied by the Government Inspectors 
to a large number of Jetvish elementary classes. 


27. The age range of classes in the Agency schools 1s approxi- 
mately the same as in the Government Arab schools, but the median 
age in each class 1s about two years lower. 


28. Training of Teachers.—Certain changes were introduced in 
the administrative and educational organization of the Training 
College. 


29. Improvement continued in the sanitary and hygienic con- 
ditions of the school buildings. New school buildings were erected 
in a number of Jewish settlements in the north, and extensions to 
existing buildings were carried out in the older colonies in the 
south. 

Several new textbooks for use in elementary and secondary schools 
were published locally. 


93 


30. Kitchens which served 3,000 children with meals were main- 
tained in 50 schools and kindergartens by the Hadassah Organization 
of America, the average cost of a meal amounting to approximately 
12 mils. 


Other Schools. 


A. MostEmM ScHOOLS. 


31. The number of Moslem private schools was 137 (43 more 
than last year) with an attendance of 7,319. A new girls’ school 
was established by the Gaza Municipality. Several others in the 
towns are staffed by uncertificated teachers with respectable 
academic qualifications, but most of these schools are private kuttabs 
in which the standard of education is low. 


B. CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS. 

32. The following table gives comparative figures of Christian 
schools for the years 1929-30 and 1930-31, excluding the schools 
of the Greek Catholic Archbishop and some schools of the Latin 
Patriarchate. 


1929-30. 1930-31. 
Group | —._—_-—-——- 

Schools. Pupils. 

Catholic 77 9,229 
Protestant ... 50 4,281 
Orthodox ... sae ous 27 2,504 
Others wnt ses ies 2 85 
Totals ... 156 16,099 





33. The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by Palestinian and foreign organizations, respectively :— 


(a) Palestinian. 





192 9-30. 1930-31. 
Schools. Pupils. 

Greek Orthodox Patriarchate 16 1,191 
Syrian Patriarchate is 2 98 
Armenian Patriarchate 4 §22 
Orthodox Societies 5 693 
Custode di Terra Santa ... 15 2,033 
Protestant Native Council 1 65 
Private Christian ... : 3 158 
Latin Patriarchate 5 170 
Jesuits 2 5l 

Totals 53 4,981 








14218 D 4 


94 
(b) Foreign. 


EC lp SP RR a A a EEA | RA RRR INS | SSR na EE |S NR SS 


French 38 4,628 38 4,709 
English ‘ 23 2,072 22 2,071 
German 21 1,818 21 2,007 
Italian 12 1,381 13 1,751 
American 10 494 8 421 
Swedish 1 153 1 159 

Totals 105 10,546 103 11,118 


34. During the year a kindergarten was opened at Gaza by the 
Church Missionary Society; and two schools were opened by the 
Christian Catholic Apostolic Church, one in Jaffa and one in 
Jerusalem. 


The Boy’s School under the Church Mission to Jews was closed. 


C. JEwIsH ScHOOLS. 
35. (Not under control of Jewish Agency). 


1929-30. _ 1930-31. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. | Pupils. 


Alliance Israélite... ae eat 8 3,461 8 3,695 

Anglo-Jewish Association ... a8 1 487 1 414 

Women’s International Zionist 2 105 2 113 
Organization. 

Kefar Han-No‘ar Agricultural Or- 1 175 1 226 
phanage, Ben Shemen. 

Meir Shfeya Agricultural Orphan- 1 103 1 109 
age (Junior Hadassah of U.S.A.). 

Giv‘at Ham-Moreh, Agricultural Or- l 80 1 79 
phanage. 

Agudat Israel Organisation ry 11 780 10 766 

Communal Talmud Toras ... a 7 530 — — 

Other Talmud Toras oe ne 31 3,125 47 3,822 

Private Schools and Kindergartens 37 1,709 46 2,213 


ay eS | ES | AS | TREES | nee SIE 


95 
Secondary and Post-Secondary Education. 


GOVERNMENT. 


36. The following is a list of all Government schools in which 
secondary education is given. 











| No. of pupils. 
No. of | |——_— 
School. secondary 1930-31. 1929-30. 
classes. |—————_—— ——|—_——__|___—_ 

Boys. Girls. Boys. | Girls. 

Government Arab College, 2 53 — 57 — 

Women’s Training College, 2 — 33 — 34 
Elementary-Secondary Day 

Schools for boys :— 

Rashidiya, Jerusalem 2 57 — 60 — 

Nazareth 2 24 — 18 — 

Gaza 2 26 _— 18 — 

Hebron ... 2 22 — 16 — 

Nablus ... 2 37 — 37 — 

Acre 2 21 — 20 — 

Tulkarm 2 28 —— 17 — 

Safad 2 15 — 18 — 

Ramleh... 2 10 — 13 — 

Jaffa 3 39 — 45 — 

Totals 25 332 33 319 34 





Non-GOVERNMENT. 
(1) Moslem. 


37. The following secondary classes, all for boys, exist :— 


1930-31. 
School. a ee 
No. of classes. No. of boys. 
An-Najah, Nablus ue eee ace Bes 3 80 
Rawdat al-Ma‘aref —... ies ste oe 3 60 





Totals bias sais mus obs wee 6 140 


96 
(tt) Christian. 


388. The following secondary classes exist :— 


Sg a ES TS 


No. of secondary 
pupus. 







School 


Teaching in English : 
Jerusalem. 
St. George’s, School 
Jerusalem Girls’ College 
Bishop Gobat School... 
Schmidt’s Girls’ School ... 
Terra Santa College 
Friends Boys’ School _... 
English High School, Jaffa __... 
Tabeetha Mission School, Jaffa 
English High School, Haifa 
Scots College, Safad ae 
Friends Girls’ School, Ramallah | 
Teaching in French : 
Collége des Fréres, Jerusalem ... 
Collége des Fréres, Jaffa... 
Collége des Fréres, Haifa, i wa 
Pensionnat N.D. de Sion, Jerusalem ... 


Ecole St. Joseph, Jaffa ... 


Ecole St. Joseph, Bethlehem 

Pensionnat Carmelite, Haifa 

Pensionnat Dames de Nazareth, Haifa 

Externat, Maison du Sacre Coeur, Haifa 
Teaching in German : 

Deuteche Evangelische Gemeinde Schule, 
Jerusalem. 

Deutsche Schule, Haifa ... née 

Lyceum Tempelstift, Jerusalem 

Deutsche Schule, Sarona 

Deutsche Schule, Wilhelma _.... 

Deutsche Schule, Bethlehem, near Haifa 

Waldheim German School, Haifa 
Teaching in Arabtc : 

Greek Orthodox Boys’ School, Jaffa ... 

Talitha Kumi, Jerusalem ais 
Teaching in German and Arabic : 

Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem ... 
Teaching in Greek : 

Greek Gymnasia, Jerusalem... 

Teaching in Arabic, English and Italian : 

Scuola Italiana Maschile, Haifa 



















ISI 118S1Sle8 
FlaBeal lls! 


| | Sae 
om | | 


4 


rv ee Or DD GS GS GO om Hm BO bO PR OL GO OF 
m 69 69 © -1 © bo bs Om ao 


ps 





p= 
~_—~ 





— 
Orem Bm H 7 CO 
—_ 


b— 
& 
or | 


Totals 





97 
39. (it) Jewish Secondary Classes. 





No. of secondary 
No. of secondary pupils. 
School. classes. ——_——  —__——_— 
Boys. Girls. 
Gymnasia ‘Ivrit, Jerusalem : 5 106 77 
Hebrew Men’s Training College, Jeru- 3 55 9 
Mizrahi Men’s Training College, Jeru- 5 110 — 
salem. 
Mizrahi Women’s Training College, 5 — 136 
Jerusalem. 
Commercial School, Jerusalem .. 3 32 16 
Evelina de Rothschilds School, J: erusalem 1 — 23 
Tel-Aviv and Colonies :— 
Gymnasia Herzlia, Tel-Aviv .. 5 232 146 
Gymnasia Nordiys, Tel-Aviv ie 4 52 54 
Women’s Training College, Tel-Aviv 5 — 154 
Tahkemoni Reali, Tel-Aviv ... - 4 67 — 
Talpioth School, Tel-Aviv... 2 — 42 
Commercial High School, Tel-Aviv .. 3 69 78 
Gymnasia Humanistit (evening) Tel- 2 17 12 
“Aviv. 
Gymnasia Binyamina, Rishon le Tsiyon 2 16 14 
Gymnasia Ahad ha’Am, Petah Tiqva 4 28 35 
Beit Sefer Reali, Haifa - 5 104 56 
Commercial and Technical School, 3 14 21 
Haifa. 
Totals ioe ve aa sib 61 902 873 


40. Post Secondary Education.—During the year 1930-31 there 
were 210 Palestinian students in the upper Departments of the 
Beirut University. 


41. Palestine Board of Higher Studies.—In 1930 there were 
candidates for the ‘Matriculation Examination only. 


Board of Higher Studies. 











1930. 1931. 
Examined. | Passed. | Examined. Passed. 
Matriculation Matricu- oe. 
Examination. lation. sl 
Moslems... ee a 34 16 34 15 10 
Jews oe ‘iat ae 22 12 28 8 3 
Christians ar 17 8 17 7 5 
Examined thro 
(1) English 23 9 29 5 10 
(2) Arabic ‘ Se 32 18 30 19 7 
(3) Hebrew... e 18 9 20 6 — 
Presented by Schools _... 49 30 61 24 18 
Unattached candidates ... 24 6 18 6 — 





98 


42. Hebrew University.—One hundred and fifty regular students 
and fifty-four ‘‘ auditors ’’’ were in attendance in the Faculty of 
Humanities, which at present includes the Institute of Mathematics. 
Of the regular students, a third have completed their secondary 
education in the country. The first degree examinations in 
‘‘ minor ’’ study subjects were held in November, 1930, and in 
November, 1931, students were examined in the ‘‘ major’’ and 
remaining ‘‘ minor’’ study subjects required for the M.A. degree. 

A new laboratory of plants physiology has been added to the 
science department. 

The Board of Governors have decided to establish a ‘‘ Division 
of Biological Studies,’’ with a four years’ course of instruction 
leading to a degree. 


43. Language Examinations for Government Officers.—Ten 
Government officers passed the annual elementary Arabic examina- 
tion, and nine the Hebrew ; two were successful in advanced Arabic 
and one was successful in advanced Hebrew. 


44. Teachers’ Examination.—Out of the fourteen candidates two 
passed in Part I (Practical and Theoretical Pedagogy) and Part II 
(school subjects) of the examination ; and in the Higher Certificate 
Examination, out of eight candidates, three passed in Part I and 
one in Part II. 


45. Results of examinations held by the Government Depart- 
ment on behalf of foreign institutions :— 


Number of Candidates. 
University or Board. Examination. ——__—_—_— 
Entered. Passed. 
Matriculation : 
January ea 3 2 
June jee 23 3 (Palestinians). 
Intermediate 
3 None. 
Science 1 None. 
Law aes I 1 (Palestinian). 
London University ... Engineering... 1 l 
Commerce aes 1 None. 
Economics 1 None. 
|| First Medical 1 None. 
Final : 
B.Sc. General 1 None. 
B.Sc. Special l Withdrew. 
[} LOB. ... ae ] 1 (Palestinian). 
London Association of | Intermediate, June 1 None. 
Accountants. 
City and Guilds of | Final Telephony ... 1 1 (Palestinian). 
London Institute (De- 


partment of Tech- | 
nology). 


99 


46. The Oxford and Cambridge Joint Board School and Lower 
Certificate Examinations were held under the supervision of the 
foreign schools concerned. The following are the results :— 


School Lower 
Name of School. Certificate Certificate 
Passed. Passed. 
Jerusalem Girls’ College ... : a 8 — 
English High School for Girls, Haifa ... 2 2 


47. Physical Training.—The training of pupils is developing 
satisfactorily in towns and the larger village schools under the 
guidance of certificated instructors. 

All town sckools, except one, have recreation grounds suitable 
for football and other games. 

Additional playgrounds were opened during the year from the 
funds of a Jewish bequest. 


Agricultural and Technical Education. 
A. AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 


48. Ninety-six Government village schools have now gardens 
fenced and planted with trees. 


49. There were 10,683 trees planted on Arbor Day. 


50. The cultivation of silk-worms was further extended, and 
prizes are given for the best quality of silk-cocoons reared by school 
children, 


51. Kadoorie Agricultural School.—The school was opened in 
January, 1931, with 30 students in the Senior course and 10 in 
the Junior course. The first session closed in July, 1931. The 
students in the Junior class are being allowed to continue their 
studies for the next session. 

Four boys received scholarships at the school from funds pro- 
vided by the American Near East Foundation. 

52. American Near East Foundation.—The grant of £P1,000 
from the Institute of Rural Life of the American Near East 
Foundation for the school year 1930-1931 was devoted to the 
training of village teachers at the Kadoorie Agricultural School. 

53. The following schools also give instruction in theoretical 
and practical agriculture :— 


No. of 
Christian School. Organization. Pupils. 
Agricultural School of Bait Salesian of Don 
Jamal (near Artuf Bosco... fi 45 
Station) 


Agricultural School of Latin Patriarchate 18 
Rafat (near Artuf 

Station) 

Agricultural School of Trappist... ae 6 
Latroun (near Ramleh) 


100 


No. of 
Christian School. Organization. Pupils. 
Meir Shfeya Orphanage Junior Hadassah of 
(in Galilee) U.S.A. ... ... 109 
Giv‘at ham-Moreh (in South African Jews 
Galilee) Committee set 19 
Ben Shemen Agricultural Judische Weisenhilf 
School (near Lydda) of Berlin .. 226 
Nahalal Agricultural Women’s Interna- 
School (in Galilee) tional Zionist 
Organization... 70 
Mikve Israel (near Jaffa) Alliance Israélite ... 194 


B.—TECHNICAL EDUCATION. 


54. Considerable progress was made in Government schools in 
drawing and modelling direct from actual objects. Light wood- 
work was started in 17 town schools. 


55. An advanced Summer Course for the training of Govern- 
ment and other teachers in technical work was held in Jerusalem 
during August. 


56. Weaving was introduced at the Bethlehem Boys’ School. 
The course included, in addition to loom work, drawing and weav- 
ing theory and practical book-keeping. 


57. From Majdal, where there is an old-established weaving 
industry, three boys went to study weaving in Egypt. One boy 
from Bethlehem is studying furniture design and cabinet-making 
in London. 


58. Owing to financial stringency the Alliance Israélite Technical 
School at Jerusalem was closed during the year after an existence 
of about fifty years. 


59. Education of the Blind.—There are many blind children in 
Palestine for whom adequate education is not yet provided. 

At present facilities for such education exist in the Syrian 
Orphanage, the Moslem Orphanage, the Jewish Blind Institute, 
and the Hospice of St. Vincent de Paul, all at Jerusalem, in 
which 109 pupils are being trained. 


60. Education of the Deaf and Dumb.—There is a school for deaf 
and dumb Jewish children in the Strauss Health Centre at Tel- 
Aviv, and the Hospice of St. Vincent de Paul is educating 14 deaf 
children (three boys and eleven girls). 


61. Mentally defective.—The only institution for the education 
of the mentally defective is at Tel-Aviv, where 24 Jewish children 
are maintained. 


101 
XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


Epidemic Diseases.—The general incidence of communicable 
disease was slightly higher than in 1930. Measles was more 
prevalent ; 7,783 cases were notified, and the case mortality rate 
was 9.39 per cent. 

Scarlet fever was also more prevalent, especially in Jerusalem, 
but the type of the disease was mild and the case mortality rate 
was only 1.07 per cent. Typhoid fever is still severe in Haifa town 
and district, and 905 cases were notified. Dysentery was less 
prevalent and influenza continued to decline. There were 51 
sporadic cases of typhus, none of which was fatal. 

The year was favourable so far as malaria was concerned. The 
general control was effective and, while certain rural localities in 
the Northern District are still heavily afflicted, the disease in other 
parts is subsiding. The spleen index of school children in towns 
was 1.41 compared with 1.55 in 1980, and in rural areas it was 
5.46 compared with 8.50 in 1930. 

There were no cases of plague, cholera, or small-pox. 


Summary. 


| 1930. ere 





Acute Poliomyelitis... sae oe aie 9 2 3 2 
Cerebro-Spinal Fever . es oe ee 6 6 4 3 
Diphtheria gag sae a — | 106 12 125 12 
Dysentery ! 514 7 297 12 
Encephalitis Lethargica 3 a ea 
Influenza | 741] 21 108 6 
Measles | 4,018 336 | 7,783 73) 
Paratyphoid ... ... igs - r+) | 5 204 “4 
Pneumonia sit -_ Ae ars aes | 633 377 709 414 
Puerperal Fever ses sate | 24 Il 40 21 
Relapsing Fever 21 1 16 — 
Scarlet Fever ... 39 — 372 4 
Typhoid 8765 64 905 76 
Typhus .. ies 30 l 51 — 
Undulant Fever ll 2 16 — 
Blackwater Fever | 2 — —— — 
Leishmaniagis ,.. | 19 a ae —_ 
Totals... eee ae | 7,282 | 847 | 10,633 | 1,285 


A survey was begun of the prevalence of ankylostomiasis in the - 
orange groves and irrigated areas in the neighbourhood of Jaffa. 
Preliminary results indicate that the infection appears to be in- 
creasing and is associated with the extension of citrus cultivation. 
In some villages, 70 per cent. of persons examined were found to 
be infected. 


102 


A programme of work is being arranged to cope with this 
endemic disease. 

The incidence and distribution of tuberculosis are also under 
examination and the population of the Northern District has already 
been surveyed. 


2. Births, Deaths and Infantile Mortality rates for the period 


1927-1931. 

Birth- Number Estimated Death Infantile Mor- 
rate of popula- Number’ rate _ tality,i.e., deaths 
per births tion of per of children under 
1,000 regis- (Mid- deaths 1,000. 1 year of age 

Year. living. tered. year). registered. liwing. per 1,000 births. 
1927 ... 50:22 39,093 778,369 21,795 28°12 201°27 
1928 ... 53-99 42,899 794.516 23,170 29-16 188-25 
1929 ... 51°15 41,742 216,064 21,634 26-51 188-52 
1930 ... 52:88. 44,587 843,132 19,513 23°14 154-28 
1931 .... 52-75 46,009 872,165 21,155 24-25 170-10 

BIRTHS AND DEATHS BY RELIGIons, 1981. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 
Populations... 84,930 608,105 169,576 9,554 872,165* 
Deaths eat a 1,330 18,018 1,649 158 21,155 
Death-rate per 1,000 15:66 29-63 9°72 16°53 24°25 
of population. 
Births sek foe 8,309 36,667 5,539 494 46,009 
Birth-rate per 1,000 38-96 60-29 32-66 51-70 52-75 
of population. 
Deaths of infants 44] 6,877 452 56 7,826 
under 1 year of age. 
Infantile mortality 133-27 187-55 81-60 113-36 170-10 
rate. 
Natural Increase per 23-30 30°66 22-94 35°16 28-49 


1,000 of population. 


* Not including nomadic Beduin population, which in 1922 was estimated 
at 103,331. 


The birth-rate shows little change. The birth-rate of the Jewish 
community has declined since the high rate of 36 per mille in 1926. 
The death-rate for the whole population is slightly higher than in 
1930, and this increase is more in evidence in the Moslem com- 
munity. These changes are associated with a higher infant mor- 
tality rate for the population as a whole, which rose from 154 per 
1,000 live births in 1930 to 170 in 1931. The increase of the infant 
mortality rate was confined to the Moslem and Jewish inhabitants. 
In the Moslem group the rate rose from 169 to 187 and in the Jewish 
from 69 to 81. These rates are, however, still below the rates pre- 
vailing in 1929. 

3. Trades and Industries.—The number of premises licensed 
shows an increase in spite of prevailing economic depression. The 
control is exercised particularly over trades dealing in food-stuffs 
and beverages. Hotels and boarding houses in the larger towns 


103 


have now been brought to a fairly high standard of cleanliness, sani- 
lary equipment, and accommodation. Dairies and butter-factories 
have been subject to strict control. Standards of quality comparable 
to those employed in other countries are prescribed by regulation, 
and the practice of adulteration is kept within limits by sampling. 

The application of regulations and special conditions to cinemas 
and places of public entertainment has resulted in considerable 
improvements and these premises are now housed in modern and 
sanitary buildings in all the principal towns. 


4. Drainage and Water-supply.—In the old city of Jerusalem, 
an important section of the old Roman sewer, situated in the 
Tryopoean Valley at a depth of 30 feet below existing streets and 
houses, collapsed and was renewed. 

Work is about to begin on the muin sewer for the western section 
of Jerusalem. Minor sections of drainage were laid in Jaffa. Re- 
quirements in other areas are under consideration. 


5. Municipal sanitary services in the principal towns are satis- 
factorily maintained in spite of difficulties consequent upon lmited 
water-supplies and general absence of main drainage. In Jerusalem 
and Haifa, destructors have been installed, but other Municipal 
Councils are not in a position to spend capital sums on disposal 
plants, and the management of refuse-dumps leaves much to be 
desired. Municipal slaughter-houses have been maintained in a 
good condition, and meat hygiene is generally improving. 


6. Quarantine.—The usual medical supervision of Hejaz pilgrims 
was carried out. The numbers of Palestinian and Trans-Jordanian 
nationals who proceeded to the Hejaz were 432 and 11, respectively, 
and 191 foreign pilgrims passed through Palestine en route to 
Mecca. All pilgrims, before leaving Palestine, are required to sub- 
mit to prophylactic vaccinations against cholera and smallpox. All 
the Palestinian and Trans-Jordanian pilgrims returned from the 
pilgrimage and were kept under medical surveillance for the 
prescribed number of days. Eighty-two foreign pilgrims passed 
through again on their homeward journey and were also kept under 
surveillance until they reached the frontier post of departure. 


7. Medical practice.—Liicences to practise are held by 673 doctors, 
227 dentists, 195 pharmacists, and 355 midwives; and there are 
1,185 dayahs registered and permitted to practise midwifery.* These 
dayahs are not regularly trained or qualified midwives, but they re- 
ceive instruction in general procedure and cleanliness and their work 
is subject to inspection and periodical review. 


8. Infant Welfare and Maternity.—Two additional District 
Nurses were appointed by the Government. 


* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, page 110. 


104 


The cases dealt with during the year in the Princess Mary 
Maternity Section of the Government Hospital at Jerusalem 
numbered 423. 


9. Hospitals and Clinics.—The general financial depression 
afflicted all voluntary hospital organizations with the result that 
either the number of beds occupied in the hospitals was reduced or 
hospital treatment fees were more generally exacted.* 

The Hadassah Hospital at Haifa was closed for general cases 
during the year, and re-opened on a smaller scale for maternity 
cases and children. 

The result of this contraction of voluntary services has been that 
there have been many more applications for admission to Govern- 
ment and Municipal hospitals, and at certain seasons there has been 
a shortage of accommodation. The limited bed-strength for in- 
fectious and communicable diseases available in Government and 
Municipal hospitals was fully taken up. Many enteric fever cases 
in Haifa area could not be admitted and in Jerusalem a special 
arrangement was necessary for the accommodation of scarlet fever 
cases in the annexe of a voluntary hospital. 

Steps are being taken to ameliorate the hospital situation in the 
Northern District. There will be an increase of 50 in the bed- 
strength of the Haifa Hospital. Acre Hospital will then be closed 
down. An ambulance service will take to Haifa cases requiring 
hospital treatment from Tiberias and Acre. 


The following is a summary of patients admitted to or attending 
hospital. 


In-patienis : Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. 
Government Hospitals ... si 1,387 4,809 655 24 
Voluntary Hospitals oes ae 3,688 9,117 18,188 17 

Out-patients: 

Government Hospitals ... ius 12,394 85,201 3,735 122 
Voluntary Hospitals __... us 23,472 76,830 21,379 117 


The Ophthalmic Service continued to develop throughout the 
country with the Ophthalmic Hospital of the Order of St. John as 
a centre in Jerusalem and the special Government clinics in six 
districts. There were 19,353 new patients and 170,534 attendances 
recorded ; and the Government School Medical Service kept 6,116 
pupils under constant treatment. 

The Hadassah Medical Organization in Jewish schools treated 
a large number of children. Hye disease is not so prevalent 
amongst Jews as it is amongst Arabs. 


10. Laboratory Section.—The Government Laboratory Service 
consists of Central Laboratories in Jerusalem and Port Labora- 
tories at Haifa and at Jaffa especially equipped and organized 





* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission, page 110. 


105 


_ to meet the requirements of the International Sanitary Convention. 
- The Central Laboratories, in addition to bacteriological, patho- 
logical, entomological, chemical and bio-chemical, physical and 
forensic divisions, include an anti-rabies institute, a calf-lymph 
establishment, and a’ sub-section for the preparation of other vac- 
cines and of agglutinating and precipitating sera. 


During 1931 the bacteriological division carried out 114,811 in- 
vestigations, and prepared 591,400 doses of smallpox lymph, 
129,690 c.c. of anti-rabies vaccine (1,850 courses of Pasteurian 
treatment), 51,450 c.c. of anti-enterica, anti-cholera, and anti- 
plague vaccines and 432 autogenous vaccines. Enquiry into the 
nature and immunizing properties of rabies virus has continued. 


In the entomological division the principal work undertaken bas 
been the identification of anopheline species and a classification 
of the rat fleas collected at the ports. Spray insecticides were 
manufactured and tested on a considerable scale. 


In the chemical division, 8,629 samples were examined. In- 
vestigations included work on the identification of firearms and 
projectiles, the internal corrosion of aluminium radiator heads on 
motor vehicles, and the fluorescence of milk and butter in ultra- 
violet light. Satisfactory progress has been made in the newly- 
established bio-chemical section. 


11. Prostitution.—There is no regulation of prostitution in 
Palestine, nor is there any registration of prostitutes or compulsory 
medical examination. 

Under the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1927, severe 
penalties are provided against procurers and against those living on 
the earnings of prostitutes. 

Brothels are illegal, a brothel] being defined as a place 
two or more prostitutes carry on their trade ’’ 

All possible steps are being taken to reduce prostitution by special 
vigilance on the part of the police, and the question of employing 
women police is being considered. Special precautions are taken 
to prevent the surreptitious entry of foreign prostitutes; the admis- 
sion of prostitutes is forbidden by the Immigration Ordinance, 1925. 


66 


where 


12. A request* was made last year for details of the expenditure 
on public health in Palestine. It is only possible to furnish these 
details in respect of three private Jewish organizations for 1931, 


V1Z. i— 


£P 
Hadassah Medical Organization ... ae ... 107,245 
Kupat Holim 3 ... 60,830 
FEzrath Nashim Hospital and Society . Ses 4,900 





* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commis- 
sion, page 110. 


106 
There are sixteen other private organizations, but no informa- 
tion is available to the Government of their expenditure. 


The estimated expenditure of the Palestine Government on 
health services in 1981 is as follows :— 





£P 
Administration ae = eae ee ... 20,426 
Hospitals and dispensaries ... Be di ... 26,130 
Sanitary and epidemic... sd a ... 21,074 
Quarantine... sa hs oa sa ... 4,801 
Laboratories ... on me fee soe ... 6,145 
Other charges (such as hospital diets, clothing, 
disinfectant apparatus, drugs, dressings, and 
Instruments) a: 32,201 
£P110,777 





13. The following table shows the number of persons in _pro- 
fessional practice :— 
Jews. Others. Total. 


Doctors ba a sid ... 466 207 673 
Pharmacists... eed said ‘cg. ZO 72 195 
Dentists ae ae a8 ... 203 24. 227 
Midwives —_ eae Sos ... 205 150 355 
Assistant Pharmacists ee .. 28 11 39 
Unqualified Midwives ae .» 10 1,175 1,185 


14. The following tables provide as complete information as is 
available to the Palestine Government regarding private and other 
charitable institutions, and Government and Municipal hospitals. 


107 


hone) (eeeeneeneen lemeenamecmenend temememnmmnemnemmmemnnmns 1 Genneee , ,  e, , (en aaa an ea 


256 $-6S0I 
L 6-01 
sI 0-F1 
re 8-2% 
£ Ts 
Lg + -6F 
91 0-LT 
Sg 0-88 
18 3-SE 
iu L-1F 
0 £-61 
1 6-69 
It 9-21 
03 8-08 
6F 1 -9F 
LZ 0-9 
RF 9-8F 
0g Z-£9 
rE 8-9 
g 8-1 
ST 9-9T 
23 8-61 
8% 9-13 
— 6-41 
cP 1 ¥F 
23 8-8P 
SOT 6-871 
LSI 1-63 

‘pus ie ‘sp9q 

perdnsoo fo "on 

speq 00D49a9 
fo'on bdaal 


‘TS6T Uy drysumor AjAy-[e¢, 0) parzoysue7y UoHENsjUpUIpY » 














622'T 008'6Z| ZT SFI‘SI| 62¢'s IIt‘8 L29'T 
g $42 — £6 19 0s 
GT 624 — 6 #ST 09 
GS 298 Il FFE 692 0s 
, 931 9 9 06 03 
L¢ Zoe I — 8S PEL 09 
$Z 16¥ — 3 18S 99 
69 REST — 09 L403 06 
OF 886 — S 999 08 
OF £83'T — 8 LOZ OST 
tI 02 — 02 — 03 
TZ 909‘T —_ 000‘T $ Fl 
ST 16¢ — 16S — cé 
FF Z00'T — 186, raf g¢ 
II 268'T — oSe'T 3S 02 
— T98 — T98 — 09 
ri) § OL¥T — T2Z¥‘T T os 
1s 096 — — — 09 
LL 921 —_ L ors oS 
rad 339 — I Bl og 
LI SIZ —_ — — GF 
GS 09S — — — £9 
of SIO‘T — _— —_ Lg 
3 08 — LL — 96 
93 CLE — 988. L g¢ 
aL OFe‘T —_ GZ8‘T L og 
633 ST10‘¢ — 30'S T GST 
Sts eer‘s — PLP'S q Sst 
ee ‘J s *8UnI2 
87090. ], 850N9O ane r - 
“syRDOCT a 16) "yuesss 
F peg 
suojsspepy 


“IS6r ‘sIvydsoy [vrouey AIBWUNIOA 


‘op 
e770 


eAJAV-[9L 
wlopesniae 


"UOfIDIOT 


(wv) 


ouyIOY, op ‘od 
CUBE] BVUOFVN saoszZepossy 
SOLTBYS) “IS JO GIVI JO JIPIO 
: Ajajoog ayduay 
UJOYY WIS YPIMIIE[VY Jaq UjalaA 
UossoUORsy JoyoRTTeYdyso aa Pett 
ese ee ° ee ‘od 
‘od 


‘op. PIO 
“« V'8'D Puy “YN Atsour ‘peoiqe 
pues spuny peoo]) Woy mIq MON 
‘([eula}x9 puw [e00] 
‘guo;yeaop aval) 


810499}01g PUB BIOIN, “YIpeZ arvvysg 
/ - BMOP 0} peal Uys) 
‘oUPASI[V_T Uy mnogeyT ysAor 
JO UONsepeT [VINE Jo puny Ig 
= PUBIZONR JO JoINY) oly pIyUy 
Ayofo0g Vols POPPI YSINQupA 
“UOssTAL eq 
ou? puv uloresnie £ jo ood uUvoysuy 
 AQQpPOg ArvuopssyPY ToNGD 
(T8°S°6 pesofo) ‘og 
‘od 
‘od 
-eoplouy yo of} 
-CZJUVAIO AWUOTZ 8,WeMOM eesepey 





“Wop~DEIUNALO poyKteo 7 


108 





€- PEG 199°9 Ive GL8‘9 ¥% 999 L8e‘l| 608° 6G 66 ¥6 86 | °° "* S[33OL 


ES RS | ES | | a | NY fC a | LS 
ee 


¥-98 PITT 8L O6T‘T I I 8L OLI‘T 7 as 17 Sh | (pedroranyy) sniquyy 
9:9 G6Z g 662 = 3 9 F8Z aa = ai 31 ***({edrorunjy) eqoysiaeg 
g-91 689 03 c09 = = 3 Lg ‘4 3 6 oo [°° (jedroranyy) 82ex) 
T-91 607 02 GSF ey 6 88 31€ = = g ¥ ahs (tedroranyy) o10y 
€-oF 98I‘T L9 PLOT I v1Z LLI 388 = L GZ 1 | (jedrorunyy) epee 
P-LE 6SI‘T 19 91'T 9 LIE 91€ | LL = L 0+ €Z | °° (queuruseaos)) epreyy 
0'6L 66L'T 06 EL8'T = ra a 069 [L0‘T 91 9 Il OL (yUOTUMIAAOD)) Wa[EsNIEL 
peulnao0 "Suny Avy Uory 

jee ; 1279.1 8L94I0 sna -#14Y) Fulaj1So -s0y0 YS -108] o4LdUs£‘) 

oon | “sebsnyo —|_' —/ i S ! 1dso 
2bn40aD St] {POT ; ne = 

Anoq ‘suossssULpY ‘ybuang-pog 





"IS6r ‘steydsoR [edjojuny pue yueuruJ0A0y (gq) 


109 


TZ 


03 


661'T 


9SI'T 


"9ab40yo 


sid 


t T8 mM1AYyITyIWV —_— oe [eydsoF PRI Mayo, 
"eqopdsof]T poveds Juamuseaoz) (9) 
€ GST 
‘sa[qeRIMouy puv souusuy 
g 0g MI esniI¢ ousavgq | JOJ aMIOFY “AJoo, UlYSUN YRwIZT 
‘uopuoT £4491D0g UTIA 
<< 09 Wavsnia¢ |[VUO]}BUIIUT | -BIOP [VUoPvuIszUT ‘[ujjdsopY ludsT 
‘puysuq Uy Walesnio¢ Jo uo 49 
as cP WMo[PsTLI9 ~ ys | Jo Jep1o oy} Jo [uyidsoA spuyejydoO 
“syppidsoH] poweds fluvjunjo, (DP) 
‘syroq eo aas | ‘wowpooy | “Anrouowoyr ‘woxrwziunbsg ondeo HT 








“sjeyjdsox [ejoods 


110 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from Ist 
July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Government), to 
3lst December, 1931, are set out below :— 


Period. Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P £P 

Ist July, 1920 to 31st 
March, 1921 1,186,951 1 ,259 587 
1921-22... 2,371,531 1,929 341 
1922-23 1,809,831 1,884 ,280 
1923-24 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-25 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-26 2,809 324 2,092,647 
1926-27... a is 2,451,365 2,123 568 
1927 (April to December) 1,739,380 1 944,397 
1928 es sib he 2,584,317 3,381 ,993 
1929 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 2,389,546 2,536,505 
1931 2,333 ,895 2,374,867 


£P25,780 446 £P25 ,195 3807 


Surplus Balance at 31st 


December, 1931 585 ,139 


£P25 ,780 446 


Total ... 


Revenue and Expenditure. 


2. Summaries of the revenue and expenditure under heads are 
contained in Appendices I and II to this Section,* and explanations 
of variations of note are appended thereto. 


3. The revenue for the year under review aggregated £P2 333,695 
and the expenditure amounted to £P2,374,867, or an excess of 
expenditure over revenue of £P40,972. 


4. The revenue under Head I, Customs, namely, £P922,080, 
fell short of the revenue derived in the preceding year by £P69,608. 
The decrease is attributable to the world-wide economic depression 
and the consequent fall in values of imported commodities in so far 
as such commodities are subject to ad valorem duties. 

The decrease under Licences, Taxes, etc., is mainly due to re- 
duced revenue from Tithes, the revenue from this source being 
£P95,671 less than in the preceding year. There was also @ 


* Pages 123 and 124. 


111 


shrinkage of £P32,691 in the revenue from House and Land Tax. 
The fall in the revenue from Tithes is due to the failure of harvests 
necessitating large remissions of Commuted Tithe, other than in 
respect of citrus fruit, during two successive years; and to a large 
extent these circumstances have affected the collection of House 
and Land Tax. | 

Under the Head Interest the revenue in comparison with the 
previous year showed a decrease of £P34,692, mainly owing to the 
realization of investments to meet loan expenditure. 

The increase under Head Miscellaneous is attributable to in- 
creased contribution by the Currency Board of £P35,000 in com- 
parison with £P20,000 in the preceding year. 

The increase under Head Grant-in-Aid is due to the receipt of 
£P89,346 in respect of the grant for 1930 and a contribution for 
1931 of three quarters of the recurrent expenditure of the Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force and the whole cost of the capital works of 
the Force in Trans-Jordan. 


5. The decrease in expenditure is mainly accounted for by 
charges of exceptional character under Head Miscellaneous in the 
preceding year, and to a considerable extent also to the curtailment 
of expenditure under Public Works Extraordinary. On the other 
hand, increased expenditure occurred under Public Debt and Loan 
Charges, by reason of the payment of the full contribution to the 
Sinking Fund in the year 1931. There were also increases of note 
under Defence, Public Works Recurrent, and on account of the 
Railway deficit. 

The writing down of investments to the middle market-value on 
31st December entailed a debit of £P19,772 to expenditure under 
Head Miscellaneous. 





Railways. 
6. The following are the figures for 1931 :— 
Boe £P 
Revenue :— 
Coaching and Goods ... .. 325,430 
Miscellaneous ... es ae 25 ,496 
350 926 
Expenditure :— | 
Ordinary :— £P 
Ordinary... 254,583 
Debt Charges 152,962 
—— 407 545 
Capital Improvements 11,297 
418 842 





Deficit ae wat ... £P67,916 





112 


The deficit of £P67,916 has been charged to expenditure in the 
General Accounts of Government. 


The capital expenditure on the Railway to 3lst December, 1931, 
is appended :— 


From Loan Funds :— £P £P 


Purchase of Assets from 
His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment (included in Item II 
of Appendix VI*) ... 840,647 


Other Expenditure (see 
Item I of Appendix VI*) 1,588,082 


2 428,729 
From Revenue :— 
Capital Improvements to 
dlst December, 1930... 541,651 
Capital Improvements in 
1931 be a ee 11,297 
———_— 552 948 
Total ... see bee ... £P2,981,677 


7. The earnings and expenditure of the Petah-Tiqva, the 
Hejaz, and the Sinai Sections of the Railway are not included in 
the revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railways. Separate 
accounts are kept for these Sections. 





Petah-Tiqva Railway :— £P £P 
Net Earnings at 3lst December 
1930 a si snags oe: 20 ,387 
Revenue for 1931 ... oa ... 4,312 
Expenditure for 1931 bed at 840 
— 3,472 
Net earnings = ae se ... 238,859 





In the terms of the agreement the earnings are to be applied in 
payment of interest charges on the capital provided by Government 
and the landed proprietors of Petah-Tiqva, namely, £P34,089 and 
£P20,518 (£E20,000), respectively, and in amortizement of the 
latter sum which was provided by way of loan by the colonists. 





* Page 130. 


113 


The earnings have proved inadequate to meet the interest charges 
both to Government and the colonists; and at the end of the year 
the arrears of interest due to the colonists amounted to £P4,736. 
The apportionment of the earnings is appended :— 


Amount paid 
Apportionment to 31st 




















of net December, 
earnings. 1931. 
£P £P 
Interest :— 
Palestine Government ane 15,390 15,390 
Petah-Tiqva Colony ... ne 7,634 T ,634 
Amortization of loan _ of 
£P20,513 (see Appendix 
TV): cans o se 56 835 835 
23 859 23 859 
Hejaz Railway :— 
Deficit as at 31st December, 
1930 . art a 44 732 
Less sasuvinent on stores 
account . dias oN 56 
44,676 
Net earnings for the year 1931 
as under :— 
Revenue _... aoe 3h 87,220 
Expenditure sts oe 87,103 117 
Deficit (see Appendix IV*) £P44,559 
Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) Railway :— 
Net earnings at 31st Decem- 
ber, 19380 ... See te 125 ,426 
Revenue for 1931 ... ai: 99,578 
Expenditure for 1931 eae 94,872 4,706 
Net earnings ... £P130,182 





* Page 128. 


114 


The net earnings have been apportioned in accordance with the 
financial scheme and accounted for as follows :— 


Disbursements 

Apportionment to 31st 

of net December, 
earnings. 1931. 

£P £P 

Renewals Fund me sate 65 ,066 10,413 
His Majesty’s Government 63,516 61,000 
Palestine Government wae 1,550 1,550 


£P130,132 £P72 963 


Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones. 

8. The revenue from the Posts and Telegraphs Department 
amounted to £P207,758 and the expenditure, other than from loan 
funds, amounted to £P163,083 as under, or an excess of revenue of 
£P44,675 :— 


£P 
Posts and Telegraphs ... ek a 151,631 
Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary sa si8 11,452 
Total ... ae ae aie ... £P163,083 


The Department does not, however, bear any direct charge in 
respect of interest on the capital expenditure of £P188, 126 de- 
frayed from loan funds (see Appendix VII*). 


Taxation. 
(See paragraphs 9 to 16 on pages 144 to 147 of the Annual Report 
for 1930.) 

9. Under the Customs Tariff (Amendment) Ordinance, 1931, the 
duties on carbonic acid, beer in wood or other containers, and burnt 
gypsum were increased in the interests of local manufacturers ; and 
velvet and cinema films, synchronized with sound, hitherto charged 
at ad valorem rates, were made subject to specific rates of duty. 

During 1931,in order to assist local industries,a number of articles 
were added to the schedule of exempted articles under the Customs 
Duties Exemption Ordinance, 1924, including anhydrous ammonia, 
fibres of sisal, jute, hemp, and manila, timber for manufacture 
into ploughs, paper for manufacture of envelopes, galvanized iron. 
brass and copper wire for the manufacture of wire netting and 
gauze, rubber thread or ‘‘ yarn ’’, plant and machinery for installa- 
tion in hotels. Exemption was also granted in respect of articles 
and effects for the personal use of consular officers and for the public 
service of consulates; materials, tools, benzine, etc., for the service 
of lighthouses; benzine and kerosene consigned for the use of the 
Orthodox, Latin, and Armenian Patriarchs; metal signs for adver- 
tisements and spare parts for municipal incinerators. 


* Page 132. 


115 


The temporary admission of sugar without payment of duty, 
under prescribed conditions, was authorized under Section 160 of 
the Customs Ordinance, 1929, provided such sugar is imported 
wholly for use in the manufacture in Palestine of fruit-juice products 
intended for exportation. 


10. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance, 1928, as amended by 
the Urban Property Tax Amendment Ordinance, 1929, was further 
applied during 1931 in heu of the house and land tax to the urban 
areas of Safad, Nazareth, Jenin, Beersheba, Beit Jala, Bethlehem, 
Hebron, and Ramallah. MRe-assessments have been carried out in 
Haifa and Acre with a view to the application of the tax. 


11. In 1931, owing to abnormally low prices of local crops, re- 
missions, exclusive of the tithe on lands planted with oranges, were 
granted in respect of the commuted tithe as follows :— 

(a) 20 per cent. of the commuted tithe for the year 1930 in 
addition to the 30 per cent. which was remitted in 1930, re- 
presenting a total remission of 50 per cent. of the commuted 
tithe in 1930. 

(b) 50 per cent. of the commuted tithe for the year 1931. 

Further remissions of the commuted tithe were also granted in 
1931 in respect of land of which the crops had been destroyed or 
damaged by locusts, field mice, or drought. 


Grants-in-Aid.* 
12. The following contributions were made by His Majesty’s 
Government during the years specified towards the cost of the British 


* 1. The following is an observation made by the Permanent Mandates 
Commission at its Twentieth Session :— 

‘“The British Government, in its comments upon the Mandates 
Commission’s Report on its Seventeenth Session, states that it has 
spent over £9,000,000 sterling in Palestine since 192], including the 
costs of defending the territory. Since there is no indication in the 
Annual Report for 1930 that any part of this grant has been employed 
otherwise that in military and police expenditure, the Commission would 
be glad if the next Report would give detailed figures as to the 
amount assigned from this sum to the civil administration and economic 
development of the territory.”’ 

2. It was not the intention to imply in the commente referred to above 
that His Majesty’s Government had made grants to Palestine for general 
administrative purposes. Indeed, it was expressly stated that it had been 
the consistent aim of His Majesty’s Government to emancipate as soon as 
possible the territories for which they are responsible from dependence upon 
Grants-in-Aid from the British Exchequer. The approximate total of the 
grants was mentioned in explanation of the statement that, in fact, the 
expense which has fallen on His Majesty’s Government in connexion with 
the Mandate for Palestine and Trans-Jordan had not been inconsiderable. 
This expenditure was mostly devoted to defence and internal security, the 
maintenance of which must be regarded as an essential condition of settled 
administration and development. It will be noted that in the next 
sentence in the comments specific reference is made to the expenditure 
under the guaranteed loan of £4,500,000, for direct expenditure on de- 
velopment, viz., railways, harbour construction, port improvements, and 
other public works. . 

His Majesty’s Government .. . regret that the wording of their com- 
ments did not make the meaning clear. 


116 


Section of the Palestine Gendarmerie until its disbandment in 1926, 
and subsequently towards the cost of the Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force, in accordance with the arrangements referred to in para- 
graph 17 on page 147 of the Annual Report for 1930 :— 


Year. £P 

1922-23... or Meu a bes ae 295 ,000 
1923-24 .... a. ws os — a 940 622 
1924-25... — oP ie Seis ee 197 ,000 
1925-26 _..... je ae but So: ee 212,000 
1926-27 _.... se ae 7, 94 421 
1927 (April to December) rae eee Me 38 ,904 
1928 roe en Seas ee 29 ,096 
1929 sot — — _ a a 31,000 
1930 7, tae oe ok ae sa 37 ,000 
1931 ae sees toe 231 ,250 


13. The following a amounts ce isi refunded to His Majesty’s 
Exchequer in respect of unexpended balances of Grants-in-Aid for 
the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force :— 


Year. £P 

1922-93... ee sae ee a on 10,621 
1928-24 wat ee Sis oe bo 188 
1924-25... a als ie sess bie 13 ,899 
1926-27 a ae os 7 945 
1927 (April to December) bee ae ot 2, ,203 
1928 ek eae sn eas ae 48 
1929 om ak a ie sii — 2 601 
1930 adi fess 8 640 


14. The receipts in 1931 ‘eine “£89, 346 3 in respect of the year 
1930, and the share of His Majesty’s Government in 1931 was 
£P134,597, of which £P1,034 was unpaid at 3lst December, 1931. 


Defence. 

15. The Palestine Government’s cash contributions towards the 
cost in 1930-31 and 1931-32 of the Royal Air Force units and Army 
units in Palestine and Trans-Jordan were fixed at £P75,250 and 
£P55,000, respectively, in accordance with the arrangements re- 
ferred to in paragraph 19 on pages 147 and 148 of the Annual 
Report for 1930. 

The following cash contributions were made in respect of previous 


years :— 
Year. £P 
1927-28... ai oe aes 31,000 
1928 (April to December) 6 og as 22 500 
1929 aes =e ve et a 30,375 
1930 es ay se es se sas 24,375 


Total ... ae tA ms ... £P108,250 


117 
Assets and Liabilities. 


16. The assets and liabilities are set out in Appendix III.* At 
3lst December, 1931, the surplus balance amounted to £P585,139 
as under :— 


£P £P 

Surplus balance at 31st Decem- 

ber, 1930 band - ued 626 ,111 
Revenue for 1931 oe ... 2,838,895 | 
Expenditure for 1931 ... ... 2,874,867 
Deficit for 1931 ... oe ons 40,972 
Surplus balance at 31st Decem- 

ber, 1931 as os oe £P585 ,139 


The liquid or realizable assets at the end of the financial year con- 
sisted of :— 


£F 
Cash seek i is set oe a 41,952 
Investments (less Loan Funds) ie shore 460,700 
Total... se ou 6 ... £P502,652 


The rest of the surplus balance, namely, £P82,487, was impounded 
in advances, imprests, and unallocated stores. 


Municipalities. 


17. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities are sum- 
marized as under :— 








£P £P 
Jerusalem :— 
Ain Farah Water-supply—pur- 
chase of plant from Sir John 
Jackson, Ltd. cat er 11,360 
Main Drainage Scheme see 11,417 
Jerusalem :— 
Old Abattoir and Incinerator 4,581 
New Abattoir and Incinerator 2,614 
El Wad Sewer an Sie 7 ,200 
Other Advances ae te 2,032 
39 ,204 
Carried forward ... _ 39 ,204 


* Page 126. 


118 


£P 
Brought forward 
Hatfa:— 
Oil Storage Area bk ok 8,692 
New Access Road _... se 1,369 
Part Purchase of land for 
Municipal Offices ... oe 457 





Petah-Tiqva :— 
Construction of Internal Roads 
Other Municipalities 
Total 


Agricultural Loans. 


18. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of 


loans are summarized as under :— 














£P 
(a) Agricultural Loans :— 
Advances outstanding at 31st 
December, 1930 __..... pits 41 553 
Repayments during the year 
1931 ... se or ses 1,393 
(b) Beersheba Cultivators :— 
Advances outstanding at 31st 
December, 1930... aia 994 
Repavments during the year 
LOB]: sec aaa sth one 322 
(c) Agricultural Loans, 1928 :— 
Advances outstanding at 31st 
December, 1930 ... 18,351 
Repayments during the year 
1931... Sih ag .. 1,265 
(d) Agricultural Loans, 1930-31 :— 
Issued in 1930 ... ewe ... 17,590 
Issued in 1931 ... bag ... 12,389 
; 29,979 
Repayments during the year 
1931... a me .. 4,188 





(e) Agricultural Loans, 1931 
(Southern District) es 


Total 


£P 
39 ,204 


10,518 


2,762 
1 ,237 





£P53 ,721 





£P 


40,160 


25.791 


12,466 


£P91 175 


119 


With the exception of £P20 under (a) the instalments comprising 
the outstanding balances of (a), (b), and (c) are now overdue. 
The loans under (d) are repayable in two equal instalments. The 
first instalment fell due on Ist August, 1931, and the second 
instalment falls due on Ist August, 1932. The loans under (e) 
are also repayable in two equal instalments on Ist August, 1932, 
and Ist August, 1933. The recovery of these outstanding loans has 
been rendered difficult owing to poor harvests in two successive 
years. 


Earthquake Reconstruction Loans. 


19. The position with regard to advances made on account of 
earthquake reconstruction loans may be summarized as under :— 





£P £P 
Advances outstanding at 31st 
December, 1930 Sa oo» 25,315 
Advances in 1931 2, eh 47 
25 3862 
Repayments during the year 1931 2,308 
Total outstanding — £P23 054 


The arrears of due instalments at 31st December, 19381, amounted 
to £P6,433. 


Deposits. 


Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund. 


20. Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., generously undertook to pro- 
vide an amount of $2,000,000 for the construction, equipment, and 
endowment of the Palestine Archaeological Museum. The portion 
of the gift made available for the Endowment Fund is $1,000,000. 
The amount of £P199,604 shown in the statement of assets and 
liabilities represents the mean market-values of the investments of 
this Fund on 31st December last. 


Palestine Archaeological Museum Current Account. 


21. The amount of £P7,601 shown in the statement of assets 
and liabilities represents the balance of interest made available to 
meet the salaries of the staff engaged in carrying out the preliminary 
work of arranging and cataloguing the material. 


Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Account. 


22. The balance of this account, namely, £P29,519, represents 
the amount available locally from which the cost of construction 1s 
being defrayed. Remittances are obtained from Mr. Rockefeller 
as and when required. 


14213 E 


120 
Sir Ellis Kadoorte Bequest. 


23. The bequest was made to His Majesty’s Government who — 
have appointed the Officer Administering the Government of 
Palestine to be their local representative for the administration of — 
the Trust. 

The balance of £P13,422 shown in the statement of assets and 
abilities represents the amount available locally at 31st December, 
1931, from remittances made by the Crown Agents, London, for 
defraying the construction expenses of the Arab Agricultural School 
at Tulkarm, the Jewish Agricultural School at Mount Tabor, and — 
part of the maintenance of the Tulkarm School. 

The trust fund invested by the Crown Agents at 3lst December 
last was £P106,400 and the cash balance held by the Crown Agents 
was £P117. 


Investments, 


24. The total investments, amounting to £P1,546,748, consist of 
securities held by the Crown Agents, as shown in Appendix V.* 


Statement of Expenditure from Loan Funds. 


25. The expenditure from loan funds is shown in Appendix VII. t 
The Palestine Loan of £4,475,000 5 per cent. guaranteed stock, 
issued at £100 10s. per cent., realized £P4,497,375. 

The expenditure during the year amounted to £P390,652, as 
under :— 


£P £P 
Railway Workshops _... si ee 55,810 
Harbour Construction and _ Port 
Improvements :— 
Jaffa Port Improvements ... 14,966 
Haifa Harbour Construction ... 319,714 334,680 
Telegraphs and Telephones _... ste 162 
Total ... £P390,652 


26. The total expenditure at 3lst December last amounted to 
£P3,626,308, leaving a balance of £P871,067. 
Currency. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the 
Annual Report for 1929.) 


27. During the year under review the Currency Board paid an 
amount of £P35,000 in aid of the revenue of Palestine. 


* Page 129. T Page 182, 


121 


28. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the total 
currency in circulation at 31st December, 1931, amounted to 
£P2,303,664, or an increase of £P59,000 as compared with the 
currency in circulation at the end of the preceding year :— 


Coins and Notes Coins and Notes 


Denomination. in circulation m circulation 
at 3lst December, at 31st December, 
1930. 1931. 
£P £P 
Silver coins :— 
100 mils 123,000 144,000 
50 mils 119,500 139 ,000 
Face value of silver 
coins 2492 500 983 ,000 
Nickel-bronze coins :— 
20 mils 13,500 15 .200 
10 mils 15,900 17 ,600 
5 mils 11,400 12,100 
Face value of nickel- 
bronze coins 40,800 44 900 
Bronze coins :— 
2 mils 1,024 1,056 
1 mil 1,280 1,392 
Face value of bronze 
coins 2,304 2,448 
Face value of all cons £P285,604 £P330 348 
Notes :— £P £P 
£P100 11,600 9 500 
£P 50 66,750 62 300 
£P 10 213,200 228,470 
£P 5 588 ,680 587 320 
£P 1 968 ,845 975,615 
£P 3 109 ,985 110,111 


Face value of notes 


Face value of coins 
and notes ... 


14213 


£P1 959 ,060 


. £P2,244,664 














£P1,973 316 





£LP2,303,664 


E 2 


122 


Monopolies. 


(See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the 
Annual Report for 1929.) 


Special Statistics. 

29. In paragraph 6 of their Report on the Work of their 
Twelfth Session, the Permanent Mandates Commission asked for 
statistics showing year by year both under main heads and in 
totals :— 

(a) Revenue, including sums received from His Majesty's 
Government as (i) loans and advances, and (ii) non-recover- 
able grants; 

(b) Expenditure shown in the account of the territory, and 
also sums expended directly by His Majesty’s Government on 
behalf of the territory (e.g., Defence) or its administration - 
(e.g., High Commissioner) ; 

(c) Deficit or surplus, and how met or disposed of; 

(d) Assets and habilities at the end of the financial year. 

The following Appendices to this Section furnish the information 
as far as it 1s available :— 

(a) A summary of revenue including non-recoverable grants 
is given in Appendix I. There were no loans or advances 
from His Majesty’s Government, and the non-recoverable 
grants towards the cost of the British Section of the Gen- 
darmerie and of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force are set 
out in paragraph 12 above. 

(b) A summary of expenditure in the accounts of Palestine 
is given in Appendix II. In addition, the following expendi- 
ture has been incurred by His Majesty’s Government on the 


common defence of Palestine and Trans-Jordan since Ist 
April, 1922 :— 


£P 
Year ended 3lst March, 1923... ... 1,579,066 
Year ended 31st March, 1924 ... a 909.807 
Year ended 3lst March, 1925... oe 687 ,319 
Year ended 3lst March, 1926... See 422 ,066 
Year ended 38lst March, 1927... ao 336,110 
Year ended 31st March, 1928 ... a 275 374 


Figures for the following years are not available, as no — 
separate record has been kept. 


(c) A statement of assets and liabilities is given in 
Appendix III. The surplus balance of £P626,111 at 3lst 
December, 1930, has been reduced to £P585,139 at 3lst 
December, 1931, by the deficit in 1931; and the surplus 
balance of £P585,139 at 31st December, 1931, has been 
carried forward to 1932. 


The general statistics for which the Commission have asked 
are furnished in Appendices VIII and IX.* 


* Pages 133 and 134. 


Appendix I. 


Summary of Revenue for the years 1928 to 1931.(a) 





Heads of Revenue. 1928. 
£P 
Customs ia 892,278 
Port and Marine 5,468 
Licences, Taxes, etc. ... 709,974 
Fees of Court and Office, 234,298 
ete. 
Posta and Telegraphs 186,554 
ulways sini ee 435,150 
Revenue from Government 17,002 
Property. 
Interest ... 57,194 
Miscellaneous 6,001 
Land Sales 4,511 
Grant-in-Aid 35,797 
£P} 2,584,317 


1929. 


£P 
917,050 

8,677 
761,823 
230,844 


207,288 
29,195 
16,541 


104,207 
16,650 
6,774 
24,523 


2,323,572 


£P 
991,688 

9,703 
740,664 
248,371 


220,384 
14,613 


87,485 
28,465 

6,887 
41,286 


2,389,546 





£P 


922,080(b) 
10,531 


604,77 1(c) 

248,631 

207,758 
13,591 


52,793(d) 


(a) The figures for the periods prior to 1928 are shewn on page 155 of the Annual 


Report for 1930. 


(6) Due to economic depression and consequent fall in values of imported 
commodities in so far as such commodities are subject to ad valorem duties. 


(c) Due to decreases (£P95,671) in revenue from tithes and (£P32,691) from house 


and land tax. 


(d) Due to realization of investments to meet loan expenditure. 
(e) Increase of £P15,000 in contribution by Currency Board. 


(f) Includes £P89,346 in respect of 1930; and contribution for 1931 of three 
quarters of the recurrent expenditure of Trans-Jordan Frontier Force and 


the whole cost of capital works of the Force in Trans-Jordan. 


14213 





124 


Appendix II. 
Summary of Expenditure for the years 1928 to 1931.(a) 


1929. 


£P 
17,797 
100,910 


8,739 


19,534 
88,528 

8,959 
80,598 
16,090 

8,652 
66,803 


101,864 
139,789 
76,714 
7,083 
20,355 
18,037 
39,245 


376,060(g) 


140,562 


37,070(h) 


141,206 
40,261 


145,996 


289,896 j) 


25,978 
114,690 


Heads of Expenditure. 1928. 
£P 
Pensions ... re 16,461 
Public Debt and oan 820,178(b) 
Charges. 
His Excellency the High 6,858 
Commissioner. 
Secretariat er ae 17,897 
District Administration 93,527 
Legal ne 8,554 
Judicial 78,076 
Treasury ... 16,489 
Audit Department. 8,953 
Customs, Excise, and 63,535 
Trade. | 
Health Department 98,581 
Education Department ... 137,115 
Agriculture and Forests... 72,360 
Antiquities Department... 8,654 
Land Settlement : 12,792 
Lands Department 17,931 
Survey Department 188, 126(c) 
Police and Prisons 342,795 
Gendarmerie (British 360(d) 
Section) 
Trans-Jordan Frontier 140,058 
Force 
Defence ... 53,500(e) 
Poste and Telegraphs : 139,712 
Public Works Department 34,328 
Public Works Recurrent 141,250 
Railways - 265,023 
Miscellaneous. 332,445( f ) 
Posts and Telegraphs 16,526 
Extraordinary 
Public Works 167,136 
Extraordinary 
Railways Extraordinary 29,586 
Trans-Jordan Frontier 53,187 
Force Extraordinary 
Railways—Excess of Ex- _— 
penditure over Revenue. 
Department of — 
Development. 
Totals £P| 3,381,993 2, 


140,032 


(1) 
8,616 


1930. 





£P 
16,829 
112,609 






7,211 






21,330 
89,590 

8,578 
82,562 
15,579 

9,034 
71,153 










105,481 
143,555 
102,518(k) 







475,851(2) 






209,212(9) 


109,675(n) 
147,338 
48,662 
164,649 

—_ (s) 

268,768(0) 
26,096 










169,671 





— 


(1) 
22,868 






19,592 








£P 
16,925 
124,396 


7,823 


21,956 
91,791 

8,757 
84,949 
15,807 
11,845 
70,759 


105,918 
146,988 
81,227 
7,119 
23,353 
17,551 
44,947 
469,516 


174,815 


121,681(p) 


151,631 
48,720 
180,686 


151,404 
11,452 


104,947 
8,078 


67,916(q) 
1,910 


2,374,867 





(a) The figures for the period prior to 1928 are shown on pages 156-157 of the 


Annual Report for 1930. 


(b) Includes £P648,823 in respect of the share of the Ottoman Public Debt attributed 
to Palestine and £P170,050 in respect of interest charges on the Palestine 


Loan. 


125 
(c) Includes £P149,12] in respect of expenditure during the period 1920-27 
transferred from Loan Account. 
(¢) The Gendarmerie were disbanded in 1926. 


() Contribution towards cost of Royal Air Force and armoured cars in Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan. 


(f) Includes £P206,541 being deficit during military administration. 

(9) Increase due to increase in the strength of the British Section of the Police. 

(h) Expenditure in 1928 represented two years’ contribution. 

() The excess of Railway revenue over expenditure has been incorporated in the 
accounts and not the gross receipts and disbursements as hitherto. 

(j) Includes special grants to Tel-Aviv Township (£P75,619) and Jerusalem 
Municipality (£P55,211). 

(k) Includes £P26,848 in respect of anti-locust measures. 

(l) Increase due to further increase in the strength of British Section and to increase 
in the strength of Palestine Police. 

(m) Increase due to increase in establishment and purchase of mechanical transport 
(£P27,776). : 

(n) Includes cost of local services to British troops in Palestine (£P68,193) and 
difference between public rates and preferential rates on the Palestine Railways 
for Royal Air Force and Army units (£P17,107). 


'. {0) Includes compensation on account of damages incurred in riots (£P101,135) 


and special grant to Jerusalem Municipality (£P31,178). 

(p) Includes cost of local services to troops in Palestine (£P25,423) and difference 
between public rates and preferential rates on the Railways for Royal Air 
Force and Army units (£P11,158). 


_ {q) Due to economic depression. 


14213 K 4 


126 


ELE'SIS'S 


G0S' LI ‘OLZ 


09T'Z96'TF 


OFS LFF'Y 
000°E9E 
0S6'FL6'91 
€69°89 

19h 018% 
186° GE 


949° 109°F 
F99'99S'F 
OL 698EL 
L96'€90‘EZ 


L1G PLIU16 
F8L'OSL‘ES 


au §=dFs 


SLYAUdN] || 


sunody AIpung 

aingipued xg AIvz ITA 

[louNoD BLIBYg WosoPy ouleIdng 

“* pasog AousLMy oUulyse]¥g 

qunoooy os10F{ eoT0g 

uvUIUTY ‘sUepisey Ysqlig 
“yUNOD0Y 

s0UBAPY sydeisajoy, pus 980g 

"+ eloUer) JoyseUl}s0g 

‘ gsKBmpley Jaseuvpy [er0uer) 
“*sUBOT 

eysnbyy1eq 
"8104 

“BAtqIN ” suBoOT [BMyNLsy 

solplpedorunyg 

SHONVACY 


UOT}ON.IYSUOIEY 


HSV) 


‘e72098 7 


Siu dF 


OUE LLE 


S#>'869 


FLO CFE 
GES'ESS'E 
L8b'8t6'b 
L06'G68' LP 
1OT'8L3°9 


ZLZ'696. 
ELE 8666S 
C6UFLS'S 
€19°L99°S1 
C1Z'SFL‘ES 


ILE°L40°6 
GOL LLO'S 


“TEGT “Joquiosed ISTE Ww SOpTqey] pus syessy Jo yUSTIE;EIS 


‘ENLLSTWIVG 40 LNEWNUAAOS) 


II] ztpuaddy 


sorddngy 1oyn Ay ofA 
8480 eoljog [Bloedg 
“puny 
SOULY O09 IONUOLY UWepsosr-suYly, 
“* puny svUlq suOsLIg puB ad1[0g 
syisodeq .810}0814U0, 
sIsodeq 41ND 
*** suisodeq sul0jsng 
“pang 
qeaouey oynoy ydelZajay, reulg 
"qUNODDY 
qisodeq sydeidejoy, pus sysog 
"78010} UT 
suBvo'y UOI}ONIYsUODeY oHeNbyAIVeT 
qsa10},U] SUBO'T [BINA MOWAY 
yqueg [emymMousy uei0j319 
"(pry -Ul-quBix)) 
010g JoUuoly  uUvsplOP-sUvIT, 
cs “"*  gUeUITILIeAOy [sLieduly 


"SLISOdU(] 


“CON QOVT 





127 


8F8'°S10'106'T 


692 6660 


OSS" LEL‘OFG'T 


190°LL6‘91 
OFE 96'S 
198°L66‘01 


000°000°L 


GOS'8ZF‘'S 


SOL'S¥6'S 


1Z0°F09‘661 


919'99L‘TEE‘T 


dg SFS'SIOIOST [dz 





£62 6E1°S8¢ 
nee sydeifeay, pus 83809 T18°990°IL8 
qunoooy Arend sx0 A ONQng FPL’ 608 FFF 


B210}g [e1oUe) BHIOM OGD 
‘SHAOLG GLLVOOTIVNG) 


qisodeqy 3.107) 
‘sytpodacy 904 
-uerenr) soruvduio,) souemsuy 
— Weyeenet “ued 
ekyporeg — sysodeq por 
we puny seul Sood 
‘pung jUoUMOpUy-UMesnyT 
[VoIsojooeyoly  oul4se[td 
“spun 
uvO'] pus sooUtTeg ofqeTVAYy 
—: sUuOsY UMOID 


"SENG ALLS AN 


818°8FS'2e 
VEG LES'F 
628 OFF 
L96'9ZE'T 
GZ ISPS 
OLG'619°6S 
09¢°109°L 
120°409*661 
698'F98‘S 


GOS RSF'9 
sPz'9C0'9 


‘OE6[ ‘IOQWMIOAON 48[ 043 WOT; 
se uBdeq wNzUI Jod ‘pp "SE IF 
jo oI 04} 48 pung suryUIg 
24} 0} UOMNqiuzUO0D [snUUe eT, 





000‘9LF'> 
3 
s1opjoyyojg-weo] ouryeoye 
IC popung 


‘(souseg snjding) ‘SsaLLi 
“TGVT] WHAO SLASSY 40 SSHOXG 
LNQOOOW NVO'T 


‘** syumoooy Arpung 
“PYT FsR}0d curses 
‘arqopndag 
A1OH out jo qomyy 07 suredoy 
ss pybeag 07 BALIG 
qsonbeg e1lloopey sty JIg 
_“qumoooy morj0n148U07; 
“umosnyy [eoopoowyory eulyseeg 
"guNODDW guUeLIND 
-umesnyy Peoofooeyory ounyse[eg 
‘puny UoMIMOpUG 
“tanesn [Vosofoesqory ourysoTe J 
9007} TUMUIOTD UOTBwONPY [eoo'] 
“ej rpodeqy 
eo, uBrUn sormeduioy)) oouvlnsul 
A4r0d01,] 99079 UVIEENyYy 


128 


LIL'S6L°96 °"" fa 
GLO 1ZS‘LI eee ose 
OOF LLOS eee eee ees 


ILU'6S9 ‘tPF eee eee een 
O£0°LSI‘9 eee ene een eee 
BLU dF 


OLP'698‘ELdF eee eon eee 
pue syessy jo 


eee eee 


ZSe'l as 


FET S98‘EL eee eae eee 
sia dF 


qUuoUulo}849 


(IIT xrpueddy) senipqery 


ey} Ul UMOYS BB yUNODOy so0UBAPY S8JosvUv__ JeloUsr) Jo souTuy 


wee (pajsn(pe Buiaq) sXemprey Aq suey! poysn(peuy, =: ppp 


GA0G’ JU0TIO}BAG Ul UMOYS se FUMODOW 8,JoInsvaLy, 


"RANSDILT, 9Y2 Ut ZUNOIIP 


aIUDAPY $ LIHDUD JY JDLIUaL) 9Y7 YRIM SouNoIIP AonpLoY ay2 ut QUNOIIP & LaunsvaL] {O U0IZDI2IIU0II 


€90 FI L991 ds 


“e7a88P 


_ Selo pus 891019 po}BoO] [BU 
sABaTrey Hvyo uvydAsg 


soouvApPY 


mod Hus 


v0 ABMey Zelap 
sei sus yse) 


€90'FIL‘991 dF 

FZU'898'EL 3 qunoooy §,Jaimevaly, 

L¥G’ 6G F eee eee puny soul iy 

182'c96 ‘EI eee eee eee eve eee ove spisodacy 

IS6LL96I " “* yanoooy uvoy—Auojoy sabiy, yejag 

0G0°€69‘FS pung sjemousy Avayiey (sjyey-viequvyy) reulg 
"g[TU GF 


“saIn Tt qoyy 


“TEGT ‘Iequioseg 4STE 38 yuSMIUIEAOD oul so[Vq OY) Aq poyeiodo SKEMTTEY O47 JO SONTGVP] pue sjessy oq} JO yUOTIA}EIS 


“HNLLSATVG JO INANNYDAOS) 


"AI ripuaddyp 





MA OS x15 





129 


Appendiz V. 


GOVERNMENT OF PALESTINE. 


Statement of Investments. 


(1) Available Balances and Loan Funds. 


Nominal 
Value. 


£ 


Treasury Bonds 4% 1931/33 
Treasury Bonds 5% 1933/35 
Treasury Bonds 4% 1934/36 


. 378,601 
. 100,000 
... 100,000 


London County 44% 1945/85... 
New Zealand Bonds 5% 1932/34 


18,630 
50,000 


oooore® 
oloooooe 


647,231 


— 


Cash lent to Joint Colonial Fund 


(2) Palestine Archaeological Museum 


Endowment Fund. 


Consolidated 4% 1957 or after ... 
Guaranteed 3% 1939 or after 
Guaranteed 27% 1933 or after .. 
Local Loans 3% 1912 or after ... 
London County 34% 1929 or after 
London County 3% 1920 or after 
Metropolitan Water Board “ B ”’ 


3% 1934 or after 


(3) Police Fines Fund. 


New South Wales 4% Stock 1933 
Victoria 54% Stock 1924/34 


Nominal 


Value. 


£ 
50,000 
20,000 
25,000 
59,338 
20,000 
87,200 19 


omoooF 


50,000 0 


311,559 1 


Nominal 
Value. 


£ 8. d. 
1,829 5 5 
1,800 0 0 


3,629 5 5 


A.—Securities held by Crown Agents : 





B.—Fired Deposits at Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.), Jerusalem : 


(4) Insurance Companies’ Guarantee Deposits 
(5) Deposit by order of Court 


Middle Market 
Cost Price on 
Price. 3lst December, 
1931. 
£P mils £P mils 
378,329.196 371,029.066 
101,562.500 98,500.000 
100,525.000 94,000.000 
17,606.250 16,487.550 
49,515.625 47,750.000 
647,538.571 627,766.616 
704,000.000 
1,331,766.616 
Middle Market 
Cost Price on 
Price. 31st December, 
1931. 
£P mils £P mils 
41,626.000 40,875.000 
12,375.600 12,000.000 
14,063.200 13,500.000 
36,883.454 36,208.429 
14,325.700 14,200.000 
53,965.000 §2,320.592 
31,626.600 30,500.000 
204,865.554 199,604.021 
Middle Market 
Cost Price on 
Price. 3lst December, 
193]. 
£P mils £P mils 
1,742.379 1,481.708 
1,755.000 1,467.000 
3,497.379 2,948.708 
£P mils £P mils 
5,428.205 
7,000.000 12,428.205 


Total 


£P1,546,747.550 


130 


PLS LOP'8OL 


000°000‘000‘T 


€86'180°889'T 


gra WF 


‘unowy 


GED" E89°6Z9 


609'E16'SL 


GOL'ZI9'F6E'T 


83° 699°E61 


Bar WF 


"uoI1qoNnI48 
“UO) MOGQIVH BVH 
"9 UOT 
OAOIAMI Y10q VYVe ‘| 
—: syU8Ul 
-eaolduy 0g pu 
uoTjoNIysUOH ~=sMoqivyy 
"TIT wer] 


*ZUOUITLIOAOS) 
sAjsoleyy st UO 
sjosse [eyideo Jeq}0 
pus Avayres Jo oseqomg 

“TY wey] 


*(peqefdurco) 
syIOM AvMrey I0q3O °Z 
sdoysyi0A, ABMTEY ‘| 








000‘OFO'T | 

680'F s peywooyeuyn ‘¢e 

"BHIOM 
Perel Avaiey 19410 “J 

-adoys 
LLOUWS = -YIOM =ABMEY °T 
—: sABAMTIBY 

ds ds 

: ‘I wo}] 


"B19 Jo Arejal009 
eq) Aq poaoadde se uvoy jo uonsoo7y 


000°SLE‘L6F‘F (LZ6T ‘oouvurpIg uvOT 
—: shemrey eunsejeg Aq pestioyyne) ‘yueo sed 
Toque "80T OOTS 78 POnsst OOO'SLE FS JO YOOIS 1oquis 
"T Woz] | -00C, ISTE pooyaereny) ouryso[eq %G jo spoeooorg | -00q I81§ 
“TS6I gra dF "TE6T 
“ounpspuadcgy ‘agg ‘qunowp ‘sad yaooy "aq 


“TEGT ‘sequieceg 4sTE 38 JUNODOY UvOT 


‘ENLLSZIVG dO LNAANYZAOS) 


‘IA tipuaddy 


131 





000°SLE°L6F‘F| dF 





T18°990‘TL8 souuleg 
68T'808‘929'E 
o96'SZL‘6ce | ——————— 
SSF Z0E 0S "** UBO'T ZutEtel Jo 4800 
000°008‘1Z e718 Jo uoMPsmboy 
—: sZurpring yueurmI8A04) 
‘gouoqd 
POP OZT ‘SRI “9707, pue syduiseay, 


“AT Woy 





000°SLE‘L6F'h dF 





GLE‘LOFFdS 





GLE‘90¢ 


000‘TS8*T 


000°000‘T 





£06021 


T¥8‘L6I 
T€2‘Sst 





000‘0S2‘T 
000‘TOT 


GoHonysuo) pues 
se01lJQ + UCUTUIOAOL) 
*souoyqd 
-9[9,, pus sydvizojoy, 
“AI W94] 


-eA0Id WI] 410g pure 
-oni4su0g +9=sIMoqivyy 
“THT (047 

“qu0Ul 

-UIBAOX) 8, Aqe0le]q 

TH Wooly s7088e 

Tevideo 10430 pus 
ABMTeI JO osByong 
“TT rot] 


132 





63L‘6SEdS 9Le‘909dF 














£08 ‘0ZI £08‘0ZI eee eee eee ace eee eee eee uBvoy Suisrer jo 4800) 
"e01LBO 
00E‘IZ 178‘L6I soya jo quourdinby pus woyon13810) Pus BCOIJO JUOUIULIGAOS) 
91‘S8I 1€3‘8sT soucydepay pus syduisejoy 
d3 ds — Jepun se dn ope (2) 
L90‘TL8 806°9Z9‘E GLE‘LOPP 000‘009°F 000‘009°F 
|e — $$ — ——____— “UBO'T OY} JO Surerel oy} Zutpnyout 


‘snpeyog siqy Ul peuomueu sosodimd 
e4q3 jo Aue yyIM pozoouM0D 10 04 
[sjueprour sesodind puv “ueudojesop 
jo sqioM Joutm ‘sfoams ‘souoqd 


9F9°OLT (2)6SL‘6SE (2)GL¢‘909 000602 000‘SFL -919} puw sydvidsje, ‘atuipying oqng ‘> 
*#)USUIOAOId 
€09°SFO L6F‘SOL 000‘TS€‘T 000°TS8‘T 000°ST IT “ay WOg pus wolryonsysuoyy inoqieH *¢ 
‘JUSUIMLIOAO*) 8, Aysolepy ST WlOIy syosseE 
= 000‘000'T 000‘000‘T 000°000‘T 000‘000‘T reyideo Joqjo pu Avmjrer jo osvyomg °Z 
SI6'IS 680°88S'I 000‘0*9‘T 000‘0+9‘T 000°0F9‘T ce ca os 7“ * skeayrey *T 
d3 ds d3 d3 3 
"T86I “unoyT fo “arn: fo "9Z61 ‘OY sunoT 
"20UDIDT ‘saquiavaqy 81 spaa00.d hamasoy oy} DoufPp spy pup 
popuadxaus) 0} aangipuadzg qonjzon fo fig parosddn aUuNsaID 540M 
Fle Peppy |. _worwoonpy _| _ Uoripooyp-ay |. of anpayoy , : 


"LEG ‘1equIeoeg ISTE 3e seouv[Yg MOT] JO JUOUIE}EIg 
“ENLLSETV J 10 LINGWNYZAOS) 


‘ILA tipuaddy 


133 


—_—<—$—$—<— $—<$—<——$— $$ ee Ss Se -SsunssiasafED 
| 


T9S‘OT6'L 220‘69T'R 
096'R12'6 OXE'9ZZ'B 
FOOCEE'L FOF TEFL 
#12'£19'8 LYS‘ESO'S 
FES‘ TOFS E20 L02'8 
d3 d3 
TON! R6‘E 9Z8'TTO'S 








1‘6 

EFT'VOR'D FOO OTL Z 

LAF LEF'D c¢7'6¢68'9 

CLUE L #SO'GIG'LZ 
BEC ‘O1E', — 
LOO'RGL‘9 = 
aZ a3 

"Moads' ‘alzad 
Ouipnporg | Burpnjuy 
"OL 





“noeds 





zOT | | SIEGE 
803'S | LOR‘LF 
—~ 9621's 


ay AF az 
‘aeipunyosayy| ‘atoadg 


"SUDLs TL 





ZOT'LZT = REE'TSS L9b ‘9% T9O'SLS'T 
cRe‘scl gs GOO CRT FOOT 660‘968'T 
T0693 = 129621 LOS‘CIS COG FOG'T 
LEP LAT 06 ZOR LIT FOS'SS LOB LRF'T 
6c0'1ET —— GOS ‘OFS Ost's 652 ‘668'T 

d3 dF dF dF dz 
1Sc‘ez cll 6SI'E2T OE 'EL CZ29'CL2'T 
9L2'TZ ol 102681 CFL'ZOL 6SO'264'T 
RET‘QeT $2 CEQ‘ ILEL CLO LIL oI8‘008'T 
O89'6RT = €26°E&S OOF TIF FES‘EFL'T 
669'LFE ZI¢‘T 82281 LOL‘E8S TZ1‘O20‘T 
6891 FT oa 8y8'S8 an ROR OTE'T 

_— — —_ — 029‘SIE‘T 

As az As az AF 

‘asipupyrsefy| ‘“atvads | ‘oripuvyose py ‘noads ‘ari punylso Fy 
*8740d02x9-9YF *e40dzq 
“apva 























20'S 
Baas 
O18 SI 
BTG LT 
65Y'C9 


OxO'OTT 
SYP BOI 


as 





“aoeds 


—————— 








000‘0F6‘9 
ROS ‘CRO 
S6S'99T‘Z 


dF 
Cte‘6at‘9 
TOF SER L 
6FE'990'S 
SQL'CaN't 
L99°TLE'S 
SLR TLR 
486°60F'S 


i 


‘astpupyosa yy 


*ao40duy 


000‘¢80‘T 
000'9F6B 
(1026 
0005006 
000°068 


000‘ 228 
CEZ‘189 
ZRI‘LGL 


962‘TOL 
SOL‘EL9 





‘uoryondod 


**' TE6T 
" OL6BL 
** 6061 
"REBT 
*** L661 


*"" O26I 
*** CCOL 
"$661 
“"" C61 
slenbs | °' 2c6L 
" TC6E 
““" OC6I 


"sven 
4Dpusqvy 


"DaLP 





"$1 = ‘dF ‘(red 98) FI S0mT4 TLGIO'I = AZ I 


“WopeUosay TeonsHeyg yo Areuung 


‘(NVd¥YOr-SNV4], ONIGOIDXG) 


“ENLIST1V J 


‘ILA ttpuaddy 


GE FEE 
G86 S8E 
L¥6‘00E 
FIL‘SFE 
«869°C0S 
IST‘I1é 
PLO'LIZ 
ot i oD 
99¢°LPI 


mn i mr | ES | RS EE | |S ns ff 


8I6'SOl LZS‘18 
I8F'gol 81¢‘ZOI 
r98' IOI PIL‘OL 
189°86 09€'SL 
898°EL 06F‘ZS 
9L9°16 Z1'S9 
T1#*e8 680°LE 
OFF'F8 169°GE 
869°E6 O€S‘9E 
PLOLIT O19'8E 
969'9FI LEE‘OF 
SLE TZ 9F0'1E 
ds d3 
"YyjpDa 
ales "ainznawby 
uo yuods junowp 


886 OFT 
cca ‘Fl 
68L‘6EI 
GII‘LElI 
6£0‘00I 
O18‘9IT 
266 601 
999° “201 


“UOtDINPY 


98601 1S 
092‘8rE'S 
6F0 ‘6623'S 
02S‘8tS‘S 
GE0°60L‘T 
688'F9E'S 
OFF F09'S 
028‘696'I 
S8L‘SLO‘T 
1§8‘608‘T 
Les‘ Les 
F88‘SEl‘T 
dZ 


UDY} 4Y}0 
anuaray 


*gquDLB 
91Qu4Lav0Ia4 
“UON 


“SIIUDID 
PUD SUDO'T 


"POLNOY POUL 
wolf anuaray 


"sopsHES [epoods 


‘YI wipuaddy 


000°SLPF 
000°SLF‘'F 
000°SLP‘F 
000°SLP‘F 
000°SLEF 


*(saunbuf 
18940]) 





"spun UOT 0} posIvgo pus sived snotaaid ul U9yVPJOpUN syIOM SNOLIBA jo yoadsel UL [Z6‘ZOSdF JO JUGUTISN[ pe UY HapNjoU] , 


Te61 
O61 
Me uke, ask Bai 
a a hee 
LZ61 ee 0} judy 
L&61-9Z61 
9261-261 
GZ61-FE61 
Pe6I-EZ6I 
€261-Z61 
GO6I-1Z6I 


1361 “Yor TE OF ‘OSET ‘AINE IST 


"£09 X adipossruriep pr 
40 pDIUDULT 


135 


XXII.—_ DEMOGRAPHIC STATISTICS. 


The census for Palestine was taken at midnight on 18th 
November, under the Census Ordinance, 1931, which follows, in 
great part, the British Census Act, 1920. 

The Ordinance provides that it shall be lawful for the High 
(Commissioner in Council to direct that a census be taken at any 
ume. Provision for the executive administration of the census is 
made in regulations and administrative instructions. 


2. Special provision is made whereby no information obtained 
in connexion with the taking of the census is admissible or can be 
used in evidence in any civil or criminal proceedings whatsoever, 
except in criminal proceedings for an offence under the Ordinance. 
The object of this provision was to give confidence to a population 
a large section of which is traditionally hostile to the taking of a 
census. Moreover, there are in Palestine persons who have either 
entered the country without completing the proper formalities or 
who have remained without registering as immigrants; and the 
special provision encouraged them to give the census information 
required without fear of legal consequences. 


3. The executive work for the census began in May, 1931, when 
Instructions were issued that all houses in towns and _ villages 
should be numbered, and that the mosaic of census divisions in the 
country should be constructed. 

The Superintendent of Census was associated with an Arab 
Advisory Committee and a Jewish Advisory Committee for the 
purpose of submitting recommendations to the High Commissioner 
as to the form and contents of the census schedule. The result of 
these deliberations was a schedule which excited little contention. 

The two committees were also largely responsible for the success 
of the census, since they gave confidence to the people whom they 
represented, and organized a quiet but effective publicity on behalf 
of the census. 

The measure of co-operation in the census on the part of the 
public was thus complete, except for the abstention of some few 
hundred Revisionist Jews. The Revisionist Party professed to see 
in the census the first step towards the establishment of the Legisla- 
tive Council which it is pledged to resist. A number of persons 
were prosecuted for offences connected with the Party’s campaign 
of obstruction and were fined. 


4. The procedure adopted in the taking of the census was identi- 
cal with that followed in India since 1871. 

The general scheme provided for the division of the country into 
census blocks, each of which (except in areas inhabited by true 
nomads) contained from 50 to 80 houses and was in the charge of 
an enumerator. Above the block came the circle comprising about 
20 blocks under a supervisor who was responsible for the work of 
all the enumerators in his circle. Circles were grouped into charges 
under a charge superintendent, who exercised general supervision 


136 


over the operations and tested a proportion of the work of his 
subordinates. The District Officer in charge of the Sub-District 
controlled the whole operation within his jurisdiction. 

The strength of the census staff was about 4,000, of whom more 
than 3,500 were enumerators chosen from the general public, the 
remainder consisting of public officers. 

In Palestine the schedules were, as a rule, filled in by the 
enumerators. It was not possible for them to enter all the re- 
quired particulars of all persons residing in their blocks in the 
coursé of a few hours on the night of the census, and therefore the 
bulk of the work was done beforehand. 

This method has the advantage that it permits superior census 
officers to test and revise, where necessary, the preliminary record 
taken by the enumerators. 

Throughout the summer months classes were held at which 
census officers of each grade were instructed in census duties by 
an officer of a higher grade. 

Census officers began their duties shortly after the 1st October 
and prepared a rough draft of the census record. This was tested, 
revised, and copied into the census schedules. On the night of 
the census, the record so prepared was brought up to date by the 
deletion of entries relating to persons no longer present and filling 
in the necessary particulars for new-comers. An exception was 
made of chief resident officers of hospitals and similar institutions, 
who were obliged to make the census record themselves in respect 
of all persons falling to be included in those institutions for census 
purposes. 

On the morning of 19th November the enumerators met their 
supervisors at places previously arranged and filled in the abstract 
for the block, which is a form showing the number of persons, male 
and female, in each block. The supervisor, after testing these 
figures, prepared a summary for his circle which he then sent to 
his charge superintendent. The charge superintendent filled in a 
similar summary for his charge and sent it to his responsible District 
Officer who prepared a like return for the Sub-District. A pro- 
visional total of persons, male and female, was thus quickly pre- 
pared for each Sub-District and District; and the District provi- | 
sional totals were telegraphed to the Superintendent at Jerusalem — 
who was thus able to declare a provisional total for the whole 

country within 20 hours of the completion of the enumeration. 

A special system of enumeration was devised for Beduin habitu- 
ally dwelling in the southern tracts of Palestine. This enumeration 
was placed in the hands of a special officer of the District Adminis- 
tration; and a representative sample of his enumerations of the 
sub-tribes was tested in order to elicit a statistical idea of the 
degree of accuracy of the whole of this special enumeration. The — 
enumeration of the Beduin in the south of Palestine was, there- 
fore, not completely synchronous with the census of Palestine; but, 
nevertheless, it was completed at the same period of the year. The 


137 


Beduin in the north of Palestine are not strictly nomadic in habit, 
having settled like villagers in certain localities but: dwelling in tents 
and not in houses. They were therefore enumerated under the 
general arrangements described above. 


5. The provisional statistics of the population of Palestine are 
given below. 


I. 
Provisional totals of population. 

District. Persons. Males. Females. 
PALESTINE... 900. ane 1,035,154 526,078 509,076 
‘Southern District = 361,532 186,665 174,867 
‘Jerusalem District .... 265,927 133,531 132,396 
Northern District es 407,695 205,882 201,813 


* Including Beduin residing in tracts whose enumeration was contemporaneous 
but not synchronous with the census. 





II. 
Provisional totals of urban population. 

District. Persons. Males. Females. 
PALESTINE... ae’ bey 387,525 197,307 190,218 
Southern District— on 149,661 76,628 73,033 

Khan Yunis __... ‘ied 3,782 1,860 1,922 
Gaza... one i 17,033 8,396 8,637 
Beersheba Poe ws 2,958 1,577 1,381 
Majdal ae Pale 6,229 3,084 3,145 
Jaffa ae cay igs 51,876 27,762 24,114 
Tel-Aviv ine see 46,109 22,537 23,572 
Ramleh ... a ews 10,424 5,641 4,783 
Lydda 2.00 wee 11,250 5,771 5,479 
Jerusalem District ee 121,912 60,799 61,113 
Hebron sik er 17,534 8,563 8,971 
Beit Jala ae stale 2,732 1,203 1,529 
Bethlehem ae ne 6,827 3,243 3,584 
Jerusalem he cae 90,526 45,844 44,682 
Ramallah a as 4,293 1,946 2,347 
Northern District whe 115,952" 59,880 56,072 
Tulkarm aoe due 4,825 2,476 2,349 
Nablus ... sists wie 17,204 8,499 8,705 
Jenin... oa aa 2,708 1,359 1,349 
Nazareth out ee 8,690 4,366 4,324 
Baisan ... Sa sak 3,098 1,668 1,430 
Tiberias se sae 8,598 4,179 4,419 
Haifa... oe ro 50,689 27,121 23,568 
Acre... es ae 7,900 4,191 3,709 
Shafa ‘Amr ... ee 2,798 1,402 1,396 


Safad ... es ite 9,442 4,619 4,823 





138 


ITI. 
Provisional totals of population by religious confession. 


Persons.* Moslems.* Christians.* Jews.* Others.* 





1,035, 154 759,952 90,607 175,006 9,589f 


* The total in each column of the tables includes foreign and temporary residents 
enumerated on 18th November, 1931. 
t+ This total comprises all those who have not returned themselves as Moslems, 


or Christians, or Jews. 


: IV. 

Provisional totals of urban population by religious confession. 
District Persons.* | Moslems.* |Christians*| Jewe.* Others.* 
PALESTINE 386,787 187,438 69,289 128,541 1,519 
Southern District 149,210 82,433 13,690 52,787 300 

Khan Yunis 3,807 3,801 6 — — 

Gaza 17,069 16,371 697 l — 
Beersheba 2,958 2,791 15] ll 5 

Majdal 6,228 6,165 63 — 

Jaffa 51,366 35,010 9,207 7,132 17 
Tel Aviv 46,116 106 137 45,607 266 
Ramleh 10,417 8,198 2,210 7 2 
Lydda 11,249 9,991 1,219 29 10 
Jerusalem Dist 121,781 38,931 31,201 51,553 96 
Hebron 17,532 17,277 109 134 12 
Beit Jala 2,732 196 2,532 l 3 
Bethlehem 6,817 1,217 5,504 l 5 
Jerusalem 90,407 19,735 19,180 51,416 76 

Ramallah 4,293 506 3,786 I _ 
Northern Distrect 115,796 66,074 24,398 24,201 1,123 
Tulkarm 4,815 4,529 254 18 14 
Nablus 17,171 16,487 512 4 168 
Jenin 2,696 2,592 101 2 1 
Nazareth 8,719 3,202 5,451 60 6 
Baisan 3,100 2,696 298 89 17 
Tiberias 8,633 2,682 682 5,260 9 
Haifa 50,533 20,349 13,839 15,995 350 
Acre 7,893 6,078 1,521 233 61 
Shafa ‘Amr 2,790 981 1,314 1 494 
Safad 9,446 6,478 426 2,539 3 


* The total in each column of the tables includes foreign and temporary residents 
enumerated on 18th November, 1931. 


Notes to above tables. 

(i) For census purposes the population of a town means the population enumerated 
within the area under the jurisdiction of a Municipal Council or, in the case of 
Tel-Aviv, the area under the jurisdiction of the local council of the township of 
Tel-Aviv. 

(ii) Certain minor differences between the totals of population of towns as shown 
in table IV and the totals of population of towns in table IT are due to errors which 
will be removed in the course of exact tabulation. 

(iii) The distribution of the population by religious confession is not necessarily 
co-incident with the distribution of the population by recognized religious 


communities. 


139 


6. The full report of the census taken in November, 1931, which 
is to be published in the coming autumn will contain complete 
statistics as to polygamy in Palestine. 

Polygamy is general, but, for economic reasons, by no means 
universal, among the Moslems; a few cases of polygamy among 
Onental Jews are recorded. 


7. A census was taken in Palestine in October, 1922, with the 
following results. 





Moslems — Sais ae ss oe ... 590,890 
Christians... be mr wie iat ... 13,024 
Jews ... ae bee ae a ... 83,794 
Others me ts suk Sake _ buh 9,474 

Total a oa fs back ... 157,182 


The nomadic Beduin, who were estimated at the time to 
number in the neighbourhood of 103,000, were not included in 
this census. 


8. Vital Statistics.—The following are the vital statistics since 
1921; those from 1923 onwards include estimates of population, 
other than nomadic Beduin : 


| Infantile 


mortality 
Birth Number | Estimated | Number 4.e., death 
rate of population of Death of children 
Year. | per 1,000.| births (Mid-year deaths rate under 
living. | registered. | estimates). | registered. | per 1,000.| 1 year of age 
per 1,000 
births. 
1921— 
Town 27-4 — — — 16-1 209-6 
Country | 28-4 — — — _ 123-3 
1922. — — — — 18-75 — 


1923... | 47°43 31,402 662,013 16,994 25-67 184-76 
1924... | 51-31 34,955 681,245 17,672 25°94 184-83 
1925... | 49-31 35,479 719,508 19,611 27-25 188 - 64 
1926 ws | «(53-47 40,471 761,896 18,620 24-43 163-03 
1927... | =50-°35 29,193 778,369 21,806 28-01 200-46 
1928 ws | «53-99 42,899 794,516 23,170 29-16 188 - 25 
1929... | «(61-15 41,742 816,064 21,634 26-51 186-52 
1930 =... | 52-88 44,587 843,132 19,613 23-14 154-28 
1931 ww. | «(52-75 46,009 872,165 21,155 24-25 170-10 


9. Distribution of Jewish Population—At the time of the 
Armistice the Jewish population of Palestine is believed to have 
been about 55,000. 


140 


The rate of increase of the Jewish population, urban and rural, 


is indicated in the following table. 


Touns. Colontes. 
1918 41 ,000 6 ,000 
1920 ae 56 ,200 10,370 
1922 (October) 68 ,622 15,172 
1923 (January) 71,000 16,000 
1924 (December) ... 85 ,000 23,000 
1925 (December) ... 114,000 24 000 
1927 (July) 118 ,000 oe 
1929 130,000 2,000 
1931 128 541 rf ,465 


The principal centees of Jewish urban settlement (according to 


the figures of the census of 1931) are :— 


Jerusalem ... 51,416 
Tel-Aviv and Jaffa 52,739 
Haifa 15 ,995 
Tiberias 5 ,260 
Safad 2 539 


10. Immigration and Emigration.—The following is a table 
showing immigration and emigration in respect of Palestine of 
Jews and non-Jews from the years 1920 to 1931 inclusive :— 


Immigration. Emigration 
Year. 
Jews Non-Jews Jews Non-Jeics 
1920 i aaa areal 5,514 202 — — 
1921 ee 9,149 190 — — 
1922 7,844 284 1,451 1,348 
1923... joe sae vee 7,421 570 3,466 1,481 
1924... she ie ate 12,856 697 507* 604* 
1925... ee ae aes 33,801 840 2,151 1,949 
1926... sas bat ape 13,081 829 7,365 2,064 
1927 2,713 882 5,071 1,907 
1928 2,178 908 2,168 954 
1929 5,249 1,317 1,746 1,089 
1930 4,944 1,489 1,679 1,324 
1931 4,075 1,458 666 680 


* Figures for July to December. 


XXTII.— CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


1. Revenue.—The following are the figures for the five years 
1927 to 1931 :— 


1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
£P £P £P £P £P 
976,171 1,115,517 1,161,950 1,234,957 1,169,924 
766,175 892,278 917,050 991,560 921,945 


Total ss 
From Import Dues 


141 


Table of principal commodities imported, which furnish the bulk 
of the revenue from import duties and the amount of import 


duties received from each in 1931. 





Value. 


ee | NS | RNS | ees | a 


Articles. Unit Quantity. 

mine in tins of 4 gallons Tins 142,552 
me in other containers and | Litres 13,040,940 
btulk, , 
wot. suid Sik ..- | Kilos 11,097,462 
mene in tins of 4 gallons Tins 17,079 
tsene in other containers and | Litres 38,339,735 
) bulk, 

acco leaves... Kilos 101,270 
tat flour 5 16,883,400 
wettes.. an 23.460 
on ise goods 7 2,454,934 
of cars No. 665 
take ats at .-- | Kilos 9,788,430 
| Kays oe ate ~ - 853,850 
d and timber for building Cubic 56,965 

metres 

en tissues and mixed Kilos 146,140 
tissues and mixed ... i 288,592 
ber tyres and tubes * 206,295 


£P 
32,447 
131,398 


105,366 
1,702 
90,725 


19,294 
151,643 
12,877 
358,385 
115,113 


117,092 

37,256 
153,381 
106,305 


170,739 


Per tin 
Per litre 


Per kilo 
Per tin 
Per litre 


Per kilo 
Per kilo 


200 Mils 
11 Mils 


10 Mils 
27 Mils 
1-5 Mils 


400 Mils 
4-5 Mils 


Per kilo 1,000 Mils 
Various Specific 
15 per cent. 

ad valorem 


Per kilo 
Per kilo 


2 Mils 
15 Mils 


Per cubic 300 Mils 


metre. 


12 per cent. 

ad valorem 
15 per cent. 

ad valorem 
37,513 | Per kilo 


60 Mils 


£P 
28,420 
142,561 


110,493 
461 
57,509 


40,509 
55,380 
23,460 
63,328 
16,931 


19,554 
12,782 
17,094 
12,239 
20,584 


11,886 





The decrease in receipts in 1931 is due to the general economic 
crisis and the fall in commodity values which affects the revenue 
from goods chargeable ad valorem. Nevertheless, there was actually 
a quantitative increase in many of the principal importations. 

Practically all imports of benzine, paraffin, and fuel oils are 
pumped into tanks in the oil area at Haifa from tank steamers; 
oficers of Customs are permanently on duty in the oil area for 


the control of receipts and issues. 


2. Haport Dues.—There are no export dues, 


port fee of 10 per cent. ad valorem on antiquities. 
The principal exports are oranges, water melons, cereals, soap, 


and wine. 
and 1931 are shown below :— 
1930. 
Cases. £P 
Jaffa 2,405,090 721,576 
Haifa 422,891 126,868 


1931. 


Cases. 
1,984,082 
604,882 


£P 


673,905 
202,086 


except an ex- 


The exports of oranges from Jaffa and Haifa in 1930 


3,883 tons of soap, valued at £P119,941, and nearly 9,000 tons. 
of cement were exported during the year. 


142 


3. Exemption of goods tmported by charitable institutions, etc.— 
Exemptions from import duty of goods imported by charitable and 
religious institutions, consuls, and archaeological societies are on 
a liberal scale; in 1931, goods valued at £P46,435 were exempted. 


4, Excise Duties.—Excise dues are leviable on tobacco, intoxi- 
cating liquors, salt, and matches. 


EXCISE REVENUE, 1927-1931. 





1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
£P £P £P £P £P 

Tobacco— 

Duties as 128,898 148,754 162,984 150,541 153,720 

Licence fees ... 5,517 6,276 6,290 6,076 5,872 
Intoarcating 

Inquors 

Duties site 15,165 22,967 28,220 31,941 33,262 

Licence Fees ... — 3,347 3,461 6,223 6,725 
Salt— 

Duties — 26,484 9,440 11,118 11,341 11,410 
Matches— 

Duties way 4,918 6,643 6,674 10,447 11,895 

Licence fees ... 15 10 10 100 100 


ee 


Totals ... £P 180,997 197,437 218,757 216,669 222,984 


The slight increase in the revenue from tobacco in 1931 is note- 
worthy, in view of the reduced spending-power of the population ; 
it may be attributed to anti-contraband measures. 

There are 22 distilleries, 14 wine-presses, two match factories, 
and 12 tobacco, tombac, and snuff factories in Palestine. 

Excise officers are stationed in each distillery and tobacco factory 
and in the more important wine-presses; a system of sealed stills 
and spirit receivers has been instituted in distilleries. 


OUTPUT OF WINE-PRESSES AND DISTILLERIES, 1928 To 1981. 


A ec ES SR 


Wine. Arak. | Cognac. | Other S pirits. 
Litres. Intres of Alcohol. 
1928... a 1,813,924 84,738 137,720 414,837 
1929... ni 3,581,391 66,539 153,210 425,321 
1930... ste 4,250,926 81,762 238,789 371,171 
1931... ss 2,838,652 52,568 147,250 196,802 





OUTPUT OF TOBACCO FACTORIES. 





Year. Cut Tobacco. Cigarettes. Tombac. Snuff. 

kilos. kilos. kilos. kilos. 
1928... $05 16,167 493,720 83,919 57 
1929... bis 20,107 531,887 100,127 1,209 
1930... ek 20,301 487,587 96,899 ooo 


1931... i 24,570 493,741 95,923 5,444 





143 


There were 1,600 growers of tobacco cultivating 18,500 dunums 
duing the year, compared with 2,350 growers in 1930, cultivating 
23,600 dunums. 

Over-production of tobacco has depressed prices, and the grower 
also suffers from the absence of competition amongst buyers, as 
most of the factories belong to the British-American Tobacco 
Company. 

5. Nearly 7,000 seizures of contraband goods were made and 
fines amounting to £P10,415 were imposed in consequence. 


The seizures included 75 revolvers, 41 shot-guns, and 2,715 
cartridges. 
445 offences were detected under the Merchandise Marks 
Ordinance. 


6. The share of the Government in light dues was £P4,356. 
7. Port Statistics, 1927 ro 1931. 


| 1927. | 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
JAFFA: 
Import duty . {£P390,846 |£P487,656 |\£P490,268 |£P557,251 |£P356,737 
Port dues £P 3,159 |£P 3,152 £P 3,245 |€P 3,594 [£P 3.312 
Number of sailing 637 75 713 743 1,008 
vessels. 
Tonnage 18,821 13,755 18,642 19,191 25,722 
Number of steamers 459 450 449 479 432 
Tonnage 957,715 | 1,098,220 | 1,147,262 | 1,112,472 | 1,043,512 
Halra : 
Import duty £P250,997 |£P255,385 |£P288.052 |£P300,033 |£P214,708 
Port dues £P 2,032 ‘£P 2,168 |I£P 2,479 £P 2,644 |£P 2,676 
Number of sailing 807 676 823 771 761 
vessels, 
Tonnage 13,645 11,461 16,570 16,750 19,788 
Number of pteamiern 238 283 29) 324 373 
Tonnage 612,827 682,639 786,749 765,789 764,218 
ACRE : 
Import duty . £P 3,457 I€P 1,828 \£P 1,494 \£P 365 £P 2,139 
Port dues £P 21 |£P 15 \£P 21 '£P 21 \£P 18 
Number of sailing 464 245 349 256 332 
vessels. 
Tonnage 4,327 4,130 4,030 3,176 2,581 
Number of steamers — — — — — 
Tonnage oa = _ == = 
Gaza: 
Import duty . (£P 11,577 |£P 15,103 £P 13,398 |£P 10,219 |£P 4,350 
Port dues... £P 1 |£P 18 £P 17 '£P 72 i£P 15 
Number of sailing 11 61 37 24 42 
vessels. 
Tonnage 378 2,366 1,675 1,337 1,759 
Number of steamers — — 1 10 l 
Tonnage wee — — 17,279 2,199 


953 








144 


8. Economic Conditions.—About 9,000 tourists came to Pales- 
tine during the year ; 3,689 arrived in 20 cruising parties and 979 in 
19 conducted parties by land. 

An Economic Report on Palestine was published by the De- 
partment of Overseas Trade in the course of the year. Copies of 
this Report have been furnished to the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission. 


9. A question was asked in 1931* with regard to the usurious 
rates of interest charged by money-lenders (see page 172, para- 
graph 20 of the Report for 1930). 

Usury is a scourge in Palestine as well as in neighbounng 
territories, particularly amongst the rural population, and has con- 
tributed perhaps more than any other single factor to the back- 
wardness and the recurring economic depression of that population. 
The rate of interest paid often exceeds 25 per cent., and 30 per 
cent. is considered usual, but before the War and shortly after- 
wards 50 per cent. and over was not unusual and in some cases 
peasants used to pay 5 piastres per pound per month. Such ex- 
tortion 1s now rare. Attention is invited to the provisions of the 
Usurious Loans Ordinance, 1922, and of the Imprisonment for 
Debt Ordinance, 1931. 


10. A question was also asked about credits obtained by Pales- 
tinian merchants in Syria. It cannot be reliably ascertained what 
proportion of the credits given to local merchants in 1931 came 
from Syria. Owing to the economic interdependence of Palestine 
and Syria, for which, under Turkish rule, the town of Beirut 
served for so long as the commercial and financial centre, 
certain local merchants still trade extensively with the Syrian 
markets, where they are known and where credits are therefore 
granted to them more freely. This relation was emphasized in 
1930 owing to the trade depression common to Palestine and Syria. 
Bills were protested in the Haifa courts at that time by Syrian 
merchants, and it came to light that in many instances the interest 
charged was in excess of the legal rate of 9 per cent. 


11. In the course of a discussion on the abolition of the Turkish 
tobacco monopoly an enquiry was made as to the effects of the new 
system of taxation on (a) the cultivation of tobacco and (b) the 
revenue. 

The monopoly of the Régie Co-intéressée des Tabacs de |’ Empire 
Ottoman was abolished by the Palestine Government in March, 
1921. The local cultivation of tobacco was thereupon introduced 
and, developing rapidly, has in a few years become one of the staple 
products of Palestine, grown by Arab and Jewish farmers alike but 
mostly in the Northern District. 





* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission 
page 101. 


145 


The manufacture of cigarettes has developed with the cultivation, 
and a ready market has thus been created for Palestinian leaf. 
The local factories supply almost the entire local demand; the 
only appreciable imports are of Virginian and Turkish brands. 


The number of tobacco growers was 3,687 in 1929, 2,349 in 1930, 
and 1,586 in 1931. The decline is due to over-production which 
—tesulted in less favourable prices for the crop. 


The following statistics are recapitulated for convenience :— 


AREAS UNDER CULTIVATION. 


(1925. 1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
Dunums ... 11,676 8,995 10,305 7,916 20,810 23,516 13,483 


YIELDS OF HOME-GROWN TOBACCO AND TOMBAC IN KILOGRAMS. 


1925. 1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 


ee: | eterna cs | eee | eens | eae ay | Aaa peNeemyre eet 


Tobacco... | 650,369 | 526,448 | 494,590 | 334,455 |1,183,196 | 954,424 
Tombac ... | 27,432 | 25,700 | 52,152 | 7,381 | 10,748 | 3,531 |{ 440,700 


a: | | | RS | gS | 


Totals .-- | 677,801 | 552,148 | 646,742 | 341,836 |1,193,944 | 957,955 440,700 








FACTORIES. 


1925. 1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 


Tobacco and 7 13 ll 10 10 9 7 
cigarette 
factories. 
Tombac 7 4 5 5 3 2 2 
factories. 
Snuff factories — — — — ] l 3 


OUTPUT IN KILOGRAMS. 


Year. Cigarettes. Tobacco. Tombac. Snuff. Total. 
1926 eee 379,078 27,386 81,797 — 488,261 
1927 suid 401,818 23,843 87,712 64 513,439 
1928 a 493,720 16,167 83,919 57 593,863 
1929 Sie 531,887 20,107 100, 127 1,209 653,330 
1930 — 487,587 20,301 96,899 2,225 607,012 


1931 .-» | . 493,741 24,570 95,923 5,444 619,678 





146 


EXcISE REVENUE FROM TOBACCO. 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
£P 124,700 128,898 148,754 162,984 150,541 153,720 


12. Trade.—The local consumption of Palestine cereals has in- 
creased owing to the protective tariff and the regulation of imports by 
a system of licensing, but poor crops made it necessary to bring sup- 
plies from Syria and Turkey. Exports of cereals in the circum- 
stances were low. 


The high Egyptian tariff, especially on soap and fruits, brought 
about a reduction of more than 30 per cent. in exports. 


With the departure of the pound sterling, to which the Palestine 
currency is tied, from the gold standard, prices of all commodities, 
including cereals, increased towards the end of the year; local 
industries were given an impetus, and trade between Palestine and 
countries on the gold standard is developing. 


The following table shows the value of goods manufactured in 
Palestine and exported during the years 1925-1931 :— 


1925. 1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 15 








£P £P £P £P £P £P £ 
Cement aes ats ‘ie — 5,262 | 22,959 | 31,775 | 19,026 | 28,702 | 20 
Soap .». | 205,214 | 176,074 | 234,082 | 224,496 | 215,203 | 206,259 | 119. 
Cakes of all sorts for feeding — — — 9,709 | 25,905 1,660 

animals. 

Biscuits and cakes... aie — — 3 561 1,534 2,138 2. 
Bread, passover_... wie 716 7,174 6,532 5,186 5,452 3,902 2, 
Cheese eae oe eee 2,292 528 1,256 3,344 7,684 3,255 2. 
Raisins ee ; 4,242 2,562 | 10,189 5,149 8,221 3,846 4, 
Confectionery and sweeten 2,732 1,445 3,455 2,843 2,146 1,636 1. 
Olive oil ... eae wes 6,874 9,227 | 68,468 | 12,530 7,736 | 19,394 | IS. 
Sesame oil .. 365 243 2,560 | 11,061 3,906 1,285 | 4. 
Sunflower oil oe — — 4,645 | 10,928 | 23,211 3,211 | 3 
Tehine sue ie — 468 564 819 731 2,100 616 
Olives preserved : 639 215 183 1,230 833 2,354 | | 
Fruit juice and syrup 1] _ — 255 189 2,651 | 3 
Alcohol undenatured ee 445 236 180 31 858 124 
Arak sae Py ne 704 308 174 243 174 201 
Brandy and cognac bag 2,885 2,506 1,650 2,478 1,552 1,142 2 
Liqueurs... an eis 530 1,471 64 1,882 610 1,283 
Wines fe obs ..- | 42,069 | 27,720 | 21,685 | 31,189 | 27,304 | 31,411 | 3. 
Linseed oil ... ee ys — 98 72 987 724 659 
Artificial teeth sy Me — — 1,139 4,372 9,261 | 10,325 | 16, 
Stockings... Oe as 431 2,488 | 12,618 | 17.532 | 18,919 | 19,722 | 16: 
Wearing apparel ... ... | 2,231} 1,224] 1,142] 5,879 | 11,901 | 16,144 | 16: 
Leather hand-bags i — — — 856 3,883 6,274 | 6: 
Paper and cardboard goods — — 576 612 930 2,475 | 3. 





Other goods manufactured 63,746 | 59,895 | 81,097 | 81,345 | 79,905 | 78,719 


| 
Totals ies £P 386,594 [ae | 475,548 poner 479,167 | 449,388 | 374.1 
| 





147 


The Syrian market is an important outlet for local products 
and Palestine, in turn, purchases large quantities of Syrian pro- 
duce and manufactures. 

A score of new factories were established in 1931, including a 
factory for the manufacture of wooden cases for oranges, a pack- 
ing house, and a nail factory. Some small workshops, however, 
had to close down. 

_ The Palestine Electric Corporation has reduced the price of 
current by 40 per cent., which is a considerable relief to industry. 


The first commercial consignments of potash from the Dead Sea 
were exported towards the end of the year. 


13. There was considerable building activity and large sums 
were invested in real estate in Jerusalem, Tel-Aviv, Jaffa, and 
Haifa. 


14. Shipments of oranges from Jaffa and Haifa began early in 
November. The prices realized were from 8 to 13 shillings per 


case in the United Kingdom and slightly more in Germany and 
other European markets. 


Total Imports and Exports. 


Comparative table, 1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, and 1981. 














Imports. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
£P £P J £P £P 
Imports for consumption | 6,184,454 | 6,770,818 | 7,166,593 | 6,985,258 | 5,940,000 
Imports in transit eis 131,029 177,447 265,501 155,385 177,162 
Imports of specie Sa 262,659 17,949 12,310 3,229 2,025 
Totals ae £P| 6,578,142 | 6,966,214 | 7,444,404 | 7,143,872 | 6,119,187 
Exports. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
£P £P £P £P £P 
Exports of Palestine | 1,899,759 | 1,487,207 | 1,554,262 | 1,896,095 | 1,572,061 
produce. 
Exports in transit ei 131,029 177,447 265,501 155,385 177,162 


Re-exports of foreign 246,592 177,892 197,671 182,222 251,338 
goods. 
Exports of specie ca 3,430 22,254 212,667 1,654 226,467 


rr rr | ee | eee | eS 


Totals si at 2,280,810 | 1,864,800 | 2,230,101 | 2,235,356 | 2,227,028 





148 


Imports and Exports by Classes. 


Comparative table, 1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, and 1931 


———————— Ss ee 


Imports. 1927. | 1928. | 1929. 1930. 1931 
£P £P £P sp | Pp 


Food, drink and tobacco | 1,631,982 | 1,800,986 | 1,911,158 | 1.3 ‘ 

Raw materials and | 568,424 | 643,683 720,554 pee pee 
articles mainly un- , £17,904 
manufactured. 

Articles wholly — or | 3,439,875 | 3,662,851 | 3,715,647 ees 
mainly manufactured. : 4,067,135 | 3,261,735 

Miscellaneous and un- 544,173 663,298 819,2 ! vy = 
classified. 204 | 027,540 | 725,182 








Touls ... _-£P| 6,184,454 | 6,770,818 | 7,166,593 | 6,985,258 | 5.940.000 
eee ene ees Caer: Nn ONE: Niet 


a 
Exports. 1927. 1928. 1929, 1930. 1931 


—_——e gg 
- - 








Food, drink and tobacco | 1,494,093 | 1,050,989 | 1,101,529 | 1,476,070 | 1 P 

Raw materials and|  63629| | 74,590| 93841|  51’999 | snes 
articles mainly un- ; 58,692 
manufactured. 

Articles wholly or | 337,108 | 354,493 | 353, : 
mainly erated. td 365,350 280,435 








Miscellaneous and un- 4,929 7,135 5,103 om 
classified. “088 3,268 
Totals ... PI 1,899,759 | 1,487,207 | 1,554,262 | 1,896,005 | 1.579 oni 


— Oe .. eee _—_Oe___!S ll 


149 


Imports and Exports by Countries. 
Comparative table, 1930 and 1931. 





Imports. 
Countries consigned from se ees 
1930. 1931. Percentage 1931. 
£P £P 
Jnited Kingdom 1,163,619 998,402 16-81 
fritish Possessions 119,462 158,772 2°67 
tris As 129,625 92,067 1:55 
194,625 150,121 2-53 
74,416 54,789 0:92 
177,275 133,190 2:24 
1,591,355 1,025,547 17-26 
288,348 213,535 3-59 
762,073 638,185 10:74 
78,407 69,243 1:17 
47,886 25,338 0-43 
247,789 244,460 4°12 
66,277 38,499 0-65 
247,221 359,576 6-05 
75,034 140,203 2-36 
61,413 44,297 0-75 
717,736 47,348 0-80 
1,035,411 1,016,873 17°12 
ee ate ee 71,923 81,691 1-38 
United States of America 358,528 257,370 4-33 
‘Other countries 126,835 150,494 2-53 
Totals aay £P 6,985,258 5,940,000 100-00 


- Countries of destination. 








1930. 1931. Percentage 1931. 
£P £P 

702,664 708,228 45-05 
42,325 41,005 2:61 
sos 1,365 13,524 0-86 
bie 52,870 11,351 0-72 
bie 17,725 24,208 1-54 
igs 395,494 177,945 11-32 
sits 60,321 41,181 2-62 
aa 203,074 201,710 12-83 
a 57,581 9,944 0-63 
gue 16,770 16,262 1-03 
eee 16,417 17,538 1-12 
BL cee 19,973 16,748 1-07 
sae 1,234 12,291 0-78 
Mais 210,342 222,527 14-15 
ted States of America 23,546 19,781 1-26 
74,394 37,818 2-4] 
£P 1,896,095 1,572,061 100-00 


150 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


It was inevitable that the general economic depression which pre- 
vailed in 1931 should be reflected in the returns of the Post Office, 
but the effect was, perhaps, not so great as might have been 
expected. 


2. Revenue amounted to £P210,123, as compared with 
£P219,783 in 1930, a decrease of £P9,660. The largest decrease 
occurred under the headings of sale of stamps (£P8,565) and 
telephones (£P3,871). The reduction in the sales of stampa was 
due, no doubt, to unfavourable trade conditions, but the decrease in 
telephone revenue was more apparent than real, owing to the fact 
that the receipts for 1930 included a considerable sum which would. 
normally, have been paid by subscribers in 1929 but which, under 
the terms of a moratorium following the 1929 riots, was not paid 
until the following year. 


3. Expenditure amounted to £P148,524, compared with 
£P146,830 in 1930, an increase of £P1,694. The increase was due 
partly to increments and partly to an increase in staff to ineet ex- 
pansion in the telephone service. 


4. The excess of revenue over expenditure was £P61,599 and. if 
the value of free services rendered to or by other Departments be 
included, the surplus was £P68,631. 


5. Posts.—The mail services were maintained without interrup- 
tion throughout the year. On five occasions, however, it was found 
impossible, owing to rough weather, to land mails af Jaffa and they 
were carried on to Haifa. 


6. Certain of the continental steamship companies having con- 
siderably accelerated their Mediterranean services, the use of 
P. and O. steamers was found less advantageous and, towards the 
end of the year, was discontinued. There are now three mail 
services a week between Palestine and England, each of which takes 
less than seven days in transit. 


7. The air-mail service was irregular during the winter months 
but satisfactory during the summer. In October, Imperia] Airways 
altered the itinerary of their England-India service, and mails are 
now handed over at Tiberias instead of at Gaza. 


8. The ‘‘ small packet’’ service introduced in 1930 proved 
increasingly popular, but the cash-on-delivery service has not yet 
been used by the public to any appreciable extent. 


9. Undelivered correspondence amounted to 113,477 items, 69,160 
of which were posted in Palestine. The total value of article: 
found in undeliverable correspondence was £P847, of which it was 
possible to return £P395 to the senders. 


lol 
10. The money-order service with Syria was suspended at the 


request of that Administration on 23rd September, owing to 
currency fluctuations, and has not yet been resumed. 


11. Telegraphs.—Telegraph traffic continued to decline, the de- 
. crease compared with the previous year being 3 per cent. In 
| September, following the fall in sterling and a request by the 
' Synan telegraph administration for a settlement of all accounts 
on a gold basis, it became necessary to increase the charges for 
all cablegrams and radio-telegrams. 


12. At midnight (New York time) on Christmas Eve the bells 
of one of the New York churches were set pealing by the depression 
of a telegraph key in Bethlehem post office. The current was 
transmitted by land-line to Cairo, thence to the Marconi wireless 
station at Abu Zabal and from there by wireless to the United 
States, where a special connexion was made with the apparatus 
installed in St. Thomas’s Church, New York. 


13. Telephones.—Development proceeded at a steady rate, but 
the expansion at Jaffa was arrested through delay in completing 
the new post office building, and consequential delay in the in- 
stallation of the new telephone exchange. It being impossible to 
accommodate any more subscribers on the old exchange, a con- 
siderable number of applicants were without telephones until the 
end of the year. A similar situation existed at Jerusalem but, 
as at this place there is no likelihood of the new building being 
available for some time to come, arrangements have been made 
to meet the situation by installing an improvised extension of the 
existing exchange. 


14. Although the numbers both of subscribers and instruments 
increased during the year, trunk traffic decreased by about 7 per 
cent. The decrease may be ascribed to the poor tourist season 
and general depression in trade. 


15. Engineering.—The lines and plant generally were satisfac- 
tonly maintained but, as in previous years, excessive humidity 
and the presence of a considerable amount of salt in the atmosphere 
in the coastal region rendered communication at night a matter 
of difficulty during certain months of the year. 


16. A new central battery exchange, with 900 subscribers’ lines 
and an ultimate capacity for 2,000 lines, was opened at Jaffa in 
December. The exchange was installed by the Department's own 
*sorkmen and the change-over from the magneto system took place 
without any hitch. 

17. General.—A new post office was opened at Jaffa in March, 
‘roviding accommodation which has facilitated the transaction of 
susiness and is greatly appreciated by the public. 


14213 F 


152 


1S. T.ack of accommodation at Jerusalem still constitutes a 
serious handicap to the work of the Department. 


19. The health of the staff continued to be somewhat unsatis- 
factory, the average number of days’ sick absence per officer being 
7.26 in the case of men and 17.8 in the case of women. 


Revenue and expenditure. 


Increase or Decrease 


Public Service. 1931. 
1930. 1931. Increase. | Decrease. 
£P £P £P £P 
REVENUE— 
Sale of stamps... ae 90,708 87,143 — 3,565 
Commission on money Galen one 1,108 1,057 —_ 5] 
Postal order poundage ... aks 833 866 33 — 
Foreign parcel poet _ ses 8,816 7,768 = 1,048 
Telegrams wis “ue ae 25,506 23,671 — 1,835 
Telephones eh vist uae 85,161 81,290 — 3,87] 
Rent of letter-boxes —... a 2,561 2,507 —_ 54 
Maintenance of lines in Sinai ... 2,036 2,839 803 — 
Miscellaneous _... oa ad 3,054 2,982 — 72 
Totals ... ss ee £P|} 219,783 210,123 836 10,496 
EXPENDITURE— 
All services except conveyance | 140,184 142,416 2,232 -— 
of mails outside Palestine. 
Conveyance of mails _ outside 6,646 6,108 —_ 538 
Palestine. 
Totals ... aes 7? £P) 146,830 148,524 2,232 538 


———_—_ 


ESTIMATED VALUE OF SERVICES RENDERED TO AND BY OTHER 
(FOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS DURING THE PERIOD 1ST DECEMBER, 
1930, TO 30TH NOVEMBER, 1931. 


Rendered to other Departments. 


ol 
Official correspondence ... it 0,481 
Customs services (5 per cent. of £P31 020) be 1,551 
£P7,032 

Rendered by other Departments. Nil. 


Credit balance... uae sine san ote £P7 032. 


153 
Traffic statistics. 





Increase or 


Nature of Traffic. 1930. 1931. Acie. 
per cent. 
lettera ss... nae bee sats ee 11,763,770 10,787,750 — 8 
Post cards a us 932,080 819,559 — 12 
Printed matter aad samples ae ve 6,194,900 5,839,902 a 5 
Parcels, inland... sae ae 36,800 31,772 — 13 
Parcels, foreign, despatched Se ae 33,990 36,026 + 6 
Parcels, foreign, received wed 93,197 77,730 — 16 
Cash-on-delive ery parcels, despatched oe 15 40} + 166 
Cash-on-delivery parcels, received os 1,424 : 1,430 
Telegrams .. wis = 264,378 256,350 — 8 
Telephone subscribers’ Scohbiiee lines .. : 2,821 2,977 | + 65 
Telephones (stations) ... was ad 4,336 4,602 + 6 
Telephone, local calls... eas be 13,199,600 | 14,500,000 + 9 
Telephone, trunk calls... - *7 34,822 685,475 | — 6 
Telegraph and telephone, local ines inn: 13,807 14,557 + § 
Telegraph and telephone, trunk lines km. 13,152 13,229 


* Incorrectly shown as 632,385 in the 1930 Report. 


Money order and postal order statistics. 


Increases or 


1930. 1931. 


decreases. 
per cent. 
Postal orders (Palestine) 
Number issued ses tes ats 90,946 96,558 + 6:17 
Value... ine ie .. (£P 71,207 |£P 72,330 + 1-57 
Postal orders (Imperial) 
Number issued .. a Se scle 20,657 23,296 + 12°77 
Value... ts aes .. £P 13,114 |€P 14,370 + 9-51 
Postal orders (Palestine) 
Number paid ... — se ae 90,882 96,272 + 5:93 
Value... Sas sate .. {EP 71,334 £P 72,200 + 1-21 
Postal orders (Imperial) 
Number paid ... di oe wes 7,038 6.338 | — 9-94 
Value... ae see we. |£P 4,722 |£P 3,985 — 15-6) 
Postal orders (Egyptian) 
Number paid ... ae sie mae 5,471 5,734 + 4-80 
Value... bee ba Sve. SE 4,935 |£P 5,088 + 3:09 
Money orders (inland) 
Number issued te be ae 13,486 12,259 — 9-10 
Value... <a iat .. £P 165,950 |£P 138,848 — 16:33 
Money orders (foreign) 
Number paid ... me bas st 19,337 20,359 + §:28 
Value... sia wt .. £P 61,492 |£P 64,485 + 4-86 
Money orders (foreign) 
Number issued ae ae a 2,497 3,317 + 32-84 
Value... ae ie See ... (£P 16,034 |£P 16,034 + 27-42 


14213 F 


tw 


154 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS, AND FISHERIES. 


Agricultural Service.—Low rainfall resulted in a diminished 
production of both winter and summer crops, and in a complete 
failure of summer sowings in the southern areas. In the Beersheba 
and Gaza districts the failure was so serious that many cultivators 
were left without enough seed to sow during the rainy season, and 
the Government therefore afforded relief by distributing £P14,000 
in seed loans, with a maximum of £P15 in any one case. The loans 
are repayable in two annual instalments, following the harvests of 
1932 and 1933, with interest at 5 per cent. The loans were 
advanced on the basis of collective and several borrowings. 

Cereal prices ruled generally low but recovered somewhat to- 
wards the end of the year. 

The water-melon crop was below averse and exports continued 
to suffer from the high tariff imposed by Egypt. 


2. A minor invasion of locusts in the Jordan Valley during May 
and June did little damage and was successfully countered at little 
cost. 

3. A Locusts Destruction Ordinance making better provision 
for the destruction of locusts was drawn up and published as a 
Bill at the end of the year. This Ordinance, which was enacted 
early in 1932, replaced the inadequate regulations hitherto en- 
forced under the Ottoman Code and the Plant Protection Ordinance. 
Adequate powers are now provided for dealing with locust invasions 
by means of local commissions. 


4. A plague of field mice, which assumed serious proportions, was 
held in check by the acricultural field staff of the Government 
Department with the active co-operation of the Jewish Agency, the 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association, and the colonists and 
fellahin in the areas affected. Over 1,300,000 dunums of infested 
land were treated with zelio poisoned grain and gassing machines. 
The Government contributed £P4,065 towards the cost of this 
campaign, mainly in respect of materials and supervision ; all the 
labour required was contributed voluntarily by the cultivators them- 
selves. 

5. While Jewish agriculture maintains its progress on modern 
lines, it is satisfactory to record that the Arab farming community 
is beginning to show signs of a desire to adopt more intensive 
methods, to increase production, and to cultivate more remunera- 
tive crops. The Government has, accordingly, increased the num- 
ber of its village demonstration plots from eighteen to fifty-one 
and proposes still further to increase it in 1932. 


6. The Government experimental stations at Acre and Baisan 
continue to serve a most useful purpose in the trial and demon- 
stration of new crops and as seed farms. For example, the sutt- 
ability of local conditions for linseed and potatoes, earlier demon- 
strated at these stations, is now being taken up by farmers on a 
scale likely to have important financial results. 


155 


The stations also grew and distributed, either gratis or at nominal 
rates, over twenty tons of selected seeds; the supply, nevertheless, 
proved unequal to the demand. 


7. General Agricultural Council—The General Agricultural 
Council was inaugurated by the High Commissioner on 16th 
February, 1931. The Council, consisting of 14 members, held 
luur meetings durimg the year under the chairmanship of the 
Director of Agriculture and Forests. There are nine committees, 
on which officers of the Department serve as chairmen or secre- 
taries, for horticulture, plant protection, agricultural economics and 
marketing, agricultural chemistry, citrus fruit, animal husbandry, 
agronomy, irrigation, and agricultural education. The _ total 
membership of these committees is 139, representing all sections 
of the community. 

The committees study and report on proposals which are then 
reviewed by the General Council, classified into an order of priority, 
and submitted to the Government for consideration through the 
Department. 

A number of problems have thus been examined in great detail 
during the year, but the financial situation has not permitted of 
any considerable expenditure on carrying out the schemes put for- 
ward by the Council. 


The principal schemes under consideration are research on the 
composition of the Palestine orange; research on pests and diseases 
and the extension of the plant quarantine service; experimental 
shipments of melons, bananas, eggs, turkeys, and raisins; accelera- 
tion of intensive soil survey; a campaign for the advertisement 
abroad of citrus fruits; improvement of live stock and extension of 
poultry farms; a proposal to subsidize agricultural experiments at 
the Jewish experimenta] station at Gebata; cleaning and grading 
of cereals by portable grain-graders; investigation of irrigation 
possibilities; the enlargement of the Jewish horticultural station at 
Rehoboth and the organization of a demonstration centre with 
particular reference to research and demonstration on citrus 
problems; co-operation among citrus and banana growers; the 
increase of exports to Roumania, Cyprus, and Russia; the analysis 
and standardization of honey for export; and the establishment of 
a canning industry. 


S. Agricultural Education.—The Kadoorie (Arab) Agricultural 
School at Tulkarm has completed its first year of instruction. This 
institution includes a senior class undergoing a three years’ course 
of mstruction in agriculture and its allied sciences, a junior 
class for sons of farmers who are taught the elements of improved 
agriculture during one vear, and a one year’s course for rural school- 
masters to enable them to give an agricultural bias to their teaching 
in the villages. In all, 55 students attended the school, 30 in the 
senior class, 10 in the junior class, and 15 in the schoolmasters’ 


14213 F 3 


156 


class. An endeavour is made to train all students to take an active 
part in the daily tasks of a mixed farm so that on leaving they are 
conversant with all modern farming operations. 

The total area of the school land is 405 dunums, mainly heavy 
clay soil which is gradually being brought back into good heart after 
years of bad farming by previous owners. 


9. The farm buildings of the Jewish Agricultural School at 
Mount Tabor which are in course of construction are expected to 
be ready for occupation during the summer of 1932. The plans 
for the school itself have been completed and the site has been 
selected and laid ont. Equipment for the dairy, fruit-preserving 
building, forage room, and school workshops, is on order. The 
land has been adequately fenced, pumping machinery has been 
installed, and the water reservoir completed. 


10. Veterinary Service.—Cattle plague, bovine contagious 
pleuro-pneumonia, and haemorrhagic septicaemia were absent in 
1931. 


11. Foot-and-mouth disease occurred in June and, despite 
measures taken, rapidly assumed epidemic proportions. Movement 
of cattle within the country was consequently prohibited; the 
slaughter of local cattle in areas of local authorities was suspended 
and cattle markets were closed. Quarantine measures were taken 
to prevent extension from infected to non-infected areas. 
Artificial transmission of the disease from affected to non-affected 
cattle in areas declared to be infected was extensively practised. 
There were 107 outbreaks, all—with two exceptions in dairv herds— 
in village cattle ; 27,562 head of cattle were involved. The disease 
is now confined to a few villages on the northern frontier and has 
been brought under control sufficiently to enable general restrictions 
to be withdrawn. 


12. The plans formulated earlier in the year for the eradication 
of bovine contagious abortion from individual dairy cattle herds and 
to prevent introduction of the disease into clean herds have been 
adopted by several stockowners with most encouraging results. 
These measures received the immediate approval of the majority of 
dairv cattle owners who are co-operating actively with the Govern- 
ment Service for the ultimate elimination of the disease from their 
herds. There are at present 21 herds comprising 1,606 animals 
under test, and of these 138 herds are now free of the disease. 
Application of the procedure is being progressively extended to 
embrace all dairy herds in the country. 


13. Fifty-five outbreaks of anthrax, causing 152 deaths, were — 
controlled by vaccination of 6,583 in-contact animals. Nine out- 
breaks of blackquarter with 62 deaths were reported and 2,824 
cattle located in blackquarter areas were vaccinated. ‘Twelve cazes 
of epizootic lymphangitis and one case of glanders were destroyed. 


157 


There were 17 outbreaks of sheep and goat pox involving 2,436 
animals and causing the death of 139 annuals. Three outbreaks 
of sheep and goat scab were reported, during which there were 24 
deaths and destructions. Two hundred cases of tick fever, with 51 
deaths, were reported among improved dairy cattle. Mortality 
_ and cases of emaciation and debility due to tick fevers among sheep 
and goats are very severe. 


_ 14. Fifty-nine cases of rabies in animals were established by 

_ laboratory tests. 601 animals which had bitten persons or other 

animals were placed under observation for 10 days; 26 developed 

rabies and died. 16,209 dogs, 1,984 cats, and 47 jackals were 
destroyed. 

Rules prescribing measures for the control of rabies in infected 

areas were introduced in April and so far have proved successful. 


15. The country is free from fow] plague, but endemic diseases 
continue to cause heavy losses. There were 69 outbreaks of fowl] 
pox, 28 of fowl typhoid, and 12 of fowl cholera. Serum is employed 
to control outbreaks of fowl typhoid and cholera and_ poultrvy- 
keepers are encouraged to vaccinate their poultry annually with 
pigeon-pox virus vaccine to immunize the flocks against fowl pox. 


16. 252,176 animals, of which 5,475 were cattle, 176,841 were 
sheep, and 57,642 were goats, were examined at frontier quarantine 
stations. 5,534 head of cattle and 11,618 sheep and goats were 
imported from overseas through Haifa quarantine _ station. 
Quarantine revenue amounted to £P8,000. 

Consignments of imported and exported hides and skins were 
recularly inspected. 


17. 188 veterino-legal cases, mostly of arsenical poisoning and 
malicious wounding of cattle, were dealt with. 


18. The main activity of the veterinary laboratory was the 
examination of material rendered necessary in control of contagious 
animal abortion. 11,000 agglutination tests of the blood of cattle 
were conducted in connexion with the plans for the control and 
eradication of this disease. 

Specimens from 697 cases of suspected contagious animal diseases 
were microscopically examined. 


19. 16,000 doses of various vaccines were issued and 13,000 c.c. 
of anti-sera prepared A considerable expansion took place in the 
work of diagnosis and investigation of poultry diseases. 


20. Stockbreeding Service.—Four pedigree South Devon heifer 
calves and one bull calf, two sows and one boar of middle white 
breed, and seven pure-bred cocks were imported from England to 
the Government stock farm at Acre. Nine half-bred bulls were 
lent to farmers for breeding. Flock rams and stud goats were in 
demand but very few were available for distribution. 


14213 F 4 


158 


21. The poultry and bee-keeping branch of the stock farm con- 
tinues to expand satisfactorily. 1,500 pure-bred pullets and 
cockerels and approximately 20,000 hatching eggs were distributed 
to poultry raisers during the year. The demand for hatching eggs 
was far greater than the supply. Applications for rabbits of the 
castorex breed are steadily increasing. The demand for more 
advice on modern poultry and bee-keeping methods is growing, 
especially among Arab cultivators who are now showing greater 
interest in these branches of farming. 


22. Forestry Service.—1,250,000 plants were raised at 14 forest 
nurseries, and 100,000 plants were purchased from girls’ nurseries 
operated by the General Federation of Jewish Labour. 1,198,638 
plants, including stock carried over from the previous year, were 
used in afforestation schemes departmentally. 140,000 were dis- 
tributed gratis for amenity purposes, and 21,670 were sold. 

Olive trees planted by the public numbered 563,146, of which 
119,846 were extracted from forest reserves under licence. 

Departmental plantations have made favourable development. 
154 plantations, comprising an area of 7,870 dunums, were formed 
by private agency since 1928 up to the end of 1930-31 rainy season. 

18,679 forest licences were issued, including.6,110 to right- 
holders, and forest revenues totalled £P5,752. 

714 persons were convicted for forest contraventions. 

Two new forest reserves, elnbracing 1,437 dunums, were pro- 
claimed in 1931, bringing the total number of reserves to 204 
covering 680,993 dunums. 

Survey and demarcation was applied to 48 existing and proposed 
reserves. 

A modest programme of research was further developed. 


93. Sericulture.—A Sericultural Instructor, attached to the Forest 
Service, has continued his efforts to awaken interest in silk-worm 
breeding, with promising results. 

Some 600,000 mulberry seedlings of suitable varieties were raised 
at forest nurseries for free distribution. The mulberry plantations 
formed for purposes of demonstration at Acre, Tulkarm, and 
Jericho have been scientifically pruned and cultivated and have 
made excellent growth. 

Selected silk-worm seed and quantities of model breeding equip- 
ment were distributed to schools and individuals. 

Small quantities of silk reeled from cocoons produced at Govern- 
ment girls’ schools are being woven experimentally. 

Lectures and demonstrations in mulberry cultivation and silk- 
worm breeding have been given in different parts of the country, 
and theoretical and practical courses of instruction have been regu- 
larly held by the Sericultural Instructor at the Kadoorie Arab 
Agricultural School. 

An instructional leaflet entitled ‘‘ The Mulberry Silk Worm ”’ 
is being circulated in English, Arabic, and Hebrew. 





159 


24. Horticultural Service.—The Horticultural Service continued 
and extended the work begun in 1930. 

The horticultural stations at Jerusalem, Jericho, and Baisan are 
proceeding with the experiments and deinonstrations from previous 
vears and have inaugurated additional work during the year. 


95. The field of co-operative experiments and demonstrations 
carried out in conjunction with growers has been very considerably 
extended and in some 30 places work is being carried out in con- 
nexion with oranges, bananas, grapes, and olives. These experi- 
ments and demonstrations create much interest among the growers 
of the various districts. 


26. During the spring and summer, spraying demonstrations 
were undertaken on a considerable scale throughout the citrus belt 
in groves infested with various insect pests, with the object of 
acquainting growers with the methods of treating fruit trees to 
control pests and diseases. 


97. The regulations under the Fruit Export Ordinance were made 
more stringent and it was possible to carry out stricter inspection 
of fruit for export. This has had a noticeable effect in the improved 
condition of consignments offered for inspection, an improvement 
which is bound to increase the confidence of buyers in the oversea 
markets. 


28. Exports of oranges and lemons increased from 1,800,282 
cases in 1928-29 to 2,884,685 cases in 1929-30, and the area under 
cultivation has been further enlarged, amounting now to about 
130,000 dunuis. 


29. The Palestine grape-fruit has acquired a reputation in Europe, 
and exports increased from 2,265 cases during the previous season 
to 13,011 cases. 


30. Irrigation Service.—The reconstruction of the irrigation 
system at Jericho was concluded and better use and more equitable 
distribution of the water available were attained. Further investi- 
gations of available water resources were undertaken mainly in con- 
hexion with the work of the Development Commission to which the 
Irrigation Officer has been seconded. 


31. Entomological Service.—The Entomological Service has paid 
special attention to the fumigation of citrus trees in the Jaffa area 
tocheck the spread of black scale; 42,381 trees were treated during 
approximately three months’ work. Spraying experiments in 
connexion with the control of red scale on citrus were introduced 
on a scientific basis and it 1s proposed to amplify this first season’s 
work considerably in the future with a view to ascertaining de- 
finitely the exact value of such practice under Palestinian con- 
ditions. Trials concerning the control of the olive fruit fly were 


160 


recommenced and some valuable information was gained. Labora- 
tory studies of the life history and control of the long-horned beetle 
borer of apricots have been brought to a successful termination. 
The examination of Palestine ticks and their seasonal distribution 
has likewise been concluded. 


382. Fumigation of oranges for export to Egypt was conducted as 
in previous years at Kantara; 67 trucks were treated. 


oo. Plant inspection in Northern and Southern Palestine was 
materially strengthened by the emplovment of an increased number 
of plant quarantine guards and bv the erection of road barriers at 
Jenin and Tulkarm, which simplified the examination of traffic 
passing from north to south along these highways. 


84. Inspection of plant imports resulted in 6,115 certificates of 
admission being issued during the first eleven months of the year. 
Sixtv consignments were refused entry. As a result of the in- 
spection of plant material in transit within Palestine, 1,018 con- 
signments Were confiscated and destroyed during the same period. 


35. Analytical Service.—Further progress was made with the 
soil survey of Palestine and an additional map and report are being 
published. 192 routine examinations were undertaken in the 
laboratory. Experiments with rock phosphate and sulphur from 
local deposits were continued. 


36. The Analytical Service was abolished for reasons of economy 
at the end of the year. 


37. Fisheries Service.—The local fishing industry derived during 
the year a net income of nearly £P100,000, representing the pro- 
ceeds to the producer from fish taken in local waters. The amount 
spent on imported fish was over £P60,000, a figure which can and 
should be considerably reduced and perhaps altogether eliminated 
by local supplies. 

The limited budget for this service has been necessarily absorbed 
in greater part by administration work, comprising the enforce- 
ment of regulations for the conservation of the coastal and lacustrine 
fishing grounds and the collection and collation of statistics rela- 
tive to production and marketing. Investigation and develor- 
ment work, limited by considerations of finance, has shown some 
definite progress towards the establishment of the factors deter- 
mining the offshore migrations of the more important food-fishes 
with a view to the exploitation of fishing grounds farther off the 
coast. 

A scheme of development was prepared for the introduction of 
intensive freshwater fish culture in ponds, the demonstration and 
encouragement of the use of more effective fishing boats and gear, 
and the improvement of local marketing arrangements for fish. 

Owing, however, to financial stringency this scheme of develop- 
ment has had to be deferred. 


161 


38. Afeteorological Service.—Official meteorological stations were 


- maintained at Jerusalem, Acre. Haifa, Jenin, Tel-Aviv, Jericho, 


(raza, Beersheba, and Baisan, where observations are recorded 


_ regularly of rainfall, humidity, evaporation, air temperatures, baro- 
| metric pressure, wind velocities, wind direction, cloud formation, 


ao, oe 


and vapour pressure. The records are scrutinized by the Egyptian 
meteorological service. In addition, rainfall records are taken at 
30 private stations which notify their readings to the Govern- 
ment Department for incorporation in a general statement exhibit- 
ing the rainfall throughout the country. The Department has 
issued eight rain-gauges to private institutions for this purpose. 
Arrangements are made for the exchange of meteorological data 
with several other Governments. 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS, GEOLOGY, AND MINING. 


Public Works. 


The total expenditure by the Department of Public Works was 
£P407 ,000, compared with £P486,000 in 1930. 


2. Recurrent services were carried out satisfactorily throughout 
the year. Expenditure on rent of offices and quarters was greater 
owing to the leasing of additional accommodation for police pur- 
poses. The ever-growing motor traffic and the increased length of 
metalled roads have entailed larger disbursements on the main- 
tenance of highways and the preservation of surfaces. 


3. Projects and Designs.—Work was started on new District 
and Magistrate’s Courts at Nablus to cost about £P12,400; and 
on new Court-houses at Haifa to cost £P11,500. 


4. A contract has been let for the construction of the framework 
of the Palestine Archaeological Museum (Rockefeller Foundation). 
The value of the contract is about £P87,000 and the time allowed 
for its execution is two and a half years. 


5. The Government architects carried out preparatory works 
for the reconstruction of the Dome of the Katholikon in the Church 
of the Holy Sepulchre which was damaged by the earthquake in 
1927. The cost of reconstruction, amounting to about £P9,400, 
will be met by the Orthodox Church. 


6. Major Works—Buildings.—The new Government House at 
Jerusalem was completed and occupied in March. The cost, 
exclusive of land and furniture, was approximately £P53,000. 

Other important buildings were the post office at Jaffa 
(£P25,200); a police post at Khalsa (£P3,600); and the Govern- 
ment Kadoorie (Arab) Agricultural School, Tulkarm (£P26,000). 


7. The construction has begun of the farm and subsidiary build- 
ings of the Jewish Agricultural School to be established near 
Mt. Tabor, also from the funds of the Kadoorie Bequest. 


162 


8. Quarters for telegraph linemen were constructed at Athht and 
Samakh; additional accommodation was completed for the De- 
partment of Customs at Ras en Naqura post; and a further stage 
in the construction of the animal quarantine station, Haifa, was 
brought to conclusion. 


9. Major improvements and additions, to cost £P9,.500, are in 
progress at the camps of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in 
Palestine. The maintenance services at the camps are also carried 
out by the Public Works Department. 


10. Further improvements were effected in the Jaffa port area 
at a charge to loan funds. They include accommodation for Port, 
Health, and Customs Services; the widening and asphalting of 
the south approach road; the making of a new sea-wall which 
increases the width of the wharf and roadway to 18 metres; and 
construction of a short section of experimental breakwater. con- 
sisting of a reinforced concrete stepped wall on an exposed length 
of the reef. 


11. Major Works—Roads.—£P8,000 was expended on continua- 
tion of the Petah-Tiqva-Kefar Sava section of the Jaffa-Haifa road, 
bringing the completed length from Jaffa to 21.6 kilometres. At 
the northern end, progress was made on the road by a jail labour 
company. Another jail labour company is engaged on the con- 
struction of the Jenin-Megiddo-E] Harthiya road. 

Road facilities, including a large ferro-concrete bridge over 
the railway, were provided in the Haifa oil area. 


12. The construction has begun of a metalled road between 
Haifa and Acre estimated to cost £P13,000; road stone is to be — 
given free of charge by the Haifa Bay Development Company | 
which owns the land that will be served by the road. Jewish and 
Arab labour is working on this road. 


13. A first-class metalled and asphalted road was constructed, 
at a cost of £P14,400, from the Jerusalem-Jericho road to the 
Dead Sea. Palestine Potash Limited advanced a sum of £P5,000 
to Government towards this expenditure, to be recovered from — 
royalties payable under the Dead Sea Concession. Jewish and 
Arab labour was employed on this road. 


14. Water-Supply, Irrigation, and Dratnage.—Drilling plant 
capable of reaching a depth of about 500 metres was received in 
October. This plant will be used for well drilling and for tests of | 
strata in localities where the existing water-supply is inadequate. 
with a view to discovering sources of increased supply. An ex- 
perienced English driller will operate the plant. 

15. A hydraulic rain has been installed to provide water for 
the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 

16. The drainage of the swampy land north of Haifa has been 
extended; this locality 1s developing into a commercial and in- 
dustrial area part passu with the development of the harbour. 


163 


17. The construction of the new harbour and the reclamation 
of a large area between the present foreshore and the completed 
quay blocked the outlets of sewers emptying into the bay, and a 
temporary means of sewage disposal was devised. 


18. The head-works of the Jericho spring were improved for 
irrigation purposes. 

19. A good supply of water has been found on the proposed site 
of the new Central Prison near Tulkarm ; and the Government well 
at Beersheba was deepened, giving a more abundant flow. 


20. The sparse rainfall in 1930-31 caused a serious shortage of 
water in Jerusalem. The Public Works Department therefore 
carried out an installation on behalf of the Municipality, at a cost 
of approximately £P8,600, from Ain Fawar, a few kilometres from 
ihe present source at Ain Farah. The water is pumped from Ain 
Fawar to Ain Farah and thence to Jerusalem through the existing 
pipes. 

21. Underground Water.—Government started a well with the 
new drilling-plant at a point 20 kilometres from Beersheba. 

An important well was completed south of Naaneh in the Ramleh 
district; it penetrated the bituminous limestones and chalk and 
obtained what promises to be an abundant source of water in the 
fissured Turonian rocks. 

Two bore-holes were sunk at Kefar Hassidim (Nahalat Ya‘aqov) 
in the Haifa district. One, at a depth of 29 metres, gave a yield 
of 75 cubic metres an hour from the flint beds in the chalk. 


22. Shafts.—The shaft well at the Government Agricultural 
School at Tulkarm was deepened by two and a half metres and an 
abundant supply was obtained in hard rocks at the base. 

Several shaft wells were sunk around Beersheba, of a shallow 
nature, with a view to determining if water exists in sufficient 
quantity for irrigation of citrus groves. The maximum yield was 
about 50 cubic metres a day. 


23. Motor T’ransport.—Censuses of motor traffic taken in October, 
1930, and in March, 1931, on all main roads and all municipal 
arterial roads show a general increase of 100 per cent. since 1926. 
On the basis of the censuses, the rates of contribution by Govern- 
ment and Municipalities towards the cost of making and maintain- 
ing arterial roads in Municipal areas have been revised. 


24. A weighbridge was in use at Haifa for checking weights of 
mechanical vehicles in connexion with the enforcement of the Road 
Transport Ordinance, 1929; portable loadometers and the weigh- 
bridge in the Customs enclosure at Jaffa are also employed for the 
same purpose. 


25. Miscellaneous.—Among the road and building plant acquired 
during the year are two portable Blackstone oil engines, three 
portable water-tank trailers, and six roller vans. 


164 


26. The Public Works Department continues to be responsible 
for works services, including billets, for the Garrison except in the 
permanent camps at Haifa, Sarafand, and Jerusalem. 


27. The power stations of the Palestine Electric Corporation at 
Jaffa, Haifa, and Tiberias were operated satisfactorily; 127 ex- 
tensions were approved during the year. 

28. The power station of the Jerusalem Electric and Public 
Service Corporation, Limited, Jerusalem, was also operated satis- 
factorily ; 52 extensions were approved during the year. 


29. The hydro-electric station at Jisr el Majami was severely 
damaged by floods in February. Part of the right bank of the Head 
Race Canal was broken for a length of 30 metres, and three of the 
transformers were overturned. The damage was repaired by the 
end of the year. 

30. 48 steam boilers were examined and licensed under the Steam 
Boilers Ordinance, 1927; and factories in which mechanical plants 
are installed were inspected under the Fencing of Machinery 
Ordinance, 1929. 

Geology. 

31. The great plain, known as El Bukeia, to the south of Nabi 
Musa, was specially surveyed from the geo-physical standpoint. 
It consists of a long basin bounded on the west by steep cliffs 
formed by the faulted monoclinal fold which runs from east of Mar 
Saba through Jebel Muntar, in a north-north-easterly direction. 
El Bukeia itself is covered with a light loam, underlain largely with 
shales of bituminous limestones of Danian age. With an uplift of 
the strata on the east side, the underlying cherty rocks are exposed 
on the low hills which cap the cliffs towards the Dead Sea. There 
occur, therefore, structural features for the conservation of water, 
the existence of which is confirmed in the large discharge at Ain 
Feschka over the lip of the basin down between the faulted blocks 
into the Dead Sea. It is not considered, however, that there is any 
possibility of cultivating the area by irrigation. 

32. A geological and hydrological survey of the Haifa-Baghdad 
Railway route shows that the desert plateau consists of a wide 
gentle anticline denuded down to the Lower Cenomanian sand- 
stones in the Rutba area and for a considerable distance to the east. 
In the basin so formed, where the Euphrates now exists, limestones 
(Euphrates) succeeded by gypseous sandstones and marls, in which 
bitumen and oil occur, were laid down in Miocene times. To the 
west of Rutba, the whole of the Upper Cretaceous and Middle 
Eocene are present as far as Azraq, but the higher points are 
attained in the basalt area where volcanoes, such as Jebel Ashqaf 
and Jebel Asfar, first emitted large quantities of ash and 
scoriaceous lava and afterwards the black basalt typical of the 
Hauran. ‘he ash beds were intruded subsequently by dykes of 
basic rocks rich in olivine. Among the ash beds occur large idio- 
morphic crystals of hornblendes, rutile, and magnetite. 


165 


33. A geological and hydrological survey was also made of the 
northern and eastern parts of Trans-Jordan—(i) south of Irbid, 
(u) east of Mafrak, and (iii) around Meshatta—to determine the 
possibility of starting cultivation by irrigation on the plateau. 


34. The Beersheba-Gaza area in Palestine was investigated in 
respect of deep drilling for artesian water with a view to agricultural 
development. 


Mining. 

35. Further work was done under the prospecting heences for 
manganese in the Wadi Meneiaieh (Aqaba) and surface mining of 
some outcrops disclosed a good quality of ore. In the southern part, 
the only discovery of importance was a vein formation of calcite 
with manganese ore cutting through the granite rocks on the south 
side of the Aqaba Nagb. Of the many copper occurrences for which 
licences were taken up, no deposit was proved to be of any extent. 
It is uncertain whether the copper is derived from igneous intrusion 
or by deposition from sea water. It occurs as cupriferous sand- 
stones, or as thin veins—usuallv vertical in the sandstones—of 
cuprite with a little malachite and as nodules of copper glance in 
horizontal layers in the sandstone. The presence of manganese 
dioxide and copper pyrites in the intruded porphyrites appears to be 
probable. 


36. The exploratory work on the sulphur deposit south of Gaza 
confirms the view that it is of economic value. 


37. The gypsum deposits at Menahemiya in the Tiberias district. 
are being steadily exploited. 


38. Dead Sea Concession.—During 19381, a central power station 
was constructed, and two Diesel engines, each of 360 h.p., and 
electrical generators were installed. A deep sea pipe-line 750 
metres in length was laid down in the Dead Sea at a point west 
of the concession area to a depth of 175 feet, and rotary pumps and 
motors were installed for pumping the brine, of which the specific 
gravity at that depth is 1.225. 

The area of pans was increased to 500 acres, including 75 acres 
of carnallite pans. The production capacity is between 40,000 and 
50,000 tons of carnallite froin surface brine; this will be largely 
increased by the use of brine from depth. 


39. Extraction of bromine from residual brine was begun in 
February with a plant capacity of 25 tons monthly. A second 
bromine plant of twice that capacity is on order. The potash pro- 
ducing plant was partly completed and operations began in Decem- 
ber. The potash is marketed, in three grades with 96 per cent., 
80 per cent. and 64 per cent. potassium chloride. 


40. Quarrying.—173 quarrying hcences were issued for stone 
and 152 for sand and clay. 


166 


Haifa Harbour Works. 


41. Substantial advance was made with the construction of the 
Haifa harbour works (see diagram, Appendix IV). 

By the end of the year the roundhead or end of the main break- 
water was reached, and the total length from the shore is now 
2,250 metres. The breakwater has been carried out at +2 M. 
above mean sea level, but the ultimate level is to be +4 M., and a 
concrete parapet wall will be constructed. 

The total amount of stone deposited during the year was 424.990 
cubic metres, making a grand total of 613,140 cubic metres. The 
approximate value of the work carried out on the main breakwater 
up to 3lst December, 1931, is £P540,000. 


42. The construction of the lee breakwater began in May, and by 
the end of the year some 305 metres had been constructed at +1 M. 
above mean sea level. Approximately 34,670 cubic metres of stone 
were deposited. 


43. Work began also on the main and lighter wharf walls, which 
consist of pre-cast concrete blocks, and are to extend to a length 
of 685 metres. The dredging of the trench for the necessary depth 
to form a foundation was done by contractors, and this operation 
was immediately followed by the depositing of rubble and graded 
stone as a base for the concrete blocks each weighing about seven 
tons. The first block was set by the divers on llth July, and by 
the end of the year 5,464 blocks had been laid and 298 metres of 
wall constructed. The wall has been subjected to severe tests 
which indicate its complete stability. 


44. The east and west rubble dykes, which act as retainers for 
the reclamation, have been nearly completed up to water level. 


45. Approximately 1,700,000 cubic metres of material, mostly 
sand, has to be dredged from the sea bed to provide sufficient depth 
of water for the use of shipping, when the harbour is completed. 
The contract for this dredging has been let to an Egyptian firm and 
work began in November. About 76,000 cubic metres of sand was 
dredged and deposited in the reclaimed area up to the end of the 
year. 


46. About 579,690 cubic metres of stone were extracted during 
the year from the Athlit quarries. 


47. The gross expenditure since the beginning of the harbour 
works is approximately £P630,000. 

48. Labour.—Some 1,700 men have been engaged throughout at 
the works and at the quarries. The pay roll included, on the 
average, 340 Jews, compared with 183 in the previous year. 

49. In connexion with the piece-work system at the Haifa 
harbour works, Mr. Weaver noted that precise statistics of earn- 
ings and output were worked out, and hoped these figures would 
be included in the next Report.* 


* Minutes of the Twentieth Session of the Permanent Mandates Commission 
page 106. 


167 


The following are the figures :— 


"(qgeueq Hors pus 
QOUBMSUI IAAOD 0} “gueo Jed FT 
Zuyjonpep J0yjye) sft Ul sMoY 6 
0-93 | 0-F93 | 0-8SS | O-LLS | 0-808 | 0-00E | 0-00 | 0-9GF | O-LeE | O-LGF | 0-999 | 0-O8F | Jo Avp-weur sad sduyures odvieAy 
‘saoul olqno UT simoy 
99°F | Ob-d | Gb-h | 13-) | Ld | 96° | 10°H | LO-b | 8-E | LED | FE-G | 4° | 6 Jo Avp-wear sod yndyno oSeioay 
‘(poired ejoya 
oY} Joy yYoueq Hos pue souvimsur 
JoAOD 03 ‘yuvd Jaod FL pues 
‘Tse ‘oune WOE [UN soatsojd 
-x@ JO onjea oy} SuMoNpep 19};e) 
Lo | G-u¢ | §-L9 | 6-99 | 6-S9 | 0-92 | 0-92 | 0-86 | I-98 | &-16 | 9-SOT | O-TOT | A30Ur oIqno tod sprux Ut 4800 oFeI0AV 
+ (sMar 17D) esays4om-a001g (9) 
“s[fur UT sIMOY 6 


O-E9T | O-EST | O-Z9T | O-FST | O-FST | O-EST | O-SST | O-OST | 0-O9T | O-8ET | 0-99T | 0-991 | Jo Avp-avar sod s¥murvs oFei0ay 
"‘SOI}OU OIQNO UI sMoy ¢G 

gg |js-e |o-s |9-8 |%8 |0-8 |0-8 {08 | 4:3 | 4:3 | 8-3 | 9-3 | Jo Avp-ueur sod gndyno oFes0ay 

9: | 9-9F | S-Sh | O-FF | 39h | 6-09 | LIS | 0O-6h | €-99 | 9-8G | 9-99 | 9-49 | ex}oU OIqno Jod BTU UI 4800 eFeIOAY 


2 (squsy Ayeou) ssayson-fivg (dD) 


ES | ES | RS | ES | RS | I | I | SE | NE | Species | Gest | sense 





"TS6T Joy soqirenb aM 48 
sleyiom-eo0jd pue -Aep jo ssuyuive AlqyUOUL eSvIOAe JO JUEUIIIVIG 


168 


XXVIT.—RAILWAYS. 


A general account of the organization, sub-divisions and con- 
nexions of the system known as the Palestine Railways and 
Operated Lines was given in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Report for 
1930. There is no change to record in any respect. 


2. The permanent way, buildings, locomotives, and rolling stock 
were kept in the best possible condition with the funds available. 


3. Operating Results.—A summary of the principal operating and 
statistical results compared with 19380 is given below :— 


Gross Revenue. Working Expenses. 
1930. 1931. 1930. 1931. 
£P £P £P £P 
Palestine Railway... se 387,715 357,524 389,970 407,329 
Sinai Railway ... cia Se 139,412 100,445 110,195 100,457 
Hejaz Railway ssi a6 116,478 88,079 87,269 87,542 


4. The working expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper in- 
cludes £P152,961 for interest and amortization charges on the 
capital value of the line. 


1930 1931 

Passengers carried otis 1,444,289 1,319,000 
Freight handled (tons) ... 1,186,074 1,211,022 
Trains run és 17,920 16 ,297 
Engine mileage (miles) . 1,277,778 1,161,452 
Total staff at 31st Decem- 

ber sats bas 3,360 3,424 
Salaries and wages ... £P294,708 £P294 ,855 

Notes. 


I. The increase in freight tonnage was due to the temporary traffic in stone 
and other materials for the construction of the new harbour at Haifa. 

II. The increase of staff was only temporary being due to the employment 
of casual labour. 


5. Passenger Traffic.—Passenger traffic receipts in 1931 showed 
a decrease of £P47,277, mainly in the third class and _ tourist 
traffic. The decrease is largely due to the general economic con- 
ditions and to road competition. 


6. Goods Traffic.—There was a decrease in many items of goods 
traffic, the principal reductions being in :— 


Tons. 
Barley . sis — ee = an 6,937 
Building material... ais = ie ioe 3,310 
Cereals z es ate so .. 123,938 
Kerosene and fuel Bil no shy “ie es 9,838 


Melons sss me i ne _ ea 15,909 


169 


The decrease 1s mainly due to local and general trade depression. 
The prohibitive Egyptian Customs tariff is to a great extent respon- 
sible for the heavy decrease in the melon tratfic, while the estab- 
| lishment of bulk oil installations at Haifa has diverted the oil traffic 
io the sea route. 


7. Principal Commodities carrted.—The principal traffics carried 
by the railway during the vear were as follows :— 


Commodity. Tons. 
Barlev ni she oe oy, = te 7,580 
Stone ee ae bal sg se ..  $64,252* 
Sand io 18 ,254 
Lime 2,954 
Cement ee ee se 84,340 
Other building materials ... 20,712 
Cereals eve 43,085 
Coal ... ; es Je! 42 ,6-10 
Groceries and provisions ... 11,124 
Flour a oe 15 ,613 
‘Kerosene and fuel oils 45 248 
Manure 14,702 
Melons 17,114 
Oranges 37,541 
Petrol 10,140 
Salt ... * 6,168 
Soap “ai 2,621 
Miscellaneou 66,034 


* Of this quantity 664,293 tons were for the Haifa harbour works, the balance 
of 99,939 tons being ordinary public traffic. 


8. Trans-Jordan Traffic_—The requirements in Trans-Jordan, 
which are still very limited, are met by three mixed trains each 
way weekly between Nassib and Amman, and one train a week 
between Amman and Ma‘an. 


9. Railway Afforestation.—The railway continued its programme 
of tree planting, some 80,000 trees being distributed at stations 
and along the track during the year. 


170 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


I.—_INTRODUCTORY. 


The Legislative Council, holding that His Majesty’s Government 
had no right to concern themselves with the details of the Trans- 
Jordan Budget Law, maintained its refusal to pass the law at the 
final meeting on 3lst January and was, in consequence, dissolved 
by Order of His Highness the Amir on 9th February. 


2. Hassan Khaled Pasha Aboul Huda, Chief Minister since 1926, 
resigned on 21st February and was succeeded by Sheikh Abdullah 
Siraj, formerly in the service of the Hejaz Government. An 
Executive Council was thereupon formed, composed of permanent 
officials, three Moslem Arabs, a Circassian, and a Christian Arab. 
Of the latter, three are natives of Trans-Jordan and two are 
Palestinians naturalized in Trans-Jordan. 


3. The dissolution of the Legislative Council and the change of 
Government was supported by public opinion, but the displaced 
officials and their adherents created some difficulties. 


4. The elections for the new Legislative Council were held peace- 
fully in June. ‘T'wo Beduin Sheikhs, nine Moslem Arabs, three 
Christian Arabs, and two Circassians were elected, all except one, 
a Syrian, being of Trans-Jordan birth. 

Kighty per cent. of the electors voted on this occasion. 


5. The Arab Legion has been strengthened by a Desert Patrol 
of six armed cars manned by enlisted Beduin, under the command 
of a British officer who is an expert in Beduin affairs. One post 
in the desert close to the eastern frontier has already been occupied 
by the Legion and two additional posts are nearing completion. 

There has consequently been a remarkable improvement in the 
situation in the desert. 


6. In August, His Majesty’s Government announced their judg- 
ment in regard to raiding claims of the Trans-Jordan and Hejaz- 
Nejd tribes since November, 1925. The judgment was that all 
claims up to 1st August, 1930, should be mutually abandoned. 

With regard to raiding claims which arose subsequent to Ist 
August, 1930, an arrangement was made that local representatives 
of the two Governments should meet on the frontier and make 
recommendations to their respective Governments for the liquida- 
tion of these claims. 

Profiting by the greater security prevailing in the eastern desert, 
trading caravans have carried a considerable amount of grain and 
merchandise between the Hejaz-Nejd and Trans-Jordan. 


~- - ee See 


171 


7. In May there was a recrudescence of raiding by Syrian tribes 
into Trans-Jordan and a detachment of the Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force was sent to the northern frontier to protect the local tribes. 
Parleys between the Governor of the Jebel Druze and the British 
Oficer Commanding the Arab Legion soon led, however, to the 
tranquillizing of the disturbed area. 


§. An agreement was reached with the French Government 
rgarding the frontier between Syria and Trans-Jordan. This 
agreement has now been approved by the Council of the League 


of Nations, and it is hoped that the line will shortly be demarcated 


on the ground. The Protocol which defines the frontier agreed 


upon, and the Annex to the Protocol laying down the main lines 


of an agreement to be concluded subsequently for the regulation 


_ of frontier relations, are printed as Appendix V. 


9. Failure of the late rains caused considerable damage to the 
crops, especially in the south and north-east, and a sudden swarm 
of immature flying locusts from the south-east in May devastated, 
in the course of 36 hours, the southern grazing lands and the crops 
of Ma‘an and Kerak. 

These misfortunes, combined with unfavourable grain prices and 
the general financial depression, brought much distress in their 
wake. Relief works were undertaken by the Government to employ 
local labour, taxes amounting to £P12,178 were remitted and 
£P10,000 is being issued in the form of agricultural loans. To 
offset this loss of revenue, the Trans-Jordan Government effected 
savings on other items of expenditure. 


10. The Pipe Line Convention with the ‘Iraq Petroleum Com- 
pany was signed at Amman in January. Routes for the pipe line 
and for the suggested trans-desert railway across Trans-Jordan have 
been surveyed. 


11. In Appendix VI is printed a translation of the Treaty of 
Friendship concluded in 1931 between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan. 


12. The death occurred at Amman on 4th June of ex-King 
Hussein. His body was interred in a building adjacent to the 
Haram esh-Sharif at Jerusalem. 


13. The Government has given permission to the Italian 
National Missionary Association, which maintains a hospital in 
Amman, to open a second hospital in Kerak. 


14. The Legislative Council passed a law granting the Amir of 
Trans-Jordan some 67,000 dunums of land, of which 62,000 
dunums are undeveloped and unoccupied tracts in the Jordan 
Valley. The remainder is on the plateau near Amman and is leased 
to a few Turkman families who continue to cultivate it as His 
Highness’s tenants. 


172 


Il.— FINANCE. 


Revenue (including Grants-in-aid from British Exchequer) and 
Expenditure since 1924-25. 


Surplus 
Balance. Period. Revenue. Expenditure 
£P. £P. £P. 

1/4/24 23,958 1924-25 280,673 274,868 
1/4/25 29,763 1925-26 282,459 274,573 
1/4/26 37,649 1926-27 302,520 274,920 
1/4/27 65,249 1927-28 282,073 318,260 
1/4/28 29,061 1928-29 307,555 318,950 
1/4/29 17,666 1929-30 316,147 338,461 
1/4/30... sia 4,647 1930-31 367,516 350,532 
1/4/31... i 12,337 1931-32 (estimate) 348,690 357,028 


2. Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure, under Heads, are 
given in the tables at the end of this Section, and variations of 
Votes explained. 


3. The estimated receipts from local revenue in 1931-32 are 
£P229,540 compared with actual receipts of £P250,064 last year. 
The decrease is mostly due to remissions of taxation granted for 
the relief of agricultural distress. (See Introductory Section, 
paragraph 9.) 

The decline of £P1,489 in revenue from Fees of Court and 
Office, etc., also reflects that distress. 


4. The revenue from Posts and Telegraphs last year was swollen | 
by the sale of two new stamp-issues ; hence the lower estimate for 
1931-32. 


5. £P4,225 was paid to Trans-Jordan from the profits of the 
Palestine Currency Board; the currency of Palestine is legal tender 
in Trans-Jordan. 


6. The estimated expenditure for 1931-32 is £P357,028, com- 
pared with an actual expenditure of £P350,532 last year. 

An increase of approximately £P13,000 on the Desert Patrol has 
been offset to some extent by general savings on recurrent services. 

The increase of nearly £P8,000 under Public Works Extra- 
ordinary includes a revote of £P4,125 from the previous year. 
New items of extraordinary expenditure are a grant of £P3,000 to 
the Amir to assist him in the development of the estate made over 
to him and £P400 in connexion with the survey and demarcation 
of the Syria-Trans-Jordan frontier. 


7. The system of taxation was not modified in 1931 but con- 
siderable progress has been made in demarcating and valuing land: 
preparatory to the introduction of the land tax which is to replace 
the tithe and werko and will enable the Government to abolish 
the road tax. The draft Land Tax Law has been published as a 
Bill. 


*sy1j01d AoueLMO 
suysaVg jo aleys oq} jo yuammdvd 07 onp Ayureul osvoerouy (d) 
‘usTeduIso YsNoo]-1yUB IO} OUTASe[eq Aq gUBIF (0) 
“dOry 
“eIyiqiy weplop-suBiy-plony UO O0OC'ds * Se0lAIeg JoIGQUOD 
q1989qQ UO GL9‘ZZ' dF Jo ammgipuedxe poyeuyse f udredueo 
gsnooj-4uUB UO O0O'SS dy jo sinpipuedxe ‘ogel ‘qorvpy 
ISIE 3% Sb dF JO WOYoP 0} ONp pry-ul-yueIy) UT osvoIOUY (2) 
“pry “Ur 
-quviyy sv pred 1948] pus 4q9q OGQNg ueMl07;4¢ 10; oUlT4so/ Bq 
Aq poy savoA snotaoid Joy areys smoysng [ZL‘ZO' dF sepuyouy (wu) 
‘uo1yei0d 
109) OOTY oUNQs[vq 0} PUL] Jo [es WOIy QOO'ET'AT SePNpouT (1) 
‘IdUJQ 10 4M04 jo se0,7 Jopun popnyjout 
us0q SBY SONUSAGI 9804} JO} UOIsTAOId sIBaA QUONbasqns puY 
IS-O€6I Ul “saBOYTQIeD AATVUONeNY Woy enuUsAeI sepnpoUT (7) 
‘quiidstur @ st yiodey 6Z6T Ut 


UMOYS BINS ‘anusasy 0} syisodep wos syuouysn(pe sepnyouy (f) 


‘suBOT joroy oxenbyzreq Uo pus soouL[eg YUR_ UO 4sor0qUyT ($) 
‘scoured YA uo yeoerezuy (¥) 
"999 OF GN WULOZ3O JO} 
eunsayeg Aq preg siveA snoracid Joj orvys sm0jsny uO yeo1o},uy (4) 
‘sod18qo [e}USUl 
4redaq] JO woKNoNpoUI pus odlAlos popue}xe pus peaoiduy (f) 
"(ssalqsIp ormlou0se 
peleues 0} onp ATJOOIIpUT st ZE-TEGEl Ul esBaroaq?) "[O1}UOD 
194}9q PUY sod} GOUJQ, PUB 4INOD JO UOIsIAdI 04 oNp sesvatoUT (a) 
‘sdoio 100d pus 443noIp 07 onp sea osvoIoeq (Pp) 
"6261 “ysndny jo ssouBqINySIp 9UIyse/Bq 
041 Jo s0ag0 04} 03 Apjied puv sziodut 000%q0} UI esearoOp 
@ 0} Ajyred onp sem O¢-6GZ61 Ul onueAsdy suI0ysNy Jo ssvalseq (9) 
"009°SS'dF 04 sydte0ey 
sUIO}sN Woy Usplor-sUBI]T, JO sIVYsS oY} posvoroUL oulyse[eg (9) 
"g[BN}Ow JOU PUB 89}¥UII}Se o18 sendy oseyy, (v) 








—: son Al0;RUR[d xa 
6EP‘SLS €L9°086 | ‘d3 S]DjIO.L, 
— — OUT}So[Vq WoT JBI) 
‘ronboyoxY YsiyWg Wo ‘a017ye14 
(uw) LC6‘SOI GLOLL “STUnpy Uvplor-susly, JO pry-Ul-JUBIx) 
‘ronboyoxg yslig WoJj ‘e010,7 
— — Joyuoly Usplop-suely, JO pry-ul-yueIy 
609 FLI TOT ‘E02 
rea OCP puvyT jo 38g 
LIgS (f) 8g‘st oe e snooUBT[OOST 
(¥) SF (6) O32 = "ttt eee qgaraquy 
#¥9'S €62'E : sine QUOUIWIDAOY) WOOL] ONUBADYT 
gg9‘g SLFF quoujiedeq sydvidejoy, pus 980g 
896‘SI SLO°SI sa sydroooy edIJO PUB 800,7 INOL) 
80€T0T ore Oll SOXBT, pus seousory 
F06‘8P S1FSE OsIOXY PUB sWO}SNY) 
‘dF ‘dd 
'96-966I QS-FS66I das eee fo th 


o6g'sFe| 91g'z9e| LPI‘OTE|  SSS‘z0e| 2L0‘%8z 03S‘S0E 
— — (0)909°@ — — — 
OOL'FS |(%¢) O00'F8 000‘OF 000‘0F 000‘SF 000‘99 
Oct Fe" CSPFEE GL¥FIE FFO‘LZ = = 
OF9'6s2| F00‘°0Ss| szLI‘6ez| LI6'6EZ| SLO'LEZ|  029°9E2 
o0e‘T SIFT OoL OFF SSE (2),862'81 

(2) 0039 9OI'T | (4) ¢Z6'T GIs €6F E98 

(1) OF8 (2) LO6 ()Tt0't | (4) 694 (yY)GL8‘'T |(Y) SIFT 
OOF‘S 9LZ'E OSL‘ SPS‘ FEL F 930'F 
ooo'ct (Ss) zuz‘st |(f) oto‘et |(f) Fe%'8 = (Sf) ooF's €99'F 
OOL‘FS | (2) 681°9% | (2) 966% | (9) ZOL‘HS | (2) GeEg‘sz | (2) LeG‘6I 
OOT‘SII [se‘est|  Lsc‘ezt| (Pp) Eesesit] Lel‘sel|  ss9o‘sEl 

(0) 000‘F9 9c6‘F9 | (2)89I‘t9 | (9) 06E'c8 LEZ‘19 ESI ‘FG 
‘dF "dF “dF “d3 "dF "d3 
of-leel 

POPDUALAT “TE—-OEGI “O0€-626I °6S-866T ‘S3-LE6I “LE-DS6BI 


eden st - s = 


174 


208‘ 
988'28 


O8e'eI 
009‘I 


000‘SI 
Ore 'F 


0s9'Z 
092‘9° 
OOL‘*TS 


Oes‘II 
OsF‘L 
OOL‘FI 
028‘ 
OLF‘SI 
OOI‘L 
O9L‘¢e 
O9L't 
O8L‘e 
069 
(9)020‘°FI 
‘dF 


B8-TE61 
eoyUsyey 


LO9°OI 
bLO‘E 
bL8'l 
698 
[€Z‘II 
831 ‘T8 


9€9°CI 
19F'TT 


069°9T 
O8tF 
9LES 
962°¢ 
ISL'IZ 


006°0I 
L68°9 
O18‘FI 
1+9°€ 
€20'ST 
F6S'L 
GIL‘s 
gig 
8690'S 


(2) OGL 
(2) 9¢9‘EI 


“dS 


“TE—-0861 


890°SI 


186 
Lé6‘TT 
908'F8 


(y) 1OL‘OI 


9F0°0I 


€0L‘6I 
166‘ 


£E8'l 
SIF'¢ 
E9F‘'1S 
6 
¥Z8'0I 
ZO00°L 
99L‘GT 
6ES°E 
8F0'°ST 
008°L 
689‘F 
GOL‘E 
CP'S 


(Pp) Zg9 
(9) LE¢‘aT 


“dd 


‘08-6661 


id / 
696‘TI (Oz te 


096‘0I 
ZOL‘L8 


98L°9 
LIT‘6 


6E0'03 
1290's 
808‘E 
$86'T 


(f)060‘8 


¥60‘1Z 
El 
L96‘0I 
£1Z‘9 
€96'S1 
160° 
SF6'SI 
O6L°L 
400°S 
609° 
Leen | 


(P) 069 
(2) SIF‘9I 


‘d} 


"66-8261 


—— 


GLE‘T 


rrE'S 
L69°LT 


(2)9¢8‘9I 


"dd 


6LI‘9 


——, 
——. 
=o 


996°Z0T | ($) 880‘901 


(2) 9€9‘9T 
"dF 


“86-Lé6l | “Lo-9e6I 


166‘9 
Log‘T 
119°%3 
O1S‘T 
Isht 
66F‘T 
IL9F1 


SILL 
IZL‘F 
ILE‘6 
6L8°S 
O1E‘II 
SZL'L 
ogs‘g 
COP‘ 


(v) gge‘sl 


"dS 


"96-GC6I 


(fC) sas‘to 








| ICViiso 
oa loyeq sien 
* PIVND 8,es00gsT eI -q 
“* @ouesTTERUT “— 
""* guOBlg “gq 
ie SOnOd “V 

‘ sNOsTud aNv GOr10g 

= - " quounredag puvy 
UOI4SI4SIUITUIPY [VqLry, 
ywounredog sydeszojoy, pue 980g 
"* °°* Spal BuIguLg 
qUaLMoey sHIOA, oNqng 
_ Juouryredeg SAIOM OFqGNg 
Asizoy puwy 
quomjziedeq seymbyuuy 
Areqyiey0 A pus s38010,7 ‘aingmousy 
"*  guoulziedeq uoNnvonpy 
— “"* OUIQUBIENY UB vA 
_quourede’ 4/89 oqnd 
a Os1OXG PUB sUIO}sND 
quoulyiedeq] cousuly 
ioe BLING) BITBYS 
"** quouyiedag [ese] 
UOlZVIYSTUTUIPY 4OLI1481q7 
— TOAstUly_ Jory’) 
sor9qusy) pus suotsuag 
ee ee eee ein v[sise'y 
sofiny UBoT PUT sqacT ONIGQNg 
“* Q8ry [LAID 


‘yunoop fo anny 


‘oIn;ypuodxy 


‘380d JoMuol ZuMNoNI48U00 
pus joujeq yosoq, Zurddmbe pue eoyog 04} Sumure-er Jog (7) 
‘Joroy oxenbyysreq Jo} uepior-susly, 
0} pouvo, Ajjuonbosqns sea Gory 000‘0Z' dF JO JUeUIUIEAOL) 
8 Aysolupy st] 07 couvyeq snydins oy} wo yaawAed @ sepnpouy (7) 
“BOPCUE Of} Ul poysxKo 
uorstaoid OU YOIYM Joy s}Gep Plo Jo uoNepmbr gTL‘9'ds 
pus YO UazIIM seoUBAPE OIQBIAAODAL ZEI‘Sh ds sepnyouy (¢) 
@010,7 
JatjuoI UWeploP-suBly, JO JUOUTYSTIQeI8e Jo yUNOVOe UO eBvaIDaCT ($) 
‘quew4yivdeg puwy] Jopun st uorstaoid sreef yuonbeeqns uy 
“AIqsiiay puey Jopun umoys Aysnoraead emyipuedxe sepnouy (¥) 


8cO'Lae| zEs‘oce TorSeE| O96°8IE| O9Z°8IE|  020°ELZ 
OOF — — — — — 
000‘E = = — = = 

= €06'T — — — — 

(7) O13‘L OLS‘L — = — = 

_ 1Z1 ‘IZ 6F9‘ZI _ —_ = 

= ad €LZ 882 — = 
1¥a‘E Z9G‘S ard 1664 — = 
096'T £68 021s SLL‘S €66‘E €90‘T 

—_ — —- —_ GE¢g — 
00c‘ZT F68'F L80‘8 09¢‘e 626'TT SLES 
00€ = 692 CEs I 9606 €1Z 

— 69 OLF‘S L80‘S = = 
LIU‘8ZE r68‘OIE GLE‘OIs 063‘10E LOG‘E6Z 9LE‘09S 
606‘0E 006‘63 193‘6Z €99‘'SS er —- 
O2sS*T SOPr‘T OFI — as == 
one's, ae sz9%c OLE. = 


fies 
ebteoes 


SLOFLS 


“ATeuIpiovy xy Jopun st uorsacid sree yuonbesqns 
uy ‘sombyue jo uoMPBAIesu0D uO amgypusdxe sepnyouy (8) 
‘usreduvd ysnoo]-yue uo yueds gzz‘e°qF sepnpouy (f) 
"*JUSUITLIOAOL) OUTISITV 
Woy Wao, O0O‘S'dF UO YsolojUI pue joyoy oyenbyyeq 
IO} yUoUIUIOAOY) 8 AqsolepY STE WOIJ TOT OO0‘OS dF WO yso194UT (2) 
‘poroy oxenbayreq 
oy yUouIUIEAOS) 8, Aysefep] STA, WOIJ MBO] 0OO'OS dF UO yseI0;0] (7) 
"suOsLIg PUB SOTOg JopuN pepnjout st srvef Joy}0 
Ur YOM preny s,ssouysTH SIH JO 4800 opnjout semsy oseyy, (9) 
‘spenqoe you puv ‘sozeulIyse are soindy oseyy, (9) 
“POLIA SIT 
Uv,8fAy JO UOMexouUe 07 SuLMO TeOA STq} Ul sesBaIOUT [eloUex) (2) 


—: syon A10;80R dx 


SLE‘PLS S98‘FLZ | ‘dF asnprpusdagy 00], puns 





| 
| 


uolssturMO() Alspunog 
cane UsplO-sUBI], JO sosued xy 
(guourdojesoq puey) Wury eqy, ‘H’H 
uoyneniqry ploy 
** SUOSLIG pus od10g 
siredinas qsnoo7y-nuy 
qyseH oqud 
COT IO4UOLA UBspIOP-sUBI], 
ay syderso[ey, pus 980g 
eousUly 
BAIOM OQud 
qUSpIsey FRU 
eumbaay jo uoMeAJosU0Z 
AUVNICUOVALXY 


be, ae ae Tia Te a 
esa ceee es 


898°FLzZ 


SoIOT IOMUOLY UepIOL-suUBLy, 
prvod [OIRO TVEQILL 
= * gu00uIRTedeG WIpNnYy 
""  atepmesy UeTIry 


Al | 
IT | 


176 


III.—_CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


Revenue for the calendar years from 1927 to 1931 (exclusive of 
the payment made by Palestine on account of re-exported foreign 
goods) :— 


1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 


£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Customs 
Local ee ae ae 10,109 12,899 12,991 15,377 15,943 
Liquors sete a ae 819 763 1,050 1,188 1,074 
Tobacco eee Ss ot 9,962 17,112 12,238 3,976 3,787 
Excise ieee 
Liquors ae Bae a 734 931 1,004 824 953 
Tobacco a i bis 20 3,072 3,500 6,934 7,413 
Licences 
Liquors oa se aoe 159 61 205 262 268 
Tobacco aaa ae ee 312 476 481] §21 553 
Miscellaneous oe sik 660 681 916 1,831 3,332 
Fines... ais sea aay 594 542 572 418 316 
Totals ie un 23,369 36,537 32,957 31,331 33,639 


The item Miscellaneous includes the banderolle tax on matches 
and cigarette paper and the examination fee of 4 per cent. on all 
goods entering Trans-Jordan. 


2. The value of dutiable goods passing through the four 
statistical posts at Amman, Remthe, Mejamieh, and the Allenby 
Bridge was £P400,000; and it is estimated that dutiable goods to 
the further value of £P70,000 entered without control. 


3. Palestine pays to Trans-Jordan annually a fixed sum of 
£P25,500 on account of the duty collected by Palestine on foreign 
goods which are subsequently exported to Trans-Jordan ; but under 
a Transit Agreement between the two countries foreign goods may 
pass through Palestine by rail in transit to Amman, where Trans- 
Jordan collects and refunds the duty to Palestine, except on certain 
types of goods. ‘The goods excepted are :— 


Sugar. Benzine. 
Matches. Alcoholic beverages. 
Tobacco leaf. Cut tobacco. 


Tombac. 


Re ee ee aaa ay 


177 


On the assumption that £P25,500 correctly represents the duty 
as 12 per cent. ad valorem of the foreign goods imported to Trans- 
Jordan from Palestine, the value of the dutiable goods which 
entered Trans-Jordan in 1931 may be classified as follows :— 


£P 

Foreign ie: oa = 30,000 

Brom, .pyna i ee 997198 
Through Syria in transit ie si “teh 766 
Foreign ea ct Se 143,516 

pee n ane { Local ? 94,785 
Through eee { Duty retainable 32,771 
in transit Duty refundable _... 68 ,984 
469,970 


Total (say) £P470,000 


4. The import of goods in transit through Syria is steadily de- 
clining, whereas transit through Palestine continues to increase 

The following are comparative figures of imports from Syria from 
1926 to 1931 :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
£P. £P. £P. LP. LP. > Se 
Local ... ... 105,000 231,000 173,000 133,000 115,000 99.000 
Foreign .-- 98,000 99,500 64,000 49,000 46,000 30.000 


d. The value of exports from Trans-Jordan to Syria and Palestine 
is as follows :— 


1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 

£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
To Svria ae 84,903 161,683 89,195 57,781 25,538 
To Palestine 26,265 48,396 68,420 101,393 8,879 


The decrease in 1931 is principally in respect of grain. Mer- 
chants bought up grain from farmers and withheld sales in expecta- 
tion of better prices, but found themselves unable in the end to 
dispose of stocks abroad because the Government issued an Order 
prohibiting exports of grain on account of the failure of the local 
harvests. 


6. In 1931 exports were composed as follows :— 
To Syria. To Palestine. 


£P £P 
Raisins... ee si 1,508 250 
Butter, etc. oak fai 830 397 
Grain oe oo ee 7,933 7,906 
Skins bass ie: _ 1,016 51 
Wool = Hal He 9,061 124 


Miscellaneous... aie 4,780 151 


178 


7. 21,525 kilograms of cut tobacco and 16,753 kilograms of 
cigarettes were manufactured locally, 1.e., six tons less than in 
1930. 40 tons of home-grown leaf were used by the factories. 


IV.—_LEGAL AND JUDICIAL. 


The Beni Hassan Partition Law was passed to give legal effect 
to the work carried out by the Land Department for the more 
economic distribution of this tribe on the land which it occupies. 


2. The Shari’a Courts Law provides (1) that Kadis Shari'a shall 
be appointed and transferred by decision of the Executive Council 
upon the proposal of the Kadi el Kuda (Chief Kadi), every appoint- 
ment or transfer being submitted to the Amir for approval ; (2) that 
the Kadi el Kuda instead of the Chief Minister shall have juris- 
diction in complaints against Shari’a officials; and (8) that the 
functions of a General Council of Discipline shall be performed 
by a Council composed of Shari’a Court Officials under the Kadi e! 
Kuda. ) 


3. The judges are for the most part without adequate training 
in legal theory and without academic education in law. It is 
difficult to find in Trans-Jordan judges who combine uprightness 
of character with a knowledge of legal principles. 


4. 636 cases of serious crime were tried by Courts of First 
Instance in 1931, and 7,641 offences of a less serious nature were 
dealt with by the Magistrates. 


5. There were 14,234 civil actions. 


179 


‘poz,VUBD|CUB SesBd Eg || 
‘pazyVUCs| BUT sosBd FI § 
"6ZET Ul OpeUl 4ys1y SYA UOISIAIp-qns SIqy, { 


“OPVIYSIDV]Y OY} 09 YUDS SuBTD 
CET PUL [W11Z JOY DIULYSU] 4SIlgQ JO SJINOD OF JUS SOsUD SvVYyIUZIS OOP ‘G6ZGT ul peydops sum uUOIZBOYIEst[D YUOIOyIP VW 4 


‘UOpisg [VI9UIY) 94} JO ONSSI OY UO Poly SasBD JE SepNjoUuy , 




















I | | 
orl 06 €£¢ ¥99 PLT 90% 802 IZOT 696'T lage. Deer hae: 988‘T Sst, Te61 
§8L vor Lol 619 ol Ect oot =| gst LZO'I | OPL'T LO ;  ——«O86T 
+9 L6 GEl | Itg +981 +90 991 | LO 1Fa‘T ST9'T £6 pee 6661 
= og 98T | £69 II 98 | est | £6 | x£39'T 500‘T ert “*  836T 
| | 
a Nene ee ee ee ee ' Se 
“uospoipstint | -pepuoosqn | ‘pasopoetp | ‘a0ueptae "ssnouvewUep | , gous 
fo yaw] peensop | suaffo on russorffneu] paquog 37's ; “pak 4vehi fo 
Lal ea Sate Es eee es (aN end A as ees ee 8 fo pua qm | poproap "paatedas sp 
Ped ve09 a "PML dof ruse seenp buspuad | weeny | PO | eae 
e207) man sucsd 
re) 


“peproep seenp fo sanjnowing 





"IomNoesOIg Iiqng oy; Aq epeu suoMesysoaUy [eupUTpI? 


180 


! | : a 
£00'IZ 1FO'L ZZ0'FI sIo‘SI 6129 66221 | 8L0‘6I PIUL 








260°61 








"1€61 GNV ‘OE6L ‘6Z6I ‘8261 SUVAA AOOY AHL NI GHYALNA SASVH AO SUVINOLLUVY 


‘QOUBISUT ISI}T JO s1N09 


819°9 “* wIIO, 

CSL 792 SOF 809 991 SPE 6LP 661 102 182 UY, 8yy 
G09 002 SOE 169 L¥G r¥E 898 16% 19% LIZ‘T Youpsy, 
1¥8‘T 86P ere'l 263‘ 1 ogee L96 Q92'I Sle G8e Fee‘! sqopsyy 
709'T 8L9 980'I £23'1 ZOE IL8 GZE‘T Wy Ore Ist | c" ysesor 
668'T €aq OFE'T I8¥'T CoP 690'T | 80Z‘I acs 4 6LG OFG‘I unojfy jeqor 
6068'S 106 800'S FLO €€0'T IF6'T | PLZE OsI‘T rI6 zoos «| HBS 
PBL‘S LO8 LLO'T ZIPS GEL LLO‘L | HFS G€8 Z0L 808'E elo yy] 
7O8'e PFI 019s £99'S POLI 69¢'S | 0&2'E £LE'T ore‘! 868'T prqay 
g8P‘g 969°S 688'Z PLP'F OEL'T 6EL‘'s =| 968F 9L6'T 16o‘T BOL‘ uvalUry 

"770, | “yousmey | “pato "70,7, | “pouswesy | “pasy | ‘poy | ‘yous ‘pousmesy | “parg nog 

—_— | | | | | | | | | | | fo swoon 

"TE6I “Of6I "6261 "861 
"LE6L ONV ‘OSGI ‘6Z6I ‘8Z61 SUVHA WOOT AHL NI GHUALNG SUSVO 40 SUVINOLLAVG 
"S}LINOD ,SozVI SSE HY 

SF8 9g 6L oP gi | 992 CFI L9 aq | LP 922 08 CPI Te6T 

6LL Ig! IL LE €2 | 26 88 *9 OL | 98F 181 08 g91 Of6I 

FES ELI 86 89 LU | 982 o8T gg SF | OLE OLI OL ZI 6Z61 

816 991 IL G9 og | 912 831 6F 6g | 9¢9 622 001 LOG 8261 
$$] 4 yt Yt 

SLNOUDIUE Soules ‘4) “SANOUDIU opus 0 SLNOUVDIU SUIS | 
‘sunoy | PP -opsr yy | naso ides -oper 2 pag | -oper Wy ew i 1480 
1? ©? puss) pDuswutsy DUM | baile 
"YBIO YY *piqi] “USuLy 


181 


Court of Appeal. 


- Me 4BTICULARS OF APPEALS ENTERED IN THE FOUR YEARS 1928, 1929, 1930, anp 1931. 





Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
From From 
Courts From | Courts BIO il! eee 
é Magistrates . Magistrates 

of First Courts of Furst is 

Instance eae Instance. aor 
50 592 137 729 1,508 
53 681 204 806 1,744 
51 592 149 680 1,372 
3 61 579 189 667 1,496 









t* Pending New Cases Cases Pending 
lst Jan., ieee decided 31st Dec., 
1931. nent 1931. 
; | | 
‘Mppeals from Courts of 7 61 | 62 6 
s First Instance. | 
Mppeals from Magistrates’ 5 579 584 0 
Courte. —— ——_—_—_—— 
Totals ... 0... 12 640 646 6 
33 142 148 27 
: 10 55 56 9 
4 15 16 3 
Totals ... 47 | 212 220 39 
—e re 76 2,889 2,870 95 
Trbi re are 15 2,610 2,604 2) 
‘Kerak oo... 00 wks 32 1,977 1,979 30 
FsSalt ... 0 0.000 ou. 4) 2,008 1,982 67 
- Jebel Ajlo ie; mhe 42 1,346 1,386 2 
Jerash wwe 12 1,086 1,096 2 
Madeba ... 0 www 20 1,343 1,291 72 
Tafleh ... 0. ue —_ 305 301 4 
Ma‘an and Akaba - 12 458 452 18 


Totals ... oes 250 14,022 13,961 31] 





182 


Total number of Actions in Civil Courts including Court of Appe: 


Pending at 
Year. beginning New Actions Actions Pending at 
of year. entered. decided. end of year. 
1928 ... a 1,147 28,036 28,442 841 
1929 ... — 841 21,656 21,921 576 
1930 ... ee 576 20,772 20,838 510 
1931 ... oh 510 24,007 23,902 615 


Criminal Cases, 1931. 


Pending New cases Cases nang 
lst Jan., pilived Decided 3lst Dec., 
1931. : ° 1931. 
Appeals from Courts of l 189 188 2 
First Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ — 687 687 —- 
Courts. 

Totals... ae ] 856 855 2 
Amman 5 305 301 9 
Irbid ll 210 212 9 
Kerak 5 121 125 1 

Totals 21 636 638 19 
Amman ... sais se 28 2,596 2,555 69 
Irbid sins eh a 18 1,244 1,240 22 
Kerak __.... det Bag 8 807 801 14 
Es-Salt ... ou ses 51 901 903 49 
Jebel Ajloun __.... — 56 553 608 1 
Jerash ... is see 5 578 573 10 
Madeba ... ae Fac 9 498 - 451 56 
Tafileh... se us — 200 195 5 
Ma‘an and Akaba sa 4 264 256 12 

Totals ... ies 179 7,641 7,582 238 





183 





109°928°Z 


GE9'8S6 
08L°LaI 
OST SSP 
ELC SSF 
099°96P 
90° LETT 


OLE FEL‘9 





0€8"°9L8 





ee 





EFSF |  169'FEF | 

| 
OFL00T | 96°69 009°L2 
OSI'SL '  909°9 0S0°L 
gcg's9 | s«OOLLE 0S9"eF 
80°00 Osl'9Il  =—ss«O8 #9 
GE9'L6  -OOT'LT CIPZE 
ces'sIg —-«GOSLET =| (FYE 

| 
S82 E8L'Z. ecr'e6e | = BLZ"8ZG 





oe: = Came aoe = = om io -—™ noe 2 oo 


“* sIeQO, 


ee Bquyry puv UB, BVI 
aia YouseL 
eqopuyy 
a aeeisy 
unojfy jeqor 
7s qTeg-say 
_— SLUNO0() SaLVAELsINV yy 


* SRO], 


uvUIUIY 


—: GHNIGWOU LUQ0D ,SULVULSIOV]L 


GNV HONVISN] ISU 40 LXn00 


“AVaddY 4O LANG) 





44n0g fo suDAT 


14213 


184 


Total Revenue of Civil Courts for the four years 1928, 1929, 
1930, and 1931. 














Criminal. | Civil. Notary 
Year. Pecuon Risteow Public Total. 
Fines. Costs. “A cieoiie: | \ipreealion: Fees. 
£P. mils. | £P. mils | £P. mils. | £P. mils. | £P. mils. | £P. mils. 
1928 ... | 1,895-488 | 487-244 |4,281-593 | 616-352 | 1,757-656 | 9,038-333 
1929 ... |2,128-069 | 806-465 |4,972-793 | 483-739 | 1,640-148 | 10,031-214 
1930 ... | 1,702-224 | 1,138-127 | 4,720-359 | 879-085 | 1,642-849 | 10,082-644 
1931 ... | 1,428-149 | 777-909 | 4,496-741 813-920 | 1,312-257 | 8,828-976 





Actions entered and Revenue of the Shari’a Courts. 


Documents 





Year. | Actions. (Watha-ik). Total. | Revenue. 

) £P. mils. 

j SS) a es Sie 537 | 3,033 | 3,570 1,505 - 148 
1928. Sas eis 664 3,206 2,870 2,107. 559 
R928) cas <3 588 2,888 3,476 1,763 .414 
20380. 4x aaa 566 | 2,886 3,452 1,681 .546 
it) a Jas 572 2,898 3,470 1,755 .499 











V.—EDUCATION. 


The Government maintains 50 schools for boys and 10 for girls, 
and an Arts and Crafts School for instruction in carpentry and 
iron work. 


2. There are altogether twelve secondary classes in the boys’ 
schools; and the number of primary classes in each school varies 
from one to six. 


3. Five boys are maintained at Government expense in the 
Beirut University and two girls in the Women’s Elementary Train- 
ing College in Jerusalem, all of whom are under contract to teach 
in Government schools after completion of training. 


4. Education is thus provided by the Government for 4,558 boys 
and 953 girls; and there are 44 community and 49 Moslem 
schools with 2,526 boys and 744 girls. 


5. The community schools are subject to Government inspection. 
but there is a minimum of interference with their activities. 


185 


6. The primary schools in general are seriously under-staffed. 
It is hoped to remedy this situation by reducing expenditure on 


_ secondary education as much as possible and by applying the money 


! 


' 
r 





| 
t 


; thus saved to the provision of additional teachers in primary schools. 


Further, there is the tendency of parents to remove their children 
from school during the busy season to help in the fields, the 
result being that there is always a larger number of pupils in the 
first class than in the second, and in the second than in the third. 


VI.— HEALTH. 


Vital Statistics. 





oe 


Excess in | Birth-rate | Death-rate 


Total Total the Number 
Year. Births Deaths of Births ee a ee rns 
: e 
Notified. Notified. ONEE inhabitants. | inhabitants. 
Deaths. 

1926 3,483 2,939 544 11-4 9-6 
1927 5,800 3,968 1,832 19-0 13-0 
1928 8,400 5,009 3,391 27-4 16-3 
1929 9,845 6,573 3,272 32-2 21°5 
1930 os 10,340 6,661 3,679 33°8 21-7 
1931 ne 10,697 5,648 5,049 35-0 18°5 





The low birth- and death-rates may be explained by an over- 
estimate of the population. 


Infantile mortality (under 1 year of age) per 1,000 births :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1981. 
131-5 163-2 184-8 205-8 222-3 200 


2. Infectious Diseases.—Thirty cases of typhus fever occurred, 
with three deaths, mostly among Beduin in Kerak, Tafileh, 
Amman, and Irbid. All were treated at epidemic posts and tem- 
porary hospitals set up by the Government Department. 


There was an outbreak of typhoid and para-typhoid fevers at 
Amman, Madeba, and Es-Salt; 139 cases were reported with 14 
deaths. As a precautionary measure, an extensive campaign of 
vaccination against typhoid was organized and over seven thousand 
people, including the entire Arab Legion, were vaccinated in the 
affected towns. 


14213 G* 


186 


Comparative table of infectious diseases. 


1931. 1930. 
Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 

Typhoid ae sith ee ss 100 12 5} 5 
Pneumonia .... aa a Sea 112 24 106 24 
Dysentery... ee _ ee 106 6 122 2 
Puerperal Fever Sen ~ ae 1] 1 4 — 
Leishmaniasis ae 12 — 33 — 
Acute Polyarticular Rheumatism ees 6 — 23 = 
Influenza wes wae ies — 73 12 546 17 
Mumps ois esia me) as . 9 — 82 _— 
Measles “i a ees i3 69 12 1433 128 
Whooping Cough sat = its 74 14 467 35 
Diphtheria... eee es sin 7 2 5 1 
Erysipelas... dis ee see Bl 2 26 — 
Chicken Pox ... — ae — 67 — 38 — 
Para-Typhoid me oe as 39 2 8 — 
Anthrax a “vs = i 2 — 5 _ 
Tetanus - 2 l 3 

Encephalitis Lethargic a Sie l — — = 
Typhus ues ‘ sae nee 30 3 ~— — 
Relapsing Fever ee ios l — — — 
Bilharzia 2 —- 2 — 


3. 30,996 vaccinations against smallpox were carried out. 


4, Malaria and anti-malaria measures.—1,447 new cases of 
malaria were reported during the year. 

The Medical Officers of Health again examined children from 
different parts to determine an index of the extent of malaria in 
Trans-Jordan. The index determined was 5.6 per cent., enlarged 
spleen being found in 411 out of 7,228 children. 


The following is the rate for the five years preceding :— 


1930. 1929. 1928. 1927. 1926. 
6-6 per cent. 9:5 percent. 14:9 percent. 19 percent. 25 per cent. 


Routine anti-malaria measures were maintained in the use of 
larvicides, control of streams, and irrigation channels, mosquito 
proofing of cisterns and treatment of malaria patients. 


5. Hospitals, dispensaries, and other medical services.—5W 
patients, of whom 24 died, were admitted to Government. hospitals: 
and 968 to voluntary hospitals with 49 deaths. 


Attendances at Government clinics numbered 110,921, and at 
voluntary clinics 20,560. 

Three persons were treated with prophylactic anti-rabic vaccine. 
568 stray dogs were destroyed. 


Six medical practitioners, two pharmacists, and a midwife were 
licensed during 1931. 


- ee ee ee ee 


187 


6. School medical service.—Medical Officers of Health inspect all 
Government and private schools in towns and villages and give 
treatment for affections of the eye, malaria, and infectious diseases. 


5,046 children were thus examined ; 2,675 were vaccinated against: 
smallpox and 415 treated for malaria. The attendances at school 
ophthalmic clinics were 264,882. 

The sanitary conditions of several schools were improved, and 
the general cleanliness both of pupils and of buildings was satis- 
factory. 


7. 2,849 specimens were examined at the Government laboratory. 


8. Municipal public health services.—The water-supplies of 
Madeba and Jerash were completed and steps have been taken to 
protect the Kerak supply from contamination, 

Scavenging is carried out in all municipal areas, except Amman, 
by contractors. Amman has a piped water-supply to all quarters 
of the town. 


9. Unhealthy trades and public establishments.—1,800 licences 
were issued or renewed in respect of controlled trades and public 
establishinents. 


10. Infant welfare.—Good work is done by the Infant Welfare 
Centres at Amman and Iis-Salt, the attendances being over 8,000, 
and nearly 3,000 visits being made by the nurses to the homes of 
children. 


11. Quarantine.—On account of outbreaks of cholera in ‘Iraq 
and in Persia, quarantine stations were established at Amman and 
Remthe, and arrivals by air were controlled at Amman aerodrome. 


VII.—_ DANGEROUS DRUGS, ARMS, AND INTOXICATING 
LIQUORS. 


1. Dangerous Drugs.—Fifteen permits for the importation of 
dangerous drugs into Trans-Jordan were issued during 1931. 


The drugs imported under these licences are :— 


Gramuimes. 
(a) Morphine, its salts and preparations... 20.5 
(b) Medicinal Opium _... se oe ... 850 
(c) Cocaine oe a Bs gi .. Of 


9. Fourteen prosecutions were initiated against persons unlaw- 
fully in possession of dangerous drugs. The details of the cases 


188 


are given hereunder, the dangerous drug confiscated being hashish 
in every instance :— 


Quantity Nationality of the Fine Inflicted. 
Grammes. Possessor. 

63 ... Egyptian... ... 10 days’ imprisonment and costs. 

10 ... Egyptian... ... One month’s imprisonment and costs. 
186 .. Syrian ae ... 15 days’ imprisonment and £P2 fine. 
76 -.. Hejazi ses ... One month’s imprisonment and £P4 fine. 
20 ... Syrian See ... 3 days’ imprisonment and £P1 fine. 

18 .. SYTian age ... £P] and costs. 

... Syrian sete ... £P4 and coste. 

10 .. Egyptian... ... £P1 fine. 

4 ... Palestinian ... ... 9 days’ imprisonment. 
550 ... Syrian sie ... Acquitted. 

5 ... Indian sa ... 15 days’ imprisonment and £P1} fine. 

3 .. Syrians (2 persons) ... One 4 weeks’ imprisonment and £P2 fine 
and one 2 weeks’ imprisonment and 
£P2 fine. 

756 ... Syrian slats ... Acquitted. 
74 ... Trans-Jordanian’ ... 3 months’ imprisonment. 


1,706} 


In each case the seizures were made in the town of Amman and 
it was not possible to trace the country of origin of the drug. In 
the two acquittals, it was shown to the satisfaction of the Court 
that the drug had been placed in the shops of two merchants of 
good standing by persons who bore them grudges and who gave 
information to the Police of the presence of the hashish. It will 
be noted that only in one case was the person found in possession 
of the drug a Trans-Jordanian. 

3. There is no evidence of any regular traffic in dangerous drugs in 
or across Trans-Jordan, and the Officer Commanding the Arab 
Legion is in liaison with the Police Authorities of Palestine and 
Egypt with a view to checking the development of any such trafiic. 
Generally, the inhabitants of Trans-Jordan, and in particular the 
natives, are not addicted to the vice of drug taking. The small 
quantities of hashish seized in Amman were probably smuggled 
into the country by the consumers themselves. 

4. Arms.—As regards the traffic in arms in Trans-Jordan, 
reference is invited to the statement given in paragraph 9 on 
page 196 of the Annual Report for 1930. The situation described 
in that paragraph has not changed during the year under review. 

5. Liquors.—The following licences to sell liquor and alcohol 
were issued during the past three years :— 


Cost of Licence. Number of Licences issued. 
£P 1929-30. 1930-31. 1931-32. 
Distillery... aoe ues 20 2 3 
Amman retail be oe 25 3 4 4 
Retail elsewhere... ou 8 5 q 7 
Amman wholesale ... was 3 q q 8 
Wholesale elsewhere bad 2 19 19 17 
Amman alcohol abs l ons = 2 
Alcohol elsewhere ... wis 4 — — 8 


189 


The alcohol licences are for the sale of denatured alcohol. 
6. The details of the manufacture of alcoholic beverages during 
the same period are as follows :— 


1929. 1930. 1931. 
(a) Aires manufactured— 
Wine... Per wes ioe 6,866 6,398 | 11,035 
Arak and Brandy _.... Sea 33,252 26,161 49,187 
(b) Latres sold— 
| Wine... — sie oa 5,147 4,409 3,430 
| Arak and Brandy... bas 25,270 31,336 29,928 
\c) Litres left in bond— Gea ae 
Wine... ses see ane 1,719 1,989 7,605 
Arak and Brandy eos ae 7,982 4,825 19,259 


Two distilleries worked during 1929 and 1930 and three during 
(1981. 


(N.B. (a) ‘“* Manufactured ”’ includes what was left in bond from the previous 
year. 
(6) “Sold” means duty paid and cleared from Customs.) 


7. Imports of alcoholic beverages are shown below :— 


1929. 1930. 1931.* 
Arak and cognac... ... Litres 1,210 710 132 
Wine, rum, vermouth ... _s,, 3,727 1,427 650 
Whi ae wes a. ae 2,129 884 1,292 
Beer, large... wee Bottles 40,250 40,693 38,894 
Beer, small ... ae 9,589 41,188 8,207 


_* Figures for 1931 are only the “transit ”’ figures which represent most of the 

importation. The complete statistics for 1931 are not yet ready. A certain amount 

of local arak and wine from Palestine and Syria is not included in 1931 for this 
 Teason. 


8. Although the majority of the inhabitants of Trans-Jordan are 
Moslems, there is a large Christian minority, and this Christian 
minority, together with foreigners resident in Trans-Jordan and 
certain individual Moslems, accounts for the consumption of 
alcoholic liquors. 


VIOI.—POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS. 
The general economic depression has reacted unfavourably on 
the business of this Department; and the statistics appended show 
substantial decreases compared with last year. 


2. Posts.—The arrangement whereby post offices were only 
allowed to exchange international reply coupons of other countries 
lor postage stamps has been abandoned. Coupons are now issued 
to the post offices for sale to the public. 

British postal orders are now on sale to the public in the majority 
of post offices. 

The increase in the inland money-order service is attributable 
to the reduction in commission charged as from June, 1931. 

The reduction in parcel-post rates did not, however, bring 
additional custom, probably because use is made of public motor 
transport. 

3. Telegrams.—The heavy decrease in this service is doubtless 
due to economic causes and to the wider popularity of the 
telephone. 


190 


4. Enygineering.—The following extensions of the telegraph and 
telephone routes were installed during the year; (1) a line con- 
necting Deban with Kerak so as to complete the direct circuit 
between Amman and Kerak; (11) a line connecting Jerash and 
Sweileh as part of a direct circuit between Amman and Jerash; 
and (ili) a line connecting the Police posts at Sweileh and Er 
Rumman. The total length of these extensions was 106 kilo- 
metres. 

A new and well-arranged test board was installed at Amman for 
all subscribers, with trunk lines leading from the central exchange. 
The obsolete telegraph instruments at Amman were replaced by 
up-to-date instruments. 

5. General.—29 cases were reported of damage to wires, and 
action was taken against the individuals, village, or tribe 
responsible, in accordance with the Law for the Protection of 
Telegraph and Telephone Routes. 


Traffic Statistics. 


Increase or 
Item. 1930. 1931. Decrease pet 
cent, 

Letters 258,756 253.370 — 2 
Postcards.. — 11,748 11,350 — 3 
Printed Matter and Samples a 67,054 66,058 — | 
Parcels, Inland ... 2,577 2,479 — 7 
Parcels, Foreign— 

Despatched ... 359 289 — 19 

Received .. 2,233 2,520 + 13 
Telegrams, Inland 9,429 6,778 — 28 
Telegrams, Foreign— 

Despatched ... 4,428 4,009 — 9 

Received ae 4,668 4,117 — 2 
Telephone Subscribers— 

Number 321 345 + 7 

Kilometres ... 265 290 + 9 
Telephone Stations ee 40 39 — 2 
Telephone Trunk Lines .. 1,129 1,235 + 9 
Telephone Trunk Calls ... 59,433 72,205 + 21 
Telephone Local Calls — 176,464 _ 
Money Orders, Inland— 

Number ve 3,083 3,833 + 24 

Value i £P9,705 £P12,580 + 29 
Money Orders, Foreign— 

Number issued we 2,539 2,945 + 16 

Value . £P10,931 £P10,838 — | 

Number paid 168 149 — il 

Value £P1,751 £P1,353 — 23 
Postal Orders. British—_ 

Number Issued — 167 == 

Value so — £P123 —_ 

Number paid 196 338 + 72 

Value Ste £P149 £P294 + 97 
Postal Orders, Palestinian== 

Number paid 1,240 1,535 + 23 

Value £P1,323 £P1,370 + 3 


191 
IX.—AGRICULTURE. 


1. Crops.—The winter crops of the Districts of Kerak and Ma‘an 
failed almost completely (see Introductory Section, paragraph 9); 
nm the north the harvest was average. 

The summer crops, too, were average in the north but failed in 
herak and Ma‘an. 

Twenty-six tons of Turkish tobacco were grown on 400 dunums ; 
1500 dunums are under the local variety of tobacco known as 
beisheh, the entire crop being locally consumed. 


2. The cultivation of vegetables continues to expand and better 
ypes of seeds are obtained from abroad through the Government 
Department. To encourage production, flax, cotton, groundnuts, 
ind potatoes were exempted from tithe for three years. 


3. Forests and orchards.—The olive crop was above the average 
in the northern districts and average elsewhere. Other fruits 
vere below average, owing to the damage to blossoms inflicted by 
unusually severe winds. 

110,000 wild-olive suckers were planted during the year, and 
‘ineyards are also being extended. Approximately 375,000 trees 


of various types are available for distribution from Government 
nurseries. 


4, Forest conservation was carried out as satisfactorily as funds 
fermitted; and an area of sixty dunums was afforested in the 
vcmity of the Palace at Amman. 


5. Insect pests and plant diseases.—Apart from the invasion of 
immature winged locusts in the south, there were some small 
patches of egg deposits in the Ajloun District which were destroyed 
without difficulty. 

The annual campaign against field mice in that district lasted 
ix weeks; its results were satisfactory. 

Aphis insects appeared in the plantations of Amman, Es-Salt, 


and Irbid and were dealt with by a spray of nicotine emulsion. 


The plantations of Amman, Reseifa, and Zerqa suffered from 
mole erickets, which were destroyed by poison bait. 

1,400 dunums of vineyards at Es-Salt were dusted with flower 
of sulphur against oidium. 


6. Veterinary.—A cross-bred South Devon ox was obtained from 
the Palestine Government for stud purposes. 

Although both Palestine and Syria were widely infected with 
foot-and-mouth disease, no cases occurred in Trans-Jordan. 

Outbreaks of haemorrhagic septicaemia, fowl cholera, and 
diphtheria were checked before they assumed serious proportions. 


1. Markets.—Prices of cereals were low until November when 
they rose by 100 per cent. By that time, however, most available 
stocks had been sold. 


“192 


There was no difficulty in disposing of available surpluses of 
cereals and animals above local requirements. 

Iixports to the Hejaz continued to increase during the season 
following the harvest. 





X.—LANDS. 


1. Surrey.—The demarcation, survey, and valuation of Jerash 


and Madeba Districts were completed. 
2. The output since the commencement of work in 1928 1s shown 


below :— 








"ear. Villages. Area (dunums). Marks erected. 
1928 sy 29 239,940 1,326 
1929 ‘i 79 773,590 5,304 
1930 sie 93 1,675,458 6,238 
1931 owe 119 2,129,860 8,620 

Totals... 320 4,818,848 21,488 








The cost per dunum is 4 mils which includes headquarters 
expenses, iron marks, area extraction and reproduction. The daily 
output of a surveyor is 795 dunums. 

3. The following statement has been compiled from the results 
of survey and valuation. 


Cultivable Percentage Gross Annual Return. 


District. Total Area. land. of cultivable 
(dunums). (dunums). land. Per Dunum. Total. 
Mils. 


as £P 
Irbid .-- 1,343,990 958,568 71 360 345,759 
Jerash a 952,665 590,956 62 460 272,225 
Madeba ae 499,706 179,756 36 460 82,660 


The gross annual return is computed on a basis of kilograms of 
wheat, except for a small area in Jerash District computed in rotls 
(approximately 3 kilograms) of grapes. The redemption price 
adopted for conversion to a monetary value is the average of the 
three years 1929 to 1931, 7 mils per pueerae of wheat and 8 mils 
per rot] of grapes. 

4. Taxation.—The Land Tax Taw shortly to be enacted will 
replace the tithe, werko, and road tax, providing for a tax of 6 per 
cent. on the figures recorded in the preceding paragraph. 


Comparative table of present and proposed taxation. 


District. Present Tax. New Taz. 
£P. £P. 
Irbid bas sas ... 22,795 20,746 
J erash se ous sean. SOc d 16,333 
Madeba ... mee ... 4,866 4,960 


In Irbid and Jerash the present taxation is on a fixed basis 
inherited from the Turkish regime. In Madeba, crops are 





PMR es ae rer | = 


193 


estimated annually and £P4,366 is the average for the years 1926 
to 1930. The Madeba figures show an instructive parallel between 
tithe estimation over a period of years and the new tax based on 
survey and valuation. 

Out of a total of 99 villages where the comparison is possible, it 
has been determined that the difference between present and future 
taxation will be as follows :—In 30 cases the increase will exceed 
30 per cent.; in 16 it will be less than 30 per cent.; in 24 there 
will be a decrease exceeding 30 per cent.; and in 29 the decrease 
will be less than 30 per cent. 


6. The distribution of the new tax is to be carried out by Village 
Committees under the supervision of Government officials; the 
distribution lists will constitute a useful record of title and facilitate 
the introduction of partition and of the Land Registry reforms so 
essential for development. 


7. Tribal Settlement.—All sections of the Beni Hassan tribe 
have now settled on their newly-allotted areas and over 5,000 title 
deeds are being issued; a modern system of registration has been 
adopted for the purpose. 


8. Land Registry.—714 transactions passed through the Land 


Registers and £P2,936 was collected in fees. 


9. Ownership of an area of 108,153 dunums, over which the 


- Government title was vague, has been settled by the agreement of 


the cultivators to pay £P2,766 in registration fees rather than incur 
the cost of litigation; the fees are payable in seven annual instal- 
ments. 


10. A law to provide for a reduction in J.and Registry fees is 
now before the Legislative Council. 


11. State Domains.—Various holdings of State Domain, mostly 
uncultivated, with a total area of 125.972 dunums, were sold to 
encourage cultivation or facilitate building. The proceeds of the 
sale amounted to £P2,954, whereas the annual revenue from these 
properties from 1926 to 1930 was £P166. 


12. Negotiations have begun for the disposal of the Govern- 
ment land in the Jordan Valley to the cultivators, as, without title, 
they are reluctant to improve their buildings. It is estimated that 
apart from the sale price the revenue from taxation of the improved 
lands will exceed the rents previously collected by the Government. 


XI.—PUBLIC WORKS. 


The financial provision for the maintenance of existing and for 
the construction of new roads was severely curtailed as a result ol 
the recommendations of the Financial Commission. 

2. 391 kilometres of road were permanently maintained, and 
525 kilometres were worked over once atier the rains. On the 


194 


road from Amman via Es-Salt to the Allenby Bridge, maintenance 
men are each allotted a definite stretch of road to work upon; 
elsewhere gangs are employed under a foreman. 

Sixty-nine kilometres of new roads were opened, 45 kilometres 
being constructed by voluntary village labour under the super- 
vision of Government foremen. The new roads include one from 
Kerak to the Dead Sea, a second from FEs-Salt to the Jordan Valley 
at Jisr ed-Damieh, and a third from Jerash to Mafrak. 

Six kilometres were completed on the reconstruction of the main 
road from Amman to Jerusalem. 


3. A Customs post was built at Jisr Mejamieh, and quarantine 
compounds were built at Remthe and Amman. The desert fort 
at Mudawara was repaired and that at Bair was nearly completed. 


XII. ANTIQUITIES. 


Important discoveries were made relating to Nabataean frontiers 
and civilization. Literary documents, monuments, and _ trade 
routes have been found and partly explored, and copper workings 
of the early Bronze Age of much historical interest have been dis- 
closed in the region of Petra. A valuable and important stele, 
dating from 1500 B.C., was unearthed at Balu’a in Moab. 


2. Iron workings have been explored in the Jebel Ajloun, some 
probably dating back to the early Iron Age. 


3. The policy of the Government department is to protect monu- 
ments, but to allow economic necessity to have the prevailing claim 
to any area of little archaeological value. 


4. The jomt expedition of Yale University and the American 
School of Oriental Research continued its researches at Jerash for 
the second year. 


5. The Pontifical Biblical Institute, Jerusalem, remains at 
Teleilat Ghassul for the third year; the finds are important and 
the civilization revealed is the intermingling of the late Stone Age 
with the early Bronze Age. 


XITI.—ARAB LEGION. 


The Arab Legion is responsible for public security, and the 
Prison and Passport Department is attached to it. 


2. The Legion consists of dismounted urban and rural police, 
and of police mounted on horses or camels for rural areas or 
travellmg in light armed cars or on camels for the desert. 

3. The Legion is being re-armed with British rifles. Each man 
is required to fire a course of musketry before being given charge 
of a new rifle. 


4. The installation of telephones or wireless in Police posts is 
proceeding. 


195 


5. Two officers of the Legion were attached to the Palestine 
police for training in finger-print and criminal investigation work ; 
42 non-commissioned officers received a three months’ course in 
the Police Training School at Jerusalem, and two drivers of the 
Desert Patrol took a special course in Egypt. 


6. The Beduin Control Board still exists, but its work is lessened 
by the efficiency of the Desert Police. 


7. Improvements were effected in the Central Prison at Amman 
and in the smaller prison and lock-ups; the health and cleanliness 
of the prisoners were generally satisfactory. 


14213 H 


196 


APPENDIX I. 


Palestine (Western or Wailing Wall) Order in Council, 1931. 


AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 
The 19th day of May, 1931. 
Present, 


THe Kine’s Mos? Exce,ttent Mayesty IN Covunciu. 


WHEREAS by treaty capitulation grant usage sufferance and other lawful 
means His Majesty has power and jurisdiction within Palestine: 


AND WHEREAS the Council of the League of Nations on the 14th day of 
January, 1930, passed a resolution in the following terms :— 


“The Council 


‘‘ Being anxious to place the mandatory Power, in accordance with its 
request, in a position to carry out the responsibilities laid upon it by 
Article 13 of the Mandate for Palestine under the most favourable 
conditions for safeguarding the material and moral interests of the 
population placed under its mandate; 

‘* Wishing not to prejudge, in any way, the solution of the problems 
relating to the question of the holy places of Palestine, which may 
have to be settled in the future; 

‘* Considering, however, that thequestion of the rights and claims of 
the Jews and Moslems with regard to the Wailing Wall urgently calls 
for final settlement; 

‘* Decides that, 

‘*(1) A Commission shall be entrusted with this settlement; 

‘¢ (2) This Commission shall consist of three members who shall not 
be of British nationality and at least one of whom shall be a person 
eminently qualified for the purpose by the judicial functions he has 
performed ; 


‘« (3) The names of the persons whom the mandatory Power intends 
to appoint as members of the Commifsion shall be submitted for 
approval to the Council whose members shall be consulted by the 
President if the Council is no longer in session; | 

‘‘ (4) The duties of the Commission shall cease as soon as it has 
pronounced on the rights and claims mentioned above.’’ 


AND WHEREas the said Commission was duly appointed and after having 
held an inquiry in Palestine submitted a report to His Majesty’s Principal 
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs: 


AND WHEREAS the conclusions contained in the said Report are set out in 
Schedule I to this Order and the temporary instructions referred to in Part — 
B, paragraphs 1 and 8 of the said conclusions are contained in Schedule Il 
to this Order: 


AND WHEREAS in order that His Majesty may be in a position to discharge 
the responsibilities in regard to the Western or Wailing Wall created by 
Article 13 of the Mandate for Palestine it is necessary that all persons in 
Palestine should be required to observe and abide by the provisions contained 
in Schedule I and in Schedule II to this Order (so far as the latter provi- 
sions are not amended by the provisions contained in Schedule I) and that 
the High Commissioner for Palestine should be vested with all powers 
necessary to give effect to the said provisions: 


197 


NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers 
in this behalf by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, or otherwise in His 
Majesty vested is pleased by and with the advice of His Privy Council to 
order and it is hereby ordered as follows :— 


1. All persons in Palestine shall observe and abide by the provisions 
regarding the Western or Wailing Wall which are contained (a) in Schedule 
I and in Schedule II to this Order (so far as the latter provisions are not 
amended by the provisions contained in Schedule I) and (b) in any regula- 
ae made by the High Commissioner for Palestine under Article 2 of this 
Order. 


2. The High Commissioner for Palestine with the approval of a Secretary 
of State shall have power to make such regulations as may be necessary to 
give effect to the provisions contained in Schedules I and II to this Order. 


3. Any person who fails to comply with any of the provisions contained 
in Schedules I or II to this Order or acts contrary thereto or fails to comply 
with any regulations made hy the High Commissioner for Palestine under 
Article 2 of this Order or acts contrary thereto shal) be guilty of an offence 


~ and ghall be lable to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months 


or to fine not exceeding £P.50 or to both such imprisonment and fine. 
4. Notwithstanding anything in the Palestine (Holy Places) Order in 


‘ Council 1924 :— 


(1) Offences under Article 3 of this Order shall not be triable by a 
Magistrate but shall be within the jurisdiction of a District Court. 
Such offences shall be tried summarily in accordance with the procedure 
applicable in ‘Magistrates’ Courts and the provisions of the Trial upon 
Information Ordinances 1924-1929 shall not be applicable thereto. 

(2) The Supreme Court sitting as a High Court of Justice shall 
have exclusive jurisdiction to make such mandatory orders or orders 
by way of injunction or otherwise as may be necessary to secure the 
observance of the provisions contained in Schedules I and JI of this 
Order and in any regulations made under Article 2 provided that no 
such order shall be made except upon the application of the Attorney- 
General on behalf of the Government of Palestine. 


5. His Majesty His Heirs and Successors in Council may at any time 
revoke alter or amend this Order. 


6. This Order shall come into operation on a day to be fixed by the 
High Commissioner by Proclamation in the Gazette. 


7. This Order may be cited as ‘‘ The Palestine (Western or Wailing Wall) 
Order in Council, 1931. 
M. P. A. HANKEY. 


SCHEDULE J. 


A. To the Moslems belong the sole ownership of, and the sole proprietary 
right to, the Western Wall, seeing that it forms an integral part of the 
Haram-esh-Sherif area, which is a Waqf property. 

To the Moslems there also belongs the ownership of the Pavement in front 
of the ‘Wall and of the adjacent so-called Moghrabi (Moroccan) Quarter 
opposite the Wall, inasmuch as the last-mentioned property was made Waaf 
under Moslem Sharia Law, it being dedicated to charitable purposes. 

Such appurtenances of worship and/or such other objects as the Jews may 


he entitled to place near the Wall either in conformity with the provisions 


of this present Verdict or by agreement come to between the Parties, shall 
under no circumstances be considered as, or have the effect of, establishing 
for them any sort of proprietary right to the Wall or to the adjacent 
Pavement. 


14213 H 2 


198 


On the other hand, the Moslems shall be under the obligation not to | 


construct or build any edifice or to demolish or repair any building within 


the Wagf property (Haram area and Moghrabi Quarter) adjacent to the | 
Wall, in such a manner that the said work would encroach on the Pavement | 


or impair the access of the Jews to the Wall or involve any disturbance to, 
or interference with, the Jews during the times of their devotional visiis 
to the Wall, if it can in any way be avoided. 


B. The Jews shall have free access to the Westera Wall for the purpose — 


of devotions at all times—subject to the explicit stipulations hereinafter to 
be mentioned, viz. :— 


(1) 'The temporary instructions issued by the Palestine Administration 


at the end of September, 1929, relative to ‘‘ appurtenances of worship ”’ 
(See section 2, a, b, c) are to be made permanent, subject however to 
the one modification that it shall be permissible tc place near the Wall 


the Cabinet or Ark containing the Scroll or Scroils of the Law and the | 


Table on which the Ark stands and the table on which the Scroll is 
laid when being read from, but only on the following occasions, viz. :— 


(a) At any special fast and assembly for public prayer that the 


Chief Rabbis of Jerusalem may order to be held in the consequence 
of some public distress or calamity, provided due notice shall have 
been given by them to the Administration ; 


(b) on New Year’s Day and on the Day of Atonement, and also | 


on any other special ‘‘ holy days ’’ that are recognised by the Govern- 
ment as such days on which it has been customary for the Ark con- 
taining the Scrolls of the Law to be brought to the Wall. 


Save as provided in the articles of this Verdict it shall not be | 


permissible to have any appurtenances of worship in the vicinity 
of the Wall. 


(2) No objection or obstacle shall be raised to the Jews, in their 


individual capacity, carrying with them to the Wall hand-books or other 
articles customarily used at their devotions either as a general thing 
or upon special occasions, nor to their wearing such garments as were 
of old used at their devotions. 


(3) The temporarily enacted prohibitions against the bringing to the - 


Wall of benches, carpets or mattings, chairs, curtains and screens, 


etc., and against the driving of animals at certain hours along the . 


Pavement are to be made absolute, as is also the injunction as to 
keeping the door at the southern end of the Wall locked during certain 


hours. The right, however, for Moslems to go to and fro in an ordinary — 


way along the Pavement shall be respected and remain inviolable as 
hitherto. | 


(4) It shall be prohibited to bring to the Wall any tent or a curtain 


or any similar object with a view to placing it there—even though for | 


a limited space of time. 


(5) The Jews shal] not be permitted to blow the ram’s horn (Shofar) — 
near the Wall nor cause any other disturbance to the Moslems that | 


is avoidable; the Moslems on the other hand shal not be permitted 
to carry out the Zikr ceremony close to the Pavement during the 
progress of the Jewish devotions or to cause annoyance to the Jews 
in any other way. 


(6) It is to be understood that the Administration shall be entitled 
to give such instructions as they may think fit respecting the dimensions 
of each of the objects that it is permissible for the Jews to bring to 
the Wall, respecting the particular days and hours above referred to, 
and also respecting other details that may be necessary for the adequate 
and complete carrying out of this present Verdict of the Commission. 


199 


(7) It shall be prohibited for any person or persons to make use of 
the place in front of the Wall or its surroundings for all political 
speeches or utterances or demonstrations of any kind whatever. 


(8) It shall be held to be a matter of common interest to Moslems 
and Jews alike that the Western Wall should not be disfigured by 
having any engravings or inscriptions placed upon it or by having 
nails or similar objects driven into it, and also that the Pavement 
in front of the Wall should be kept clean and be properly respected 
by Moslems and Jews alike; it is herewith declared to be the Moslems’ 
right and duty to have the Pavement cleaned and repaired, if and 
when that is necessary, upon due notice being given to the 
Administration. 


(9) Owing to the Wall’s character as an historical monument its 
fitting maintenance shall be entrusted to the Palestine Administration, 
so that any repairs to it that may be necessary shall be carried out 
by them and under their supervision though only after consultation 
with the Supreme Moslem Council and the Rabbinical Council for 
Palestine. 


(10) If any repairs to the Pavement that are necessary are not 
attended to by the Moslems in due time, the Palestine Administration 
shall take the necessary steps to have the work done. 


(11) The Chief Rabbis of Jerusalem ghall be required to nominate one 
or more officials to be their authorised representative or representa- 
tives for receiving the instructions and other communications that 
will be issued from time to time by the Palestine Administration regard- 
ing the Western Wall, the Pavement in front of it and the formalities 
to be observed with regard to the Jewish devotions near the Wall. 


SCHEDULE II. 


2—(a) The Jews may bring daily to the Pavement before the Wall a 
stand containing ritual lamps, and may place on the stand a zinc case with 
giass doors in which such lamps are lighted. They may bring also a portable 
¥asi-basin and a water container on a stand. None of the objects above 
mentioned shall be affixed to the Wall or to any wall of the adjoining Wagqf 
suldings. 


(6) From sunset on Friday evening to sunset on Saturday, and from 
sunset on the eve of any Jewish holy day recognised by the Government to 
sunset of that holy day the Jews may place at the Northern end of the Wall 
a stand containing prayer books, and at the Southern end of the Wall a 
table on which to stand a cabinet or ark containing Scrolls of the Law and 
another table on which the Scrolls are laid for reading. The tables and 
cabinet or ark and the stand shall be removed at the end of the Sabbath or 
holy day as the case may be. 


(c) On the two holy days of the New Year Festival and on the Day of 
Atonement each Jewish worshipper may bring a prayer-mat which may be 
nlaced on the Pavement before the Wall but so as not to obstruct the right 
of passage along the Pavement. 


3. No benches, chairs or stools shall be brought to or placed on the 
Pavement before the Wailing Wall. No screen or curtain shall be placed 
on the Wall or on the Pavement, for the purpose of separating men and 
vomen or for any other purpose. 


200 


4. Between the hours of 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Sabbath days and Jewis' 
holy days recognised by the Government, and between the hours of 5 an‘ 
8 p.m. on the eve of such days, and throughout the eve and Day of Atone- 
ment, save between the hours of dawn and 7 a.m., no animal shall be driven 
along the Pavement before the Wall. 


5. The wooden door giving access from the Pavement to the Zawieh at 
the Southern end of the Wall shall remain locked on the eve of the Sabbath 
and Jewish holy days recognised by the Government from 5 p.m. and through- 
out such days until after sunset. 


APPENDIX II. 

Palestinian Citizenship (Amendment) Order, 1931. 
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE. 
The 23rd day of July, 1931. 

Present, 


Tre Kine’s Most Excettent MAJesty. 


Lord President. Mr. Secretary Wedgwood Benn. 
Earl of Athlone. Sir Maurice de Bunsen. 


Wuereas by the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925 (hereinafter referred 
to as the Principal Order), provision was made for the regulation of the 
grant and acquisition of Palestinian citizenship: 


AND WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the Principal Order as hereinafter 
set forth : 


NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the 
powers in this behalf by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, or otherwise 
in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy 
Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows :— 


1.—(1) Turkish subjects who were habitually resident in the territory of 
Palestine upon the sixth day of August, 1924, but ceased to be so habitually 
resident before the first day of August, 1925, shall be deemed to have become 
Palestinian citizens, unless before the date of this Order they shall hare 
voluntarily acquired another nationality. 


(2) Nevertheless, the High Commissioner shall have power in the case of 
any person who becomes a Palestinian citizen by virtue of the preceding 
paragraph and shall make an application to this effect within four years 
of the date of this Order, to apply tv any such person the provisions of 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 1 of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925. 
and to extend the period of option provided for therein. 


2.—(1) Article 10 (1) of the Principal Order is hereby repealed and the 
following is substituted therefor : 

‘¢ Where it appears to the High Commissioner that a certiticate of 
naturalization granted by him has been obtained by false representa- 
tion or fraud or by concealment of material circumstances, or thai 
the person to whom the certificate is granted has, since the gran:. 
been for a period of not less than three years ordinarily resident out 
of Palestine and has not maintained substantial connection wath 
Palestine, or has shown himself by act or speech to be disaffected, or 
disloyal to the Government of Palestine, the High Commissioner mar. 
subject to the approval of one. of His Majesty’s Principal Secretaries 
of State, by order revoke the certificate, and the order of revocation 
shall have effect from such date as the High Commissioner may direct.”’ 


201 


(2) Article 10 (2) of the Principal Order is hereby repealed, and the 
following is substituted therefor :—‘‘ The High Commissioner may, for the 
like reasons, and subject to the like approval, annul a Certificate of Citizen- 
ship granted under the provisions of Articles 4 and 3 hereof, or a declara- 
tion of the acquisition or resumption of citizenship made under the pro- 
visions of Articles 12 (1) and 14 (2) of this Order.”’ 


3. Article 11 (1) (b) of the Principal Order is hereby repealed, and the 
following is substituted therefor:—‘‘ The High Commissioner shall not 
make any such Order as aforesaid in the case of a wife who was at birth, 
or who became, in virtue of Articles 1 and 6 of this Order, a Palestinian 
citizen, unless he is satisfied that if she had held a certificate of naturaliza- 
tion in her own right, the certificate could properly have been revoked under 
this Order.”’ 


4. His Majesty, His Heirs and Successors, in Council, may at any time 
revoke, alter, or amend this Order. 


5..This Order shall be published and proclaimed in Palestine, and the 
date of such publication shall be deemed to be the date of the commence- 
ment of this Order. 


6. This Order shall be known as the Palestinian Citizenship (Amendment) 
Order, 1931, and shall be read and construed as one with the Principal 
Order. 


COLIN SMITH. 


202 


000°00P‘00T 


000°T 


929°889°966 


“STU “dz 


000°093'T 


000°000‘6 
000°099‘6F1 


¥Z6'SS1'SS 


98°009‘Z 


T¥O'HOL ‘IST 


969°SSI‘S2s 


000°T 


“Sa * ds 


eames STH omy sereqg TdF 0st 
—! UGUTASEAUT 19130 
"*sopmedunog Areppisqug 19490 
* donVpmMby 
Arqunjoa uy “py “09 ON4001H Spee OUT 
—: sayueduiog Areyppeqng uy soreyg 


— 9800 yD ‘syuqwmseoauy 


“** UOPSBVdUOH 943 JO UORsnboy 
—: uoresqIu0g viny 


***MOJSBGOU0L O49 G44 TOF}DeUT0D Uy] sosued 
-xo Stic sie a sovuedxe AIsUTUITOlg 
"0 ‘ahem 
“tye Jo uoReoEoeTe ‘nopyeB pI] io} 99afo1g 





$60°990‘OT “* SBEOORL 
ByItH 


SIS'6E9SIT ° 
> 9800 48 ‘ ‘ois ‘a19}8A8 Woy} 
-nqjz38}p ‘quyd Buyyeoues ‘eBsuypimg ‘puwy 
—: SBAoq]L pus vyjeH 
801048 po} BoO]TVUN pus ‘930 ‘sesuadxe eIONOB 
pus a a Ll BujlssuBue ‘ SoUf] UOpssTur 
-Buel} “Asouyouul ‘ ‘SHIOM oynerpdy § SHIOA 10} 
queld ‘sBuypying ‘puyy pos AICU]UI] 
: (WO}Q0a19 JOopun 
elias JOMOT 9/1709 ops uepior 4811 
se *** UOjssI0U0D 343 JO UO;YS]Nboy 
——: 0498p 07 aingjpuedxyY eqjdep 
—: woLssIqU0D UDpLOr 


“SLESSY 


S3L'301'ST 
000°923'92 


S3S'94061T 


688° 198‘6T 
000°000‘0¢9z 
00¥°220°608 


000°000‘000‘T 


000°000‘0s 
000°000°096 


“STU “dF 





G9T'800°SZ 
9F8'0Z8‘2E 
FIZ9IZ‘s8 





000°S20‘S 
000° TST‘808 
000°063‘0T 
000°T98°L62 





“STU “dz 


JUNOIY SOT PUD jifoL 


‘areyshs uopNgEeTp ‘sauyprmq pus ened sur) 


-B10U93 S¥LIOG] |, PUY BVP JO uopepamdap 30J 
—U01SSIIUND) UVPLOL YO sIUNPLOIIV US 90198927 


sOOUY[ IPA pave s10j;per9 AIpung 


~epmby, ‘Azeyumyoa u) ‘PAT “09 oy00 syer 
—: Ausduoy 


—: ssuDpD, Apesy pun ssopiposy 
"** sangnq sworn pessafoT 


**s (esse B,°C.I09 243 ZO 
santa + or paraase) pooqupsony 


IVALIV U] S[[BQ—: 8897 


""* oR TF JO SaIBYR UaIIJalg 06Z‘OL 
"+ yowa [FZ JO Savyg ATBUPIO 198'26Z 


—: ponss] 


“** ova [F JO sarvyg sduslzjoI1g 000‘0S 
"* Youve [FZ Jo selvyg AIBUIpPIO 000‘0S6 
—: pespoyywy 
“nd oD svys 
“SHILIIIE VIT 





“OE6I ‘Ioquicceq, 381g 94} 38 BB YooNG eouLeg 


“GHLINT] ‘NOLLVAOdHO) OLULOATY ANLUSAIVG FHT, (!) 


“sojuedulog Aivuojsseou0g Jo sjooyg oouvleg 


“til XIGNadddV 


“owes” buidvunyy ‘OMRUNALNY SVHNIG ‘wpumspy) ‘ONLUVAY 
*puoplAlp B alepIep OF JOU UIySpOpUN alojaroyy svy AUBdwO) oy} puY qUoUT{sN{psB 07 Qofqns | ABUL YUNODW BVO] PUT WYOIg 8,AUBduI0) 944 Jo s0UB[Vq oY ‘199}BUI 517 
UO payovel Bujaq Uolsjap B Buypuod ‘yuswUIIAOF) 9Y3 YJ TO[SSNdIs{p Jo yovfqns 949 Bujoq Auvdwog sy Aq Ploy BDUaI;T a2 Jo BuyAIOM ayy 07 B[Quoydde ug [epuvuyy 
OY} JO SULIO} JY} 4UY3 PozIeIS “OFET ‘JoQuiegdag qI0g 9Y9 9B SU UOUpNby] AsjuNjoa Uy “PyT “OD ITI Vyer sY9 Jo yaayg souvjeg ysl ayy UO yIOdaI ,f107;pNs 24 L 
*s3UN0D08 OBI} poywrodioouy useq VARY seafusduOD TPyjeqns Jo sassoj 10 syyoud ON 
"6Z6T ‘souBUTPIC sayUBdUIO| 943 JO LOT ‘92g 07 JUBNEINd sajuBduO;) AIUIP[sqng 03 sv 7U9T19;87g 
“open” Ouidounyy ‘pqdanalnY SVANId 


‘juvqunozy fey) ‘NEDOGNZIENEOVY ‘¢ ; “UDULLIDY) ONIGVEU 
—siopesuy fo psvog 9y3 fo froyeq uO 
"sLO]]PRP ‘SJUDZUNOIP paszzLVYO Teel ‘nbn py ure 943 ‘Bfo 
0) PF Trassay -Auvdii0g oy) Jo sxoog 943 Aq UMOYsS SB PUL EN OF UDATS SUO|VUTIdXa ay} PUL UO;ULIOFUT INO Jo 489q 94} 0} Busps0.e 


BIIBHZV 8, AUBdM0,) 943 JO 94436 947 JO MAJA 3901100 PUB oNnIA's MOUS 07 St OB dn UMBIP ApJedold 8] QovYg VUY]TVG 2AOQ¥ oY) 4uY} UOZUTdO ayy Jo BIB aM YIBUaI BujoBaioj 

a 0} qav{qng ‘aMNjpusdxe Jo sBuiproy snojiva Japun pauoywodde syuNGDOW DAO" 9Y} UT PaphRious Uvsq BABY JUNODIY UO Blsquayny “_g ‘IP_ O} PIUBApt sPUNOUIY UT7I90 

YSnoy ye ‘Palapual ssdJA198 JOJ PIUJULINjap oq 0} 49h Bioquayny *q “IP_ 0} AI[Pquy] Suspuvzszno uy suyewial Boy, “poyNbal savy aA YOY suopMvUBdxe puv UOVUWIOJU] 

OU? [IV PIUfeIqo CAVY OMA “YWOJ 998 AAOGE SU ‘OEEL. JaquIv,Ad 4SIE 91} PIP “PayUNT WOyuodso;) dpjo9[y oUlysa[Vq oy} Jo Jovyg souBleg 9Y7 Poz{pNe savy aM 
"SURQCIOHAUVAS AHL OL LAOdZY SAOLIACAV 


203 


*93UN0008 
9994} Ul JOJaloY} spBUl UVEeq sTY UOPS]AOId OU PUB soxIPIOYINE O49 YBJA UOfssnds[p JopUN Ss] XBY, FWIOOUT YS 07 AqTQVy] s,WopUIOdI0g oy4 Jo UOAWseNb 94 —'90A7 





98106 ‘9SS'T | 98 1°Z98‘9SS'T 
086'1¥6‘L ae ad < puny ut pun g @ yey 

WLY'T¥E'OI Hee os "** 4800 98 ‘nf{for pun DAD us puvT 

868°919 FZ 


169°F68‘ST S1dyIOM 8,AuUBdUI0D 94} JO} sosnoy UO psa0UuBA 
is “PV 689°80L'S dF Bajpnypouy syunoooe Aipung 
OSPF OI? 6 ees eee @ea eee 830N0008 MIUMNsuoy) 
182°908'T ae i sojuvdmog Arvipyeqng 
—: 8409907 
eee eee ove sooA0|dura 0} SOOUBADB 
£929) T dF Suppnpouy ‘souvapy us ssnppusdrq_ 
089°682'L3 *““SIBIWO 8,Auudul0g 949 Aq pogy7e0 sv ‘Japun 
10 4909 4U ‘“alay-ja, pup DfoH jo pupy uo 824015 
S16°S38‘s “+ gQUN0D0N SNOPIBA 07 pedeyo uopejeidap 
BHO] “9800 4B “AIGY-7AL pun ofwH w ‘edoyszi04 
080'268's ***JIPUN 10 4909 48 ‘suomd indy pun ssnjiusny 023{fO | 


O8T'016'S 


204 


SOR PY RERUN O2Y Leroy) 


‘O29 GNV ‘'Tlassiy 


“sopenq Ourdoun yy pup upwsinyd 


‘OUFANALAY SVHNID 


ey} UOsUldO INO U] ‘AIVUl BujosIoj oy 07 Avafqng 
UMOYS 8ST JUNI sO] PUT BOI JO ddIVVq sy} ‘1d}}JVUT BTY. UO PIyIval Buyoq uopspsp B Buypusg 1 “yUIUIUIDACH 0y} 
ayy Aq ploy 9090/7 943 Jo Wpqsou ay} 03 BQuoydde uvg [vjouvu 

pus ‘Yy7I0} Jos GAOGS BE ‘OSET “TOQMIZ.0q] 481g 94} pezBp UO]ZepiNn 


“S0posyT 
*‘NHI400H °§ 


(ESOL enemy YIPZ 0144 
‘usyUH 


“AUUdWOD ody Jo syooY OF AQ UMOYS su puD ‘en O04 WOAYR SUC QUEM xa 


‘SWACTOHRUVHS HHL OL LuOdaAY SAOLIGAYV 


"ss0qvasuT fo pavog ay) fo froyeq uo 


‘yunqunooy f74O 
‘NADOGNDZIAZNAOVY f£ 


OY} PUB UO;ZVULIOJUS INO JO 989q OY 0} Buypsooov AIVYV s,AAUdurIo{ oy} JO 93} J[} JO MOA 4991109 PUB 9NJ} BV MoS oF SY OV dn UABIP A 
*PUSPIAIP B JIVjOep 07 4OU UINHVPIpUN o1ojo10yy SVy Auvduloy o43 puv ‘4asW48Nn 


aa Bf JUVYY vUVlYUY BALGT 
pu 0} Yovfqns oq ABU CALGU 


WA UOpsendsyp Jo yafqne 944 ae Aguduoy 


94} JO SULI9) OU, ‘palynbel OABY aM GOYA suOCUYdxes puL do;VULIOJUL Og} [Te PeuseIGo oATY 
1] AIVPUNIOA Ul pazyyUNy] AuUVdWlOD IAW eyee ey} jo ya0Ng souVU O49 PoyPN oasy OM 


"PIT (09 Ajddng pM oBe109g plop suyyeo[vq 94} Ay pray sarvys 94) GO payeoun 
qunowle Sujoq—'OSL‘e'dF JO AINIGEll yoesuyjQuo0s & eye]x9 a1I4yL—9ON 








z ¥ ZI STS'60s LT9'819‘608 
¥ SI 8I9 608 L19°8TS‘608 SSeS eee 
“1990700 4ST WOIZ SB [43]dB) 
aleyg suUeIIIIg e844 UO 
PusppAp append 07 yoafqng 
0 éT 69°98 098" F6S'98 ——————| _238P 0} O86L “38T 1040790 
"spwalosd pUsU BFE 189 2 UOJ} POPIE Of} IOF FYOI Ippy 
2 0 L632 L00°263'S -dopaaq snorsna uo asnppusdry “(836T “JequIngdag 40E 943 
"uortssaquUo) viny 94] uo 4oVq U3gz,1K pun] aojyes 
br & O080‘F R92 °080‘F uo sasuedxe 49470 pun wb] ‘890 “Hours [eyjdeo pozujnamnooe 
G ST O9T‘S 692°091‘S ie "** sosuadzg Aspuiwtjesd SJL Z6EC66 8'dF Buypnyo 
¥ FTI SSF LIL’S2F puny ur pun yuNT yo ysv) ; -U}) OS61 ‘19qQuIa}deg WOE 
"PIT “0D Ajddng Z0G'E16'RZ | UO PIBMIOY YYZNOIq suUYeg 
yp sojs Plop e}QsI[vq —: JUNOIY S8OT PUD fold 
P P ayy Uy saleys TdF 000°C “UO VTS SUy 
0 0 OScT 000°09¢ T uo ‘oreys rod sj OSZ ‘dn pied 0 0. 008‘9¢ 000°008‘99 a} JO wormvesdagT sof sasasay 
— yuousoauy || § ST 986'9T 29L°986'9T rue “So0UU/ Bq 
0 & g98‘cs 1S3'898'SZ os PIT ‘a0}7} $00°686 9 WPAN pus s10j{par Aipung 
VIZ 9128 -810010) 9]1790/q 0U]}89/8q YL G92 LEGO ae a qFRIPIVAO PUB 
LE0°SST'LT oy “" a7UNnoooY ,s19MINsUO) —: 8dsUDID Pes) PUD SLoppesy 
‘ ‘ —- 840000 ‘ "pyed 
9 6 6605 PLF'°660 § "** gaupapy ur aanpipusdzy || 0 0 L89°6FT 000° 28964 —————_| Any “ova TF Jo sarvgg ooua 
"MOTpBpaidap 989] 4809 4B 0:00°000°09 Lops VAjVINUIND %8 000'0S 
0 0 O00F 000°00F ‘uamdindg pun aanpnusny 991ff{O ; “pied Ayny yova 
L 3 8er‘9es IST 'SEF‘99S Se 000°489°66 | TF JO BAIVYH AIVU}PIO 289 66 
OCS SLA IL | sesfuleld ,SJoUINSUOD UO s19}07Y —: ponss] 
“W193 “s]fUl “ds 
898's98'Ig | -8Ag UOANQH sq UojsUeL, MOT a IR SIE NE: 
*SUOIZSS JOMIO} 0 0 0000ST 
-BUUI}Z PUT sau] PBeyJaAo ————__—_—_- "qoua TF JO saleyg vous 
GES'SS0'Z8 | pus abated alt uojsuaL 431A 0 0 000‘0S -1IJI_ BAY BMUIND %8 000‘0S 
G86'SSL‘62 **- gared aruds Moos AIIUIVPY "YBa 
LE8°LES‘9S ts "** 999 ‘esuyprng “pu 0 0 O000‘00I IZ JO samvyg AIVUTPIO 000‘OOT 
—: 4900 48 ‘uotppysuy vf{for —: pasrsoymny 
0 0 I 000°T ese eve eos quUNnOIOp 9IUENT —pordv) osnysy 
‘p 8 “SITU "dF “STU “dz “‘BLASSV Pp 8 F ‘p 8 F “STU “ds “*SALLITIA VI'T 


“OLG6L ‘JEQUUGEC 4STE otf] 4V SE Jo04g dOULTEG 


‘NOILVGINO] AUVINAIOA NI GALINT]T ANVAWOD OTHLOATY VAAVeG AHY, (1) 





205 


‘squDpuno2P pasuDyy 


“o9 2 TIASSOT 


yons uofujdo mo uy 


*IS6L ‘saquuaydes YyI9T 
“UO UBTLIO & 


“AUBdWOD) 944 JO 8AOOG 9} Aq UMOYS 8B PUL BN OATS suO]ZvUL/AxXe 947 
pue vOMvMIosUy Mo Jo 489q eY4 0} Buyppsooos syeye s,Ausduiog 343 JO HWS 94} JO MBIA 409109 pu anIq BV WIQIYxa 07 sB os dn UMUIp AjsvdoOId 8] Yo'TG DOUBTVYL 


‘paljnbal GABY 9M SUO;WVAU[Tdxs9 pUB TOJ}VULIOJUL 243 [[@ PeUye}GqO oAeY PUL YAIOJ 498 DAOGE BB YaoYg DDUTIVg 94} PIzIPNB oAVY OMA 


‘CALIKIT ‘NOMLVUOdUOD FOIAUAS OITANd P OLMLOAIQ WATVSOuTe JO SUAMWAW AHL OL SUOLIGAY AHL JO LHOdaYy 





: ‘ANOLS ‘ ‘5 NHOL 
{ 


ROT SCF LER dS 
OEE OFS 

O69 GEE 'ST 
FROZE 
909°896‘F 

ROL 1802 

SPL REL 


GLO FLL OFS ee 
O1S GIF FT 


OGL °F62'SES 


DEL TOL FT 
0008S ‘08S 


000°000°09 


“RIN dd 3 ‘Sym *dZ 


eee een eee oes 


BIOHUCT 9V svg 

KIIBYS JO anes] UO UOIS8MUULOY 

sosuvd xq] AIVUJWIYvIg 
mr 

‘QouvApT Uy syuamArd puv sinjqoaq Aipung 
“g[suvI} Ul pus 

‘losvuTy, ayy Aq payiqsad gv puvy UO 80103g 
MOURA Op 8897 “4809 4B 


949 ‘OINIUINT ‘BIpYoA 1OIO]_ “SPOOL “Quuyjq 


"ore ‘Ame 
pig 04 [Udy 4st wo1g 
qunovdY 48B] lod sy 


eee eee eee 


TLL’ R FES 

CFE OLO'CT 
“SIMU ZF 

—! WON ONIYSUOD BULMpP solvys aud 

“191g UO WUNUUY Jed %G 4V }8019}UT 


Ivad ayy Bump suoijppy 
qUNODIY 4sB] Jud sy 
—aaJ 
8 JIDUIZU BUYQ[NSu) puy sIoP_ ‘Sod Alog 
‘sureyy SATOUTIpOR]G pus querg ‘“sAurpying 


‘spueyT Zulphyou] soo yu amngipdadxygy puzyideg “ 
UU]ssUIUO,) JO 480.) AG 


eee aoe ase oes 


"SLAS8SW 


66 
4 
€ 


nn“ a 


‘ 


‘ 


a 


RGL'SSE' LEE dd 


068°902'L 


IF¥'TS6't 
000°000°%S 
LOR EAE S 
000°000'808 


“STU * dF 


"IS6T “YOIVPY 48TE Qaoyg soureg 
“GaLINI] ‘NOILVUOdUOD) AOIANAG OIMaNg BY OMLOAIY WatvsANTe (TH) 


GELSZLS'S 
G86'°822'01 


000°000‘821 
000°000‘08T 


000°000‘00¢ 
“SU * ds 


“XRL $897 ‘O61 “AON W9FT 
03 AINE YF pUapjal({ voUsIajalg 9897 
hy cat nee os  gouyped 
—jUNoddY 8807, pus gorg “ 
** quhoosdy sAlosay [eydeg “ 
qunodoy uroT * 
"** SaBIBYyO PeTII0V pu BIOPPol,) AIpung * 
*pyud Aypny 
(ovo TdF JO sovysg AIVUIPIO 000 RST 
*pyed Aypny yoRs [gz JO saivys 
sUdIIIJAIq oapyyNUuNnD %% OOO'ORT 
—panssy [vndD) OL 
pasiioyjynp pordy) ssnyQ 


eee eee ove 


“BALLITIAVIT 


206 


‘ssonpny | SUDTENODY pesessoyO | "1861 ‘IME VOT 
OD P IVAIOUEd ‘BYNES AOMAVAR ‘uOpuo’] 


‘Ausduio,) 043 Jo syoog oy. Aq UMOYs sv pas ‘sl 07 USAT GUO; VUYIdxa 94) PUL UOFTULIOJU] INO JO 489q 
ey} 07 FSuppio0oe syjeye ¢,Auvdur0g 943 JO 34848 043 JO AMZJA 4931109 PUB OI] B 3IQJYxXe 07 sv os dn UMBIP Ajsvdoid 8} yooYNg VUViVg Yons UOfU;dO Mo UL ‘peINbar oABY OM 
SUO}ZVUB[AXS PUB UO;PVULIOJZUT oY [[V Pousezqo savy pus ‘aAOGE YPIOJ 308 SE ‘OSE “JequIe0Id 4SIg PIzEp “PIT YSVIOT oujgsz[v_ Jo yooyg souVvg 947 paypne savy OM 

“SURGNAR GHL OL SHOLIGOY EHL 40 LEOdAY 








9 61 $86'L2z3 9 61 S86°L3z5 
$ OL I8t‘sr oa ee “" pup tt puw yung yw ysvg “ “saoqooun { ‘INVNNGL “CO A 
6 & Pee “** goupapy ut spuewm/ing pun ssoj}gaq Aspung “ ‘ ‘NOLLA'T 
br sl 1L99 "**  payizi00 su 8700.7 pun sypiiapyy fo yoojg “* 
‘ 7 ‘Pr “8EI 990'SF F 
8! ‘“6Z6L “Joy sofuBdUlOoD ‘gZI UoHoeg YqLA 9 61 499 ST +2 aia as “* ssopipasg hapung * 
VUBPIOIOV U] poeze}s 9q 0} PolMbdel 81099011 0 0 99818 —— 
; 04 pred uo;jvisunulel Jo qUNOUWIY OY —'aj0n 0 0 99056. —————_ 
Ss ee © ‘¢ “Zeger °** VOUBADPL UI pred YysBD 
iy ee StL'SS eee eee eee one Pealsoo1 4s010qUy —ppy 
sso] ‘Sosusd x DIO PUB AIVIVS 8,10}901I(] 0 SL 9Fo‘SsOoL ————————_- 
Buypnyouy ‘uopuoyT pus oulysavq U! 0 O SIs‘FL predun sie 
sosuee xy UOReASCTUpy UA 19442304 —880T 
vag pPvaqy 943 4V sosuodxy] JOYyYjJO puY 0 SI 6986113 - dn 
QOUVUOZUIVAY ‘SAOVAING ‘YIOM [VJUOWLdx® “* paj[vo “sey 
6 8 Fx0'tO ‘yave LF 
jo saivyg 
@ 6€«LCOCLOS‘OL one * seLIpunS puv omngMing WUAIIg 
‘quowidinby ‘AvMTIVY BUsVY “se110'T 1040 ,q €Ls'6SL 
8 Gg 296'28 ‘* snguiuddy puv Asoulyouyy pue que oO L2erers *? ‘ss  pyed Aypny ‘yous 
IT 9 Z8t'sI mY a rhe “*  spurpling LF JO 8vIVYy VIIa LE1'OL 
OT SI L30°F ay os BVH FV puBT pjoyseig 0 0 000°0% “ee YIv9 “S] JO SAIVYS AIVUIPIO 000'O0F 
—uo 9ynqT 0} asnpipuedzg “* —penss J 
S 9 $9918 ** +. "** “** 7* 6261 ‘leq 
-UlIAON UL Peep QUoWMIeIZY UT Jo sULIO} 0 0 000‘0SZF 


ul Bselvyg pred Ayjny jo quougoTTe 343 


Aq peysigus ‘siopue, oy3 Aq ep¥eul ong ®. 6 ooo;ons -*" YIva [F JO SoIVYG 9UI1IJIIg OOO‘'OSS 

-[puedxe AlvuyUljeid oyy [Te JO yYeueq o4g 0 0 000‘0% ane Yovo “ST JO salvyy ALVUIPIO OOO'OOF 

puv vag pvag O49 Ul syyeg puY sfezeUlyyY — pastuoyjnp 

JO UOOVIZXe Oy JO] woIlsseoU0gQ fo p09 Aq — poyidy,) OF, 
‘p ‘8 3 ‘p ‘s 3 "SLESSY “p ‘8 3 "p ‘8 3 “BALLI'LIAVIT 





“O86T “1equisoed 481 “Jooqg suv 
“daLIAIT HsVLOg ANLLSA'IVd (41) 








PALESTINE HAIFA HARBOUR *. et ee 
GENERAL PLAN. 


December I93k ,<\\\}7, 




















is 


HAVIGA TION LIGHT 


_— — 


Metres 50 _ 






500 Metres 
STORES == 





a = —e== 
400 600 800. ~—~*1000 1200 . 400 “Té00 ~ 1800— 2000 Feet 


nerenenee GENERAL PROGRESS PLAN. = 


________........ Railway "435 (4-8*") Gauge. ese | 
ee (eee Aer as » ° 105 Gauge. 4s, UN Re it 
settee = === = === ” Combined Gauges I"495 £105, 


Feet !0050 0 


All work eee) rior to Dec. /930... =” 
All work executed during 1931... 






eee we ea) 
: Se capt | : co ae ei eee a aes eee 2M 7.5 WIDE (MIN,)' 


nse Ae | OS COON en ae | C7 SONA: © RCN) es ne ery ee te nietee re 


+? ome 
_—., 







es 


f Bin ‘ re ee a ‘ . — rr ——_— 


ee ee 8 eee 









ee ee os 






“Sept. to Deg fo37~ 7 
i S10’ sutin| 













‘ . 4 . 
| ~ . ees oly oe Ve 5 
< + oe, eC — > os 
~ 4 : ®, oy J KO TY 
~ ~ R on q Aig aS i Re 
*. . . 


XBLOCK-WALL ON Soa 
SRUBBLE: DYKE So od ee 


“Sh ee be maby Py ied ee e 4! mee pees = S. 
, ae oo SSgUBBLE DYKE” 


7. a> 
SS R i 
ITS r 
, . sy 
SNF 
a a 


ON 
CaS : es re 
A ee OQ - i ee heats +45 
: AF 5 = 
oe Hp” , : i Kalas 


Nid ee emia 
~: -—_—oO ~ 
1 : 


pie cans Fe! See: 
_ STORM WATER Bee pee ae - Waee™, TORM. HE 
DRAIN. —~ % ee Ms et. a 


% ae SEALY 


Feb. 30 


1 
SS iar 





Fp ls EASE EE ALE AL band a IS ISSR ET 7 Pa 







> - a he 
LS Poy tee | 
~~ 








= ; 
or oLo > / 


3 2 
ns Ka / re 4; 
Ie — 


a S.MOSLEM \S 7 / q 
Sy as ccenerees ae 















eet Raion 
“J 


Se pees Tae fugd0\ |X 


reais: ‘lw. 
my il 
















& 
Sa 
“el TNSHIRAH" 





JEWISH 
CEMETERY 





pe! 
__ 9278488 2815, 2364,/250, 5/92. 


Pp 


207 
(v) LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 


Administration Générale des Phares, 
12, Ruz GAILLON, PARIS. 


DROITS DE PHARES PERCUS EN PALESTINE 
PENDANT L’ANNEE 1981. 


Livres Palestianiennes. 












831.791 





June... re 342.087 381.757 124.888 
July... sie 351.589 366.053 719.522 
August . ss 332.267 666.504 
September 364.267 707.253 
October 398.485 730.661 
November 323.930 696.044 
December 372.085 828.784 

Totals £P 4,614.332 4,471.997 9,098.552 





APPENDIX V. 


Protocol relative to the Settlement of the Frontier between Syria and the Jebel 
Druze on the one side and Trans-Jordan on the other side. 


I.—DEFINITION OF THE FRONTIER. 
1. Yarmuk Sector. 


(a) From the point where the railway crosses the Yarmuk above El Hamme 
as far as the point where the railway crosses the river above El M’Khebi, the 
frontier follows the thalweg of the Yarmuk, it being understood that the 
section of the railway situated between these two bridges, and lying to 
the east of the Yarmuk, shall be accorded, in favour of Syria, the same 
exterritorial régime as was provided for, in the case of the section of the 
railway already delimited as far as the station of Semakh, by the Delimita- 
tion Agreement of the 3rd February, 1922 (which fixes the last point 
delimited). 


_ (b) From the above-mentioned point above El M’Khebi up to the point 
where the railway crosses the Wadi Meidan in the direction of Mezerib 
for the last time, the frontier runs on the Trans-Jordan side of the railway 
at a distance fixed, where these rivers flow on the south side of the railway, 
by the thalweg of the Yarmuk and of its tributaries, the Wadi Zeizun and 
the Wadi Meidan, and where the railway runs on the Trans-Jordan side 
to the south of these rivers, by the railway iteelf. 


208 


In the latter case the frontier shall be established to the south of the 
railway and parallel to it in such a way as to leave to Syria, besides the 
railway itself, its structures and grounds, its borrow-pits, its stations, its 
yards and outbuildings, and the area necessary both for the technical 
protection of the railway and its works and for its operation. This definition 
of the railway also applies to the section of the railway mentioned in 
paragraph (a) above. 

(c) Nothing in the preceding definition of the frontier shall have the effect 
of modifying the water régime relative to the Yarmuk and its tributaries, 
as provided for in article 8 of the Franco-British Convention of the 
23rd December, 1920. 


2. Deraa-Remthe Sector. 


From the point defined above, where the railway crosses the Wadi Meidan, 
as far as the point where the frontier meets the railway to the south of 
Nasib, the frontier is defined by the following marks and cairns :— 

From the bridge on the Wadi Meidan, the frontier rejoins the line which 
separates the lands of the Trans-Jordan villages of Amrawa, Sheyjara, 
Turrah and Remthe, on the one hand, from the lands of the Syrian 
villages of Tel Shehab, Mezerib, and Deraa on the other. 

This line passes through El] Bueib on the road from Deraa to Remthe, 
and thence follows the western crest of the Jebel-ez-Zumla as far as the 
. cairn situated at the southern extremity of the line separating the lands 
of Deraa from those of Remthe. 

From the latter cairn the frontier runs to the cairn situated approximately 
1,500 metres to the south of the farm of Rahaya; thence, it passes to the 
cairn of Kabr Hamdan, and continues towards the cairn situated at Kerkur 
Sud, and thence rejoins the railway at a point situated between the Syrian 
village of Nasit and the Trans-Jordan village of Jabir, in such a way as to 
leave to each of these villages the lands which belong to them. 

It is understood that when the frontier, in this second sector, follows a 
watercourse or Wadi, the thalweg is meant, and when the frontier follows 
a crest, the water parting is meant. 

It shall be further understood that whatever the actual line of the 
frontier, the inhabitants of Turrah shall continue to have access as heretofore 
to the water points in the Wadi Meidan situated to the east of Jisr Meidan. 


3. Sector to the East of Nasib and Jabir. 


From the point above mentioned, between Nasib and Jabir, to the point 
where it meets with the frontier between Trans-Jordan and ‘Iraq, in the 
neighbourhood of Jebel Tenf, the frontier is defined as follows :— 

(a) From the above-defined point on the railway, the frontier rejoins 
the point of intersection of the meridian of Semma with the line defined 
hereafter. Between the meridian of Semma and the meridian of Tell 
Rumah it passes to the north of a line running through the following 

oints : — 

: Semma, Umm-es-Surab, Shajara (a place approximately 2 kilometres 
south-west of the solitary tree on the track from Umm-el-Jemal to Tiesiye, 
Subhiya, Sabha, Umm-el-Kuttein, Deir-el-Kahf (or Deir-el-Kaht) and Tell 
Rumah, these points being situated in Trans-Jordan. 

The frontier shall be indicated by boundary marks placed 3,200 metres 
(say, 2 miles) to the north of and parallel] to the lines which join the 
centres of the places or localities mentioned above. 

It is understood that if the village of Khirbet Awad or any part of that 
village is found to lie to the south of the frontier line as marked out above, 
the frontier shall be deflected around and to a point situated 60 metres 
to the south of the last group of houses at present existing, rejoining the 
main line to the east and to the west of the village by lines forming an 
angle of approximately 90 degrees at the point above mentioned (60 metres 


209 


t) the south of the village), in such a manner as to include in the territory 
ofthe Jebel Druze all the inhabited part of this village as well as the land 
iuated within this salient from the main line. 

(bk) From the point situated 3,200 metres north and on the meridian of 
the highest point of Tell Rumah to the frontier of ‘Iraq in the neighbourhood 
d Jebel Tenf, the frontier shall run in a straight line in the direction of 
hu Kemal on the Euphrates, the geographical position of this village being 
alculated, for the special purpose of establishing this line, by reckoning 
ne central point of the locality. 









II.— AGREEMENT ON FRONTIER RELATIONS AND ‘' Bon-VOISINAGE.”’ 


dn agreement on frontier relations and ‘‘ bon-voisinage,’’ of which the 
sential points are indicated hereafter, and which shall enter into force at 
‘* same time as the present agreement, shall lay down the reciprocal guaran- 
> of security in the interests of the two States and shall assure the safe- 
arding of the rights of the inhabitants of the frontier zone. 


. III.—Maps. 


The following maps, which have been utilised in the course of the negotia- 
bons, are annexed to the present agreement for the purposes of 
planation :— 


On the French side: — 
1. Feuille de Bosra, édition 1930 au 1/200,000. 
2. Feuille du Yarmuk au 1/100,000. 


On the British side :— 
1. Yarmuk Valley, scale 1/50,000; contours at 50-metre intervals. 
2. Marked bromide reproduction map of the area between J. Rumah 
a Abu Kemal, scale 1/1,000,000. 
3. Syria-Jaffa-Damascus, scale 1/250,000 corrected. 


The frontier lines marked on these maps having been drawn prior to the 
wreement, have a purely relative value for the purposes of genera] indica- 
tion, 


'On the other hand, the indications shown in ink on the maps of the 
Yarmuk Valley are intended to support the agreed text, in particular in so 
hr as concerns the course of the ‘Wadi Zeizun and the Wadi Meidan. 


H. Ponsot. 


F. H. Humparys. 
Paris, October 31, 1931. 


Annex. 


reneral Lines of the Agreement on Frontier Relations and ‘ Bon-Voisinage.”’ 


A separate agreement will be concluded as soon as possible, to regulate 
elations on the frontier between Syria and the Jebel Druze on the one side, 
inl Trans-Jordan on the other side, in such a way as to allow non-nomadic, 
emi-nomadic and nomadic inhabitants having properties or rights of 
pasture, watering or cultivation across the frontier, to continue to enjoy 
their rights. 

Such inhabitants shall be able, within the limits of a frontier zone on 
‘ither side of the frontier of a width to be defined hereafter, to convey from 
me side of the frontier to the other their beasts, the natural increase and 
rroduce of their flocks, agricultural implements intended for their work, 
their vehicles, their seeds, and the agricultural produce of their properties, 
yithout having to pay any dues in respect of customs, pasturage or water- 
ing, or any other tax leviable in respect of entry into the neighbouring 
territory. 


310 


The agreement contemplated will furthermore contain provisions designe 
to ensure the maintenance of complete order and security in the regior 
bordering on the frontier. In particular the measures to be taken again: 
persons coming from one territory and committing acts of aggression in th 
other will be laid down, and provision will be made for the exclusion from 
zone on each side of the frontier, of a width to be fixed by agreement b 
tween the two Governments, of any individuals whose conduct might be cor 
sidered as prejudicial to peace and order in the territories under th 
administration of the other party. 

‘H. Ponsor. 
F¥. H. Humpnrys. 

Paris, October 31, 19381. 


APPENDIX VI. 
Treaty of Friendship between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan. 

His Majesty King Faisal I, King of ‘Iraq, and His Highness the Am 
‘Abdulla, Amir of Trans-Jordan, being desirous of establishing stable an 
friendly relations between their two countries, and of affording a practic: 
example of the good understanding which it is earnestly desired should ex:: 
between Arab rulers and Governments, have resolved to conclude a Treat 
for this purpose and have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries : 

His Majesty the King of ‘Iraq. 

H.E. Nuri Pasha As Sa’id, Prime Minister of ‘Iraq. 

His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan. 

H. E. Shaikh ‘Abdulla Eff. Sarraj, Prime Minister of Trans-Jordan 

Who, having communicated their full powers found in good and due form 
have agreed as follows: 

Article 1—His Majesty the King of ‘Iraq recognises the Amirate o 
Trans-Jordan, and His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan recognise 
the Kingdsm of ‘Iraq. 

Article 2.—The relations between the two governments of ‘Iraq and 
Trans-Jordan shall be established on the basis of close co-operation an¢ 
friendship. 

Article 3.—The Governments of ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan shall, witt 
the least possible delay, conclude between them agreemente relative 
commercial, postal, customs, residential and travelling affairs and ex 
tradition. 

Article 4.—The ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan Governments shall co-operate 
in the control of the frontier peace, the prevention of transgressions. 
and the adoption of common sanitary measures for the two countries. 


This Treaty shall be ratified in accordance with the Constitutional pre 
cedure of the two countries and shall come into force upon the exchange ot 
ratifications which shall take place as soon as possible. 


In faith whereof the above mentioned Plenipotentiaries have signed th? 
present Treaty and have thereunto affixed their seals. 

Made at Amman on the 8th day of Dhil Qa’da, 1349, of the Hyra, 
corresponding with the 26th of March of the year 1931, of the Christian 
Era. 

Nuri As Sa’rp. 
‘ABDULLA SaRRAJ. 


(Ratification exchanged at Amman on 24th October, 1931.) 





(14213-21) Wt. 27848-2384/2815, 1250 9/32. P. St. G. 7/8 i 


Digitized by Google 


¢ 





















BEES: 
BEE # 





ee ee es ee 
BeeEeEeREeEenEenEee & 























UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 


“igi IT a 


3.1951 DOO 636 010 











ianEes & 






BEE @ 


EE —T7 OO o—E lo —_ ie 





= 














RE a i ES 











: 


———_— 














