


This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 


Ope 





yee ee ee 
Ee Tee wae Sas) 


bed om 4 
Sa es ad 


et 


" 


wr 


isausas 


‘ 
aHt 


oH 


pert eae 
ieee ame 

Fear ae 
rwtoctsaatoe senate 


— 





aioe retaneos 

= 5 Einroere—aa << 

SSS SSeS 
comees: Shee 


rr nae ant «ene oe 09 nore 














Return this book on or before the 
Latest Date stamped below. 


University of Illinois Library 












REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


PALESTINE AND 
“‘TRANS-JORDAN 


for the year 1937 


(For Reports for 1935 and 1936 see Non-Parliamentary 
Publications, Colonial No. 112, 1936, and Colonial No. 129, 
1937, (Price 6s. od. and 6s. 6d. respectively).) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 
To be Jenene directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses : 
House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
er ‘York Street, Manchester 1; 1 St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff ; 
80 Chichester Street, Belfast ; 

or through any 

1938 

Price 6s. 6d. net 
Colonial No. 146 


CONTENTS 


Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 


of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its aay: 
Second Session 


Note regarding arrangement of the Report 


XIX, 
XX. 
XXI. 
XXII. 
XXII, 
XXIV. 
XXV. 
XXVIL 
XXVIII. 
XXVHI, 
XXIX, 


PALESTINE. 


Introductory ... 


Jewish National Home 

Autonomous Administration 

Jewish Agency rf 

Immigration and Emigration 

Land Regime .. 

Nationality... 

Judicial System : 

Economic Equality ... 

Holy Places 

Freedom of Conscience 

Military Clauses 

International Agreements, Conventions. and Treaties 

Antiquities aes ase 

Official Languages ... 

Holy Days... 

Trans-Jordan 

Labour . 

Trade in aad: ‘Makutectire of, ‘Drugs, ree and 
Liquors 

Public Health 

Demographic Statistics 

Customs, Excise and Trade wy 

Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 

Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries 

Public Works and Geology... 

Railways es he 

Co-operative Societies 

Civil Aviation 


Page 


726.344 
GQ 74 a P iii 
4 . ti fee) Soe 


bo 


Page 
Introductory 297 
Autonomous Administration 311 
Immigration and Emigration ae 312 
Lands... 312 
Nationality 320 
Judicial System 321 
Economic Equality 335 
Freedom of Conscience 336 
Military Clauses wet ove ate a 337 
International Agreements, Conventions and Treaties... 341 
Antiquities 346 
Labour-(.)- i: 6 Sssa oese bie eS xt, he 1348 
Trade in and Manufacture of akiwd Droge and 
Liquors + 349 
Education 350 
Public Health ... 357 
Public Finance oe 365 
Customs, Excise and Trade 376 
Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 388 
Agriculture, Forests and Veterinary 391 
Public Works ... ane 393 
Department of Development 395 
Civil Aviation ... 396 
APPENDICES. 
Palestine. Page 
Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 397 
(li) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Cor- 
poration Limited oe 402 
(ili) Palestine Potash Limited 404 
(tv) Palestine Land Development Company 
(Huleh Concessionaires) ais 406 
(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues collected in. 
1936 aoe wea zi + 407 
Holy Days eg 407 
List of Concessions ... 408 
Map of Palestine. 
A2 


Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


I. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the establishment of the national home of the 
Jewish people? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the development of self-governing institutions ? 


What are the effects of these measures? 

. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the 
inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 


What are the effects of these measures ? 


II.—Autonomous Administration. 
Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


III.—Jewish Agency. 


I. Q.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency 
been officially recognized? 


2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administra- 
tion in the past year 


If so, in what form and in what connection? 


3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social and other matters? 


4. Q.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


5. Q.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of 
all Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the 
Jewish National Home? 


Vv 


IV.—Immigration and Emigration. 
I. Q.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 
2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the 
spits and position of other sections of the population? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with 
he ewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews 
e land (give figures) ? 
4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures? 
Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, 
profession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 


Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Regime. 
I. Q.—How have State lands been defined and delimited ? 
2. Q.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited? 


3. pale measures have been taken for the registration 
of real property ? 


VI.—Nationality. 
I. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality Law? 


2. Q.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as 
to facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.— Judicial System. 
I. Q.—When did the new judicial organisation begin to 
operate ? 
2. Q.—What special features does it contain with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to naa a complete guarantee 
of their rights as laid down in Article 9? 


3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure 
tespect for the personal status of the various peoples and com- 
munities and for their religious interests? 

4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs 
been assured ? 

5. Q.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate? 

48607 A3 


vi 
VIII.—Economic Equality. 


I. Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
arded in the execution of measures taken to secure the 
seas ra of the country in respect of A bag ownership or 

control of any of the natural resources of the country or of the 
public works, services, and utilities? 

2. Q.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country 
—and if so, under what circumstances? 

3. Q.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names 
and nationalities of the concession holders. 

4. gone the reports submitted to the company meetings 
and the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such 
reports and balance sheets are not available, give all information 
relating to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the 
uses made of profits. 

5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality 
as regards : — 

(a) Concessions ? 

(b) Land tenure ? 

(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to 
prospecting) ? 

(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 

(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 

6. Q. What regulations has the Mandatory Power made 
for the application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of transit 
under equitable conditions ’’ ? 

7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? 

If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken for the assumption 
by the Mandatory of responsibility in connection with 
the Holy Places and religious buildings or sites, including the 
responsibility of preserving existing rights and of securing free 
access to the Holy Places, religious buildings and sites, and the 
free exercise of worship? 


_ 2. Q.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the 
immunities of which are guaranteed ? 


vii 
X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom 
of conscience and religion ? 


2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free 
exercise of any form of worship in the interest of the mainten- 
ance of public order and morals? 


What are the effects of such restrictions? 
3- Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights 


of communities to maintain their own schools for the education 
of their own members ? 


What educational requirements of a general nature are im- 
posed by the Administration ? 


What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of 
such supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all 
faiths or nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the 
maintenance of public order and good government? 


XI.—Mihtary Clauses. 
; a Q.—What is the form of military organization and train- 
ing? 
2. Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
iaresd with the defence of the territory? 


What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 


Racial and religious composition of these two forces? 
3. Q.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 


Palestine to contribute to the cost of maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 


If so, to what extent? 
4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its rights to use the 


roads, railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of 
armed forces and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 


If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged? 


XII.—International Conventions. 
1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration? 


2. Q.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against 
disease, including diseases of plants and animals? 


48607 A4 


XIIT.— Antiquities. 
Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities accord- 
ing to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


XIV.—Official Languages. 


I. Q.—Have the three official languages been used simul- 
taneously and on an equal footing in legislative and administra- 
tive documents and in the Courts? 


If not, what languages are used? 


2. Q.—To what observations does the application of this 
aim give rise? 


XV.—Holy Days. 


Q.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities? 


XVI.—Trans-Jordan. 


Q.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimited and organized ? 


2. Q.—In what way does the political and administrative 
regime established in this territory differ from the regulations 
laid down for Palestine? 


XVII.—Labour. 


I. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accord- 
ance with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the considera- 
tion of conventions or recommendations of International Labour 
Conferences? 


2. Q.—Are these conventions or recommendations being 
carried into effect? 


3. Q.—What other regulations are in force in regard to 
labour? 


4. Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling 
labour contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both 
on the part of employer and employed, and what powers does 
it possess to prevent any abuses in this respect? 


5. Q.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 
of such legislation? 


SE Spree Ae ae ae ge rg TNE «FA AP a aay Ce De ee ee Ne ae I A Re NR EE Ter A A A nS a Ce a 


ix 
XVIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or 
the control of the importation, of the prodoctioa, and the con- 
sumption of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX.—Education. 


I. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 


Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it 
free? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken for higher education; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 


Q.—In what language is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


XX.—Public Health. 


I. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health 
and sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases ? 


2. Q.—What is the regime for medical assistance ? 


Q.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution 
and what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XXI.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of 
the territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature 
and the assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statistics. 


.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, 
emigration, and immigration. 


x 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Thirty-second 
(Extraordinary) Session, 30th July to 18th August, 1937. 


Minutes. 


Page 


Page 


Page 


Page 


Page 


Page 


56. 


Ii. 


115. 


116. 


119. 


120. 


124. 


125. 


125. 


128, 


233. 


Page 
Information regarding the number of legal actions taken 
against speakers or journalists using violent language 
in their speeches or articles during the period preceding 
the disturbances of 1936. 
(Introductory Chapter, paragraph 43) a wwe «18 
Information regarding the location of Awgaf lands. 
(Chapter V, paragraph 48)... on ase we = 76 
Information regarding effect of the disturbances on land 
prices, 
(Chapter V, paragraphs 43 and 44) ... See we = 76 
Information regarding the purchase of land by Jews from 
non-Jews and the class of land vendors. 
(Chapter V, paragraph 46)... Eas ase we 76 
Table showing exports not restricted to local manufactures. 
(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 29) ove one ose 247 
Statistical table showing trade, public fiance and popula- 
tion similar to that contained in League of Nations 
document No. C.565.M.272.1933. VI. 
(This information is obtainable in the tables in 
Appendix VIII to Chapter XXI and in para- 
graph 26 of Chapter XXIII.) atey vee 215 & 242 
Information regarding progress made with the labour 
legislation. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 24) Ge see vee 132 
Information regarding the significance of the increased 
seizures of opium during 1936. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 11) oe ie ws 134 
Information regarding the prevention of the unauthorised 
use of trade marks for wines and spirits. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 6) see ees see 133 
Information regarding the results achieved by the new 
system of town planning. 
(Chapter XX, paragraph 25) ... ove se eae BITE 


Information regarding the application of the rule of 
economic equality as laid down in Article 18 of the 
Mandate. 


(Introductory Chapter, paragraph 89) an we 33 


Minutes. 


Roya ComMIssion’s RECOMMENDATIONS. 


Page 233 and Chap. VI, 


para. 43, of Royal Com- 
mission Report. 


Page 233 and Chap. VI, 


paras. 46 and 54, of 
Royal Commission 


Report. 


Page 233 and Chap. VII, 
paras. 27 and 28, of 
Royal Commission 


Report. 


Page 233 and Chap. IX, 
para. 37,0f Royal Com- 
mission Report. 


Page 233 and Chap. IX, 


para. 189, of Royal 
Commission Report. 


Page 233 and Chap. XV, 
para.12, of Royal Com- 
mission Report. 


Information regarding the selection and 
training of Senior Administrative Staff 
(Introductory Chapter, paragraph 9)... 


Information regarding reforms introduced 
in the Judicial and Legal Departments. 
(Chapter VII, paragraphs ro and 11)... 


Information regarding measures for dealing 
with the Press. 
(Public Security, paragraph 38) 


Information regarding Land Courts. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 12) ... 


Information regarding development of Co- 
operative Societies. 
(Chapter XXVIII, paragraph 21) 


Information regarding position of Turkish 
subjects born in Palestine but habitually 
resident abroad. 

(Chapter VI, paragraph 13) 


POINTS RELATING TO TRANS-JORDAN. 


Page 


130. 


Information regarding the visit of His Highness Amir 


Abdallah to Ankara. 


(Paragraph 41 of cease Chaptessin in Trans- 
Jordan Section) 


131. 


Information regarding the system of land settlement in 


Trans-Jordan. 


(Chapter III, in Trans- jordan: Section, Dae eee 6 
et. seq.) 


Page 133. 


Information regarding the strength of the various types 


of missions working in Trans-Jordan. 
(Chapter VII, in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 7) 


Page 133. 


Page 134. 


Information regarding holy days. 
(Introductory Chapter, 
Paragraph 43) 


in Trans-Jordan Section, 


of children refused 


ion to Government schools. 
(Chapter XIII, in Trans- Jordan Section, paragraph 4) 


Information regarding number 
admissi 


Page 


16 


gr 


293 


85 


310 


313 


337 


310 


351 


xii 


NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the 
Sections of this Report might be arranged in the order of sub- 
jects adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, 
that is, in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the 
Palestine Mandate, namely: — 


I. Jewish National Home. 
II. Autonomous Administration. 
III. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 
2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and 
placed at the end of the Report. 

An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, 
Railways, Co-operative Societies, and Civil Aviation are also 
included in the Palestine portion of the Report. The Section 
relating to Development has been included under Chapter V, 
Land Regime. 

There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 





REPORT BY HIS MAJESTY’S GOVERNMENT IN THE 

UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN 

IRELAND TO THE COUNCIL OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 
ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN FOR THE YEAR 1937. 


PALESTINE 
INTRODUCTORY. 


POSITION, ETC. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia 
Detreem tattnde 30° N. and 33° N., Longitude 34° 30’ E. and 
35° 30° E. 

On the south-west it is bounded by Egyptian territory, on the 
south-east by the Gulf of Aqaba, on the east by Trans-Jordan, 
on the north by the French Mandated Territories of Syria and 
the Lebanon, and on the west by the Mediterranean. The bound- 
aries are as follows:— 

South-west.—From a point on the Mediterranean coast 
north-west of Rafa, passing in a south-easterly direction to 
the south-west of Rafa, to a point west-north-west of Ain 
Maghara; thence to the junction of the Gaza-Aqaba and 
Nekl-Aqaba roads, from whence it continues to the end of 
the boundary line at the point of Ras Taba on the western 
shore of the Gulf of Aqaba. 

South-east——From Ras Taba on the Gulf of Aqaba to a 
Pent two miles west of Aqaba, thence up the centre of the 

adi Araba the Dead Sea, and the Jordan, up the centre 
of the River Yarmuk to the Syrian frontier. 

North.—The northern boundary was laid down by the 
Anglo-French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, and 
its delimitation was ratified in 1923. Stated briefly, the 
boundary runs from Ras el Naqura on the Mediterranean 
eastwards to Metulla and across the upper Jordan valley to 
Banias, thence to Jisr Banat Yaqub, thence along the 
Jordan to the Lake of Tiberias and on to E] Hamme station 
on the Samakh-Deraa railway line. 


West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


AREA AND CLIMATE. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north is 
about 160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less 
than 70 miles, the total area being approximately I0,100 square 
miles inclusive of a water area of ae square miles (the Dead 
Sea, Lake Tiberias and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore 
comparable with Wales or Belgium. 


2 


3. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring 
deserts of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate 
zones, is characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not exces- 
sively hot summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical 
rainfalls accompanied by high, cold winds; frost is rare. But 
the typical climate is varied by the diverse topography of the 
country. In the south and south-west there are wide expanses 
of sand dunes and desert. The remainder of the country falls 
naturally into three longitudinal strips—the maritime plain, the 
mountainous regions (or central highlands), and the Jordan 
valley. Each of these strips, which are more closely described 
below, is climatically distinct. 


The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the 
heat of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by 
the westerly winds from the Mediterranean. In the central 
highlands there is a greater range of temperature both daily and 
seasonal, and the maximum temperature is a few degrees lower 
than in the coastal plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in 
jerien and Hebron, and the winter storms are accompanied 

y penetrating winds which necessitate the use of clothing suit- 
able for a cold English climate. 


The Jordan valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 


The maritime plain and the central highlands are both healthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity, is relaxing in 
its effects, while the other, through sudden changes of tempera- 
ture, predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 


4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones : — 
Maritime _ Centval Jordan 
Plain, Highlands, Valley, 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tibersas. 


Mean temperature ... ... Summer 77°F. 70°F. _ 83°F. 
Winter 60°F. 52°F. 62°F. 
Mean daily maximum tem- Summer — 83°F. 95°F. 
perature Winter -— 60°F, 72°F. 
Mean daily minimum ... Summer _ 60°F. qVF. 
Winter _ 44°F, 54°F. 
Absolute maximum tempera- Summer 104°F. 102°F. 114°F. 
ture. 
Absolute minimum tempera- Winter 35°F. 21°F. 34°F. 
ture. 
Reiative humidity ... ... Summer 69 55 51 


per cent. per cent. per cent. 
68 64 


Winter 70 
per cent. per cent. per cent. 








3 


5. Rainfall is of vital importance in Palestine and any reduc- 
tion in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agricul- 
ture and water conservation generally. The mean volume of 
annual rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east 
of England. 


There are two well-marked periods of precipitation. The 
‘* former rain ’’ in October and November is not usually large; 
during December, January and February, the rainfall steadily 
increases; in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended 
in April. The characteristic winds are the moist west and south- 
west of winter and the dry north and north-west of summer. 
Desert heat is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the 
south or east generally in April and May and occasionally in 
September and October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the south this 
plain has an average width of about 20 miles, but it gradually 
narrows to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the 
hills approach to within a few hundred yards of the sea. Beyond 
ae the plain widens again, but in this area it is marshy 
an arial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the Plain of Esdraelon. To the north of 
that plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the 
Syrian frontier and rising at Jebel Jermak to a height of 
3,934 ft. above sea-level; to the south are the mountains of 
Samaria and Judea, which in places reach heights little less 
than those of Galilee. Most of this second strip of country 
is desolate and stony, but at irregular intervals there occur 
stretches of fertile land capable of deep tillage. 


The Plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture 
than that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbialle fertile 
and is especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan valley, 
a natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the 
extreme north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 
1,300 Bolen, that level at the Dead Sea, about 100 miles to 
e south. 


7. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, situated in the midst 
of the hills of aes and the principal towns are Haifa, with 
its modern harbour, in the north at the entrance to the plain 
of Esdraelon; Jaffa, a second port which lies some 40 miles 
west-north-west of Jerusalem; Tel Aviv, which is contiguous 
to Jaffa; and Nablus, the ancient Sichem, in the hills of 
Samaria. Jerusalem has a majority of Jewish inhabitants; in 


4 
Haifa the Arab and Jewish elements are approximately equal 
in numbers; Tel Aviv is an entirely Jewish township of 150,000 
inhabitants. In Jaffa a large majority of the people are bs, 
and in Nablus, apart from a small community of Samaritans, 
all the people are Arabs. 

Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem; 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee; and Safad, 
a remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north 
of Palestine. 


CHANGES IN PERSONNEL, 1937. 


From Palestine. 
8. During the year the following left Palestine: — 

Mr. J. Hathorn Hall, C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C., Chief 
Secretary to Government, was appointed British 
Resident, Zanzibar. 

Sir Michael ey McDonnell, Chief Justice; Mr. H. E. 
Bowman, C.M.G., C.B.E., Director of Education; Mr. 
J. E. F. Campbell, C.B.E., District Commissioner, 
een District; Mr. R. G. B. Spicer, C.M.G., M.C., 
nspector General, Police Force and Prisons Service; 
Lieut.-Colonel W. Hudson, C.B.E., M.C., Postmaster 
General; Mr. E. T. Richmond, Director of Antiquities; 
Mr. S. J. Gilbert, Senior Veterinary Research Officer, 
Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, retired on 
pension. 

Mr. Max Nurock, O.B.E., Assistant Secretary, Secretariat, 
was appointed Assistant Chief Secretary, Uganda. 

Mr. R. Le Mare, Senior Assistant Treasurer, was appointed 
Accountant, Nigeria. 

Dr. W. P. H. Lightbody, Senior Medical Officer, was 
appointed Assistant Director of Medical Services, Sierra 


ne. 

Mr. J. P. Attenborough, Senior Inspector Department of 
Education, was ap ointed Education Officer, Aden. 

The appointment of Mr. F. G. Horwill, Examiner of Banks, 
terminated on expiration of contract. 


To Palestine. 

Mr. W. D. Battershill, C.M.G., formerly Colonial Secre- 
bake Cyprus, was appointed Chief Secretary to Govern- 
ment. 

Sir_ Harry Herbert Trusted, K.C., formerly Attorney- 
General, was appointed Chief Justice. 

Mr. W. J. FitzGerald, K.C., M.C., formerly Attorney- 
con Northern Rhodesia, was appointed Attorney- 

neral. 


5 


Major A. Saunders, O.B.E., M.C., formerly Inspector- 
General, Nigerian Police, was appointed Inspector- 
General, Police Force and Prisons Service. 

Mr. A. S. Kirkbride, O.B.E., M.C., Assistant British Resi- 
dent, Trans-Jordan, was appointed District Commis- 
sioner, Galilee and Acre District. 

Mr. G. H. Webster, O.B.E., formerly Deputy Postmaster 
General, was appointed Postmaster General. 

Mr. R. Scott, formerly Assistant District Officer, Uganda, 
was appointed Assistant Secretary, Secretariat. 

Mr. W. R. McGeagh, formerly Assistant Secretary, 
Zanzibar, was i neues Assistant Secretary, Secretariat. 

Mr. J. F. Cornes, formerly Cadet, Nigeria, was appointed 
Assistant Secretary, Secretariat. 

Mr. M. C. Greene, formerly President District Court, 
Cyprus, was appointed British Puisne Judge. 

Mr. T. V. Scrivenor, formerly Assistant District Officer, 
Tanganyika, was appointed Assistant District Commis- 
sioner. 

Mr. G. G. Grimwood, formerly Cadet, Nigeria, was 
appointed Assistant District Commissioner. 

Mr. R. Newton, formerly Assistant District Officer, 
Nigeria, was appointed Assistant District Commissioner. 

Mr. H. C. Willbourn, M.C., formerly Assistant Postmaster- 
General, Kenya, was appointed Deputy Postmaster- 
General. 

Mr. A. L. Peters, formerly Assistant Treasurer, Nigeria, 
was appointed Senior Assistant Treasurer. 

Dr. W. J. E. Phillips, M.C., formerly Medical Officer, 
Cyprus, was appointed Senior Medical Officer. 

Mr. F. R. Mason, formerly Agricultural Officer, Straits 
Settlements and Federated Malay States, was appointed 
Deputy Director of Agriculture and Fisheries. 


g. Government has under consideration a scheme for the 
training and instruction of officers selected for service ‘in 
Palestine in conformity with the recommendation in para- 
graph 43 of Chapter VI of the Royal Commission’s Report con- 
cerning the selection and training of senior administrative staff. 

Government is also examining the means by which British 
officers may be encouraged and given greater opportunity to 
acquire proficiency in Arabic and Hebrew. 


PUBLIC SECURITY. 


to. During the year covered by this Report, public security 
in Palestine was seriously disturbed by a compaign of murder, 
intimidation, and sabotage conducted by Arab law breakers, 
which on a few occasions provoked Jewish reprisals. 


6 


This general description of public security in Palestine during 
1937 calls for amplification. The terrorist campaign took the 
form of isolated murder and attempted murder; of sporadic 
cases of armed attacks on military, police and civilian road 
transport; on Jewish settlements and on both Arab and Jewish 
private property; while in the autumn there was a revival of 
lawlessness and violence by armed Arab bands which persisted 
until the end of the year. Outwardly the life of the country 
did not appear to be unduly affected, but towards the end of- 
the year economic conditions seriously deteriorated. 


11. During the first five months lawlessness was ‘generally 
confined to the Northern District and to the Jerusalem Municipal 
area. 


12. In the Northern District in January an attempt was made 
on the life of the Mayor of Haifa and a notable of the town was 
killed by Arab terrorists. In February there was an increase 
of intimidation with violence of Arabs by Arabs, an Arab police 
constable being shot dead near Haifa on the 22nd of the month. 
At the end of the month there was a serious case of cattle theft 
from a Jewish settlement near Tiberias. There were also attacks 
on individual Jews, including the brutal murders of a young 
Jewish settler near Beisan and a Jewish doctor in Beisan. 
During March the Safad, Nazareth and Tiberias sub-districts 
continued to be unsettled and on the 13th and r4th of the month 
five Jews were murdered by armed Arabs, three of them near 
their settlement in the hills above the southern end of Lake 
Tiberias. The other two were shepherds who were brutally 
killed near Nazareth by a band of marauders who stole four 
hundred sheep and goats belonging to the Jewish settlement of 
Kfar Hahoresh. 

In the first fortnight of April there was a recrudescence of 
murder in the urban and rural sub-districts of Haifa resulting 
in the deaths by shooting of the Arab Vice-Mayor of Tiberias 
and an Arab Assistant Superintendent of Police, whose Arab 
orderly was assassinated at the same time. 


13. In the Jerusalem Municipal Area the month of March 
was marked by two serious outbreaks. On the 6th a Jew was 
wounded in the Old City and this attack was followed later in 
the day by the murder of one Arab and the wounding of 
another near a Jewish suburb of the town. On the 17th of 
the month a bomb, thrown in the Jaffa road, wounded 19 Jews 
(including two policemen) and one British soldier, and some 
hours later three further bombing outrages occurred, four bombs 
being thrown into Arab cafés. These three later incidents 
resulted in the death of one Arab and the injuring of ten. Both 
on the 6th and the 17th March a curfew was at once imposed 
after the incidents. During the rest of the month and the whole 


7 


of April the Jerusalem Municipal area remained comparatively 
undisturbed; but in the middle of May a Jew was wounded 
and an Arab killed. 

Elsewhere in the country sporadic shooting at Jewish settle- 
ments and occasional attacks on Arab property had persisted. 
In January and February there were further incidents of armed 
highway robbery and hold-ups, and on two occasions in January 
the Police engaged parties of bandits on the Nablus-Jenin road 
and inflicted casualties; but after February there was an almost 
complete cessation for four months of highway brigandage, 
which, as stated in the Annual Report for 1936 (Introductory 
Chapter, paragraph 4o (d)), had been frequent during the last 
three months of 1936. 


14. On the 13th June an unsuccessful attempt was made in 
gecenlen by three armed Arabs on the life of Mr. R. G. B. 
picer, C.M.G., M.C., the Inspector-General of Police. His 
British chauffeur was wounded. 

On the 30th June and on the 3rd July respectively attacks 
were made on a member of the Nashashibi family at Jaffa and 
on the Mayor of Bethlehem in his house. 


15. On the 1st July a new Police Division for the Northern 
Frontier was formed consisting of one British Deputy District 
Superintendent of Police, two Palestinian inspectors, 83 British 
and 128 Palestinian constables. It was entrusted with the control 
of the Palestine Syrian frontier from Ras an Naqura in the 
west to Samakh in the east in co-operation with the Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force. 

On the 14th July for the purposes of administrative con- 
venience the Northern District, which comprised the Phoenicia, 
Galilee and Samaria divisions, was reorganized as two Dis- 
tricts: the Haifa sub-districts (urban and rural) and the Samaria 
division remained under the District Commissioner; Haifa, and 
a new Galilee District comprising the Galilee Division and the 
Acre sub-district was created with Headquarters at Nazareth. 
The two Districts are called ‘‘ Haifa and Samaria’’ and 
“* Galilee and Acre ’’ respectively. 


16. The last 10 days of July witnessed a revival of lawlessness. 
Three Arabs were murdered ‘between the roth and the 30th of 
the month in Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa, and between the 23rd 
and the 3oth there were four night attacks by small parties of 
armed Arabs on road transport, one raid on a Public Works 
Department camp, and one armed burglary of an Arab house in 
the Jerusalem district. 

During the first three weeks of August the campaign of law- 
lessness was intensified, seven Arabs (including a police con- 
stable, a police tracker and the Mukhtar of Bir Zeit) being 
murdered and seven wounded (including a police constable and 
a police clerk). There was also an increase in isolated attacks 


8 


on Arab property and in shooting on Jewish settlements, and 
there was one serious case of theft of livestock from a Jewish 
settlement near Tiberias. 


17. During the four weeks from the 29th August to the 26th 
September on which date Mr. L. Y. Andrews, O.B.E., the act- 
ing District Commissioner, Galilee District, and British Police 
Constable McEwen were murdered at Nazareth, there occurred 
a further succession of murderous attacks in the four adminis- 
trative districts of the country. 

In Jaffa there were two bomb-throwing incidents in which 
two Arabs and three Jews (one a woman) were wounded, and 
in Tel Aviv an Arab was shot and wounded. 

In the Jerusalem district four attacks were made on omnibuses 
(three belonging to Arab and one to Jewish companies) in which 
one Arab woman was killed, another was wounded and one Jew 
was killed. There was also one unsuccessful bomb-throwing 
incident and four cases of murder by shooting, three Arabs being 
killed and one Jew. 

In the Haifa rural area, at Karkur and near Hedera, two 
Jews and five Arabs were murdered between the goth August 
and the 1st September. On the 4th and the 12th September a 
notable of Haifa and a notable of Jenin, respectively, were 
murdered by terrorists. Two Arabs were shot and killed on 
the 31st August and the roth September in and near Haifa. On 
the 8th September Arab bandits held up a number of cars 
between Haifa and Nazareth. All the passengers were robbed 
and two Jews travelling in one car were removed from the scene 
of the hold-up. One was shot dead and the other wounded. 

In the Galilee District two Arabs were wounded and one Jew 
killed and another wounded. Late on the afternoon of Sunday 
the 26th September Mr. L. Y. Andrews, O.B.E., the acting 
District Commissioner, Galilee District, and his police escort, 
British Constable McEwen, were shot dead by unknown assas- 
sins in the narrow roadway leading to the Anglican Church in 
Nazareth where they were about to attend the Evening Service. 
The Assistant District Commissioner who was with Mr. Andrews 
was also shot at but escaped injury. 


18. Reference is made in the following section of this Report 
(Policy) to the action taken by the Palestine Government on the 
ist October as a result of the persistence of the terrorist campai 
of murder and intimidation which has been described in the 
preceding paragraphs of this section. 


19. From the 26th September to the 13th October there was a 
comparative lull, but on the 14th October there was a sudden 
revival of incidents of murder and violence and an increase of 
sabotage and attempted sabotage. This state of insecurity per- 
sisted until the end of the year in the Jerusalem, Galilee and 
Haifa and Samaria Districts. 





9 


In the Southern District during the second fortnight of October 
an armed Arab band raided Lydda Airport burning down the 
temporary buildings housing the Customs and Passport offices 
and the wireless installations; and another armed party made an 
unsuccessful attack on a crowded passenger train on the Lydda- 
Haifa line near Ras el Ain. 

Two attempts were made by bombing to damage the railway 
track near Gaza, and a Jewish boy was shot and killed in 
Rehovot. During the remainder of the year, however, the 
Southern District was quiet. 

In the Jerusalem district between the 14th and the 31st 
October, three Arabs were killed and four were wounded. e 
Jewish casualties during the same period of three killed and six- 
teen wounded included the murder of Mr. Avinoam Yellin, 
M.B.E., of the Department of Education, who was shot near 
his office on the 21st October. He died two days later. An 
Armenian and an Egyptian were shot and killed in the neigh- 
bourhood of the ‘aff Road; and during an attack by an armed 
Arab band on the Hebron Road in the early morning of the 
15th October, two British police constables were killed. As a 
result of these incidents curfew was imposed on the Jerusalem 
Municipal area for a total period of eight days between the 15th 
and the 31st of the month. 

The incidents which produced these casualties in the Jerusalem 
district included the bombing of two Jewish buses and an armed 
Arab attack on a potash convoy from the Dead Sea; while on 
the 18th October a large Arab gang raided a ‘ie post south of 
Hebron and stole five rifles and a quantity of ammunition. 

During the same period in the Haifa and Samaria and the 
Galilee and Acre Districts one Arab was killed and another 
wounded, two Jews were wounded and the ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company’s Ee ine was three times damaged at the eastern 
end of the ley of Esdraelon. Extensive damage was done 
to the Balfour Forest near Nazareth by arson. 


20. During November there was an outbreak of murderous 
attacks in and near Jerusalem. On the 5th November two 
British soldiers were shot and killed in the Valley of Hinnom 
below the Walls of the Old City. On the gth five Jews, in- 
cluding a Jewish supernumerary policeman, while proceeding 
to their work outside their settlement of Kiryat Anavim 10 
kilometres west of Jerusalem near the Jaffa road were murdered 
by a party of armed Arabs. On the roth in and near the Old 
City one Arab was killed and one wounded and one Jew was 
wounded. On the 11th two Arabs were killed and two wounded 
when a bomb was thrown among them near the General Post 
Office. And on the 14th, when this outbreak of terrorism 
reached its peak, four Arabs were shot dead and another 
wounded; three Arab passengers, including two women, were 


Io 


killed when an Arab bus was shot at as it was passing through 
a Jewish quarter (two Jewish women bystanders were 
wounded) ; and in a stone-throwing fracas in another Jewish 
uarter two Arabs and four Jews were injured. One of the 
ews subsequently died. During the month of November curfew 
was Fe tage on the Jerusalem Municipal area for a total of 
13 days. 

During the same period in the Galilee and the Haifa and 
Samaria Districts a British constable was shot and killed when 
the car in which he was conveying a wounded Jew to hospital 
was shot at; and an Arab was shot dead in Acre and a Jew 
murdered near Beisan. An Arab Police sergeant and a constable 
were also murdered east of Acre when their patrol of three was 
captured by an armed gang, the third man making good his 
escape. 

About the middle of the month the military forces together 
with the Police and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force under- 
took an extensive operation near the Syrian frontier as a result 
of which a large gang was located and dispersed with casualties. 
Six days later, on the 22nd, as a result of another enterprise 
in which the military forces and the police successfully co- 
operated, the notorious gang-leader Sheikh Farlian Es Saadi 
was captured in a village near Jenin. He was condemned to 
death b by the Military Court in Haifa on the 24th and was 
executed on the 27th. 


21. Throughout December sporadic acts of violence and 
murder persisted mainly in the Haifa and Galilee Districts and 
in Jerusalem and its suburbs. Altogether eight Arabs were 
killed (including an Arab Police Inspector and an Arab Prison 
warder) in Haifa and two were wounded, while six Jews were 
killed and 26 wounded, of whom 12 were injured in one incident 
—an ambush of a Jewish bus near Haifa on the 13th December. 
In the case of the Arab casualties at least three were murdered 
with the apparent motive of intimidating others. Unsuccessful 
attempt were also made on the lives of the Mayor of Nablus 
and the Mayor of Tulkarm. There was a series of attacks 
on Jewish transport on the Jerusalem-Jaffa road in which 
one Jewish passenger lost his life; and, particularly on the 
Hebron-Beersheba road and on the Tiberias-Nazareth toad, 
there was a recrudescense of the sabotage of telephone wires. 
Near Beisan the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s pipe-line was again 
punctured. 

During the second half of December six military operations 
in Galilee and Samaria resulted in the infliction of a number 
of casualties on armed Arab bands which during the first fort- 
night of the month had been active in those areas. These 
encounters took place north of Tulkarm, east of Acre, north 
of Nazareth and west of Tiberias. They culminated on 
Christmas Day in the pursuit of a large armed band which, 
after a pitched battle, was finally completely dispersed with 


Ir 


heavy casualties north-west of the town of Tiberias. The Mili- 
tary Forces, the Police and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 

rticipated in these operations. During this encounter a 
British officer and a British soldier were killed and two soldiers 
were wounded. 


22. During the year there were numerous long-range 
encounters between the Police and armed gangs. There were 
also a few close encounters. Of these the following were out- 
standing :— 

(a) On the night of the 4th January, 1937, near Nablus, 
a police patrol car encountered an armed gang in the 
process of robbing the passengers of a number of cars on 
the highway. The police opened fire on the gang killing 
one of them. The remainder fled, escaping in the darkness. 


(b) At about ro p.m. on 22nd January, 1937, on the 
Nablus-Jenin road a police patrol car was held up by six 
or seven armed men. The police opened fire, killing one 
of the band. The remainder fled, making good their 
escape in the darkness. 


(c) In March, 1937, a strong armed band attacked 
je workers in the fields near Mesha Colony, Tiberias. 
ilst the firing was still in progress, a party of British 
police with a Lewis gun arrived at the scene and drove 
off the attackers, killing one and wounding two others. 


23. The police took punitive action throughout the year 
against harbourers of terrorists. This action, in the main, took 
the form of collective fines and the establishment of specially 
enlisted supernumerary policemen in the localities concerned, 
the cost of these additional policemen being borne by the 
inhabitants of the area. In addition, a number of houses 
belonging to gang-leaders, etc., were destroyed. 


24. The following is a statistical statement of the number of 
cases of terrorist activities during the year. 


January— April- — July-— October— 
March. June. September. December. Total. 


By Bombs and Firearms— 

Against the Police or 

Military acs, eee 4 35 12 58 109 
Against Jewish settle- 

ments ane aes 39 16 23 65 143 
Against Jewish transport I 3 2 32 38 
Against Arab transport 5 _ I 17 23 
Against British houses... I _— _ I 2 
Against Arab houses ... 29 34 22 24 109 
Murderous attacks on 

shepherds at work ... 6 4 I _ Ir 
Murderous attacks on 

ploughmen at work ... I I _ I 3 





Total ... a 86 93 61 198 438 


12 


January— April— July- — October— 
March. June. September. December. Total. 





Robbery— 
Highway Robbery tenn 820. I 7 6 34 
Robbery from buildings Ir 16 9 23 59 
Robbery in open country 17 13 18 10 58 
Total... aes 48 30 34 39 151 





25. The total casualties during the year 1937 resulting from 
terrorist and gang activities were:— 





Killed. Wounded. 
Police— 
British os 38 esi Xoo, 4 2 
Arab oe, ate mae eon 10 4 
Jewish en san _ 2 
Officials of the Civil Administration — 2 _— 
Military 5 
Civil— 
Arabs es ‘Se es avs 44 53 
Jews eee ees bes ss 32 83 
Total ... ay 97 149 





26. On the 18th March the Palestine (Defence) Order in 
Council, 1937, was promulgated by His Majesty King 
George VI in Council. It embodied certain amendments of the 
Palestine (Defence) Orders in Council, 1931 and 1936, which 
it superseded. 


Reference is made in the following section of this Report 
(Policy) to the powers taken by Government under Defence 
Regulations in connection with— 

(a) The deportation of members of the Arab Higher 
Committee, the dissolution of the Committee itself and 
the removal of Haj Amin Eff. el Husseini from office as 
President of the Supreme Moslem Council and Chairman 
of the General Committee of the Wakfs (paragraph 50). 


(b) The formation of the Awkaf Commission (nara- 
graph 52). 
(c) The setting up of Military Courts (paragraph 54). 


In addition, five further Regulations were made under the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, relating to public 
security, namely :— 

(i) On the 30th March District Commissioners were 
empowered to billet, at the expense of the local population, 
additional police in areas where the inhabitants had failed 
to render all the assistance in their power to the police or 
other authority for the purpose of suppressing disturbances. 








13 

(ii) On the 26th July District Superintendents of Police 
were empowered to require that rsons in Palestine 
desiring to hold a meeting or procession must previously 
obtain a police licence for this purpose. 

(iii) On the 30th September, the High Commissioner 
took power to direct the detention within His Majesty’s 
possessions of persons living in Palestine in respect of whom 
orders of deportation from Palestine had been made. 


(iv) On the 14th Octobér, the High Commissioner took 
power to require any person who was out of Palestine to 
remain so for such time as the order to that effect remained 
in force. 


(v) On the rzth November Regulations were made, 
whereby Military Courts were set up to deal with certain 
offences against public order, and persons convicted by 
these Courts of carrying firearms, ammunition or bombs, 
became liable to the death sentence, while the provisions 
imposing the death penalty for discharging firearms, throw- 
ing bombs, etc., were amplified. An extended penalty 
(i-e., imprisonment for life) was provided for conviction 
on a charge of being in possession of (as distinct from 
carrying) any of the above-mentioned weapons. 


27. During the year money rewards totalling £P.26,200 were 
offered by the Police to any person giving information leading 
to the arrest of those guilty of murder and attempted murder. 
No rewards have been claimed. 


28. In order to safeguard essential communications, to imple- 
ment other police dispositions and to ensure adequate protec- 
tion for Jewish settlements, supernumerary police were enrolled, 
trained and allocated during the year as follows:— 


Arabs. Jews. 
(1) for protection of Jewish settlements _— 978 (active) 
3,881 (reserve) 
(2) for other police dispositions nn 195 15 


Notes :— 
(a) When enrolled, supernumeraries were trained on the following 


(1) A number of selected recruits were given instructional courses 
particularly in weapon training under military instructors. On the 
completion of these courses, the supernumeraries so trained were 
given the rank of lance-corporals and posted to the settlements. 

(2) In the settlements, they in their turn acted as instructors 
of the supernumerary establishment in each settlement, this 
training being supplemented by additional instruction at frequent 
intervals by the Police under district arrangements. 

(3) The supernumeraries were armed with rifles. In each settle- 
ment armoury there were also Greener guns. 


(b) On various occasions a number of the Jewish reserve super- 
numerary police constables were called up. 


14 

(c) In addition a special Jewish force of Supernumerary Police was 

trained for the protection of the Palestine Railways, to be commanded 

by British officers assisted by British and Palestinian Inspectors from 

the regular Police Force. During the year there was no occasion 
to mobilize this force. 


Punitive police posts, to be paid for by the inhabitants, were 
established in towns, villages and areas where undetected acts 
of violence, lawlessness and sabotage had occurred as follows: — 


Posts. 
Jerusalem District 2a “ae bie 39 
Southern District ... ces seesee 6 
Haifa and Samaria District nae 18 
Galilee and Acre District .. eee 17 


Total... 0. 80 

29. 903 persons were detained under Regulations made under 

the Palestine Defence Order in Council, and the Prevention of 
Crime Ordinance, as follows:— 


Arabs ... re oe aes aes 816 
Jews wae tee es abe 87 
At the end of the year the numbers detained were:— 
Arabs ... are ed oF is 580 
Jews ... oer owe te ean 51 
Total ... wl 631 





30. Reference is made in Chapter XI of this Report (Military 
Clauses: paragraph 1) to exceptional Police developments 
during the year including— 

(a) the establishment of reserve Police forces (in-lying 
picquets) at Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa; 

(6) the establishment of a new Police post in the Jerusa- 
lem suburb of Rehavia; 

(c) the installation of eleven additional police wireless 
stations and the equipment of police motor vehicles with 
wireless telephony receiving sets, while arrangements were 
sary for eighteen further vehicles to be similarly equipped; 
an 

(d) the purchase of two more South African police dogs. 


31. During the year additional British officers joined the Dis- 
trict staffs and were posted as Assistant District Commissioners 
for the Haifa Sub-District, and the Safad and Tulkarm Sub- 
Districts. 

32. In April the construction of a new road following the 
alignment of the Palestine-Syrian border between Bassa on the 
west and Metulla on the east was started. It was opened to 


15 
traffic at the end of July. This road is throughout garrisoned by 
and patrolled from inter-communicating police posts so located 
as to prevent the smuggling of arms into Palestine and the entry 
across the border of armed bandits and illegal immigrants. 


33. On the 29th September the new direct road connecting 
Jaffa and Tel Aviv with Haifa along the coastal plain was 
completed and opened to traffic. 


34. In order to ensure safer conditions for Jewish worshippers, 
a new route was opened in November through the Old City of 
erusalem to the Wailing Wall. It avoids the mainly non- 
}eneh quarters which had previously to be traversed. 


35. In_ the Introductory Chapter (paragraph 68) of the 
Annual Report for 1936 the arrival in September and October, 
1936, of additional military forces from Great Britain under the 
command of Lieutenant-General Sir John Dill was reported. In 
November, 1936, the gradual reduction of the garrison began, 
and in March, 1937, the forces of the Crown in Palestine had 
been reduced to a strength of two Infantry brigades and ancil- 
lary units and, for Palestine and Trans-Jordan, to a strength of 
one Squadron and one Flight of aeroplanes. This was the 
strength of the garrison on 31st December, 1937. 


36. Throughout the Phas) there was close cooperation between 
Police on the one hand and the British Military and Air Forces 
m Palestine on the other. This cooperation by the Military and 
Air Forces consisted in reinforcing police engaged upon civil 
duties in connection with the protection of the roads, the seizure 
of arms, the arrest of individual law-breakers, and the searching 
of villages. In addition, troops and aircraft carried out military 
operations against armed Arab bands. 

During the first nine months of the year the Military and Air 
Forces engaged armed Arab bands on one occasion only; but in 
i remaining three months there were nine encounters as 
follows : — 


October ... 
November 2 
December 6 


The number of known casualties inflicted upon the bands was 
48 and in addition it is estimated that a further 100 were killed 
and wounded. 


37. On the 18th November the High Commissioner, acting 
under powers conferred by the Defence Order in Council, estab- 
lished the Military Courts, to which reference is made in para- 
graphs 54 and 55 of the following section of this report, 
‘Policy ’’, one in Jerusalem and the other in Haifa. 


16 


Up to the end of the year the Military Courts had tried & 
persons, all of them Arab. The following is a statement of the 
sentences confirmed by the General Officer Commanding the 
British Forces in Palestine and Trans-Jordan :— 


Death ee nae ais see 3 
Imprisonment— 
Life 13 
7 years 3 
6 I 
5» 2 
4 x 
2 2 
1year 2 
6months ... I 
Bound over ... 4 
Acquitted 6 


38. During the year, the control of the Press continued to be 
exerted under the Press Ordinance and the Defence Regulations 
made under the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council. 


39. After the publication of the Report of the Palestine Royal 
Commission, the Government gave the fullest consideration to 
the Commission’s recommendation that a Press Ordinance 
should be adopted providing for a cash deposit which could be 
confiscated; for penalties of imprisonment as well as a fine; 
and, in the case of a repetition of the offence, for forfeiture of the 
Press and its material. Sufficient information was collected by 
Government to render possible the enactment at short notice of 
a new Ordinance on the general lines of the Commission’s 
recommendations, should an occasion arise calling for a closer 
control of the Press than can be achieved under the present 
Ordinance and the Defence Regulations; but it was considered 
that no useful purpose would be served at present by enacting 
the new Ordinance and putting it into force. 


40. During the year, local newspapers, daily and weekly, were 
penalized as follows: — 

I. Arabic Press (Dailies).—(a) 1st January to 8th July, 1937 
(i.e. the date of the publication of the Report of the Palestine 
Royal Commission) . 


Name. No. of Total 
suspensions. period. Cause. 
“ AlLiwa” tee 2 17 days Publication of matter likely to 
endanger public peace. 
“ Al Difa‘a”’ ass 2 21 days Do. do. 
“ Falastin ” ies I 4days Publication of a false report. 
“ Jamia al Islamiya ”’ 2 45 days Publication of matter likely to 


endanger public peace. 


17 
ue this period one official warning was given to ‘‘ Al 
iwa ’’. 
(6) gth July to 31st December, 1937. 


Name. No. of Total Cause. 
suspensions. period. 
“ Al Liwa” ane 2 84 days Publication of matter likely to 
endanger the public peace. 
“ Al Difa‘a” e3% 2 31 days Do. do. 
“ Falastin ” BS) I 14 days Do. do. 


One official warning was given to ‘‘ Al Difa‘a ’’. 


Il. Hebrew Press (Dailies).—The action taken in respect of 
si Hebrew daily Press during the corresponding periods was as 
‘ollows :— 


(a) 1st January to 8th July, 1937. 


Name. No. of Total Cause. 
Suspensions. period. 
“* Haaretz” “5 I 7 days Publication of matter likely to 


endanger the public peace. 


During this period official warnings were given on one occasion 
to the “ Davar’’ newspaper and on two occasions to the 
“* Haboker ’’ newspaper. 


(b) 9th July to 31st December, 1937. 


Name. No. of Total Cause. 
suspenstons. period. 
“‘Davar” ... we 3 14 days Publication of matter likely to 


endanger the public peace 
(twice). Publication of false 
reports. 

** Haboker ” oes I 14 days Publication of false reports. 


During this period two official warnings were given to the 
“* Davar ’’ newspaper and one to the ‘‘ Haaretz ’’ newspaper. 


Weekly journals published in the country were suspended as 
follows : — 


Name. No. of Total Cause. 
suspensions. period. 
“* Palestine and Trans- I 3 months Publication of matter likely to 
Jordan ”’ (Printed in endanger the public peace. 
English). 
“‘ Miraat es Shark ” I 2 months Do. do. 
(Arabic) 

“ Al Nafir ’’ ees I 2 months Do. do. 
(Arabic) 

“* Al Karmel al Gedid ”’ 2 4 months Do. do. 
(Arabic) 

“Al Iqdam ”’ 2 4 months Do. do. 
(Arabic) 

* AlSirat al Mustaqim” 1 I week Publication of false reports. 
(Arabic) 

“ Hayarden ” ase 3 17 weeks Publication of matter likely to 


(Hebrew) endanger the public peace. 


18 


Official warnings were given once to ‘‘ Al Iqdam ”’ and twice 
to ‘‘ Hayarden.’’ 


41. Newspapers published in neighbouring countries were 
excluded from Palestine under section 20 (1) of the Press 
Ordinance as follows:— 


Syrian newspapers on 18 occasions. 


Lebanese __,, ne 8 
Egyptian _,, ee ” 
‘Iraqi _ ee ” 


42. The High Commissioner made use of the powers conferred 
by Regulation 11 under the Palestine (Defence) Order in 
Counell 1931, as follows:— 

(a) A one-day censorship of outgoing foreign Press 
telegrams was enforced from the 8th to the gth September. 

(6) A scrutiny of all newspapers entering Palestine from 
Eeypt, the Lebanon, Syria and ‘Iraq was imposed from the 
7th October up to midnight the roth-11th November, 1937. 

(c) Certain pamphlets, books and manifestos were pro- 
hibited. 

(d) On the 25th September Press telegrams were detained 
for four hours in Jerusalem lest the news of Mr. Andrews’ 
death should reach his widow through Press or broadcast 
channels before she received the official intimation. 


43. During the session of the Permanent Mandates Commis- 
sion at Geneva in August, 1937, Baron Van Asbeck inquired 
from the British Accredited Representative as to the number of 
cases in which legal action had been taken by Government 
against speakers or journalists using violent language in their 
species or articles during the period preceding the disturbances 
of 1936. 

No such actions were taken either against speakers or 
journalists. The provisions of the Press Ordinance were used 
against newspapers publishing articles written in violent 
language. 


POLICY. 


44. The Palestine Royal Commission, which had arrived in 
the country on the r1th November, 1936, was, as stated in para- 
graph 72 of the Introductory Chapter of the Annual Report for 
1936, still sitting when the New Year opened. The boycott by 
the Arabs which had been declared before the arrival of the 
Royal Commission was still maintained; but on the 6th January 
the Arab Higher Committee by a unanimous decision issued a 
public statement announcing their intention to withdraw from 
their decision not to co-operate with the Commission. Their 
evidence was heard in public, beginning on the 12th January 
and ending on the 18th January. 


19 

Between the 15th November, 1936, and the 18th January, 
1937, the Commission heard 60 witnesses at 30 public sessions 
and 53 witnesses at 40 private sessions in Jerusalem. 

On their return to England the Commision were again in 
session. One public session was held, at which evidence was 
heard from two witnesses, and seven private sessions, at which 
eight witnesses were heard. 

The raphe which was unanimous, was signed and submitted 
to His Majesty the King in London on the 22nd June, 1937. * 


45. At 9 p.m. on the 7th July the report of the Palestine 
Royal Commission was published simultaneously in Great 
Britain, Palestine, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Syria, the Lebanon, 
‘Iraq and Trans 1ordea, as well as in the British Dominions, 
the United States and various other foreign countries. Publica- 
tion was effected by the issue of Official Communiqués of the 
Palestine Government as follows:— 

(a) A full summary of the Report accompanied by a map. 
(6) An abridged summary for broadcasting. 
(c) The statement of His Majesty’s Government’s policy 
in Palestine. 
Communiqués (a) and (c) are appended to this section as Appen- 
dices ‘‘ A’ and“ B’”’. 

Translations of the three communiqués in Arabic and Hebrew 
had been made and printed in Jerusalem, and at 9 p.m. com- 
muniqués (b) and (c) were broadcast by the Palestine Broad- 
casting Service together with a short speech by the High Com- 
missioner. Earlier the same evening communiqués (a) and (c) 
had been circulated to the local Press. In addition, Arabic 
copies of (a) and (c) had been sent in advance of the day of 
release to all the neighbouring countries named above for 
synchronized publication in the respective Presses on the 8th 
July. f 


46. The following Palestinian bodies met and subsequently 
ublished expressions of their views regarding the Partition 
erhems proposed by the Royal Commission :— 


(1) The Arab Higher Committee. 

(2) The Defence Party, whose representatives had 
resigned from the Arab Higher Committee on the 3rd July 
(see Arab Affairs) . 

(3) An assembly of Christian Arabs under the chairman- 
ship of Bishop Hajjar, who had given evidence before the 
Royal Commission. 

(4) The Federation of Jewish Labour (Histadruth). 

(5) The (Jewish) Revisionist Party. 


20 


47. On the 20th and the 21st July the House of Lords and 
the House of Commons debated the Government’s Statement of 
Policy for Palestine together with the Report of the Royal Com- 
mission. The resolution accepted by the House of Commons 
was in the following terms: 

“That the proposals contained in the White Paper relating to 
Palestine should be brought before the League with a view to enabling 


the British Government, after adequate inquiry, to present Parliament 
with a definite scheme, taking full account of all the recommendations 


in the White Paper.”’ 


On the 21st July the Palestine Defence Party published a memo— 
randum setting forth their views on the Report and the State— 
ment of Policy, which they were submitting to the Permanent 
Mandates Commission and the British Government. 


Two days later, on the 23rd July, the Arab Higher Com- 
mittee published for the same destinations a statement of their 
views on the subject. 


48. During the Thirty-second (Extraordinary) Session of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission which opened on the 30th 
July selegarons both of the Arab Higher Committee and of 
the Vaad Leumi and the Jewish Agency were present in Geneva. 


49. Reference is made in the previous section of this Report 
(Public Security) to the events beginning with the attempted 
murder in Jerusalem on the 13th June of the Inspector-General 
of Police and culminating on the 26th September in the murder 
at Nazareth of the Acting District Commissioner of the newly 
formed Galilee and Acre District. 


50. At noon on the 1st October, the Officer Administering the 
Government issued the following Official Communiqué:— 

‘‘ 1, The Palestine Government has been gravely concerned by the 
existence of an organized campaign of terrorism and assassination 
directed against individuals in this country. 

‘*2, During the last four months this campaign has become in- 
tensified in its activities. 

‘3. The action now being taken is a direct result of this murder 
campaign. 

“‘4, On the 13th June, an attempt was made to assassinate Mr. 
R. G. B. Spicer, the Inspector-General of the Palestine Police Force. 
There followed a number of assassinations both of Arabs and Jews, 
the campaign culminating on the 26th September in the dastardly 
murder of Mr. L. Y. Andrews, the District Commissioner, Galilee 
District, and British Constable P. R. McEwen. 

‘5. The Officer Administering the Government has therefore found 
it necessary to institute action against certain persons whose activities 
have been prejudicial to the maintenance of public security in Palestine 
and who must thus be regarded as morally responsible for these 
events. 


ai: 


‘© 6. In virtue therefore of the powers taken by the Officer Ad- 
ministering the Government by Regulations made under the Palestine 
(Defence) Order in Council, 1937, 

The Arab Higher Committee and all National Committees in 
Palestine have been declared to be unlawful associations. 
Warrants of arrest have been issued in respect of the following 
persons who will be deported from Palestine :— 
Jamal Effendi al Husseini. 
Ahmad Hilmi Pasha. 
Fuad Effendi Saba. 
Yacoub Effendi Ghussein. 
Dr. Hussein Fakhri Effendi al Khalidi. 
Haj Rashid Effendi Ibrahim. 
Haj Amin Effendi al Husseini has been deprived of his office 
of President of the Supreme Moslem Council and of membership 
of the General Wakf Committee of which he was chairman.’’ 


51. Earlier on the same day Ahmed Hilmi Pasha, Dr. Hussein 
Khalidi, and Fuad Eff. Saba, together with Haj Rashid Eff. 
Ibrahim, the Haifa Manager of the Arab Bank, had been 
arrested, and on the following day Yacoub Eff. Ghoussein was 
apprehended. They were removed from Palestine on the 2nd 
October to the Seychelles, where they remain. Jamal Eff. al 
Husseini evaded arrest and at the end of the year was reported 
to be in Syria. Shortly after the action described in the two 
ee paragraphs, Haj Amin Eff. al Husseini fied from 

alestine to the Lebanon, where he remains. 

The Regulations made under the Palestine (Defence) Order 
in Council, 1932, to which reference is made in the above- 

uoted official Communiqué, are appended to this section as 

ppendix ‘‘C’’. 

52. On the 16th October, the Officer Administering the 
Government published the following official Communiqué 
regarding the maintenance of the Awkaf (Moslem pious 
foundations) services :— 

“As a result of the recent murder campaign culminating in the 
murder of Mr. Andrews on the 26th September, Government has 
taken a number of steps as announced in Official Communiqué 
No. 16/37. of the 1st October. 

““One of these steps was the depriving of the Mufti of Jerusalem 
of membership of the General Wakf Committee of which he was the 
Chairman. 

“‘It has therefore become necessary to take immediate measures 
to safeguard the interests of the Moslem Community by ensuring 
the continuance of Awkaf services. These measures will be of a 
temporary nature until such time as circumstances are favourable 
for the establishment of a Moslem Wakf Department or other body 
to resume control of these Awkaf. 

“‘In the meantime, it is the intention of Government to take 
over the duties of the financial control previously exercised by the 
Supreme Moslem Council or the General Wakf Committee in the matter 
of the collection of Awkaf revenues and the payment of the salaries 
of Awkaf staff and for Awkaf services which have in the past been 
directly dealt with by the Supreme Moslem Council or the General 
Wakf Committee or through local Mamours. 


48607 B 


22 


“It is proposed to administer the Awkaf temporarily by a Com- 
mission of three members. The Chairman of the Commission will 
be a Judicial Officer. The names of the Chairman and the two 
members will be announced in due course. 

‘‘ The Officer Administering the Government desires to emphasize 
that the Awkaf services will be carried out strictly in accordance 
with the law and for the benefit of the objects for which they were 
founded.”’ 


53. Two days later, the names of those appointed to serve 
on the Commission were announced as follows:— 


Chairman: His Honour Mr. Justice Greene, Puisne Judge. 
Members: Sheikh Hussam ed Din Eff. Jarallah, M.B.E., 
Mr. A. L. Kirkbride, O.B.E. 


In December, Mr. Kirkbride, who had proceeded on leave 
to England, was replaced as a member of the Commission by 
Mr. R. F. Jardine, C.M.G., O.B.E. 

_ The Regulations made under the Palestine (Defence) Order 
in Council, 1937, giving effect to the decision of Government ta 
create the Awkaf Commission, were published on the 16th 
October and are appended to this section as Appendix ‘‘ D ’’. 


54. On the roth November the following official Communiqué 
was issued by Government announcing the establishment of 
Military Courts in Palestine: — 


“(In view of the continuation of an organized murder campaign 
in Palestine, it has been decided in the interests of public security 
in this country to establish Military Courts by Defence Regulations 
made under the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 

‘* The Defence Regulations will be published on the 11th November 
and will come into force on the 18th November. 

‘‘In accordance with this decision, Military Courts for the whole 
of Palestine, consisting of a President who will be an officer of Field 
Rank and two other officers, will be set up for the trial of offences 
summarized below :— 

(a) The discharge of firearms at any persons, which will be an 
oifence punishable by death. 

(b) The carrying of arms, bombs, etc., which will be an offence 
punishable by death. 

(c) Causing sabotage and intimidation. 

‘* Full details will appear in the Regulations which will be pub- 
lished on the 11th November. ~ : 

“Sentences pronounced by these Military Courts will be subject 
to confirmation by the General Officer Commanding the British Troops 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan from whose decision there will be no 
appeal. 

‘* The Officer Administering the Government wishes it to be under- 
stood beyond any doubt that these decisions have been prompted 
entirely by reasons of public security, and not because there has 
been any failure on the part of the Civil Courts which will continue 
to deal with all offences save those mentioned above. 

“ The institution of these Military Courts together with enhanced 
penalties is designed solely to expedite the operation of the Emer- 
gency Regulations for the suppression of the present campaign of 
terrorism and sabotage which it is the determination of the Govern- 
ment to exterminate. 


23 
‘* During the period which will elapse between the publication 
of the new Defence Regulations and their coming into force on the 
18th November, this Communiqué will be published daily in all 
local daily newspapers and broadcast daily by the Palestine Broad- 
casting Service.” 

55- The Courts came into being on the 18th November. A 
statement of the results of their pees is contained in the 
preceding section of this Report (Public Security, paragraph 37). 
_ The Regulations made under the Palestine (Defence) Order 
in Council, 1937, establishing these Courts were published on the 
1ith November and are appended to this section as 
Appendix “E”. 


IMMIGRATION. 


56. In view of the anticipated publication of the Report of 
the Royal Commission, Government authorized a labour immi- 
gration schedule for a four-monthly period (April to July) instead 
of the usual six-monthly schedule for the period ending the 30th 
September. The authorized schedule of 770 included 400 immi- 

tion certificates for workers from Germany and 120 certificates 
‘or workers from other countries to be selected by the Jewish 
Agency, and a departmental reserve of 250. Following the 
Report of the Royal Commission and the Statement of Policy 
of His Majesty’s Government in July, Government authorized 
a labour schedule of 1,780 for the period October, 1937, to 
March, 1938. No labour schedule was issued in respect of the 
months of August and September. 


Jewish immigrants to the number of 10,536 were registered 
during the year. Of these 1,275 were capitalist immigrants, 
whose dependants numbered 1,096, 1,869 were persons coming 
to employment, whose dependants numbered 1,282, and 3,784 
were dependants of residents of Palestine. 


57. The Palestine Government has continued to take all pos- 
sible measures to check illegal immigration, through the agency 
of His Majesty’s Consular Officers abroad, by control arrange- 
ments at the ports and frontiers and by the employment of a 
special preventive force by land and sea. The construction of 
the northern frontier road and the employment of a special force 
of police in this area for public security purposes served at the 
same time to control more effectively illicit immigration through 
the northern frontier. On the eastern frontier control has been 
strengthened by the establishment of three control posts. 


58. 1,572 persons (including 304 Jews) who made their wa 
into the country surreptitiously during 1937 were later detected, 
sentenced to imprisonment and recommended for deportation; 
1,096 such deportations were carried out in the year, namely, 
95 Jews and 1,001 other persons. Eight Jewish and 10 other 

48607 B2 


24 
travellers were also deported for overstaying their period of per- 
mitted stay in the country. In addition 1,121 persons, of whom 
18 were Jews, were summarily deported to Syria and Egypt. 
There was a marked decrease in illegal immigration by Jews 
in 1937. 

59. Poland, which provided 35 per cent. of the Jewish immi- 
grants in 1937 as compared with 41 per cent. in 1936, continues 
to be the principal source of Jewish immigration to Palestine. 
The proportion of Jewish immigrants from Germany increased 
from 27 per cent. in 1936 to 34 per cent. in 1937. 


The Jewish Agency expended £P.43,000 on the settlement of 
German Jews during the year October, 1936—September, 1937, 
from its regular budget, and £P.136,000 was expended for this 
purpose during the same period from other funds received by 
the Department of the Jewish Agency for the settlement of 
German Jews. 


ARAB AFFAIRS. 


60. In January an announcement was made that Amin Bey 
Abdul Hadi, M.B.E., had accepted an invitation from the 
British Government to be the official representative of the Arab 
Community at the Coronation in London of His Majesty King 
George VI. This announcement was severely attacked in the 
Arab Press and Amin Bey then wrote a letter to the local 
newspapers in which he defined his position in terms which 
were held to be tantamount to a withdrawal of his acceptance 
of the invitation. Subsequently it was officially announced that 
the invitation had a 


61. Early in April, 1937, Jamal Effendi al Husseini, the Presi- 
dent of the Palestine Arab Party, left Palestine for England 
where he addressed several meetings to explain the Arab case. 
Some time later, he was followed by Dr. Izzat Tannous, a 
supporter of Jamal Eff. al Husseini’s political party, who 
visited England and the United States for a similar purpose. 
At the time of their departure from Palestine it was made 
public that they were not delegates of the Arab Higher Com- 
mittee. Later in the summer, Emil Eff. Ghori, a member of 
the Palestine Arab Party, who was accompanied by a Priest of 
the Orthodox Church, made a similar tour in the Balkans. 


62. The publication early in May of the Labour Schedule 
created much excitement and resentment among the Arabs. A 
protest was promptly published in the Press by the Arab Higher 
Committee and telegrams to the same effect were sent to the 
British Prime Minister and the Arab Rulers. The local reaction 
among the Arabs found its expression in an intensified campaign 
for a boycott, which was generally observed, of the Coronation 


25 
celebrations. Shortly afterwards the celebration of the anni- 
versary of the birth of the Prophet was made the occasion 
for a neperial demonstration of Bb feeling on political and 
national rather than religious lines. 


63. On the 3rd July, at a meeting in Jerusalem of the National 
Defence Party, a decision was taken that the two delegates of 
the Party (Ragheb Bey Nashashibi and Yacoub Eff. Farraj) 
should withdraw from the Arab Higher Committee. This 
decision was announced to the Press the same day. The 
grounds given for it were stated to be, inter alia, that the com- 
aoa of the Committee as agreed upon by the parties had 

n changed; that the meetings of the Committee -had been 
irregular in so far as the conditions and interest of the country 
required; that the majority of the members including the repre- 
sentatives of the National Defence Party had been kept un- 
informed of many measures and negotiations which were carried 
out in the name of the Committee; and that the President of 
the Committee had left the country in critical days, without 
the knowledge of his colleagues in the Committee. 


64. On the 21st july the National Defence Party published 
their views on the Report of the Palestine Royal Commission 
in the form of a memorandum, signed by the President of the 
Party, Ragheb Bey Nashashibi, which was circulated to the 
British Government and the Permanent Mandates Commission. 


On the 23rd July the Arab Higher Committee published a 
similar memorandum for similar destinations. 


Both these memoranda rejected the Partition proposals and 
demanded the recognition of the Arab right to complete inde- 
pendence in Palestine, the termination of the Mandate, and 
the conclusion of a treaty between Great Britain and a 
Palestinian Sovereign state. jemeh immigration and land sales 
should cease at once; but the Arabs would be prepared to furnish 
guarantees covering the Holy Places and assuring the protec- 
tion of all legitimate Jewish and other minority nghts and the 
safeguarding of reasonable British interests. The memorandum 
of the National Defence Party: further stipulated that the 

nt ratio existing between the Arab and the Jewish PoP 
tions should not be altered and that this principle should be 
admitted in the proposed Anglo-Palestine treaty. 

Early in September an Arab Conference was held at Bludan 
in Syria. It was attended by several prominent Palestine Arabs 
and the series of resolutions which it passed was transmitted 
to the League of Nations in Geneva. 

The dissolution of the Arab Higher Committee and the 
National Committees in Palestine and the various other measures 
taken by Government on the rst October are described in a 
preceding section of this chapter. 


PE 48607 Bs 


26 


SUPREME MosLeM COUNCIL, 


65. During 1937 important major works were undertaken by 
the Awqaf Department. 

In the Annual Report for 1936 reference was made (page 43) 
to extensive repairs within the Haram esh Sharif. The following 
is a detailed report of the work which was done during the year. 


The Dome of the Rock. 


Within the butilding.—In August, 1937, wooden frameworks 
were erected inside the Dome in order to facilitate the study 
of the repairs intended to be made to the mosaic works and 
the gilded marble stones. The marble stones on the inside walls 
of the Mosque have been completely repaired. 

Outside the building —In September, 1937, the repairs of 
the marble stones on the Western side of the Dome were com- 
pleted. The white, red and black marble necessary for these 
repairs was imported from Egypt. The danger of further 
damage to the building on account of rain and weather has 
been minimized by fixing wooden window frames and repairing 
all rain-water pipes. 

On the roof.—The plaster of the roof was completely renewed, 
the rain-water pipes enlarged, and the lead covering repaired. 
One part also of the woodwork and Kishany (Mosaic) work 
was completed. 

Lower roof.—The replastering of one part of the lower roof, 
at a distance of three metres from the Dome, was completed. 
The corniches were also repaired and repainted. 

Sultanieh (Moslem School).—The walls were repaired and 
the frontage renovated with white and red stones of local 
origin. 

The Qaitbey water source (Ablution pool).—The decaying 
stones in this historical water source were replaced by new 
material and its platform was repaved and replastered. 

Corridors.—Some of the stones of the corridors were removed 
and new stones are being prepared to replace them. The final 
repairs will be undertaken in 1938. In the meantime certain 
structural repairs in these corridors have been undertaken. 

Tankizieh (former premises of the Sharia Court).—As the 
western part of the building showed signs of collapse, its western 
and southern walls were pulled down in November. They 
were subsequently rebuilt to a height of 10 metres. This step 
removed all danger of collapse. All the roofs of ‘‘ Al-Tankizieh ” 
were re-pointed. 

The sanitary water installations in ‘‘ Al-Tankizieh ’’ were 
renewed and some of the smaller rooms were plastered and 
new windows constructed in place of the old and unserviceable 
windows. © 


27 


Repairs to Al Aqsa Mosque. 

Towards the end of 1937, the removal of perished plaster 
and its replacement by new material were started in the eastern 
part of the Mosque. This operation had, however, to be dis- 
continued as cracks of a dangerous nature were observed in 
some of the corners, columns and ceilings of. the building. 
Accordingly the Supreme Moslem Council invited the Architect 
of the Department of Antiquities in Jerusalem, who was accom- 
panied by an architect from the Department of Public Works, 
to visit the Haram and inspect the cracked places. On their 
recommendation pieces of glass will be placed on the faulty 
places to ascertain whether the cracks continue to develop. 


Hebron. 


By the end of the year, work on the repair of the historical 
pulpit in Hebron, which had been proceeding for three years, 
was practically completed. A supporter of beautiful red stone 
has been placed under it, so as to avoid the danger of damage 
from water. 


Nablus. 


The repairs in Al-Naser Mosque continued throughout the 
year and the western and eastern parts were completely ceiled, 
while a large part of the eastern and western sides was 
constructed. 


JEWISH AFFAIRS. 


66. The publication of the Report of the Royal Commission 
and the Statement of Policy of His Majesty’s Government in 
July in regard to the partition scheme gave rise to a sharp 
cleavage of opinion among the various Jewish parties and inten- 
sified the interest shown in the elections in Palestine to the 
Twentieth Zionist Congress, which was held at Zurich. Over 
115,000 votes were recorded at the elections, of which Labour 
received a substantial majority, obtaining 85 out of a total of 
124 delegates from Palestine. - The tel number of delegates 
from all countries was 526. 


The principal resolution adopted by the Congress, which 
represented a compromise between the views of the supporters 
and opponents of a partition scheme, empowered the Executive 
to enter into negotiations with a view to ascertaining the precise 
terms of His Majesty’s Government for the proposed establish- 
ment of a Jewish State which should then be submitted to a 
newly-elected Congress for consideration. 


67. A similar resolution was adopted at the meeting of the 
Council of the Jewish Agency which followed the Zionist Con- 
gress. The Council further directed the Executive of the Jewish 


48607 B4 


28 


Agency to request His Majesty’s Government to convene a 
conference of Jews and Arabs with a view to exploring the 
Secor of a peaceful settlement in an undivided Palestine 
sed on the free development of both the Jewish and Arab 
peoples of Palestine and the mutual recognition of their 
Tespective rights. 
The following were elected Executives of the Jewish 
Agency: — 
Dr. Ch. Weizman, President of the Zionist 
Organization and of the Jewish Agency. 
Mr. D. Ben-Gurion, Chairman of the Executive 


Zionist - of the Jewish Agency in Jerusalem. 
Members. Mr. M. Shertok. 
Mr. E. Kaplan. 


Mr. I. Gruenbaum. 
Dr. F. Rotenstrich. 


Dr. A. Ruppin. 

Pee Dr. M. B. Hexter. 
Non-Zionist Dr. W. Senator. 
Members. Mrs. Edward Jacobs. 

Dr. M. Karpf. 


68. The strained relations between the official Zionist bodies 
and the Revisionists (New Zionist Organization) showed no 
improvement during the year. Strong criticism in the Revi- 
sionist Press at the end of 1936 in regard to the distribution of 
labour tomer certificates by the Jewish Agency (see para- 
graph g2 of the Introductory Chapter of the 1936 Report) 
culminated in February, 1937, in an attack on the Jewish Agenc: 
offices at Jerusalem by a group of members of the Bitar (Revi- 
sionist Youth) Organization, in which a number of officials were 
assaulted and office property was damaged. Several arrests 
were made by the Police, and the offenders were dealt with 
in the Courts. 


69. The newly-appointed Ashkenazic Chief Rabbi, Rabbi 
Dr. I. Herzog (formerly Chief Rabbi of the Irish Free State) 
arrived in Palestine in January, 1937, and was officially inducted 
into office in Jerusalem in the presence of representatives of 
Government and leaders of the Jewish Community. 


70. Mr. I. Ben-Zvi, M.B.E., Chairman of the Vaad Leumi, 
was delegated by the High Commissioner to represent the 
Jewish Community of Palestine at the Coronation of His 
Majesty King George VI. 


In Palestine the Jewish community actively participated in 
the local celebrations of His Majesty’s Coronation and much. 
enthusiasin was displayed. : 


29 

71. On the initiative of the Manufacturers’ Association a dele- 

tion of Jewish manufacturers visited the United Kingdom in 
Harch and established contact with a number of Chambers of 
Commerce with a view to strengthening trade relations between 
Great Britain and Palestine. 

72. A census of Jewish workmen and employees was taken 
by the General Federation of Jewish Labour in March, 1937. 
104,122 Jewish wage-earners were enumerated, distributed by 
occupation as follows:— 





Agriculture ... ee wee oe ois, 25,212 
Manufacture and Transport a aa 32,802 
Construction ... ee, a rel ive 11,001 
Unskilled labour ee. vee wen 12,279 
Clerical and liberal professions a 26 20,227 

Commerce aap cee in 
Students... Ne Ay be 2,601 

Miscellaneous aS, Aes 
Total... ane 104,122 





The labour organization of the Agudat Israel has extended its 
activities and opened a contracting office for the execution of 
public works. e organization has also established four agri- 
cultural groups (Kibbutzim), including one for women. 


73- After a successful opening season in 1936-37 the Palestine 
Orchestra founded by Mr. Bronislaw Hubermann increased its 
membership for the second season and appears to be established 
on a sound footing. The Orchestra was augmented by the addi- 
tion of several new members from abroad. At the Coronation 
festivities the Orchestra gave a special Coronation Concert con- 
ducted by Dr. Malcolm Sargent, which was attended by the 
High Commissioner and representatives of Government. The 
Orchestra made successful tours in Egypt and Syria during 1937. 

The ‘‘ Habimah ”’ theatrical company proceeded on a tour of 
European countries and achieved considerable success abroad 
by their presentation in Hebrew of Biblical and mediaeval: 
Jewish legend and of modern plays by Jewish dramatists. 


74. Palestine Jewry lost an active and influential supporter 
through the death in October of Mr. Felix Warburg, the well- 
known New York banker, who was the first Chairman of the 
Administrative Committee of the Jewish Agency. Mr. Warburg 
contributed generously to Zionist activities in Palestine and to 
the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. 


75. Dr. J. Luria, who had been for many years the Director 
of the Hebrew School system of the Vaad Leumi, died at the 
close of the year. Hebrew education in Palestine also sustained 
a heavy loss through the assassination in October of Mr. 
Avinoam Yellin, M.B.E., the Senior Government Inspector of 


Jewish schools. 


30 
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS. 


76. The revised estimate of revenue for the financial period 
1st April, 1937, to 31st March, 1938, is £P.4,909,000 as com- 
pared with the original estimate of £P.5,015,000, The principal 
decrease occurs under Customs Duties (£P, 178: 000). Expendi- 
ture is estimated at £P.7,326,000; but this figure includes an 
adjustment of £P.1,581,500 representing expenditure in previous 
years from surplus balances which is now met from voted 
monies. The estimated expenditure also includes a sum of 
£P.697,000 in respect of Defence which falls to be borne by 
Palestine. This amount represents the excess cost of main- 
taining the British Forces in Palestine over the cost of main- 
taining such Forces in the United Kingdom. The excess of 
expenditure over revenue for 1937-8 will therefore be approxi- 
mately £P.2,417,000; and the accumulated surplus balance of 
Government which stood at £P.4,835,000 at the 31st March, 
1937, will be reduced to approximately £P.2,418,000 at the end 
of March, 1938. 


77. During the calendar year 1937 a total number of 12,475 
immigrants entered Palestine as compared with a total of 31,671 
in 1936 and of 64,147 in 1935. The number of Jewish 
immigrants with a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards in 1937 
was I,275 as compared with 6,309 and 2,970 in 1935 and 1936 
respectively. - The total value of imports increased from 
£P.13,900,000 in 1936 to £P.15,903,000 in 1937, but is still con- 
siderably below the level of 1935 when the value of imports 
stood at £P.17,853,000. The general price level of imported 
commodities rose in 1937 by approximately 18 per cent. over 
1935. The total value of exports, which had declined from 
approximately £P.4,215,000 in 1935, to £P.3,625,000 in 1936, 
increased to £P.5,820,000 in 1937. This increase was, however, 
mainly due to increased exports of citrus fruit, Dead Sea 
products, hides and skins and edible oils. 


78. The number of dunums of land sold in 1937 was approxi- 
mately 103,000, valued at £P.4,388,556, as compared with 
76,000 valued at £P.4,921,000 in 1936. 


-79. The estimated value of investments in buildings in 7937 
was £P.3,000,000 as compared with £P.4,000,000 in 1936 and 
£P.7,000,000 in 1935. 

80. New area planted with citrus trees was 1,500 dunums in 
1937 as compared with 20,000 dunums in 1936 and 28,000 
dunums in 1935. 


81. During 1937 the new local companies registered totalled 
207, with an authorized capital of £P.969,000 as compared with 
183 and an authorized capital of £P.1,038,000 in 1936, while 44 
companies increased their capital from £P.4,338,550 to 


31 
£P.7,200,350. At the 31st December, 1937 the currency in cir- 
culation amounted to £P.4,829,134 as compared with 
£P5,741,134 at the 31st December, 1936. Deposits with banks 
and the leading local co-operative societies at the 31st December, 
1937, amounted to £P.16,000,000 as compared with 
£P.16,600,000 at the 31st December, 1936. 


82. Revenue receipts, which began towards the end of 1935 
to reflect the uneasiness aroused by the political outlook in 
Europe, continued to fall throughout 1936-7 owing to the after 
effects of the disturbances in that year. It is expected that 
revenue receipts for 1937-8 will show a slight improvement but 
this cannot be taken as indicating economic recovery. It is 
difficult to forecast the probable duration of the effects of the 
disturbances or of the political situation which has arisen on the 
economic life of the country. The underlying causes of the 
events of 1936 and the uncertainty of the political future of the 
country must necessarily affect its economic life since they are 
mainly responsible for the immediate suspension of the impulses 
which animated economic activities in recent habe The country 
is passing through a period of adjustment both economic and 
financial and it is to be feared that conditions are not likely to 
improve in the meantime. Customs receipts, which for the 12 
months ended November, 1935, had maintained an average of 
£P.240,000 a month and had fallen to £P.128,000 in August, 
1936, but tended to stabilize during the last quarter of 1936 at an 
average of about £P.202,000 a month, fell progressively in 1937 
until in September of that year they reached the low level of 
£P.150,000. Although in the last three months of the year they 
showed a slight improvement, the average for the year fell to 
about £P.177,000 a month. Revenues other than Customs 
showed an increase from approximately £P.2,619,000 in 1936 
to £P.2,873,000 in 1937, but continued to be lower than the 
1935 level, when they stood at £P.3,095,000. The general * 
uneasiness and uncertainty as to the trend of events in Palestine, 
to which reference was made in the 1936 Report, continued to 
discourage new developments in trade and industry. Credit 
facilities, which were curtailed in 1936, continued to be stringent 
in 1937. The number of companies that went into voluntary 
liquidation in 1937 was 27 as compared with 17 in 1936. Wind- 
ing-up orders were issued in 1937 in respect of seven companies. 
Receiving orders were issued in respect of 57 companies 1n 1937 
as compared with six in 1936; and the number of bankruptcies 
actually declared in 1937 was also 57 as compared with 33 
in 1930. 

83. With regard to the trade agreement with Egypt referred 
on aeepe 110 of the Introductory Chapter to the 1936 
Report, the e ted visit of the trade delegation from Egypt 
took place in June, 1937. According to the terms of the trade 


32 

agreement with Egypt, pence meetings are to be held between 
representatives of the Egyptian Government and the Govern- 
ment of Palestine with a view to the development and improve- 
ment of trade relations to the mutual advantage of both 
countries. As a result of the meetings between the Egyptian 
delegates and the Committee appointed to confer with them, 
recommendations have been submitted to Government on the 
basis of reciprocal concessions to the mutual benefit of both 
countries. These recommendations are still under considera- 
tion by Government and it is hoped that the result will not be 
long delayed. The trade agreement concluded with ‘Iraq in 
December, 1936, with a view to encouraging the trans-desert 
route between the two countries continues to be operative. While 
the Customs facilities prone for in the agreement were intro- 
duced early in 1937, the establishment of the free zone has not 
so far been effected. In 1935 a Committee was appointed to 
consider whether the Palestine-Syria Customs Agreement of 1929 
required revision, and if so, in what manner it should be revised. 
The Committee has now submitted its report to Government and 
steps are being taken for negotiating a revision of the agreement 
with a view to bringing it more into line with the changed condi- 
tions and demands of Palectine’s trade and industry. 


84. Reference is made in pasa 111 of the Introductory 
Chapter to the 1936 Report to Dr. Tomkins’ proposals for an 
investigation into the causes of fruit wastage. A first year’s 
programme for an investigation into citrus fruit wastage was 
subsequently drawn up and arrangements made for it to be car- 
ried out by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research 
in England, and the Jewish Agency Agricultural ‘Research 
Station at Rehovot in Palestine. A scheme of investigation has 
already been introduced and is progressing satisfactorily. 


85. The Citrus Transportation and Marketing Committee sub- 
mitted unanimous proposals for the enactment of legislation 
designed to improve the standard of ships carrying citrus fruit 
from Palestine, the principal provisions relating to fixing of 
minimum speed of boats, prohibition of deck cargoes and 
methods of stowing and ventilation, etc. It was thought prefer- 
able, ‘however, in view of the general shipping difficulties owing 
to the international situation in 1937, to defer this legislation for 
further consideration in consultation with the shipping interests. 
Such consultation is proceeding. 

The Committee’s investigations into marketing have not been 
concluded as attention was directed to the desirability of expedit- 
ing the organization of co-operative societies among Arab pro- 
ducers as a necessary preliminary to the organization of the 
trade as a whole. 


* 86. During the year, local industry was given further assist- 
ance by the imposition of protective tariffs on certain articles 


33 


which are produced in Palestine, by exempting from 
import duty a number of raw materials, and by the grant of 
Customs drawback in certain cases where exemption from 
import duty of the raw material was impracticable. The indus- 
tries benefiting from such assistance include the citrus industry, 
poultry keeping, rice and lentils milling, artificial silk, vegetable 
canning and various other minor industries. 


87. Owing to the further deterioration of the financial position 
it has not been possible to carry out the improvements in railway 
equipment which were referred to in paragraph 113 of the Intro- 
ductory Chapter to the Report for 1936 as having been post- 

med; nor, in view of the decrease in railway traffic, are these 
improvements now immediately essential. ‘ 


The completion of the new railway tariff has been delayed by 
the effect upon railway traffic and revenue by the depression in 
trade and commerce and by the opening of the Haifa—Jaffa 
road, but the question of rates is under consideration, 


88. Mention was made in paragraph 114 of the Introductory 
Chapter to the 1936 Report that as a result of visits in 1935 and 
1936 by the General Manager of the Jaffa Citrus Exchange to 
several countries in Europe various tentative arrangements were 
suggested with a view to securing the removal of trade and cur- 
rency restrictions which have been an obstacle to the Palestine 
citrus trade. The results achieved by these visits are 
summarized below: — 


(a) The import duties in Switzerland and Czechoslovakia 
were made chargeable on the basis of net weight in lieu of 
the gross weight; 

(b) The import duties on grapefruit in the following 
countries were either cancelled altogether or amended in a 
manner favourable to the Palestine Citrus Trade: 


Sweden, Belgium, Hungary, Poland, Switzerland, 
France, Austria, and Czechoslovakia. 

(c) Since 1933, Canada has extended to oranges from 
Palestine a treatment which is equivalent in practice to 
Imperial Preference; 

(d) More liberal quotas were granted to Palestine citrus 
by Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Denmark, Hungary, 
Germany, and France, and currency restrictions were made 
less stringent by Germany and Hungary. 


89. During the examination of the 1936 Report by the Per- 
manent Mandates Commission it was noted that, notwithstanding 
the unfavourable position in which Palestine is placed by 
Article 18 of the Mandate, the Mandatory Power had in some 
cases obtained certain advantages for Palestine; and hope was 


34 


expressed by the Commission that the Mandatory Power would 
be able to improve the present unfavourable position by obtain- 
ing concessions from a larger number of States. During 1937 
most-favoured-nation treatment was extended to Palestine by 
Canada, and the extension to Palestine of the terms of two other 
United Kingdom agreements, viz., those with Turkey and 
Brazil, is under consideration. 


It has previously been pad out that the application of the 
tule of economic equality laid down in Article 6 of the Mandate 
constitutes a heavy burden on Palestine’s industry and com- 
merce owing to the absence of reciprocity. The Royal Commis- 
sion examined, inter alia, the position in this respect and 
expressed the view that the provisions of Article 18 are out of 
date: they recommended that negotiations should be opened for 
the amendment of that Article with a view to putting the trade 
of Palestine upon a fairer basis. The recommendations of the 
Commission in this respect are now under consideration by 
Government. 


AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND LAND. 


go. The connected problems of water conservation, soil erosion 
and the improvement of grazing, which are of major importance 
in the agricultural economy of Palestine, continue to receive 
close attention. The initial stages of an attempt to repair b 
afforestation the denudation and impoverishment of the soil, 
which have resulted in hill districts from centuries of neglect, 
have been entered upon. During 1937, the total number of 
Forest Reserves was increased by two; an area of 4,271 dunums 
was allocated as State Forest; experiments in arresting sand 
drift were continued; and a more extensive distribution of forest 
plants and seeds to both Government and private plantations 
was made. 


gi. The year 1937 was favourable to agriculture. Except 
in a few areas, the winter crops were generally excellent; and 
the yields from the cereal, forage and vegetable crops were 
considerably above the average. ell-distributed rains towards 
the end of the year produced exceptionally propitious conditions 
for agriculture during the winter months. 


92. The activities of the Department of Agriculture and 
Fisheries with regard to education and propaganda were con- 
tinued during the year. The Agricultural Supplement to the 
Palestine Gazette, which is published monthly in the three 
official languages, contains a wide range of information on 
subjects of interest to agriculturists. The dissemination of 
agricultural information and advice to farmers, and talks, 
market reports, and weather forecasts form a regular part of 


35 


the programmes of the Palestine Broadcasting Service. The 
ity of ensuring that these talks have a truly popular 
character receives continual attention. : 


93. Effect has been given to the scheme for the grant of 
credits to peasants in the hill-districts, to which reference was 
made in paragraph 120 of the Introductory Chapter of last 
year’s Report. The allocation of £P.31,551 among 1,125 
applicants was approved during the year. In spite of financial 
stningency, Government continued to furnish direct assistance 
to the farmer in a number of ways: seed potatoes, grain, and 
vegetable seedlings were issued; beehives were distributed on 
generous terms, and a supply of duty-free sugar was also made 
available for beekeepers; eggs, chicks, and swarms were dis- 
tributed from Government poultry stations and apiaries; and 
fruit-trees and vines from Government Horticultural Stations. 


94. Citrus exports during the season 1936-7 were consider- 
ably larger than in the previous season. The citrus advertising 
campaign for the season 1936-7 was carried out with satis- 
factory results in the United Kingdom, Continental countries, 
India, Syria and Palestine. 


95. A Fisheries Committee was instituted during the year. 
(See para. 78 of Chapter XXV—Agriculture, Fisheries and 
Forestry.) The Fisheries Service was increasingly active both 
in the enforcement of existing legislation and in the dissemina- 
tion of advice and help to fishermen. 


96. The aims of the agricultural policy consistently followed 
by Government are, broadly, to increase the quantity and 
quality of crops and livestock, and to encourage the intensifica- 
tion of farming by the adoption of improved irrigation and 
technical methods. The activities of Government in these direc- 
tions were described in detail in paragraph 116 et seq. of the 
Introductory Chapter of the Report for 1936. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


97. Monseigneur . Gabriel, the Syrian Orthodox Bishop, 
resigned in January and left Palestine for Syria in March. 
Renecene ‘Yacoub was appointed Patriarchate Vicar in his 
place. : 


98. Early in the year the new Oil Dock at Haifa was com- 
pleted and handed over to the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 


99. On oth of April the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of 
Portsmouth laid the foundation stone of St. Luke’s School for 
boys in Haifa. The school, which is under the auspices of the 
Anglican Church in Palestine, was completed in time for the 
October term. : 


36 
roo. His Highness the Amir Abdullah aseg ae ae by his 
Chief Minister left Haifa for London to attend the Coronation 
Ceremonies on 28th April, 1937. His Highness returned to 
Amman on 12th June. 


ror. Celebrations in honour of the Coronation of their 
Majesties King George VI and Queen Elizabeth on the 12th 
May were held throughout Palestine. 

In Jerusalem, where the main buildings and streets were 
lavishly decorated, the High Commissioner took the salute in 
the presence of about 5,000 spectators at the ceremony of the 
Trooping of the Colour at Talavera Barracks, and at the con- 
clusion of the parade there was a presentation by His Excellency 
of medals and decorations. 

Later in the morning the High Commissioner attended 
Divine Service at St. George’s Cathedral. 

In the afternoon British children were entertained at the 
ape. Club and in the evening a Ball was given at Government 


In Haifa, Jaffa and other centres military paces took place; 
and in each administrative area District Commissioners and 
their representatives gave official receptions and entertained 
members of the respective British Communities. 

In honour of the Coronation the band of the Palestine Police 
made a tour of the country and gave performances in most 
large towns. 


toz. On the 11th August the Palestine Airways Service was 
inaugurated at Lydda in the presence of the District Commis- 
sioner of the Southern District. 


103. In September, Lieutenant General Sir John Dill, K.C.B., 
C.M.G., D.S.O., was succeeded as General Officer Command- 
ing the British Forces in Palestine and Trans-Jordan by Major 
General A. P. Wavell, C.B., C.M.G., M.C. 


104. In October the Imperial Airways flying boats began to 
use the facilities provided by the Government for landing on 
Lake Tiberias as a port of call on the regular service between 
England and India. 


Io5. An announcement was made on the 4th November in 
the House of Commons that Sir Arthur Wauchope’s resigna- 
tion of the Pos of High Commissioner for Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan had been accepted by the British Government and on 
the 4th December the appointment of his successor, Sir Harold 
MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., Governor and Commander- 
in-Chief of the Mandated Territory of Tanganyika, was 
announced. 


37 


APPENDIX ‘‘ A.” 


Official Communique No. 10/37, 7th July, 1937. 


The Report of the Palestine Royal Commission is divided into two 
sections. The first section proceeds on the assumption that the present 
Mandate will continue to operate and contains the Commission’s recom- 
mendations for the alteration and improvement of the existing system of 
Government. The Commission do not, however, consider that any real 
or lasting solution of the problem is to be found on these lines and, 
in the second section, they advocate the termination of the Mandate 
and the inauguration of a new order of things in Palestine on the basis 
of the partition of the country between the Arabs and the Jews and the 
setting up of two independent States in Treaty relations with Great 
Britain. 

The first section deals at length with the various activities of Government 
and only a very brief summary of the main conclusions reached is possible 
within the compass of a short communique. The following are the 
principal recommendations. 

As regards land sales, the High Commissioner should, if the Mandate 
is to remain operative, be empowered to prohibit the transfer of land 
in any stated area by Arabs to Jews. Where sales are made, the rights 
of Arab tenants and cultivators must be preserved and alienation of land 
should only be permitted where it is possible to replace extensive by 
intensive cultivation. 

As regards immigration, if the Mandate is to remain Operative the 
volume of Jewish immigration should continue to be restricted in the first 
instance by the economic absorptive capacity of Palestine but it should 
be subject "further to what the Commission term a ‘‘ political high level,’’ 
namely, a maximum covering Jewish immigration of all categories. This 
maximum should be fixed for the next five years at 12,000 per annum. 


The Commission do not recommend that any attempt should be made 
to revive the proposal of a Legislative Council, but they would welcome 
an ement of the Advisory Council by the addition of Unofficial 
Members. 


In dealing with public security, the Commission recommend that, should 
disorders break out again of such a nature as to require the intervention 
of the Military, there should be no hesitation in enforcing martial law, 
in which event disarmament should also be enforced. Central and local 
police reserves should be formed and a large mobile mounted force 
established. A more rigorous Press Ordinance should also, they consider, 
be enacted. 

The Commission lay great stress on the necessity of improving the 
arrangements for Arab education and consider that the Administration 
should regard the claims of such education as second in importance 
only to those of public security. 

Among the Commission’s proposals of a more general nature are recom- 
mendations for greater decentralization in the Administration, for the 
tapid completion of the Jaffa-Haifa road and for the amendment of the 
provisions of Article 18 of the Mandate which denies to Palestine the 
power to protect its trade by the imposition of discriminatory tariffs. 
The expedition of settlement operations and a more active policy in 
investigating the water resources of the country are also advocated. 

The Commission further recommend that the services of an expert on 
local Government should be obtained to assist in drafting a new Local 
Self Government Ordinance and in improving the relations between 
Government and the Municipalities. The need of Tel Aviv for a substantial 
lan shouid, they consider, be promptly and sympathetically reconsidered. 


38 


Such in brief are the recommendations advocated by the Commission 
if the Mandate is to remain operative. But, as already stated, they do 
not believe that the acceptance of these recommendations will solve the 
problem. In dealing with immigration they admit that the proposal put 
forward can be regarded as no more than a palliative. They point 
out that the difficulty has always been, and, if the Mandate continues, 
will continue with it, that the existence of the National Home, whatever 
its size, bars the way to the attainment by the Arabs of Palestine of 
the same national status as that attained, or soon to be attained, by 
all the other Arabs of Asia. Similarly, in dealing with public security, 
they do not regard their proposals as a permanent remedy but only as 
temporary measures designed to prevent a recurrence of open rebellion 
and to give the Jews that protection which, under the Mandate, they 
have a right to expect. They would involve great expense, probably 
beyond the capacity of the country, and their immediate effect would be 
to widen the gulf which separates the Arab from the Jew. As they point 
out, it is not easy to pursue the dark path of repression without seeing 
daylight at the end of it. 


The Commission conclude the first section of their report by explaining 
that the recommendations which it contains are the best palliatives which 
they can devise for the disease from which Palestine is suffering, but 
that they are only palliatives. They might reduce the temperature, but 
they cannot cure the trouble. The disease is so deep rooted that it is the 
Commission's firm conviction that the only hope of a cure lies in a 
surgical operation. 

‘* Manifestly ’’ they state, ‘‘ the problem cannot be solved by giving 
either the Arabs or the Jews all they want. The answer to the question 
‘Which of them in the end will govern Palestine’ must surely be 
‘Neither.’ We do not think,’’ they continue, ‘‘ that any fair-minded 
statesman would suppose, now that the hope of harmony between the 
races has proved untenable, that Britain ought either to hand over to 
Arab rule 400,000 Jews, whose entry into Palestine has been for the 
most part facilitated by the British Government and approved by the 
League ot Nations, or that, if the Jews should become a majority, 
a million or so of Arabs should be handed over to their rule. But,’’ they 
conclude, *‘ while neither race can justly rule all Palestine, we see no 
reason why, if it were practicable, each race should not rule part of it. 
Partition seems to offer at least a chance of ultimate peace. We can 
see none iu any other plan.” 


And so, in the second section of their Report, the Commission recom- 
mend the termination of the present Mandate on the basis of Partition 
and put forward a definite scheme which they consider to be practicable, 
honourable and just. This scheme, the general lines of which have, as 
notified in Official Communique No. 11/37 of the 7th July, 1937, been 
accepted by His Majesty’s Government, is as follows:— 

The Mandate for Palestine should terminate and be replaced by a 
Treaty System in accordance with the precedent set in Iraq and Syria. 


Under Treaties to be negotiated by the Mandatory with the Government 
of Trans-Jordan and representatives of the Arabs of Palestine on the 
one hand and with the Zionist Organization on the other it would be 
declared that two sovereign independent States would shortly be estab- 
lished—(1) an Arab State consisting of Trans-Jordan united with that 
part of Palestine allotted to the Arabs and (2) a Jewish State consisting 
of that part of Palestine allotted to the Jews. The Mandatory would 
undertake to support any requests for admission to the League of Nations 
made by the Governments of the Arab and Jewish States. The Treaties 
would include strict guarantees for the protection of minorities. Military 
Conventions would be attached to the Treaties. 


39 


The partition of Palestine is subject to the overriding necessity of 
keeping the sanctity of Jerusalem and Bethlehem inviolate and of ensuring 
free and safe access to these Holy Places for all the world. A new 
Mandate should, therefore, be framed with the execution of this trust 
as its primary purpose. An enclave should be demarcated to which this 
Mandate should apply, extending from a point north of Jerusalem to a 
point south of Bethlehem, and access to the sea should be provided by 
a corridor extending from Jerusalem to Jaffa. The policy of the Balfour 
Declaration would not apply to this Mandated area. 

The Mandatory should also be entrusted with the administration of 
Nazareth and with full powers to safeguard the sanctity of the waters 
and shores of Lake Tiberias, and similarly with the protection of religious 
endowments and of such buildings, monuments and places in the Arab 
and Jewish States as are sacred to the Jews and the Arabs, respectively. 

The frontier between the Arab and Jewish States recommended by 
the Commission is as follows. Starting from Ras an Naqura, it follows the 
existing northern and eastern frontier of Palestine to Lake Tiberias and 
crosses the Lake to the outflow of the River Jordan, whence it continues 
down the river to a point rather north of Beisan. It then cuts across 
the Beisan Plain and runs along the southern edge of the Valley of 
Jezreel to a point near Megiddo, whence it crosses the Carmel Ridge 
in the neighbourhood of the Megiddo road. It then runs southwards 
down the eastern edge of the Maritime Plain, curving west to avoid 
Tulkarm, until it reaches the Jerusalem-Jaffa Corridor near Lydda. South 
of the Corridor it continues down the edge of the Plain to a point about 
ten miles south of Rehovot, whence it turns west to the sea. 

Haifa, Tiberias, Safad and Acre should be kept for a period under 
Mandatory administration. Jaffa should form an outlying part of the 
Arab State. 

In view of possible commercial developments in the future, an enclave 
on the north-west coast of the Gulf of Aqaba should be retained under 
Mandatory administration. 

As a part of the proposed Treaty System, a Commercial Convention 
should be concluded with a view to establishing a common tariff over 
the widest possible range of imported articles and to facilitating the 
freest possible interchange of goods between the three territories. The 
Treaties should also provide for free transit of goods in bond between 
the two States and the Mandated Area on the one hand and Haifa, Rafah 
and the Gulf of Aqaba on the other. 

Agreements entered into by the Government of Palestine for the develop- 
ment and security of industries, as, for example, that with the Palestine 
Potash Company, should be taken over and carried out by the Govern- 
ments of the Arab and Jewish States. Guarantees to that effect should 
be given in the Treaties. The security of the Power Station at Jisr 
el Majami should be similarly guaranteed. 

In view of the fact that that portion of Palestine which falls within 
the Arab State will no longer benefit, as it does at present, from the 
taxable capacity of the Jewish area, and as the area of the Jewish 
State will be larger than the existing area of Jewish land and settlement, 
the Jewish State should pay a subvention to the Arab State. A Finance 
Commission should be appointed to advise as to its amount and as to the 
division of the public debt of Palestine and other financial questions. 

Funds should be made available to ensure the necessary standard of 
administration in Trans-Jordan, and the British Parliament should be 
asked to make a grant of {2,000,000 for this purpose to the Arab State. 

The Treaties should provide that if Arab owners of land in the Jewish 
State or Jewish owners in the Arab State wish to sell their land, the 
Government of the State concerned should be responsible for purchase 


40 
at a fair price to be fixed, if required, by the Mandatory Government. 
A loan for a reasonable amount should, if necessary, be guaranteed in 
order to enable such purchases to be financed. 

An immediate inquiry should be undertaken into the possibilities of 
irrigation and development in Trans-Jordan, the Beersheba District and 
the Jordan Valley. If it becomes clear as the result of this inquiry 
that a substantial amount of land could be made available for the re- 
settlement of Arabs living in the Jewish Area by means of large scale 
plans of irrigation and development, strenuous efforts should be made 
to obtain an agreement, in the interests of both parties concerned, for 
an exchange of land and population. The cost of developing the areas 
referred to would, however, probably be more than the Arab State could 
be expected to bear and, in order to facilitate such an agreement, the 
United Kingdom Parliament should be asked to make a grant to meet 
this cost. 

The rights of all existing Civil Servants, including rights to pensions 
or gratuities, should be fully honoured. 

The new regime could not, of course, be introduced at once. There 
would necessarily be a period of transition before the new Mandate 
and the Treaties came into force and during this period the existing 
Mandate would continue to be the governing instrument of the Palestine 
Administration. The Commission’s recommendations for this period are 
as follows :— 

Land purchase by Jews within the Arab Area or by Arabs within the 
Jewish Area should be prohibited. 

No Jewish immigration into the Arab Area should be permitted. The 
volume of Jewish immigration should be determined by the economic 
absorptive capacity of Palestine less the Arab Area. 

Negotiations should be opened without delay to secure the amendment 
of Article 18 of the Mandate and thus to place the external trade of 
Palestine on a fairer basis. 

The Advisory Council should, if possible, be enlarged by the nomination 
of Arab and Jewish representatives. 

The municipal system should be reformed on expert advice, as recom- 
mended. 

A vigorous effort should be made to increase the number of Arab 
schools. 

The Commission point out that, while these proposals do not offer 
either the Arabs or the Jews all they want, they offer each party what 
it wants most, namely, freedom and security. 

The advantages to the Arabs of Palestine may be summarized as 
follows :— 

(i) They obtain their national independence and can co-operate on 
an equal footing with the Arabs of the neighbouring countries in the 
cause of Arab unity and progress. 

(ii) They are finally delivered from the fear of being ‘‘ swamped ’’ 
by the Jews and from the possibility of ultimate subjection to Jewish 
rule. 

(iii) In particular, the final limitation of the Jewish National Home 
within a fixed frontier and the enactment of a new Mandate for 
the protection of the Holy Places, solemnly guaranteed by the 
League of Nations, removes all anxiety lest the Holy Places should 
ever come under Jewish control. 

(iv) As a set-off to the loss of territory which the Arabs regard 
as theirs, the Arab State will receive a subvention from the Jewish 
State. It will also, in view of the backwardness of Trans-Jordan, 
obtain a grant of {2,000,000 from the British Treasury; and, if an 
agreement can be reached as to the exchange of land and population, 
a further grant will be made for the conversion, as far as may 
prove possible, of uncultivable land in the Arab State into productive 
land from which the cultivators and the State alike will profit. 


42 
The advantages to the Jews are:— 


(i) Partition secures the establishment of the Jewish National Home 
and relieves it from the possibility of its being subjected in the 
future to Arab rule. 

(ii) Partition enables the Jews in the fullest sense to call their 
National Home their own; for it converts it into a Jewish State. 
Its citizens will be able to admit as many Jews into it as they 
themselves believe can be absorbed. They will attain the primary 
objective of Zionism—a Jewish nation, planted in Palestine, giving 
its nationals the same status in the world as other nations give 
theirs. They will cease at last to live a ‘‘ minority life.”’ 


APPENDIX “‘ B.”’ 
Official Communique No. 11/37, 7th July, 1937. 


STATEMENT OF Poticy By His MajesTy’s GOVERNMENT IN THE UNITED 
KINGDOM—PRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES 
To PaRLIAMENT BY COMMAND OF His Majesty, JULY, 1937. 


1. His Majesty’s Government in Great Britain, by the direction of 
His Majesty, have considered the unanimous Report of the Palestine 
Royal Commission. They find themselves in general agreement with 
the arguments and conclusions of the Commission. 

2. As is fully recognised by the Commissioners in their historical 
survey, His Majesty’s Government and their predecessors, since the 
obligations of the Mandate were accepted, have taken the view, which 
the tenor of the Mandate itself implies, that their obligations to the 
Arabs and the Jews respectively were not incompatible, on the assumption 
that in the process of time the two races would so adjust their national 
aspirations as to render possible the establishment of a single Common- 
wealth under a Unitary Government. 

3. In spite of the many discouraging experiences during’ the past 
17 years, His Majesty’s Government have based their policy on this 
expectation and have taken every opportunity of encouraging co-operation 
between the Arabs and the Jews. In the light of experience and of the 
arguments adduced by the Commission they are driven to the conclusion 
that there is an irreconcilable conflict between the aspirations of the Arabs 
and the Jews in Palestine, that these aspirations cannot be satisfied 
under the terms of the present Mandate and that a scheme of partition 
on the general lines recommended by the Commission represents the best 
and most hopeful solution of the deadlock. His Majesty’s Government 
propose to advise His Majesty accordingly. 

4. His Majesty's Government therefore propose to take such steps 
as are necessary and appropriate, having regard to their existing Treaty 
Obligations under the Covenant of the League of Nations and other 
International Instruments, to obtain freedom to give effect to a scheme of 
partition to which they earnestly hope it may be possible to secure an 
effective measure of consent on the part of the communities concerned. 

5. Pending the establishment of such a scheme, His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment have no intention of surrendering their responsibility for peace, 
order and good Government throughout Palestine. They are in general 
agreement with the Commission’s recommendations in the matter of public 
security. If serious disorders should again break out, of such a nature 
as to require military intervention, the High Commissioner will delegate 
the powers in respect of the whole country under the Palestine (Defence) 
Orders in Council, to the General Officer Commanding the Military Forces. 

6. In the immediate future, while the form of a scheme of partition 
is being worked out, His Majesty’s Government propose that, as an 
interim measure, steps should be taken to prohibit any land trans- 
actions which might prejudice such a scheme. Further, since the 


42 


period of the current Labour Schedule expites at the end of July, and 
some provision must be made for the ensuing period, they propose 
that a total Jewish immigration in «ll Categories of 8,000 persons 
shall be permitted for the eight months’ period from August, 1937, to 
March, 1938, provided that the economic absorptive capacity of the 
country is not exceeded. 


7. In supporting a solution of the Palestine problem by means of 
partitioning, His Majesty's Government are much impressed by the 
advantages which it offers both the Arabs and the Jews. The Arabs 
would obtain (thdir national independence, and hus be enabled tp 
co-operate on an equal footing with the Arabs of the neighbouring countries 
in the cause of Arab unity and progress. They would be finally delivered 
from all fear of Jewish domination, and from the anxiety which they 
have expressed lest their Holy Places should ever come under Jewish 
control. The Arab State would receive financial assistance on a substantial 
scale both from His Majesty’s Government and from the Jewish State. 
On the other hand, partitioning would secure the establishment of the 
Jewish National Home and relieve it from any possibility of its being 
subjected in the future to Arab rule. It would convert the Jewish National 
Home into a Jewish State with full control over immigration. Its nationals 
would acquire a status similar to that enjoyed by nationals of other 
countries. The Jews would at last cease to live a ‘‘ minority life,’’ 
and the primary objective of Zionism would thus be attained. Under 
the proposed Treaties the rights of the minorities in both States would 
be strictly guaranteed. Above all, fears and suspicions would be replaced 
by a sense of confidence and security, and both peoples would obtain, 
in the words of the Commission, ‘‘ the inestimable boon of peace.’’ 


APPENDIX ‘‘C.” 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 


REGULATIONS MADE BY THE OFFICER ADMINISTERING THE GOVERNMENT 
: UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND 10. 


In exercise of the powers vested in him by Articles 6 and 10 of the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the Officer Administering the 
Government has made the following regulations. 

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Defence (Amendment) No. 6 
Regulations, 1937. 

2. In the Regulations the term ‘‘ Principal regulations ’’ shall mean 
the Emergency Regulations, 1936. 

3. Regulation 15 of the principal regulations is hereby amended by 
the addition thereto of the following :— 

‘The deportation order made under this Regulation may order 
that the person with respect to whom the deportation order is made 
shall be detained in such part of His Majesty’s possessions as the 
High Commissioner, with the consent of the Governor or the Officer 
Administering the Government of that possession may direct.’’ 

4. These regulations shall come into operation on the 30th day of 
September, 1937. 

By His Excellency’s Command, 
S. Moony, 
goth September, 1937. Acting Chief Secretary. 


43 


Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 


REGULATIONS MADE BY THE OFFICER ADMINISTERING THE GOVERNMENT 
UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND I0. 


In exercise of the powers vested in him by Articles 6 and 10 of the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the Officer Administering the 
Government has made the following regulations. 


1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Amendment) No. 7 
Regulations, 1937. 


2. In these regulations the term ‘‘ principal regulations ’’ shall mean 
the Emergency Regulations, 1937. 


3. The principal Regulations shall be amended by the insertion after 
Regulation 14A thereof of the following regulations :— 


‘‘ 14B. The High Commissioner may by notification in the Gazette 
declare any association or body of persons to be an unlawful asso- 
ciation. 

An association or body of persons in respect of which such declara- 


tion has been made shall be an unlawful association for the purpose 
of these Regulations. 


14C. Any person who is a member of an unlawful association or 
who occupies or acts in any office of or position in or under an 
unlawful association or who by writing, words, signs, or representa- 
tion directly or indirectly whether by inference, suggestion, implica- 
tion or otherwise acts on behalf of or as a representative of an unlawful 
association shall be guilty of an offence against these Regulations. 

14D. Any person who prints, publishes, sells or exposes for sale 
or transmits through the post any book, periodical, pamphlet, handbill, 
poster, newspaper or any other document which contains or purports 
to contain any record of proceedings of an unlawful association or 
which is issued on behalf of in the interests of or issued by an unlawful 
association shall be guilty of an offence against these regulations.’’ 


4. These regulations shall come into operation on the 30th day of 
September, 1937. 
By His Excellency’s Command, 
S. Moopy, 
30th September, 1937. Acting Chief Secretary. 


Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 


REGULATIONS MADE BY THE OFFICER ADMINISTERING THE GOVERNMENT 
UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND I0. 


In exercise of the Powers vested in him by Articles 6 and 10 of the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the Officer Administering the 
Government has made the following regulations. 


1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Supreme Moslem 
Council) Regulations, 1937. 


2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Supreme Moslem 
Sharia Council Regulations dated the zoth day of December, 1921, 
Mohamed Haj Amin Effendi el Husseini shall as and from the date of these 


44 


regulations cease to be President of the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council 
and he shall thereafter be ineligible for appointment to the office of Presi- 
dent of the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council. 

3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Supreme Moslem 
Sharia Council Regulation dated the zoth day of December, 1921, the 
Mufti of Jerusalem shall as and from the date of these Regulations cease 
to be a member of the General Wakf Committee and to act as Chairman 
thereof. 

4. The Supreme Moslem Sharia Council Regulation dated the zoth day 
of December, 1921, is hereby amended accordingly. 

5. These regulations shall come into operation on the 30th day of 
September, 1937. 

By His Excellency’s Command, 
S. Moony, 


30th September, 1937. Acting Chief Secretary. 


NOTICE. 


In exercise of the powers vested in him by Regulation 14B of the Defence 
(Amendment) No. 7 Regulation, 1937, the Officer Administering the Gov- 
ernment hereby notifies that he has declared the associations or bodies of 
persons commonly known as the Arab Higher Committee and the Arab 
National Committees which aré established locally throughout Palestine 
and any branch, centre, committee, group or faction of the said asso- 
ciations or bodies of persons to be an unlawful association. 


APPENDIX ‘‘ D.’’ 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 


REGULATIONS MADE BY THE OFFICER ADMINISTERING THE GOVERNMENT 
UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND IO. 


1. These Regulations may be cited as the Defence (Moslem Awkaf) 
Regulations, 1937, and shall be read as one with the Emergency Regula- 
tions, 1936. 

2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Supreme Moslem 
Sharia Council Regulation dated the zoth day of December, 1921, or 
any other law, the High Commissioner may by notice in the Gazette 
appoint 2 commission to be composed of a chairman and two members 
to control and manage the Moslem Awkaf. If the chairman shall be 
incapable of so acting at any time for any cause whatsoever, the High 
Commissioner may appoint any other member of the commission or any 
other person as acting chairman during the incapacity of the chairman. 
The High Commissioner may appoint persons to act as members during 
casual vacancies caused by illness or absence. The commission shall be 
deemed to be competent to conduct business if at any meeting one member 
in addition to the chairman or acting chairman is present. In case of an 
equality of votes the chairman shall have a casting vote. 


3. From the date of such notice the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council 
and the General Awkaf Committee shall cease to control, manage or 
intervene in Awkaf affairs except as the commission may direct or to 
exercise any of the powers vested in them by the above mentioned Regula- 
tion or any other law for the purpose of controlling or managing Moslem 
Awkaf. 


45 


4. As and from the date of such notice all funds, cash, securities and 
deposits appertaining to or deposited on behalf of or vested in the Supreme 
Moslem Council or the General Awkaf Committee on behalf of Moslem 
Awkaf shall be transferred to and vested in the commission. 


5. The commission shall have all or any of the powers vested in the 
Supreme Moslem Sharia Council and the General Wakf Committee by 
the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council Regulation dated the z2oth day of 
December, 1921, and the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council Ordinance, 
1926, for the purpose of controlling and managing the Moslem Awkaf 
funds, cash, securities and deposits aforesaid. In particular they shall 
have the power :— 


(a) To require all persons indebted to the Awkaf to pay the amount 
of such debt to the commission or to such person as may be autho- 
rised in writing by the commission to receive it. 


(b) To give receipts or discharges in respect of all sums receivable 
or payable by the Awkaf. 


(c) To inspect either themselves or by a person nominated by them 
all documents of title books or other financial records or documents 
of any description dealing with Moslem Awkaf affairs and to require 
the production of such books or documents and all such explanations 
or any information from persons in charge thereof as they may deem 
necessary for the discharge of their powers and duties and for this 
purpose they may enter if need be by force any premises or place 
where they have reason to believe such records books or documents 
may be kept. 


6. The commission may appoint such persons as they deem fit to advise 
them in the discharge of their powers duties under these Regulations. 


7. All Awkaf accounts administered by the commission shall be subject 
to audit by an auditor to be nominated by the High Commissioner. 


8.—(i) If any person contravenes or abets the contravention of or 
otherwise fails to comply with any of the provisions of these Regulations 
or any order, rule or direction made or given thereunder or is guilty 
of any offence against these Regulations, notwithstanding anything con- 
tained therein he may be tried under the provisions of the Magistrates’ 
Courts Jurisdiction Ordinance, 1935, and if convicted shall be liable to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding 
one hundred pounds or both such imprisonment and fine, and notwith- 
standing anything contained in the Trial Upon Information Ordinance, 
1924-1935, any such person may be tried upon information, and when 
so tried shall upon conviction be liable to a penalty of three years im- 
prisonment or a fine of two hundred pounds or both. 


(ii) Where the person guilty of any such offence is a corporation, com- 
pany or society, any director, officer or trustee, or other person concerned 
with the management thereof, shall be guilty of the like offence unless he 
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or consent. 


9g. The Supreme Moslem Sharia Council Regulation dated the 2oth day of 
December, 1921, and the Supreme Moslem Sharia Council Ordinance, 1926, 
are hereby amended accordingly. 


By His Excellency’s Command, 
S. Moopy, 
16th October, 1937. Acting Chief Secretary. 


46 
APPENDIX 'E.” 


Supplement No. 2 to the Palestine Gazette Extraordinary No. 737 of 
11th November, 1937. 


Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 


REGULATIONS MADE BY THE OFFICER ADMINISTERING THE GOVERNMENT 
UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND I0. 

In virtue of the powers vested in the High Commissioner by Articles 6 
and 10 of the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the Officer 
Administering the Government has made the following regulations :— 

1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Military Courts) 
Regulations, 1937, and shall be read as one with the Emergency Regula- 
tions, 1936. 

2. There shall be courts in Palestine which shall be called Military Courts 
and shall under and subject to the terms of these regulations constitute 
Military Courts. 

3. A Military Court shall consist of a President who shall be an officer 
of or above the rank of Field Officer, and two other officers. The 
President and the other officers shall be appointed by warrant under the 
hand of the General Officer Commanding. 


4. No person shall be found guilty by a Military Court on any charge 
except by the unanimous verdict of the members. 

5. A Military Court shall sit in such place or places within Palestine 
as the President of the Court may think fit. 

6. Trials in a Military Court shall be conducted summarily. The 
Court shall have jurisdiction throughout Palestine to try and determine 
all offences committed after the coming into operation of these regulations 
which are specified in the Defence Regulations as triable by a Military 
Court and to impose any penalty that may be prescribed. 

7.—(1) No sentence passed by a Military Court shall be carried out until 
it has been confirmed by the General Officer Commanding. 

(2) Pending confirmation of such sentence the Court shall order the 
person sentenced to be detained in custody and such period of detention 
shall, if the sentence is confirmed and was one of imprisonment, be 
reckoned as part of the sentence of imprisonment passed as aforesaid. 

8. In case of conviction by a Military Court the General Officer Com- 
manding shall have power to:— 

(a) confirm the conviction and sentence, or : 

(b) reverse the finding and acquit or discharge the accused, or 

(c) alter the finding, maintaining the sentence, or, with or without 
altering the finding, reduce the sentence, or 

(d) with or without such reduction, alter the nature of the sentence. 

9. Save as provided in regulation 8 hereof there shall be no appeal 
from a finding or sentence of a Military Court. 


EXECUTION OF SENTENCES. 
CapITAL SENTENCES. 
to. Every sentence of death shall direct that the person condemned 
shall be hanged by the neck until he is dead. 


11. A certificate under the hand of the President of the Court that such 
sentence has been passed and naming the person condemned shall be 
sufficient authority to any Superintendent of a Prison in Palestine for the 
detention of such person. 


47 


12. The General Officer Commanding, after considering the report pro- 
vided for in paragraph 16 of the Schedule hereto, shall communicate to 
the said President or the successor in office of such President, a copy 
under his hand or any order he may make thereunder and the President 
or his successor in office shall cause an entry of the effect thereof to 
be entered on the record of the Court. 


13. A copy of the General Officer Commanding’s order under his hand 
which shall also be signed by the President of the Court or his successor 
in office shall be sent to the Superintendent of the Prison in which the 
person sentenced is detained and the Superintendent of the Prison shall 
act in accordance therewith. 

14. The said copy of the General Officer Commanding’s order under 
his hand and also signed by the President of the Court or his successor 
in office shall be sufficient authority in law to all persons to carry into 
effect in accordance with the terms thereof the sentence and, directions 
prescribed and given therein. 


SENTENCES OTHER THAN CAPITAL. 


15. A warrant under the hand of the President of the Court by which 
any person shall have been sentenced ordering that the sentence shall be 
carried out in any prison in Palestine, shall be full authority to the 
Superintendent of such prison and to all other persons for carrying into 
effect the sentence described in such warrant, not being a sentence of 
death. 

16. Military Courts shall conform as nearly as may be with the pro- 
cedure and practice set out in the schedule hereto, and the provisions of 
such schedule shall have the same force and effect for all purposes as 
if they were contained in these regulations. 

17. In these regulations, except where the context otherwise requires :— 

“The Forces ’’ shall mean His Majesty’s Naval, Military and Air 
Forces, the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force and the Palestine Police 
Force, or any part of those Forces; 

‘‘ General Officer Commanding ’’ shall mean the General Offices 
Commanding the Forces in Palestine. 


18. These regulations shall commence and come into operation on the 
18th day of November, 1937. 


SCHEDULE. 


1. Any member of the Forces may arrest any person whom he reasonably 
suspects of having committed any offence triable by a Military Court. 
Any commissioned officer of the Forces, any police officer in charge of a 
police station or any Magistrate may issue a warrant for the arrest of 
any person whom he has reason to believe has committed such an 
offence. Such warrant may be executed by the apprehension in Palestine 
by any member of the Forces or by any private individual of the person 
named in the warrant and his detention in custody until he can be pro- 
duced before a Military Court. 

2. Any member of the Forces and, with the permission of the Court, 
any public officer may institute and prosecutq proceedings before a 
Military Court. 

3. The room or place where any Military Court sits shall so far as is 
convenient be open to the public. 

4. When the accused appears before a Military Court for trial the 
substance of the charge against the accused shall be reduced to writing 
and shall be stated to him in a language that he understands and he 
shall be asked if he admits or denies the truth thereof. 


48 


5. There shall be a separate charge for each distinct offence alleged to 
have been committed by the accused, but any number of such charges 
may be made at the same time and may be tried together or separately 
as the Court shall at any time decide. But the accused shall make a 
separate and distinct plea to each charge. 


6. Any number of accused persons alleged to be guilty of similar offences 
or of offences arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions 
may be charged and tried together or separately as the Court shall at any 
time decide. 


7. Where at any stage of the proceedings a Court decides that separate 
trials shall be held under the preceding rules hereof, such trials may 
each proceed from the point on the joint proceedings where the Court 
ordered separate trials. 

8. At any stage of the proceedings the Court may at the request of the 
Prosecution or the accused or of its own motion alter the charge and 
having called upon the accused to plead to the altered charge may 
proceed with the hearing thereof as if the evidence already taken had 
been taken on the hearing of such charge, provided that it shall, on the 
request of the accused or the Prosecution, recall any witness. who has 
already given evidence. 

g. If the accused admits the truth of the charge, the Court may proceed 
to hear the evidence of all or any of the prosecution witnesses or may 
proceed forthwith to convict the accused of the offence and pass sentence 
upon him according to law. 

If the accused does not admit the truth of the charge or the Court 
refuses to accept a plea of guilty, the Court shall proceed to hear the 
prosecutor and his witnesses and other evidence (if any). The accused 
may put questions to each witness produced against him and thereafter 
the prosecutor may re-examine such witness. 

If the accused does not employ an advocate the Court shall, at the 
close of the examination of each witness for the Prosecution, ask the 
accused whether he wishes to put any questions to that witness and shall 
cause his answer to be recorded. 

ro. At the close of the evidence in support of the charge, if it appears 
to the Court that the case is made out against the accused sufficiently 
to require him to make a defence, the Court shall ask him if he wishes to 
say anything in answer to the charge, or wishes to give evidence or has 
any witness to examine or other evidence to adduce in his defence, and the 
Court shall then hear the accused and his witnesses and other evidence 
(if any). 

If the accused states that he has witnesses to call but that they are 
not present, the Court may in its discretion adjourn the trial and if 
it so deems fit take the steps hereinafter mentioned to secure the attendance 
of such witnesses. 


11. The evidence of any witness produced before a Court shall be taken 
on oath or affirmation: 

Provided that the Court may, for any reason which seems to it to be 
sufficient and which reason shall be recorded, receive the unsworn or un- 
affirmed evidence of any witness. . 

12. The rules of evidence applied by the Court shall be those followed 
in Courts of Law in England unless the Court shall in any particular 
instance and for any reason which seems to it to be sufficient and which 
shall be recorded, permit such rules to be relaxed. 


13. The President of the Court shall record or cause to be recorded 
a summary of the evidence and any submission made by the accused. 





49 


14. Variance between the charge and the evidence adduced in support 
of it with respect to the time or place at which the alleged offence was 
committed is not material. But if any variance between the charge and 
the evidence appears to the Court to be such that the accused has been 
thereby deceived or misled, the Court may adjourn the hearing and allow 
any witness to be recalled, and such questions to be put to him as by 
reason of the terms of the charge may have been omitted. 


The Court may at any time amend the charge on such terms as may 
be just. 

15. At the conclusion of the evidence the accused or his advocate may 
address the Court and thereafter the Prosecution may reply. 


16. The Court, at the conclusion of the case and after such deliberation 
as to it shall seem proper, shall convict or acquit the accused as the 
case may be on each of the charges preferred against him and if he is 
convicted on any charge shall pass sentence against him according to law. 
The decision of the Court and the sentence (if any) shall be reduced to 
writing and signed by the President of the Court. The Court shall as 
soon as possible after passing sentence, send to the General Officer Com- 
manding a report upon the case, together with all documents, minutes and 
notes of evidence taken in the case. 


17. The Court may convict the accused of an offence other than that 
charged, provided that the offence of which he is convicted is not of a 
character entirely dissimilar to that contained in the charge. 


18, The Court may at any stage of the proceedings adjourn the same 
to any time or place which to it may seem fit and may make such pro- 
vision for the appearance of the accused at such time or place, either by 
his detention in the meantime or otherwise as to it may seem fit. 


19. If it is made to appear that material evidence can be given by 
or is in the possession of any person who will not voluntarily attend to 
give it or will not voluntarily produce the same, it shall be lawful for 
any commissioned officer of the Forces or any police officer in charge of 
a police station to issue a summons to such person requiring his attendance 
before a Military Court or requiring him to bring and produce to such 
Court for the purpose of evidence all things in his possession or power 
which may be specified or otherwise sufficiently described in the summons: 

Provided that if such officer has reason to believe that the person will 
not attend on a summons, such officer may issue a warrant for his arrest. 

20. When a witness is arrested under a warrant the Court may on the 
furnishing of satisfactory security for the appearance of such witness 
at the trial release him from custody. 

21. Any person summoned to attend before a Military Court who without 
reasonable excuse fails to attend as required by the summons, or who, 
having attended departs without having obtained the permission of the 
Court or fails to attend after adjournment of the Court and after being 
ordered to attend, or any person who being present in Court refuses 
to obey any lawful direction of the Court may be immediately sentenced 
by such Court to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. 

Nothing herein contained shall affect the liability of any such person 
to any other punishment or proceeding for such neglect or refusal. 


By His Excellency’s Command, | 


S. Moopy, 
Acting Chief Secretary. 
11th November, 1937. 


50 


I.—_JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


The affairs of the Jewish community during 1937 continued 
to be largely dominated by the state of insecurity and by the 
uncertainty which existed in regard to the political future of 
Palestine. These matters are dealt with elsewhere in this 


 aiapie 

\“ 2. There were signs in the early part of the year of a slight 
improvement in the economic situation but the improvement was 
not maintained, and in the latter part of the year there was a 
general slackening of commercial, industrial and building 
activity throughout the country, while the number of Jewish 
unemployed increased considerably and was estimated at the 
end of December at about 12,000 (combining whole and part 
time employment). 

3. During 1937, 10,536 Jews were registered as immigrants, 
of whom 1,869 were working men and women (with 1,282 
dependants) , 2,439 including dependants were of the capitalist 
category (persons with £P.1,000 and upwards) and 3,784 were 
dependants of residents of Palestine. The Jewish population at 
the end of 1937 was estimated to be approximately 396,000, 
equivalent to about 30 per cent. of the settled population of the 
country. 

4. During the year, 29,367 dunums of land were purchased 
by Jews from non-Jews at a total cost of £P.392,916, as com- 
pared with 18,146 dunums at a cost of £P.158,826 in 1936 and 
72,903 dunums at a cost of £P.1,609,12I in 1935. Of this total, 
13,507 dunums were purchased by the Jewish National Fund, 
which increased the land in its ownership up to 385,000 dunums 
or about 30 per cent. of the total area in Jewish ownership. 

5- The following grants-in-aid were made by the Palestine 
Government towards the expenditure of the Jewish community 
upon various services of a public character during the financial 
year 1937-8:— ¢ 


Education: £P. 
Grant-in-aid to the schools of the General 
Council (Vaad Leumi) (recurrent services) ... 44,747 
Capital grant in respect of capital expenditure 
on new schools (non-recurrent services)... 20,012 
Capital grant towards the construction of a 
trade school by the Mizrahi organization ... 2,000 
Health: 
Contribution to Jewish health services— 
(a) Tuberculosis hospital, Safad... she 1,700 
(6) School hygiene ee ee 2,041 
» (c) Infant welfare work its as oat 1,771 
(d) Tel-Aviv hospital (recurrent service) ... 6,841 
Grant to Hebrew University for anti-malarial 
research 180 


Grant to Kupat_ Holim for extension of 
Emek Hospital aes ee ve be 550 


st 
Agriculiuve and Forests: £P. 
Grant for citrus research by the experimental 


station of the Jewish Agency wae Se 3,000 
Grant to Jewish Agency experiments on fruit 

growing at Hillside Station, Kiryat Anavim 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farmin; 

‘experiments ae fee ae ase 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for research ... an 2,950 
Grant to Hebrew University for field mice 

investigations aS ae ae ees 200 
Grant to Hebrew University for spirochaetosis 


6. New Local Councils were established in the Jewish settle- 
ments of Beit Wegan, Hertsliya, Raanana, Kfar Saba and Bnei 

raq. 

Petah Tiqva, which increased in size considerably during the 
years 1934-6, and the population of which is now about 18,000, 
was declared a Municipal Corporation in March, 1937, and thus 
became the second all-Jewish Municipality. 


7. Four additional Jewish District Officers were appointed by 
Government during 1937 to the District Administration in the 
Haifa and Samaria and the Galilee and Acre Districts to serve 
the needs of Jewish settlements. 


8. Considerable progress was made in the development of 
the Lighter Harbour at Tel-Aviv, which was started in 1936 with 
the permission of Government following the closure of the Jaffa 
woadwead through the Arab strike. e landing of all classes 
of merchandise has been authorized in stages during the year 
and at the close of the year the landing of passengers and immi- 
grants had been agreed to in principle by Government, subject 
to the provision of proper accommodation and to compliance 
with certain requirements in the interest of the safety of 
passengers. 

The Lighter Harbour now comprises three transit sheds, an 
export shed, a large dump, a lighter basin of four acres of water 
surface which holds 80 lighters, and a quay 240 yards long, 

uipped with five small cranes and one large movable crane, 
aig is estimated to be capable of handling about 1,500 tons 
of import and export cargoes daily. It is estimated that about 
one million cases of citrus fruit will be exported through Tel-Aviv 
during the 1937-8 season. The Marine Trust, Limited, which 
is responsible for the lighter port has increased its share capital 
to £P.250,000, of which £P.175,000 has been paid up. 


g. Seventeen new agricultural settlements located in the 
Beisan sub-district, the Jordan Valley and the Maritime Plain 
were established by the Jewish Agency in 1937 on Jewish 
National Fund lands. These settlements cover an area of 35,000 
dunums, of which 20,000 dunums were placed under cultivation 


52 


during the year. The new settlements are planned to accom- 
modate 1,200 families and at present contain a population of 
about 1,340 persons. 


Io. During the year October, 1936—September, 1937, the 
Jewish Agency expended on colonization and agricultural 
research a sum of £P.127,000 allocated as follows:— 


£P. 
Agricultural Research Institute... ae ++ 23,600 
Amelioration Works, Huleh es sie ar 4,000 
Colonization (Including new _ settlements 
P. 28,000) and completion of equipment of old 
settlements (£P. 59,000))... nas ey ++. 99,000 


11. The budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
sev Community of Palestine for the year ended 30th 
eptember, 1937, provided for an estimated revenue of 
4P.166,158, and an estimated expenditure of £P.164,529, the 
neta! heads of expenditure being Education £P.131,612, 
ealth £P.8,447, Social Service £P.15,997 and Administration 
£P.8,472. At the request of the General Council (Vaad cone) 
the High Commissioner approved Rules made by the Coun 
under Rule 12 of the Jewish Community Rules providing penal- 
ties for offences in elections to the Elected Assembly. 


12. The number of Jewish children attending schools increased 
during the year ending the 30th September, 1937, from 61,173 
to 68,182. Seventy per cent. of the New pupils attended Vaad 
Leumi schools: the remaining 30 per cent. attended public and 
private schools outside the Vaad Leumi school system. The 
attendance at the schools and educational institutions of the Vaad 
Leumi was as follows: 


Kindergartens i Bo on ne cee 7,600 
Elementary Schools ... p buh pa ss 34,471 
Secondary Schools ... aay : us eae 4,583 
Teachers’ Training Colleges zis ae oe 660 
Technical Schools, Agricultural Colleges, etc. ... 497 


The total budget of the Vaad Leumi for education was 
” £P.385,306 which was derived from the following sources: — 





£P. 
The Jewish Community ... eae nels see 312,033 
Government grant ... a sete Hee Sen 42,880 
Jewish Agency ae ee aie ae abs 20,000 
i dele So aed oe tg 4.425 
Other bodies eee So sa ate on 5,968 
Total ee £P.385,306 





13. Further developments took place in the Hebrew Univer- 
sity of Jerusalem, of which the aggregate expenditure for the 
financial year amounted to about £P.107,000. 





53 


At the end of the academic year, 1936-7, the staff of the 
University comprised 112 members, including 30 professors and 
26 lecturers. e number of students enrolled was 779 (of 
whom one-third were women), as against 620 in the preceding 
year. 73I were undergraduates, of whom 517 were in the 
Faculty of Humanities and 214 in the Faculty of Science, and 
48 were research students. Two students in the Faculty of 
Humanities graduated with the degree of M.A. and 14 with the 
degree of M.Sc. in the Faculty of Science. In the Faculty of 
Humanities, a provisional post for the teaching of the History 
of Halacha (Jewish Tate was established; a lecturer was 
appointed to the vacant position of lecturer in Arabic Language 
and Literature and a teacher in Arabic was appointed; new 
professorships were established in Social Philosophy and Prin- 
ciples of Education; elementary instruction in the English 
language was introduced and special courses were given in 
educational psychology and in the Sociology and Economics of 
the Modern Near East. 


In the Faculty of Science posts were established for Assistants 
in Geometry and in the Physiology of Plants. Further progress 
was made in the equipment of the Institute of Physics and 
instruction in Chemistry was extended to include a beginners’ 
course. 


Considerable progress was made in the construction of the 
Medical School Buildings, the University Hospital and Nurses 
Training School on Mount Scopus, which will constitute the 
University Medical Centre. It is hoped to open the Centre in 
October, 1938. 


The University received a large bequest from South Africa for 
the establishment of a Museum of Jewish Antiquities. 


14. Further assistance was given to local industries which are 
entirely or largely in the hands oO Je manufacturers, by the 
grant of exemption from import duty on raw materials, by the 
increase of import duties for protective purposes on manufac- 
tured articles, and by the grant of drawbacks in respect of 
certain products exported from Palestine. 

These included protective duties on perfumery, poultry, beer 
(of Syrian and Lebanese origin), eggs, canned peas, metal fit- 
tings for wooden roller shutters, and artificial silk goods. 

The raw materials exempted from import duty included: 
palladium, calcium stearate, zambils, wooden hoops for citrus 
cases, raw rubber and rubber latex, palm leaf baskets and 
crates, Palmyra fibre, citric acid, bare and tinned copper wire, 
rubber wells and nibs for fountain pens. 

Drawback was granted in respect of rough, raw or uncleaned 
rice used in the manufacture of rice and cleaned rice products 
exported from Palestine, and in respect of imported prepared 

48607 c 


354 


wood or wood prepared in Palestine from imported boards or 
a used in the manufacture of citrus cases exported from 
alestine. 


The new Jewish undertakings established during 1937 included 
factories for the manufacture of celluloid toys, buttons, 
varnishes, citrus by-products, aluminium ware and flour. 


11.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


The collection of arrears of taxation and the maintenance and 
provision of public services has been energetically pursued 
throughout the year under review by the Municipal and Local 
Councils. 


The collection of municipal rates and taxes was as good as the 
prevailing economic circumstances could permit. 


2. The following Municipal By-laws were issued by the differ- 
ent Municipal Corporations during the year: — 


Licensing of Bicycles and Trieycles oes «. (Tel-Aviv) 
Closing of Shops .. aes ‘ oe ... (Tel-Aviv) 
Protection of Plants eo ee .. (Tel-Aviv) 
Licensing and Control of Dogs... ao ... (Tel-Aviv) 
Slaughter House Fees ... 4 es .-. (Petah Tiqva) 
Traffic Control ... awe Bee ves ..» (Petah Tiqva) 
General By-laws... noe an ds. ...  (Majdal) 
Water rate A ee +» (Majdal) 
Licensing and Control of Dogs... a ... (Beersheba) 
Licensing and Control of # Dogs: ea «1. (Gaza) 
Sidewalks... ae oe «+. (Gaza) 
General By-laws .. se wea — ..» (Khan Yunis) 
Licensing and Control of Dogs... nae ... (Ramleh) 
Licensing and Control of Dogs... oe «.» (Lydda) 
Licensing and Control of Dogs.. -»» (Acre) 

Tariff charges for public motor vehicles -.. (Haifa) 
Advertisement ... avs aes aus .». (Haifa) 

Street name plate a8 os wae ... (Haifa) 
Advertisement ... Per as ... (Jerusalem) 
Construction of Streets . ae or ... (Jerusalem) 
Insanitary Nuisances... 3% oes ... (Jerusalem) 
Slaughter House ... ao fee ee ..» (Jerusalem) 


The following By-laws were issued by Local Councils: — 


Slaughter House Fees ... ies .. (Ramat Gan) 
Licensing of Bicycles and Tricycles eee ... (Hertsliya) 
Closing of shops ... aie a ee ... (Hertsliya) 
Entertainment fees sins ee ae ... (Ramat Gan) 


3. The Local Council of Petah Tiqva was raised to the rank 
of Municipal Corporation. The President of the Local Council 
was appointed Mayor and the members were authorized by 


55 


Government to remain in office until the election of a new 
Municipal Council in accordance with the provisions of the 
Municipal Corporations Ordinance. 


4. During the month of December the High Commissioner, 
in exercise of the powers vested in him by section 61 of the 
Municipal Corporations Ordinance, nominated a council to 
replace the Commission appointed for the Municipal Council of 
Khan Yunis during the 1936 disturbances. 


5. Presidents and councillors were appointed during the year 
for the Local Councils which were established during 1936 at 
Beit Vegan, Kfar Saba, Raanana, and Hertsliya. 


6. Local Councils were established during the year for Bnei . 
Beraq, Anebta village, and for Tubas Area (Nablus Sub- 
District) with jurisdiction over the lands of Tubas, Tammun, 
Aqraba and Tayassir villages. 


7. During the year the Municipal Council of Haifa completed 
and inaugurated a new slaughter house and also constructed 
asphalted roads and new sewers. 


8. Electricity was introduced into Beisan, and the Local 
Council of Affuleh constructed a parking place. The construc- 
tion of a school in that town is proceeding. 


g. At the end of the year a number of applications for the 
establishment of Local Councils was under consideration by 
Government. 


to. In the municipal area of Jerusalem extensive construc- 
tion of sidewalks and planting of trees was carried out. A much 
needed Municipal Fire Brigade was organized and equipped 
during the year. 


11. In Hebron an up-to-date slaughter house is in the course 
of construction. In Ramallah, municipal offices have been con- 
structed and a vegetable market is nearing completion. The 
Municipalities of Hebron, Ramallah, Bethlehem and Beit Jala 
have been declared Town Planning Areas and outline and 
detailed Town Planning Schemes for the future development 
of these towns are in course of preparation. 


12. In the Introductory section of this report (Policy) men- 
tion is made of the deportation of the Arab Mayor of Jerusalem 
with other members of the Arab Higher Committee on the 1st 
October. As a result, the Jewish Deputy Mayor, Mr. Daniel 
Auster, was appointed by the High Commissioner to perform the 
duties assigned to the Mayor. 


13. At Hebron the Municipal Commission which was 
appointed in 1936 continued in office throughout the year 1937. 
In Ramallah, owing to the death of the Mayor which occurred 


48607 C2 


56 


during the year, it was found necessary to appoint a Commis- 
sion to administer municipal affairs. This Commission was still 
in office at the end of the year. 


14. Municipal Corporations have in general displayed a fair 
sense of financial responsibility and the marked improvement 
which has been observed in the working of municipalities since 
the enactment of the Municipal Corporations Ordinance, 1934, 
still continues. 


111.—JEWISH AGENCY. 


The representations of the Jewish Agency in regard to Gov- 
ernment proposals for legislation concerned the Immigration 
(Amendment) Bill, 1937, the Banking (Amendment and Further 
Provisions) Bill, 1937, the Rent Restrictions Ordinance, 1937, 
the Huleh Concession (Boundaries) Bill, 1937, and the Rates 
and Taxes (Exemption) Bill, 1937. 

The Immigration (Amendment) Bill, 1937, was designed, 
inter alia, to give effect to paragraph 6 of the Statement of Policy 
issued in July, 1937, by ii ajesty’s Government (see Intro- 
ductory Chapter, “‘ Policy ’’, Appendix B), in which it was 
intimated that a total Jewish immigration in all categories of 
8,000 would be permitted for the eight months’ period from 
August, 1937, to March, 1938, provided that the economic 
absorptive capacity of the country was not thereby exceeded. 
For this purpose the Bill provided that the High Commissioner 
should have powers to prescribe a maximum aggregate number 
of foreigners to be admitted to Palestine during any specified 
period, to fix the maximum number of persons to be admitted 
in any category and to provide what proportion of these 
persons might be persons of the Jewish race. 

The Bill also provided greater discretion to the Director of 
Immigration in deciding applications for the admission of 
dependants other than wives and children; introduced heavier 
penalties for aiding and abetting illegal immigration; placed 
on persons charged with being illegally in Palestine the onus 
of proving the contrary; vested in the Director of Immigration 
instead of in the High Commence the power to decide whether 
persons were unsuitable for admission to Palestine; and defined 
more clearly the power of the High Commissioner to prescribe 
fees. 

The Bill was strongly criticized by the Jewish Agency chiefly 
on the following grounds: (i) the imposition of an overriding 
maximum was contrary to the economic absorptive capacity 
principle; (ii) if the purpose of the Bill was to impose a limit of 
8,000 for the period of eight months from the 1st August, 1938, 
the temporary character of this provision should be definitely 
embodied in the Bill; (iii) a special limitation for immigrants of 


57 


Jewish race lay Government open to the charge of discrimination 
between Jews and non-Jews and might be used as a justification 
for the policy of racial discrimination against Jews in other 
countries. 


As a result of these representations the relevant clause was 
amended by the deletion of the provision to provide power for 
the High Commissioner to fix the number of ‘‘ persons of Jewish 
race ’’’ and a proviso was added to the effect that the clause 
would expire on the 31st March or on such later date as the 
High Commissioner in Council might determine with the 
approval of the Secretary of State. 


The changes contained in other clauses of the Bill on which 
the Jewish Agency submitted representations had been for the 
most part included in the Immigration (Amendment) Bill, 1936, 
the promulgation of which had been deferred pending the recom- 
mendations of the Royal Commission in regard to the manner 
in which immigration into Palestine should be regulated in the 
future (see page 67 of the Report for 1936). After careful con- 
sideration of the Jewish Agency’s representations and having 
regard to the Royal Commission’s recommendations these pro- 
posals were enacted as proposed in the draft legislation. 


The provisions of the Rent Restrictions Ordinance, 1937, were 
made applicable to Tel-Aviv on the request of the Jewish Agency 
and the Municipal Council of Tel-Aviv. 


The representations of the Jewish Agency in regard to the 
Banking (Amendment and Further Provisions) Bill, 1937, were 
principally directed to the stipulation in the Bill that the mini- 
mum capital of a bank should be £P.25,000 and they urged 
that this figure should be reduced to £P.5,000. After careful 
consideration Government reached the conclusion that the pro- 
vision was essential to improve banking methods in the country 
and to safeguard the interests of depositors, as the small so-called 
banks were carrying on business under conditions foreign to 
proper banking methods and there was a serious risk of failure 
among these institutions which might lead to a banking crisis. 


Representations of the Agency in regard to the Rates and 
Taxes (Exemption) Bill, 1937, and the Huleh Concession 
(Boundaries) Bill, 1937, were still under consideration by 
Government at the end of the year. 


2. In view of the anticipated publication of the report of the 
Royal Commission, an immigration schedule was authorized 
for the period April to July, inclusive, instead of the usual 
six-monthly period ending the 30th September. After con- 
sidering the representations of the Jewish Agency the High Com- 
missioner on the roth May authorized a labour immigration 
schedule for the four months of 770. 


48607 C3 


58 


No labour schedule was in force during the months of August 
and September and for the period October, 1937—March, 1938, 
a labour schedule of 1,780 was authorized on the 9th November 
after consideration of the Jewish Agency’s application. 


3. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish Com- 
munity made representations to Government in regard to the 
grant of a loan for the erection of school buildings and in 
regard to the payment of arrears of their share of the grant for 
the construction of school buildings from Loan Funds. These 
Hela were under consideration by Government at the end of 

e year. 


4. The Jewish Agency submitted applications for the pena 
tion from import duty of certain raw materials and for the 
imposition of protective tariffs on a number of commodities, 
which are being manufactured in Palestine. A representative 
of the Jewish Agency served on a special sub-committee set up 
by Government for the purpose of considering modifications in 
the Syria-Palestine Customs Agreement. 


5. Representations were also made by the Jewish Agency 
in regard to the employment of Jews in public works and in the 
railway and port services. The share of Jewish labour in public 
works ae the year amounted to 23 per cent. of the total 
wages bill of the Public Works Department. Amongst other 
public works, Government entrusted to Jewish labour the com- 
ae of the Haifa-Jaffa road, the road from Raanana to 

iske in the Southern District, the Police Station at Tel-Aviv, 
the Police Married Quarters at Tel-Aviv and the Government 
Hospital, Haifa. 


6. The arrangements made to allot a section of Government 
porterage work in Haifa port to Jewish labour at contractors’ 
rates (see page 68 of the ual Report for 1936) have worked 
satisfactorily. The Jewish porters have augmented their equip- 
ment of mechanical appliances and there has been a marked 
improvement in their manual and physical dexterity. The pro- 
portion of porterage work performed by the Jews was one- 
and the average number of Jewish porters engaged daily 
throughout the period of six months ending the 30th November 
was 77. 


7. The Jewish Agency continued to co-operate with the 
authorities concerned in all matters relating to the defence and 
security of Jewish settlements. Government authorized the 
enrolment by instalments during the year of a large force of 
Jewish: supernumerary police and special constables for the 
protection of Jewish settlements, in the recruitment of which 
the Jewish Agency co-operated. 


59 


1V.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1. The numbers of persons in the several classes recorded as 
having eater or left Palestine during 1937 and distributed by 











‘ racial ”’ ‘ national ’’ declarations are as follows:— 

Arrivals. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 

(a) ener returning after a 
iod exceeding one year 1,855 976 707 172 

@) Reddents returning after a 

period not eee one 
year 2 <s 103,784 30,177 64,740 8,867 
(63) Immigrants .. ns 10,832 9,855 579 398 
(@) Exempted persons 531 _— 2 529 
(e) Temporary visitors.. edd 82,653 13,702 42,465 26,486 
(f) Transit travellers ... a 16,615 1,377 3,518 11,720 
Total... ves 216,270 56,087 112,011 48,172 

Departures. 

(a) Residents departing for a 

period exceeding one 
year en eee wns 1,528 889 341 298 

() Residents departing for a 

period not eee one 
year 112,332 35,827 66,737 9,768 
(c) Temporary visitors. 80,958 13,437 41,539 25,982 
(@) Transit travellers ... vee 16,215 1,470 3,252 11,493 
Total... see 211,033 51,623 111,869 47,541 

Net increase of population due 
to recorded migration ey 5,237 4.464 142 631 


2. The numbers of persons recorded as having entered 
Palestine during 1937 and arriving by the several means of 


transport are as follows:— 


Sea. 

Total arrivals ae Bs a a 46,961 

Temporary visitors ... is see we 14,858 

Immigrants wet 9,969 
Residents returning after a period exceeding 

one year see 1,307 
Residents returning ‘after a ‘period not ex- 

ceeding one year ... oe ds ve 17,882 

Transit travellers... ao bce Ee 2,045 


Land. 


167,397 
66,677 
1,388 


543 


85,341 
13,448 


Ais, 
1,912 
1,118 

6 


5 


561 
222 


The numbers of persons recorded as having departed from 
Palestine during 1937 and leaving by the several means of 


transport are as follows:— 


Sea. 
Total departures... i ren we 41,566 
Temporary visitors . 13,925 
bpenge ie oorertne ‘for a period exceeding : 

ao 1,37 

lenient ¢ departing ‘for a ‘period 1 “hot ex- 

ceeding one year . se 23,166 
Transit travellers... at ne ses 3,009 


48607 


Land. 
167,238 
65,790 


145 


88,404 
12,899 


Air. 
2,229 
1,243 


7 


762 
217 
C4 


60 


3. Of the persons who entered Palestine in 1937 as travellers, 
I,II2 were registered as immigrants. Of these, 681 were Jews 
and 431 were non-Jews. 


Including exempted see the total number of immigrants 
during the year was thus 12,475, of whom 10,536 were Jews 
and 1,939 were non-Jews. : 


4. The recorded volume of Jewish immigration and emigra- 
tion in 1937 and previous years is as follows:— 
Jewish persons 








‘ewish persons recorded 
p 
registered as as leaving 

Year. immigrants. permanently. 
1920-1924 ... ot ois ar 42,784" 5,476t 
1925-1929 ... an oo és 57,022 18,501 
1930-1934 ... i Bee ave gh258 2.345t 
1935 rs ube 23) Be 1,854 391 
1936 eee ood ee Peo 29,727 773 
1937 B25 aye aes +6 10,536 889 

Total ae nee 293,181* 28,380f 








* The records begin in September, 1920. 

t No figures are available for Jewish emigration in 1920, 1921, 1932, 1933 
and 1934. The census taken in 1931 revealed that the actual number of 
Jewish emigrants was larger than that revealed in the migration records. 


5. The countries of previous residence of immigrants regis- 
tered in 1937 (i-e., of persons arriving as immigrants, or arriv- 
ing as travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) 
were as follows:— 


Country of previous residence. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 


Total immigrants registered ... vee 12,475 10,536 743 1,196 

Total Europe ... a se ves 10,211 9,326 37 848 
Austria ... wee wes Ba 225 214 _ Ir 
Belgium ... Hn ai Se 75 75 — _— 
Bulgaria oes wee a 40 38 _ 2 
Czechoslovakia ... ou sate 234 220 _— 14 
Danzig ... aide ws ere 26 26 _ _— 
Denmark eet aisle Ae 5 5 _- — 
Esthonia... ies oer ae Ir 9 — 2 
Finland ... aM was aa I I —_ _ 
France ... ie See as 131 88 2 41 
Germany oh sia 2) 3,664 3,611 — 53 
Great Britain ... aes aoe 648 94 I 553 
Greece ... a nee sae 87 71 _ 16 
Hungary... as ais aN: 51 44 _ 7 
Irish Free State ans sa 17 73 _ 10 
Italy ess es cr aes 150 43 _ 107 
Latvia ... Re aa aes III 110 _ I 
Lithuania ase ae 2% 219 218 — 1 
Netherlands... Bre Ne 67 65 _- 2 


Norway ... U8 ot aes 7 7 


Country of pron vesidence. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 


Poland ... 3 3,647 3,636 _ WI 
Rumania ae os sate 318 “314 — 4 
Spain... ane Boe cis 46 II 33 2 
Sweden ... Aes, sud ae 5 5 — _- 
Switzerland ase alas sae 38 36 — 2 
U.S.S.R. (Russia) ues aa 355 354 _ I 
Yugoslavia Es ee 31 24 I 6 
Other countries of Europe ayy 2 _ _ 2 
Total Asia ... eas ae ae 1,433 848 456 129 
Aden... ie cf ae 63 63 — — 
Afghanistan... a ates 86 86 _— —_ 
China... os we wes Ir Ir —_ _— 
Cyprus ... ees Os as 79 4 57 18 
India... ore ae aoe 22 21 _ I 
Iran aS sie Be aor 28 27 _ I 
Iraq cae 25 162 148 7 7 
Syria and Lebanon... aes 575 99 382 64 
Trans-Jordan ... sae ase 5 _ 5 _ 
Turkey ... we eee te 47 43 _ 4 
Yemen ... ae 336 336 _— —_ 
Other countries ‘of Asia ae 19 10 5 4 
Total Africa Bea Pers bees 445 14 143 161 
Abyssinia oes oe toe 6 _ _— 6 
Egypt ... Sa nes ae 383 94 141 148 
Morocco ... ate eee eS 2 2 —_ _ 
Sudan ... Ses a nes I I _— — 
Tripoli... wee fae 19 17 2 -- 
Tunis... 2 see 2 _ _ 2 
Union of South ‘Africa | ois 29 26 _— 3 
Other countries of Africa ar 3 I _— 2 
Total America See ea wee 344 200 107 37 
Canada ... ass 8 5 _— 3 
United States of “America Sad 190 167 6 17 
Argentine ee ase 4 4 _ —_ 
Brazil... ee wae nae 19 9 4 6 
Mexico ... 6 _ 4 2 
Other countries of Latin. ‘America 117 15 93 9 
Australia aay ane an wae 4 2 _ 2 
New Zealand ... aS sss ui 25 16 —_ 9 
Undefined... ne ci Bae 13 3 — Io 


6. The following table illustrates the changes in the principal 
sources of Jewish immigration :— 
Proportion per 100 Jewish immigrants 
coming from all countries in years. 
Country of previous residence. 1922-1929. 1935. 1936. 1937. 


Allcountries... é Ar 100 100 100 100 
Poland ... Ais si ae 46 49 41 35 
Russia... es Hos Se 20 I 2 3 
Germany Be; we ac _ Il 27 34 
Rumania one ae sab 6 6 5 3 
Lithuania ov 5 3 3 2 
United States of “America woe 3 3 I a 


Others ... Ss Sie 20 27 al 12 


62 


7. Persons granted visas for Palestine are liable to be refused 
admission on arrival at the frontier if the Immigration Officer 
is not satisfied that they are persons who may lawfully be 
admitted to Palestine. The numbers of persons so refused 
admission in 1937 and previous years are as follows: — 


Number Number refused 


Total refused admission per 
Year. entrants. admission. 1,000 entrants. 
1930 wae Bary 94,576 212 2 
1931 wea ss 90,334 401 4 
1932 ase «es 100,679 253 3 
1933 sey vee 141,478 1,505 Ir 
1934 Ae vee 176,681 945 5 
1935 ae «ee 230,643 831 4 
1936 cs as 147,932 315 2 
1937 Hs vss 216,270 588 3 


No figures are available prior to 1930. 


8. The numbers of immigrants by sex registered in 1937 are 
as follows:— 


Race. Total. Male. Female. 
Jews ... ae ws 10,536 5,098 5,438 
Arabs ... aaa ses 743 235 508 
Others... see ae 1,196 766 430 


“e 

These figures indicate that Jewish women formed 52 per cent. 

of the Jewish immigrants registered in 1937. According to the 

census taken in 1931, Jewish women formed 49-5 per cent. of 
the Jewish population of Palestine. 


g. The age groups of immigrants registered in 1937 (i.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or of persons arriving as 
travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) are as 
follows:— 


Age groups. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Total... te 12,475 10,536 743 1,196 
oO 4 oes aoe 666 483 125 58 
5-9 we on 644 526 84 34 
10-14 aed oo 781 637 84 40 
15-19 se. sits 1,416 1,178 164 74 
20-24 pe vs 2,457 1,989 123 345 
25-29 res ie 1,790 1,472 63 255 
30-34 Sh Se 1,075 908 35 132 
35-39 BAS Siee 683 573 22 88 
40-44 ue te 478 412 13 53 
45-49 wae a8 411 368 6 37 
50-54 te te 495 495 3 27 
55-59 ae aes 519 494 5 20 
60-64 as oe 432 4Il 10 Ir 
65-69 Age eas 314 295 5 14 
70-74 ae ose 176 170 I 5 


75 and over a 138 135 


63 


Io. The change in the relative proportions of Jewish immi- 
grants over and under the age of 35 years during the last five 
years is indicated by the following figures: — 


Under 35 years Over 35 years 


Year. per cent. per cent. 
1933 oon ea oa 79°9 20°1 
1934 ooo os 75°7 24°3 
1935 oes sed ce 71-2 28-8 
1936 eae ste aes 68-5 3I°5 
1937 ees 7) see 68-5 31°5 


11. The numbers of immigrants by sex and conjugal condition 
registered in 1937 are as follows:— 





Conjugal condition. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Males: 
Persons ... tft or 5,098 235 766 
Unmarried a aN 2,987 205 630 
Married ... aie se 1,923 28 133 
Divorced oa 350 32 _— I 
Widowed aa oo 156 2 2 
Females : 
Persons ... iste oF 5,438 508 430 
Unmarried oa oe 1,774 182 242 
Married ... aes ue 3,019 312 170 
Divorced eet ues 49 2 I 


Widowed oes ae 596 12 17 


64 


rz. The numbers of immigrants by previous occupation 
registered in 1937 are as follows: — 
































Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Occupation. | 
g g _ | & 3 
g 8 g 3 8 3 | 8 3 
slei/s |] 8 18/8] 8 
= & 5 x a i 
Total persons in all 
occupations... 6,099 | 6,376] 5,008 | 5,438 | 235 | 508] 766] 43 
Total persons in specified 
occupations... 4,194 817 | 3,423 636 | 100 37 | 671 | 14 
Agriculture, Forestry and 
Fishing a 951 51 948 51 1] — 2) = 
Mines and Quarries és 4 _ 3 = = co | a 
Manufacturing Industries : 
Textiles ee For 12 5 12 ih (a ==) = = 
Leather works. avi 8 — 8 — = —_ = == 
Wood works ... was 83 — 81 _ = = + a ie 
Metal works... Be 81 =— 67 _— TO!) = | = 
Ceramics : aoe 8 I 8 ol = = = am 
Chemical products a5 = =F 
Food products... on 64 2 63 2 | = =  ) 
Dress and toilet ee 7o 58 68 58 | — = 2.) 
Building oe 98 2 94 2 rj — 1 (oe 
Industries relating to 
literature and artistic 
trades ve 45 3 44 3 By | 
Transport... oe mae 16 _ Ir _ Ba) So 2) == 
Commerce fad Ba 697 IL 667 11 20} — Io} — 
Other trades we —_— I —_— 1} — a = <= 
Clerical Service ... 117 48 74 43 5 I 38 4 
Public Officials, Police and | 
Army ... 408 2 I = = = 497 
Professions and Liberal 
Arts: 
Religion aed ice 205 100 55 _ 16 9 134 o 
Law_... a ae 29 I 27 tr} — = Zz) == 
Medicine : 
Physicians, surgeons: | 40 ai 33 5 a 5 
Dentists age 16 2 15 I 1] — = ‘ 
Medical attendants... 16 21 16 cea —_— 4/ — ( 
Education eee ‘ 52 27 37 14 4 2 Ir 1 
Architects, engineers . 47 4 42 4) = a a = 
Arts | 20 II 18 Io| — = 2 
Other liberal professions 10 3 10 3; — = = = 
Domestic service.. 12 73 4 46 I 5 7 2 
Insufficiently described 
occupations... 275 31 272 31 | | =4 a 
Students (16 years and | 
over)... 810 353 745 333) 34 16 3t 
TotaL PERSONS OF NO 
OCCUPATION OR OF 
UNKNOWN OCCUPA- | 
TION, MINORS AND 
DEPENDANTS «| 1,905 | 5,559 | 1,675 | 4,802 135) 471 95 | 236 
| | 











Digitized bi Google 
Cc 





65 


13. Immigrants registered in 1937 belonged to the following 
categories defined in the rules under the Immigration 
Ordinance:— 


Categories. Total. Jews. Arabs. —_ Others. 
A (i) Persons with {P.1,000 and 
upwards... . 1,300 1,275 13 12 
Dependanes. of persons in 
category A (i) ee % 1,101 1,096 3 2 


A (ii) Members of of liberal professions 
with a capital of not less 
than £P.500 _— _ _ _ 

Dependants of persons in 
category A (ii) ... 

A (iii) Skilled artisans with a capital 





of not less than £P.250 ... 12 12 _ _ 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (iii)... 12 12 _— _ 
A (iv) Persons of minimum income 
of {P.4a month ... 49 45 1 3 
A (v) Persons with a capital of not 
less than {P.500 ... I _ I _— 


Dependants of persons in 
category A (v)_... 
B (i) Orphans coming to institu- 





tions 31 23 7 I 

B (ii) Persons of religious ‘occupa: 
tions 295 39 29 227 

Dependants “of persons in 
category B (ii) ... 67 56 — 11 

B (iii) Students whose maintenance 
is assured ... 1,165 1,043 70 52 

Cc Persons coming to “employ- 
ment 2,039 1,869 42 128 

Dependants “Of persons in 
category C 1,315 1,282 5 28 

D Dependants of residents of 
Palestine ... 4,557 3,784 570 203 


Persons exempted from the 
provisions of the Immigra- 
tion Ordinance... a 531 _ 2 529 





Total... wee 12,475 10,536 743 1,196 





14. The fluctuations in the number of Jewish immigrants with 
a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards during the last six years is 
shown by the following figures: — 


Proportion per cent. of 


Year, Number. total Jewish immigrants. 
1932 eae ose eee 727 8 
1933 ey rea ae 3,250 Ir 
1934 ae ue ae 5,124 12 
1935 fe aes woh 6,309 Io 
1936 ar ran ge 2,907 10 


1937 wee ane wee 1,275 12 


66 


15. The increase in number and proportion of dependants 
among Jewish immigrants during the last five years is as 


follows: — 
Year. Number. 
1933 15,653 
1934 24,472 
1935 37,739 
1936 17,658 
1937 6,230 


Proportion per cent. of 
total Jewish immigrants. 


16. The numbers of immigrants, apart from dependants, 
authorized under labour schedule during 1937 as compared with 


previous years are as follows:— 


Schedule Period. 


April-September, 1933 . 
October, 1933—-March, 1934... 
April-September, 1934 eee 
October, 1934-March, 1935... 
April-September, 1935 33 
October, 1935-March, 1936... 
April-September, 1936 : 
October, 1936—March, 1937... 
April-July, 1937... o 
October, 1937—March, 1938 


Certificates for 
Jewish Agency and 
departmental 
reserve. 
5,500 
5,500 
6,200 
7,500 
8,000 
3,250 
4,500 
1,800 
779 
1,780 


17. The immigration certificates under the labour schedules 
approved during 1937 were issued under special conditions as 
to age, sex, conjugal condition and skill in accordance with 


the following specifications: — 


April- October, 
Specification. Total. July, 1937- 
1937. March, 1938. 
By age.—18~-35 years 1,390 200 1,190 
18-45 years de 40 _— 40 
Any age above 18 years 1,120 570 550 
By sex.—Men ne Be 180 180 —_— 
Women 20 20 _ 
Either sex... 2,350 570 1,780 
By method of selection.— 
Skilled workers nominated by indivi- 
dual employers (part A)... 450 200 250 
Skilled workers required by individual 
employers (part B) ... _— _ _ 
Skilled workers, relatives of Tesidents 
of Palestine (part C)... 232 —_ 232 
Workers selected by the ° Jewish Agency 
(part D) Me 1,218 200 1,018 
Jews and 
: Non-Jews. Jews. Non-Jews. 
Workers approved by the Department 
of Migration (part soba carla ey 
reserve) ; : 370 80 200 








67 


The 400 immigration certificates approved in the labour 
schedule for April to July under parts A and D were for 
workers from Germany. A further 120 immigration certificates 
were originally approved in part D for workers from other 
countries to be selected by the Jewish Agency. The Jewish 
Agency refused to accept these certificates on the ground that 
the number was too small. These certificates were therefore 
transferred to part E and are included in the total of 370 immi- 
gration certificates distributed directly to workers selected by 
the Department of Migration. 

No labour schedule was in force during the months of August 
and September. 

18. The distribution of certificates granted to the Jewish 
Agency by conjugal condition was as follows: — 

April- October, 
July, 1937- 


Specification. Total. 1937. March, 1938. 
Married men ... we aS a 80 80 _ 
Unmarried men... is oa eee 100 100 _ 
Unmarried women sie is wee 20 20 _— 
Unrestricted as to conjugal condition... 2,350 570 1,780 


No restrictions as to conjugal condition were imposed in the 
labour schedule period from Oetsher. 1937, till March, 1938, as 
the number of dependants to be admitted with immigrants under 
the labour schedule was controlled in accordance with the pro- 
visions of the *Statement of Policy issued in July, 1937, by 
His Majesty’s Government. 


19. That Statement of Policy included a decision to permit a 
total of 8,000 Jewish immigrants to enter Palestine in all cate- 
gories during the eight months beginning on the 1st August, 
1937, provided that the economic absorptive capacity of 
Palestine was not thereby exceeded. 

To give effect to these provisions the Immigration (Amend- 
ment) Ordinance, 1937, was enacted on the 11th November, 
1937. The Ordinance also— 

(a) gave greater discretion to the Director, Department 
of Immigration, in deciding on applications for the admis- 
sion of dependants other than wives and children; 

(b) introduced heavier penalties for aiding and abetting 
illegal immigration ; : 

(c) placed on persons charged with being illegally in 
Palestine the onus of proving the contrary; 

(d) vested in the Director, Department of Immigration, 
instead of in the High Commissioner the power to decide 
whether persons were unsuitable for admission to 
Palestine; and f : 

(e) defined more clearly the power of the High Commis- 
sioner to prescribe fees. 

*Cmd. 5513. 





68 


20. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers 
~have standing instructions to facilitate the return of any Turkish 

citizen of Palestinian birth who wishes to come back to Pales- 
tine. Among the facilities given are the grant of visas for 
Palestine, without reference to the Department of Immigration, 
to these persons and to their wives and minor unmarried 
children, and of affidavits in the place of the passports ordinarily 
required, if these latter are not available. In short, these persons 
and their dependants are not obliged to carry out the formalities 
and to satisfy the conditions normally imposed upon foreign 
travellers or immigrants to Palestine, or to pay immigration 
fees. 

21. The numbers of persons entering Palestine as travellers 
(temporary visitors and transit travellers) for limited periods who 
remained illegally in Palestine in 1937 and previous years beyond 
the authorised period of temporary residence are as follows :— 





Proportion of travellers 
Numbers of entering October, 1936- 























Numbers of travellers September, 1937, and 

travellers | remaining remaining illegally at the 

Year. entering. illegally. end of 1937 per thousand 

travellers entering in 1937. 

Non- Non- 
Jews. Jews. Jews. Jews. Jews. Non-Jews. 
1933 (from | | 

1st Sept.) | 6,827 | 17,943 | 2,321 989 340, | 55 
1934 «ss | 26,400 | 65,423 2,907 3,022 110 46 
1935 «| 36,128 | 70,695 4,618 3,256 128 46 
1936 «» | 14,574 | 42,091 | —132*) 1,288 _— 31 
1937 1... | 15,079 | 84,189 93 1,679 6 | 20 








* The negative sign implies that the population of Jewish illegal immi- 
grants who have abused the facilities granted to travellers actually in Palestine 
at the 31st December, 1936, declined by 132 persons. 


22. The numbers of persons deported in 1937 and previous 
years for immigration and other offences are as follows :— 


Year. Total. Jews. Non- Jews. 
1934... ane me 2,407 772 1,635 
1935 wee se 24445 293 2,152 
1936 ... Ben ate 2,039 152 1,887 
1937. «-- aids wes 2,375 157 2,218 


23. It is not possible to give an adequate analysis of migra- 
tion to and from Palestine in each calendar year at the time at 
which this report is prepared. Such an analysis is dependent 
on proportionate and other statistics which cannot be completed 
until some months after the closure of the immigration account 
for each year. 








69 


V.—LAND REGIME. 


1. The Tithes (Commutation) Ordinance, providing for the 
remission of Io per cent. of the Commuted Tithe assessed on the 
lands within the Lake Huleh Concession Area for the period rst 
April, 1936, to 31st March, 1938, was enacted on the roth June, 
1937. 

2. Two important amendments were made: one to the Land 
Transfer Ordinance, the other to the Land Law Amendment 
Ordinance. The first enables the Director of Land Registration 
to refuse registration of a lease by a mortgagor where the mort- 
gage contains a covenant by the mortgagor not to lease without 
the consent of the mortgagee. The Ottoman Law made no 
provision for this. 

The other amendment is designed to prohibit the registration 
of trees, buildings and other accretions to land, with a savin 
clause in respect of judgments already given but still 
unregistered. 


3. In adition to these amending Ordinances, there were 
amendments to the Rules made under the Land Transfer 
Ordinance enabling the Director of Lands to waive the neces- 
sity of a Mukhtar’s certificate in cases where he is satisfied that 
he would not be justified in withholding his consent to a trans- 
action on account of the lack of such certificate. 

The remaining amendments concern fees, and the most im- 
portant of these is designed to encourage the early registration 
of succession upon the death of a registered owner. During the 
first six months the fee will be waived, but after that period it 
increases in proportion to the delay as a penalty. 


State Domains. 


4. The examination and inspection of State Domains was 
continued, and arrangements were made for the Survey Section 
to prepare plans for all properties hitherto unsurveyed, or for 
which only inadequate plans were available. This has been 
done for the greater part of the Southern District, excluding 
Beersheba, and for the properties in and around Jerusalem. 


5. The approximate area of known State Domain is 
1,050,000 dunums, an increase of 14,000 dunums on the figure 
reported in the Annual Report for last year. This increase is 
mainly due to lands being adjudicated to Government at Land 
Settlement. 


6. The total area of State Domain includes 232,499 dunums 
allotted to Arabs under the Ghor Mudawwara Land Agreement 
of 1921. In this area Government’s interest is limited to the 
collection of the transfer price, and to the remote possibility of 
the resumption of possession in the event of failure by a trans- 
feree to pay the purchase price. 


70 : 
7. To the area of known State Domain about 220,000 dunums 


of sand dunes which are being claimed at Land Settlement might 
be added. 


8. The area of State Domain held by non-Jews is 532,397 
dunums, of which 232,449 dunums have been allotted under 
the Ghor Mudawwara Land Agreement of 1921; 156,303 dunums 
are held with hereditary and assignable interests, and 143,645 
dunums on lease. The area held by Jews and Jewish companies 
and organizations is 177,773 dunums. Some of the companies 
cannot, however, be regarded as wholly Jewish. A further 
area of 31,512 dunums is at present under negotiation for lease 
to Jewish organizations and companies. 

9. No progress was made in the settlement of title to the major 
pul of the declared Forest Reserves, but of the small area that 

as been settled 3,377 dunums were allotted for afforestation. 
ro. During the year, 353 leases and agreements were con- 
cluded. ; 
Valuations. 

11. A very considerable number of valuations were made 
during the year for various purposes including the acquisition 
of land and property for Government, the Army and the Royal 
Air Force. 

12. An examination under the Land Valuers Ordinance, 
1922, was held in March, and two candidates only presented 
themselves, neither of whom passed. Of other applicants, five 
were found to be qualified without examination and were granted 
licences. 

13. The number of licensed land valuers at the end of 1937 
was 27. 

Land Settlement. 

14. The Sub-District of Tiberias was declared a Settlement 
Area on 5th May, 1937. 

15. Notices of Settlement were published during the year in 
13 villages comprising an area of 196,016 dunums. 

16. The Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance has now been 
applied to a total of 184 villages in the following Settlement 
Areas: — 


No. 
Jaffa Settlement Area Bar gene es 45 
Ramleh Settlement Area ... aes ots 53 
Gaza Settlement Area oon ae ae 40 
Haifa Settlement Area sii Se mae 14 
Tulkarm Settlement Area ... wee 5a 24 
Tiberias Settlement Area ... ea we 2 
Jenin Sub-District ... aes ie at 2 
Safad Sub-District ... a eas ae 2 
Jerusalem Sub-District Be eae I 
Jericho Sub-District I 





Total 184 





71 
17. The following table illustrates the stages of progress 
reached :— 





Villages in which 











Settlement Area ‘ ; Preliminary field 
(or Sub-District). elemens Eenat Investiga- investigation in 
omp. . ion in progress. progress. 
No. No. No. 
Jaffa .. 41 3 I 
Ramleh 37 15 2 
Gaza ... 21 12 7 
Haifa ... 5 8 I 
Tulkarm 13 9 z 
Jenin ... I I _ 
Safad ... I I _ 
Jerusalem I _— < 
Jericho I — = 
Tiberias _ . = 2 
Total 121 49 14 














18. The following is a summary of the work completed in 
1937:— 





In Mafruz In Masha‘ Total 
(a) Claims recorded :— land. land. number. 
No. of Claims, original ws 10,808 113 10,921 
(b) Disputed Claims :— 
Number of disputed claims out- 
standing at the end of 1936... 13,640 349 13,989 
Number received during 1937... 6,513 63 6,576 
Number settled during 1937 ... 7,070 59 7,129 
Number outstanding at the end 
of 1937 oe : se -13,083 353 13,436 
tc) Land Cases :— 
Total number of actions outstanding 
at end of 1936 . 2,598 
Total number of actions ‘added during 
1937 sa Be 660 
—. 3,258 
Total number of cases emalgamated 
with other cases zs 209 
3,049 
Total number of actions decided 
during 1937 :— 
(a) by judicial settlement of 
disputes .. 1,258 
(6) by amicable agreement im: 
plemented by judicial decision 426 





1,684 
Number of actions ontsranding at the 

end of 1937 toe 1,365 
Number of actions referred to the 

Land Courts on appeal cee ce 106 


92 
Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules Published : — 








No. of No. of Covering total 
Schedules Published. Registered Parcels. area. 
Blocks. Metric dunums 
Mafruz Land— 
Schedules of Rights... 314 13,070 189,244 
Masha‘ Land— 
Schedules of Partition... _— — _ 
Total number of Schedules 
Published wn os 314 13,070 189,244 














Ig. The following is a comparative statement of the area 
completed under settlement operations to date: — 

















Preliminary Investigation. Final Investigation. 
Period. Recording of claims and | Settlement of claims and 
publication of Schedules of | publication of Schedules of 
Claims. Rights and of Partition. 
Metric dunums. Metric dunums. 
June, 1928, to 
December, 1930... 212,992 142,799 
During 1931 te 255,947 138,387 
» 1932 oa 358,303 167,293 
» 1933 os 479,195 334,139 
» 1934 oo 355-732 283,464 
» 1935 oo 196,119 298,549 
» 1936 on 138,276 127,246 
o 1937 a 118,236 189,244 
— 
Total at. 2,114,800 1,681,121 








20. Land Settlement field work and the hearing of cases were 
impeded during the year by the unsettled conditions in the 
country. It has, however, been possible to settle a number of 
more complicated disputes. In the Haifa Area, it has been 
necessary to give up the hearing of the more important cases 
between Arab and Jewish parties on account of the state of 
public security. : 

21. The settlement of the plain lands of Tulkarm Sub-District, 
including the hearing of cases, is now complete with the excep- 
tion of four villages. 

22. Government has accepted the recommendation of the 


Royal Commission that Land Settlement should be accelerated, 
and for this purpose a number of recommendations have been 


73 


given effect to or are under consideration. Amongst these was 
the appointment immediately of two additional Settlement 
Officers. 

23. Another recommendation which has been accepted is 
that survey marks for private properties should be provided 
by Government at the time of survey, instead as hitherto by the 
claimant, the cost thereof being made a charge on the land and 
collected together with Survey and Land Settlement Fees after 
settlement is completed. This system will provide a uniform 
mark for the whole country; will avoid delays occasioned by 
claimants not providing marks when required and the loss of 
marks by theft when the lands of a neighbouring village are 
taken up for survey. 

24. Certain amendments to the Land (Settlement of Title) 
Ordinance, as well as to the rules of procedure, are also under 
consideration to enable Settlement Officers to deal more sum- 
marily with claims, and it is hoped that when these are enacted 
it will be possible for Land Settlement to proceed more 
expeditiously. 

25. Land Settlement Fees.—The following is a statement of 
registration, survey and court fees arising out of Settlement: — 

(a) During the year 1937:— 
Payable. Collected. 
£P.2,919 £P.3,544 
(b) From commencement of settlement, 1928, to end of 
December, 1937:— 


Payable. Collected. Outstanding. 
£P.54,548 £P.33,035 £P.21,513 


Urban Property Tax. 


26. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance was not applied to 
any additional areas during the year, and the number of towns 
to which the Ordinance applies remains at 28. 

27. Revision and assessment operations which were begun 
in 1936 for the tax-year 1937-8 were carried out as follows:— 

Annual Revision operations were completed in the 
following 26 Urban Areas: — 

Jerusalem, Jaffa (including Tel-Aviv and Sarona), 
Gaza, Beisan, Tulkarm, Tiberias, Ramleh, Lydda, 
Rishon-le-Tsiyon, Rehovot, Petah Tiqva, Majdal, 
Shefa ’Amr, an Yunis, Nablus, Hadera, Beit Sahur, 
Ramat Gan, Nazareth, Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, 
Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala and Ramallah. 

Quinquennial Revaluation in accordance with Section 
19 (6) of the Ordinance was carried out in the Urban Areas 
of Haifa ‘and Acre. 


74 


28. The rates of tax remained unaltered, being 10 per cent. 
of the net annual value. 


29. Exemption from payment of the tax has been granted 
on house propery, occupied by registered owners of which the 
net annua! value is less than:— 

£P.20—in the urban areas of Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa. 

£P.13—in the urban areas of Tulkarm, Tiberias and Nablus. 

£P.10—in the urban area of Acre. 

£P.7—in the urban areas of Beisan, Gaza, Ramleh, Lydda, Nazareth, 
Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Petah Tiqva, Rishon le 
Tsiyon, Rehovot, Majdal, Hadera and Ramat Gan. 

£P.4—in the urban areas of Beit Jala, Ramallah, Khan Yunis and 
Shefa ‘Amr. 

£P.2—in the urban area of Beit Sahur. 


30. Quinquennial revaluation operations for the tax year 
1938-9 were commenced towards the end of the year and are 
still in progress in the urban areas of Petah Tiqva, Rehovot, 
Rishon-le-Tsiyon and Majdal. : 


31. Annual revision operations for the tax year 1937-8 were 
begun in a number of the remaining 24 urban areas so that they 
may be completed by 31st March, 1938. 


Tithes. 


32. The annual revision of the distribution of commuted 
tithes in accordance with Section 14 of the Ordinance was carried 
out during the year in the whole of the Beersheba Sub-District 
and in the Huleh Concession Area to which the Commutation 
of Tithes Ordinance is still applicable. 


33. The total aggregate commuted tithe peveble and collected 
in these areas from Ist April, 1937, to 31st December, 1937, was 





as follows:— 
Assess- Remis- Out- 
ment. sions. Collections. standing. 
Beersheba ate .. = 8,938 — 93 8,845 
Huleh Concession Area... 1,233 308 244 681 
Total... £P.10,171 308 337 9,526 





34. The High Commissioner granted a remission of ten per 
cent. of the commuted tithe assessed on the lands within the 
Huleh Concession Area in respect of the period 1st April, 1936, 
to 31st March, 1938. 


35. The following is a summary of the amount of arrears 
of ordinary and commuted tithe (including Treasury, waaf, 


75 


rental tithes shares and Badl Tabu) outstanding on ist April, 
1937, and the amount collected during the period rst April, to 
31st December, 1937:— 


£P. 
Outstanding on 1.4.37 ore ves 141,078 
Remissions during period 1 vy 37 to. 31. 12. 37 ete hs 295 
Collected during period 1.4.37 to 31.12. 37 iis a 5,765 
Balance outstanding on 1.1.38... aud we 135,018 


Rural Property Tax. 


36. The ag Breet area of all the tax categories under the 
Rural Bieperty ax Ordinance, 1935, totals 13,595,830 dunums. 


37. Annual revision of the tax in those areas brought under 
cultivation or planted with fruit trees since the fiscal survey and 
the introduction of the tax in April, 1935, was made during the 
year. In addition 49 new industrial buildings were valued and 
found to have a net annual value of £P.4,342. 


38. One thousand four hundred and nineteen Notices of 
Development of Land were submitted. 


39. Supplementary Rural Property Tax Rolls showing the 
tevised tax categories of the land by reason of development were 
posted for 1,033 blocks in 198 villages. 


40. To these alterations in the tax category of the land 43 
objections were submitted and dealt with by the Official Valuers, 
13 being admitted and 30 refused. Subsequently nine appeals 
against the decisions of the Official Valuers were made: five 
were allowed and four refused by the District Appeal Committee. 


41. As a result of recommendations submitted to Govern- 
ment by the Citrus Committee appointed in February, 1936, a 
teduction in the rate of tax on citrus land was granted. This 
concession to citrus growers reduced the tax payable on citrus 
from £P.74,600 to £P.43,800 for the year 1936-7 and from 
£P.90,460 to £P.53,550 for the year 1937-8. 

42. The following is a statement of the amount of Rural 
Property Tax due on the ist April, 1936, collected during 
1936-7 and outstanding on the 1st April, 1937:— 








£P. . 
Gross assessment as at 1.4.3 302,555 
Exemption granted under Seer 6 of the Ordin- 
ance tee ves 127,316 
Reductions granted during ‘1936-37 Be vs 10,992 
+ 138,308 
Amount payable... os ves oat 164,247 
Collections during 1.4.36 to 31.3.37. wate ms bad 61,798 





Outstanding on 1.4.37... ea oes ae ws  £P.102,449 





76 


Land Registration. 


43. There has been a further decline from the high levels 
of 1935 in the value of all agricultural land during the year, 
and present indications point to a continuation of this down- 
ward trend. Urban buildings changed little in value but there 
has been a tendency to depreciate in the case of building sites, 
except in the larger centres of population. 


44. The fall in prices referred to in paragraph 41 on page 86 
of the Annual Report for 1936 varied roughly with the distance 
from a Jewish settlement. In the case of the more remote 
Arab lands the fall in value was approximately 50 per cent. 
of the high level value in the year 1935. 


45. The tendency of the Jewish population to acquire land in 
the vicinity of existing settlements rather than the development 
of new isolated holdings continues, and the resulting difference 
in the price of agricultural land in the neighbourhood of Jewish 
settlements as compared with land elsewhere has been main- 
tained. Jewish interests have not used the period since the 
publication of the Report of the Royal Commission to acquire 
land outside the boundaries recommended by the Commission 
for the proposed Jewish State. There are, however, certain 
contracts entered into before the Report was published affecting 
areas in the Gaza and Beersheba districts which have not yet 
been carried out. 


46. In connection with the purchase of land by Jews from 
non-Jews during the year 1936 a member of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission enquired during the examination of the 
Reports for the years 1935 and 1936 whether the vendors 
belonged to the class of “‘ effendis ’’ or “‘ fellaheen’’. It is 
ip ape with accuracy to classify vendors as “‘ effendis ’’ or 
‘‘ fellaheen ’’, but a broad differentiation can be made by deem- 
ing vendors of less than 100 dunums to be fellaheen and of 
more than 100 dunums to be effendis. On this basis 383 
fellaheen sold 7,536 dunums and 43 effendis sold 21,274 dunums. 

It must however be remembered that no record of the total 
holding of a vendor is made at the time of sale and many 
persons selling less than 100 dunums may only be disposing of 
a part of their land. They might therefore be more properly 
included in the effendi class. a 


47. Areas amounting to 29,367 dunums of land were pur- 
chased by Jews from non-Jews during the year at a total cost 
of £P.392,916. The corresponding figures for 1936 were 18,416 
dunums at a cost of £P.158,826. 


48. A member of the Permanent Mandates Commission 
inquired during the examination of the Reports for the years 
1935 and 1936 regarding the location of Waqf lands. There is 


77 


no precise information available regarding the distribution of 
Awgaf Lands in Palestine. Generally speaking, the Awqaf 
claims an interest, usually restricted to a part of the income 
from the property, in land all over the country. In many cases 
the land is not registered and the claim of the Waaf is disputed. 


49. An interesting feature of the year under review was the 
increase in the number of mortgages, 10,848 having been regis- 
tered as against 8,980 in 1936. The sum secured was 
£P.5,977,391 against £P.5,.499,408 during the previous year. 

e increase is due to land development companies replacing 
agreements to sell by absolute transfers with a mortgage back 
to the vendor to secure the unpaid balances. This is done as a 
matter of convenience in raising money, mortgages being 
negotiable whereas the agreements are not. 


50. In land registration, Palestine is distinguished from other 
countries by the unusually large number of new parcels regis- 
tered as a result of parcellation schemes. During the years 
1933, 1934, 1935 and 1936, 3,468 parcels were divided and 
became 35,388 new parcels. In the year 1937, 6,745 new parcels 
were created as a result of the sub-division of 794 original 
parcels. Special methods have had to be devised to deal with 
these mutations, as it was not possible in this respect to profit 
by the experience of other countries where parcellation has not 
pose at the speed and extent which has prevailed in 

‘alestine. 


51. The total number of transactions registered during the 
year was 42,009 as against 36,101 for the year 1936. 

Fees amounting to -208,323 were collected as compared 
with £P.219,687 in 19306. 

52. In addition to the original entries derived from the 
Schedule of Rights deposited by Settlement Officers, 18,264 
transactions were recorded in the New Registers based upon 
Settlement. The corresponding figure for 1936 was 13,978. 


53- Schedules of Rights received during the year by 
Registrars from Settlement Officers for initial inscription in the 
new Registers numbered 316. 


Surveys. 


Triangulation. 


54. Work on the major extension towards the Egyptian 
frontier (see paragraph 48 on page 86 of the 1936 Report) 
had to be suspended in June owing to the necessity of trans- 
ferring the observer elsewhere for 4th Order work. 


55. The increase in 4th Order work was for providing closer 
control in areas containing only topocadastral intersections and 
resections. 


78 
56. A large number of traverse and intersected points were 
provided for the control of block plans. 


57. Very few cases of restoration owing to wilful damage of 
marks were necessary. 


58. Trigonometrical and Traverse Progress. 


Inter- 
Major. 4th Order. Traverse. sections. 





No. of | Area No. of Area No. of | Length No. of 





Points. km? Points. km? Points. km. Points. 
4 200 IgI 175 5,280 510 2,229 
52 fou 


59. The second circuit of 247 km. (Jaffa-Tulkarm-Nablus- 
Jericho-Jerusalem-Jaffa) and the third circuit of 171 km. 
(Affula-Beisan-Jiftlik-Nablus-Jenin-Affula) were completed. 


60. Precise Levelling Progress. 


Marking. Levelling. 





Number and type of 





Kilometres. Bench mark. Kilometres. 
200 Fundamental 2 205 
A 37 
B 86 


Magnetic Variation. 

61. A few more observations were taken with a ‘‘ Connolly ’’ 
Standard Compass. 

Topographical Surveys. 

62. A topographical survey is being carried out in the Beer- 
sheba Sub-District for the purpose of completing the 1/100,000 
map series—Sheets 12 and 13 and that part of 14 which is not 
covered by air photographs. 


Cadastral Surveys. 

63. During the year 659 blocks, of a total area of 288,823 
dunums were surveyed and examined for Land Settlement, the 
details of which are given below. 

64. The Land Settlement branch was issued with 365 Pre- 
liminary Block Plans, together with schedules of claimants 
representing I0,919 parcels comprising 167,772 dunums. 




























No. of Blocks 
sooo; 6000 
eT (a fe RT pose 
saeco: [~~ 37m] S800 
. ee 
ae ee ee 
S600: 8600 
ci SK EE (0 
Ss: X 5300 
ha ae a as 
5000 5000 
we a ei 
ied. one (pee 
ale ier (ema (SREY Ne 
aa (ees aera ress 
aS hae Een ore 
SS aeons amen oe 
Fea Pano ees 
pee es ee a pee 
4000 (cone are 4000 
3 3800 
iL a en eee sur 
3500 3800 
ase ee (area eee] ct 
3200 3200 
rege a aa 3100 
=e ae ee ee fo 
iol Pe ea RE [ai 
Soa oe ae eee rs 
2700 2700 


Dec. 


Survey of Palestine, Jaffa 1937 








, : 








wheat oivinwi dees] So aha eee ee te ey 











t 
: i 
Be che SARTRE Be te fy 
aoe! 

os Sabet 

7 ' 

j = “4 





























Aes 











Eat 








79 


65. Settlement decisions were applied to 264 blocks for which 
Final Block Plans were submitted tee registration. These cover 
an area of 156,578 dunums and represent 11,027 parcels on 
which £P.3,718 in survey fees are chargeable on registration. 


66. Progress of Cadastral Survey. 





Average| Average cost per dunum, 
Category No. of | Area | No. of | area 
of Land. blocks. | dunums.| parcels. per 
parcel. | Field. | Office. | Total 
mils. | mils. | mils. 





dunums| £P. LP. 
Mafruz (divided 

lands) ai 484 | 265,850 | 9,727 26.0 52 20 | 0-072 
Sc. I: 2,500. 


Mafruz (divided 
lands) ai 172 | 22,880 | 10,366 2.2 236 10 | 0-246 
sc. I: 1,250. 

















Built-on areas 3 93 282 0.3 | 1,709 645 | 2°354 
sc. I: 625. 
Total Pers 659 | 288,823 | 20,375 














In addition, 19 blocks, covering an area of 20,000 dunums 
(Masha’) have been surveyed on the 1/10,000 scale. This area 
is subject to partition at Settlement. 


Urban Surveys. 


67. The following are particulars of Urban areas surveyed 
and examined during the year: — 














No. of Average 

Urban Area. Scale. Blocks. Dunums. | Parcels. | area per 

i 7 parcel. 
Haifa and 121,250 93 20,600 1775 
Carmel I: 625 8 380 822 

Haifa Bay 1:1,250 39 8,100 3,022 2°5 

Tiberias 131,250 20 1,860 908 dunums 
Affula ... 1:1,250 8 1,360 620 
Jerusalem 121,250 5 730 280 
Total ... 173 33,030 13,427 

















In addition, 71 blocks covering an area of 19,920 dunums, are 
ready for examination. 

Assessment plans amounting to 423 were revised and issued 
for the 1938 assessment under the Urban Property Tax. 





80 


Water Resources Survey. 

68. Tertiary Levelling continued over that portion of the area 
in which wells were investigated, which is traversed by the 
Precise Level lines. A number of correction sheets were for- 
warded to the Department of Development, from which their 
water-tables, based on trigonometrical heights, could be 
corrected. 





69. Tertiary Levelling Progress. 
No. of trig. points No. of Bench KM. No. of wells 
included. Marks cut. run. involved. 
1,111 468 





Land Registration Surveys. 

70. The number of plans examined and dealt with at head- 
uarters was 1,461, covering an area of 87,433 dunums. These 
gures include the checking of 1,203 plans prepared by licensed 

surveyors, covering an area of 78,155 dunums. The remaining 
258 plans, covering an area of 9,278 dunums, were prepared 
by Government surveyors. 

Mutations in settled areas to the number of 1,252 were dealt 

with during the year, bringing the total up to 4,376 since the 
beginning of settlement. 


Mapping and Publication. 

71. The following sheets of the 1: 100,000 topographical series 
were published during the year in full colour and grey 
editions :— 

Sheet 9—Gaza. 
Sheet 11—Bethlehem. 
Sheet 5—Tulkarm. 
Sheet 1o—Hebron. 


72. 1:500,000 Motor Map.—j7th and 8th editions were 
published and a oth edition showing the new northern frontier 
road and the main Jaffa-Haifa road is in course of preparation. 

73. Sales of maps to the public amounted to £P.1,250. 


Land Surveyors’ Examination. 
74. Examinations for Land Surveyors’ Licences were held 
during the year. Twenty-seven candidates entered, of whom 
six passed and received their licences. 


Development. 

75. Six registered landless Arabs, of whom five are from the 
Arab Abu Qandil Tribe from the Southern District, have been 
settled during the year. No further claims have been submitted 
for registration. 


81 


Thirteen members of the Arab Abu Qandil tribe who were 
admitted to the Register of Landless Arabs were settled in 
the Jenin Sub-District. 

Twenty other families of this tribe have been settled at Beit 
Qad during the year, notwithstanding the fact that they were 
not officially registered as landless Arabs. Special circumstances 
connected with their situation, which transpired after the 
Register was completed, made their settlement desirable. 

e landless Arab families settled at Mugeibila have, with the 
exception of one, deserted the settlement and are engaged, for 
the most part, in other than agricultural work. Six of the settlers 
on irrigated land at Tall esh Shauk (Beisan Sub-District), having 
proved quite incapable of cultivating under irrigation, have been 
transferred to Mugeibila. The progress of the settlers at Tall 
esh Shauk, while improving, cannot yet be called satisfactory ; 
but the settlers at Beit Qad are doing well and give promise of 
success. (See Report for 1936, page 91, paragraph 77.) 

76. The Arabs of Wadi Hawarith (North) are also progressing 
favourably. (See Report for 1936, pages go and gI, para- 


graph 76. ; : ; : 

e Arabs of Wadi Hawarith (South) continue to cultivate 
land neighbouring their camping site in the Wadi Qabbani, 
Tulkarm sub-district. (See Report for 1936, page I, para- 
graph 76.) 

77. Sporadic cultivation on Birket Ramadan (see Report for 
1936, page 91, paragraph 78) and the employment of harmful 
methods of reclamation by tenants of the owners in the marsh 
area have caused extensive damage, which has been partially 
remedied by the Department of Health. Endeavours are now 
being made to persuade the owners to carry out such arrange- 
ments as will prevent repetition of the damage. 


78. The experiment in the conservation of flood water at Abu 
Samara dam (see Report for 1936, page 91, paragraph 79) has 
provided valuable data regarding the run-off of rain water, 
evaporation and the possibilities of water storage. A cloud burst 
occurred in November, 1937, and caused a sudden and excep- 
tionally high flood, which breached the earth dam in several 
places. In view of the experience already gained at the site, it 
was considered unnecessary to continue the experiment. 


79. Six observation stations are now established for the 
investigation of the run-off of rainwater and the number will 
shortly be increased to ten. The observations during the rainy 
season 1936-7 showed a much higher percentage of run-off than 
in the previous year, but the percentage observed so far is low. 

80. Investigations into ‘‘ duty of water ’’ are continuing in 
the Acre, Beisan and Ramleh Sub-Districts. Particular atten- 
tion is being paid to the irrigation of forage crops and the 
employment of overhead irrigation for these. 


82 


81. Control of the Well Observation Stations (see Report for 
1936, page 91, paragraph 82) established in the Coastal Plain has 
been continued during the year. There is so far no reason for 
apprehension with regard to the underground water resources. 

e minimum levels of 1937 were generally above those of 1936, 
although still below those of 1935. There were, however, excep- 
tions in three stations, where the 1935 levels were attained. 
Government and private exploratory bores have demonstrated 
the presence of underground water in several areas hitherto 
unexploited. 


82. The field work of the Water Resources Survey Committee 
(see Report for 1936, page 92, paragraph 83) having been com- 
pleted and the mass of detail obtained and tabulated, a contour 
map showing the levels of the underground water has been 

repared. Other geological and hydrological maps and sections 

ased on the information collected, and from other sources, are 
under preparation, together with a detailed geo-hydrological 
report. 


83. A Water Settlement Officer has been appointed and is 
carrying out a trial water settlement in the Beisan Sub-District. 
It is expected that the work now being done will be a valuable 
preliminary to organised settlement of water rights following 
the promulgation of irrigation legislation. 

In addition to the recording of the discharges of certain 
important springs and streams in Palestine, all the spring dis- 
charges in the Beisan Area are now recorded monthly and 
arrangements have been made to carry out a contour survey of 
the area fed by these springs as a necessary preliminary to 
systematic control of irrigation in the District. 


84. Immediately before the close of the year sanction was 
accorded for the execution of a hydrographic survey of Southern 
Palestine and the Jordan Valley at an estimated cost of 
£P.60,000, to be shared equally between His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment and the Government of Palestine. This survey is being 
undertaken in pursuance of the recommendation made in para- 
graph 42 of Chapter XXII of the Royal Commission’s Report 
that the areas in question should be surveyed and an authorita- 
tive estimate made of the practical possibilities of irrigation and 
development within them. 

The programme of operations, which are to commence at 
once, includes the sinking of both deep and shallow wells at 
selected points throughout the area so as to test the quantity and 
quality of the sub-soil supplies, the carrying out of geophysical 
investigations, the determination of the volume of water flowing 
from the hill catchments into the Dead and Mediterranean Seas, 
and, in general, the collection and compilation of data relating 
to the water resources of the tract. 








83 


VI.—NATIONALITY. 


1. The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, and of 
a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine amend- 
ing Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the Report 
for 1925; and the text of the amending Order in Council of 
1931 was printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


2. The qualifications for naturalization are: two years’ 
residence in Palestine out of the three preceding application, 
good character, and the declared intention to settle in Palestine, 
Knowledge of Hebrew is accepted under the literary qualifica- 
tion. In special cases the High Commissioner is empowered to 
grant naturalization even if the period of residence has not been 
within the three years preceding application. The fee for 
naturalization is 500 mils. 


3. The total number of persons to whom naturalization certifi- 
cates were delivered in 1937 compared with those in previous 
years is as follows:— 


Applications Certificates 

submitted. delivered, 
Total ... She ad 51,791 44,572 
1925-1929 a <2 20,168 15,551 
1930-1934 Bie oi 7,978 8,161 
1935 oo nee or 6,007 5,994 
1936 on oo oe 5444 4,941 
1937 fee ee on 12,194 9,925 


21,728 persons acquired Palestinian citizenship in 1937 includ- 
ing wives and children who acquired Palestinian citizenship 
through the naturalization of their husbands or fathers or 
mothers. 


4. The substantial increase in the number of applications in 
1937 is mainly due to a campaign by several Jewish organiza- 
tions to encourage naturalization among members of the Jewish 
community; and to the number of persons, who, having entered 
the country as immigrants two or more years ago, had acquired 
the requisite residential qualifications entitling them to apply for 
naturalization. 


5. The Naturalization Field Officer accepted the following 
number of applications in the Jewish rural settlements in 1937 
as compared with previous years:— 

Applications Field applications 


Total accepted in per cent. of all 

applications. the field. applications. 
1935... ban 6,007 1,322 22 
1936... oe 5444 946 17 
1937 ... ws: 12,194 1,588 13 


This field service was initiated during 1934. 


84 
6. The race and pEeuets nationality of the persons naturalized 


in 1937 were as follows :— 
Per cent. 
Number. of Jews 
naturalized. 
A. Jews :— 

Total ... On see 21,542 100 
Polish... Bee Sty 9,298 43 
German ... Blidge Sa 2,030 10 
Russian ... oe see 1,784 8 
Rumanian Um, oey, 1,080 5 
Other... om, re 4,275 20 
Stateless es wee 3,075 14 

B. Non-Jews :— 

Total ... Bes bee 186 _— 
Turkish ... nes es 64 _ 
Syrian... aye ec 43 = 
Egyptian es he 5 _— 
Other... we 76 —_ 


In 1936 the proportions of applicants who were Polish and 
German subjects were 41 per cent. and 13 per cent. respectively. 


7. The services granted by the Passport Office in 1937 as 
compared with previous years are shown in the following 
table: — 


Service. 7935. 1936. 1937. 
Total ... ca a vee 36,055 34,689 46,798 
Palestinian passports issued ... 11,546 9,039 15,267 
Palestinian passports renewed... 4,323 3,626 3,830 
Palestinian passports endorsed —2,603 3,141 4,156 
Certificates of Identity issued.. 380 398 572 
Return visas granted ... -» 12,139 14,567 18,306 
Other visas granted... 3.479 2,484 2,633 
Identity and Travel documents 
issued . 383 416 621 
Identity and Travel documents 
renewed as 25 59 jo 
British passports jssued | - 490 429 575 
British passports endorsed and 
renewed 649 463 741 


Registration of British ‘subjects 
and of retention of Canadian 
domicile pes 38 67 27 


8. The number of Palsdinian passports granted during 1937, 
namely, 15,267, is by far the largest number ever issued in one 
year since the inception of the department. 


g. The increase in the number of passport services granted 
during the year is dueto:— 

(i) The increase in the number of persons who applied 
for and were granted certificates of naturalization as Aes 
tinian citizens and who subsequently applied for Palestinian 
passports. 


85 

(ii) The expiration of the validity of passports granted 
Io years ago and which are no longer renewable. 

(iii) The journey to Europe of visitors to the Paris 
exhibition and to the Zionist Congress held at Zurich. 
_ (iv) The journey to Eastern Europe of young Pales- 
tinians for the purpose of contracting marriages of con- 
venience with foreign women to enable them to evade the 
Palestine immigration regulations. 

(v) The increase in the number of Arabs who travel 
abroad for business, health or pleasure. 


to. Since 1926, when Palestinian passports were first printed, 
some 95,000 have been issued. 


1z. A number of persons who furnished false evidence in con- 
nection with applications for passport services were prosecuted 
and convictions secured. 


12. The following numbers of changes of names were regis- 
tered in 1937 as compared with previous years :— 


1933... vee 211 1936... vee 682 
1934... vee 412 1937... see 1,427 
1935 +. + 793 


The majority of these changes are made by Jewish immi- 
grants from Europe adopting Hebrew names on the acquisition 
of Palestinian citizenship. 


13. Consideration is being given to the amendment of the 
Palestine Citizenship Order in Council, 1925-31, with a view to 
giving effect to the recommendation in Chapter XV, para- 
graph 12, of the Royal Commission’s Report in regard to the 
position of persons born in Palestine who acquired on birth or 
subsequently and still possess Turkish nationality but were 
habitually resident abroad at the commencement of the Palestine 
Citizenship Order in Council, 1925. 


VII._JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Legislation. 
The following are the most important Ordinances enacted 
during the year 1937:— 

Juvenile Offenders Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals 
the Young Offenders Ordinance and enacts more elaborate 
provisions for proceedings in respect of juvenile offenders 
and for the care of young persons in need of protection. 


Fisheries Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals the 
Fisheries Ordinance and enacts more elaborate provisions 
for the regulation of fisheries in Palestine. 


48607 D 


86 


Companies (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
amends the principal Ordinance by the insertion of a new 
part providing for the registration as a company of a 
co-operative society registered under the Co-operative 
Societies Ordinance. 

Safeguarding of Public Water Supplies Ordinance.—This 
Ordinance empowers the High Commissioner to declare any 
area as a public water supply area for the purpose of safe- 
guarding public water supplies. The Ordinance provides 
that after any area has been so declared no person may 
construct any new or alter any existing well, save under 
licence from the District Commissioner. Provision is also 
made for appeals to the High Commissioner from the 
decision of a District Commissioner and for the payment of 
compensation in respect of any work done in any area 
before its declaration as a public water supply area. 

Explosives Ordinance.—This Ordinance makes provision 
for controlling the sale of and the dealing in explosive sub- 
stances. It prohibits trading in explosive substances with- 
out a licence, requires licensees to register all dealings in 
explosive substances and authorizes the Police to inspect 
their stock and, if necessary, to order its removal to 
approved premises. ; 

Dead Sea Concession Ordinance.—This Ordinance vali- 
dates the concession dated the 1st January, 1930, nted 
to Palestine Potash, Ltd., for the extraction of salts and 
minerals in the Dead Sea in so far as it relates to Palestine 
and to lands situated therein. 


Customs Tariff and Exemption Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance provides for import duty and exemption from import 
duty on commodities imported into Palestine and consoli- 
dates the existing legislation dealing with Customs duties. 


Banking (Amendment and Further Provisions) Ordi- 
nance.—This Ordinance amends the principal Ordinance by 
making further provisions relating to banking business in 
Palestine. 

Immigration (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
amends the principal Ordinance and it provides for a more 
limited definition of ‘‘ dependant ’’ than that which is given 
in the principal Ordinance. Secondly, it provides for powers 
to the Director of the Department of Immigration to decide 
in place of the High Commissioner whether a person is 
unsuitable for admission to Palestine. Thirdly, it empowers 
the High Commissioner to prescribe the maximum aggregate 
number of foreigners to be admitted to Palestine as immi- 
grants during any specified period and to prescribe 
categories of immigrants and fix the maximum number of 
persons to be admitted in respect of any category. 


87 


Me Companies. 

2. During the year under review 222 new companies were 
registered in Palestine, bringing the total number of companies 
registered to 1,563, of which 1,294 are Palestinian companies 
and 269 foreign companies. Of the 222 companies registered 
during the year 207 are Palestinian companies and 15 are foreign 
companies. 

The principal Palestinian companies registered during the 
year are: — 


Nakhshon Ltd. 

Palroma Finance Ltd. 

Monopol Trust and Agency Ltd. 
each with a capital of £P.50,000. 

Arab Union Cigarettes and Tobacco Ltd., with a capital 
of £P.40,000. 

Naaman Ltd., with a capital of £P.35,000. 

Talhami Brothers (Film and Cinemas) Ltd. 

Mekoroth Water Ltd., with a capital of £P.30,000 each. 


A number of companies increased their share-capital during 
the year:—The Palestine Electric Corporation increased its 
capital from £P.2,500,000 to £P.4,000,000; The Palestine 
Corporation Ltd. from £P.400,000 to £P.800,000; The Marine 
Trust Ltd. from £P.100,000 to £P.250,000; The Jerusalem 
Electric and Public Service Corporation Ltd. from £P.500,000 to 
£P.600,000; The Bay-side Land Corporation Ltd. from 
£P.1,000 to £P.100,000. 

The total revenue collected during the year in respect of 
registration fees, etc., amounted to £P.23,154 as compared with 

-II,790 collected during the previous year. The total revenue 
collected in the Official Receiver’s section during the year 
amounted to £P.1,739.617 mils, as compared with £P.493.737 
mils during the last nine months of the year 1936. 


Bankruptcy. 

3. The year under review has been a year of economic stress 
in Palestine with the result that the number of bankruptcies and 
of companies in liquidation was considerably greater than in 
previous years. There were 57 bankruptcies during the year, 
with assets totalling £P.40,638.064 mils and liabilities totalling 
£P.104,272.838 mils. Seven companies, with assets totalling 
£P.93,519.605 mils and liabilities totalling £P.187,525.530 mils, 
went into compulsory liquidation during the same period. In 
the year 1935 there were 13 bankruptcies and one company went 
into liquidation, while in the year 1936 there were 31 bank- 
Tuptcies and seven companies in liquidation. The number of 

48607 D2 


88 


companies which went into voluntary liquidation during the 
yor is 27. No information is available as to the assets and 
iabilities of these companies. 

The total number of companies now in liquidation is 27. 


Changes in Constitution and Jurisdiction of the Courts. 


4. The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order.—This 
Order repeals the previous Order of 5th June, 1935, establishing 
Land Courts and defining their constitution, and provides that 
Land Courts for the areas served by the District Courts shall 
be constituted by the President or Relieving President and one 
or more judges of the District Court. The order gives power to 
se Chief Justice to direct the places at which such Land Courts 

ould sit. 


5. The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order (No. 2) 
is designed to bring Tiberias and Safad within the Nablus Dis- 
trict and to remove these two Sub-Districts from the jurisdic- 
tion of the District Court of Haifa, thus giving some measure 
of relief to the latter Court and the Magistrates’ Courts in Haifa, 
which have been overworked for some time. The Order further 
specifies the Sub-Districts in which Magistrates’ Courts shall 
exercise jurisdiction. The Chief Justice is empowered to direct 
the places of sitting and every Magistrate is given jurisdiction 
over the whole of the district within which his Court is situated. 


6. Order under Section 88 (3) of the Bankruptcy Ordinance.— 
This Order was made by the Chief Justice to vest jurisdiction 
in all Chief Magistrates to entertain cases where the Official 
Receiver has reported that the assets of the bankrupt do not 
exceed £P.300. Previous Orders confined the jurisdiction in 
bankruptcy matters to the Courts of Chief Magistrates in 
Jerusalem, Haifa and Jaffa. At the date of the previous Order 
no Chief Magistrates sat in the Districts of Nablus and Tel-Aviv. 


7. In Rehovoth and Petah Tiqva Judicial facilities have been 
provided by the establishment of Magistrates’ Courts. 


Rules of Court. 


8. The following Rules of Court were made by the Chief 
Justice during the year: — 


The High Court Rules.—No procedure had hitherto been 
prescribed as to the manner in which petitions should be 
brought in the High Court, and these rules are designed 
to bring the practice into line with English procedure 
adapted to fecalareanietences: 

The rules, inter alia, provide for the joinder of issue by 
filing an affidavit in reply within eight days from the date 
of service of the rule nisi and for the cross-examination of 
a deponent to an affidavit, by the other side. 


89 


The schedule to the rules provides specimens of petitions 
on aes forms of affidavits and of orders nisi and orders 
absolute. 


The Judgment by Default (Magistrates’ Courts) (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1937, provide that the lodging of notice of 
opposition or appeal shall not operate as a stay of execution 
unless by order of the Court; and that applications for stay 
of execution of a judgment of a Magistrate’s Court should 
be made in the first instance to the court which gave the 
judgment or the Magistrate in chambers. Orders made on 
such applications are appealable before the President or 
Relieving President of the District Court. 


The Archives (Amendment) Rules amplify the Pupcpel 
tules by providing for the return to parties of certain 
exhibits after the determination of an action or appeal. 


The Cultivators (Special Commission) Appeal Rules make 
provision for the procedure in applications for leave to 
appeal to the Land Court from the decision of special com- 
missions and for the subsequent procedure when leave to 
appeal is given by the Land Court. The rules also prescribe 
appropriate Court fees. 


The Tribal Courts Rules were made in consultation with 
the District Commissioner of the Southern District in order 
clearly to define the practice and procedure in the Tribal 
Courts. The rules provide for appeals to the Tribal Court 
of Appeal, the mode of levying execution of judgments of 
the Tribal Courts, and deal with exemption from Court fees 
on the part of poor persons, and the fees payable on the 
hearing of civil cases and appeals. 


The Arbitration Rules define the local jurisdiction of the 
Courts in which matters relating to arbitration may be 
brought, and the manner in which awards may be con- 
firmed and enforced. The rules provide also for the fees 
to be charged in arbitration matters and, where i aeange 

rovision is not made apply the Civil Procedure Rules, so 
‘ar as applicable. 


The High Court (Trade Marks) Rules prescribe the pro- 
cedure to be followed in bringing matters before the Court 
either by the Registrar of Trade Marks or by any person 
aggrieved by his refusal to register a trade mark. The 
essential difference between these rules and the High Court 
Rules, referred to above, is that a date is fixed for hearing 
of every petition without the necessity for issuing an order 
nisi. e rules provide also for the verification of petitions 
other than those filed by the Registrar of Trade Marks by 
appropriate affidavits and for the joinder of issue by affidavit 
or affidavits. 


48607 D3 


go 


The Courts Vacation Rules gave effect to the Secretary 
of State’s approval of three vacations of the Supreme, 
District and ena Courts. 


The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules amplify the schedule 
to the principal rules by adding fees not otherwise prescribed 
and amend the schedule by providing for a fee to be paid 
on any application to the District, Land or Supreme Courts, 
to have any act, order or ruling ‘ofa Registrar set aside. 


The Bankruptcy (Amendment) Rules amend Table ‘‘ A ”’ 
of the second schedule to the principal rules by authorizing 
a person, empowered by law to take an affidavit from a 
debtor in bankruptcy, to remit the fee prescribed therefor 
on being satisfied that the debtor is unable to pay it. 


The Civil Procedure Rules are a comprehensive codifica- 
tion of Rules of Court relating to the procedure in the 
Supreme Court, the District and Land Courts and the 
Special Tribunal. They were published early in 1938. 


The Magistrates’ Courts Procedure Rules have also been 
drafted in comprehensive form, and they will be brought 
into operation early in 1938. AG 


Regulations. 

The Defence (Amendment) Regulations (No. 10) amend the 
principal regulations by removing certain offences committed 
under the Emergency Regulations, 1936, from the jurisdiction 
of the Civil Courts to that of Military Courts constituted by the 
Defence (Military Courts) Regulations, 1937. 


Work of the Courts. 

g. Registrars were appointed to the District Courts as from 
ist September, and the Registrars Ordinance, 1936, came into 
operation on the 14th October, 1937. Much of the routine work 
of the Courts has now been assigned to the Registrars, leaving 
the Presidents of the Courts and the Members free to perform 
purely judicial work. 


Io. At its thirty-second (Extraordinary) session the Per- 
manent Mandates Commission during the examination of the 
Report for 1936 desired to be informed of the measures taken 
by Government in regard to certain recommendations by the 
Royal Commission concerning reforms of an urgent character 
in the Judicial and Legal Departments of Government. 

As recommended in paragraph 46 of Chapter VI of the Royal 
Commission’s Report an additional British Puisne Judge has 
been appointed and the Court of Appeal has normally been con- 
stituted of three judges, with a British majority when so 
requested. Special efforts were made during the year to bring 
the work of the Court up to date and favourable conditions have 
enabled this to be done. 





QI 

11. To give effect to the recommendations in paragraph 54 of 
Chapter VI of the Royal Commission’s Report the appointment 
of Government Advocate has been abolished and the duties 
formerly performed by the holder of that office are now under- 
taken by two British Crown Counsel who have recently been 
appointed. The prosecuting section now consists of the two 
British Counsel, two Arab and two Jewish Advocates. 


12. For financial reasons it has not been possible to set up 
separate Land Courts as recommended in paragraph 37 of 
Chapter IX of the Royal Commission’s Report. Special efforts 
have however been made during the year under review to reduce 
the arrears of land cases and, as illustrated by Table ‘‘ F’”’ 
herein, pending land cases inclusive of those entered during the 
year have been reduced from 1,017 to 528. 

Legislation is about to be enacted with a view to providing 
that a Land Court should consist of one British Judge, and that 
appeals on a point of law should go to the Supreme Court. 


13. Criminal Assizes.—It has been possible to organize regular 
assizes of the Court of Criminal Assize as follows: — 


March. 

gone: 
eptember. 

December. 

14. Monthly Cause-Lists——In the Supreme Court a Warned 
List and monthly Cause-List is published. District Courts have, 
as far as practicable, adopted the same system as in the Supreme 
Court, and all monthly cause-lists of the District Courts are now 
posted on the Supreme Court notice board, in order that the 
advocates and the public may be made aware of the dates on 
which the District Courts are likely to hear both civil and 
criminal cases, so that they may arrange their appointments 
accordingly. 


15. Municipal Courts——These Courts exist only in Tel-Aviv, 
Gaza and Acre, and only sit as criminal courts. 5,436 cases 
were entered in these courts and 5,884 were decided, and 100 
cases were pending at the close of the year. Of these no cases 
were heard by the Municipal Court of Acre and only 27 cases 
were entered in Gaza, of which three only are pending. 


16. Magistrates’ Courts.—51,932 civil cases were entered in 
these Courts, and 51,882 decided; 4,402 were pending at the 
end of the year. 

The number of criminal cases entered was 67,147; 66,500 
were decided, and there were 1,245 pending at the end of the 
year. 

48607 D4 


92 
17. District Courts.—The total number of cases entered in 
the District Courts shows an increase of 554 over the previous 
year. 
The following table shows the total number of civil and 
criminal cases entered in the last five years: — 


Civil Criminal 
Year. Entered. Entered. 
1933 noe =3 a ve 2,117 2,341 
1934 wee we Bae so 2,403 2,338 
1935 ree aes nas aes 2,300 1,769 
1936 a ne ae es 1,586 1,683 
1937 Se as ae Res 2,140 1,803 


The following table sets out the number of civil and criminal 
cases decided and pending in the last five years:— 


Civil Civil Criminal Criminal 
Year. Decided. Pending. Decided. Pending. 
1933 ss ws 2,286 494 2,379 131 
1934 Pee ae 2,385 512 2,339 130 
1935 so a 2,169 643 1,788 mr 
1936 ane ae 1,607 622 1,686 108 
1937 2,339 595 1,737°* 190 


* Includes 573 appeals and 1,164 original trials. 


These statistics show an increase in the number of civil and 
criminal cases decided. It has been possible to reduce the 
number of pending civil cases by the end of 1937, but the 
criminal cases show a slight increase, which it is hoped to 
reduce in the Courts during the first month or two of 1938. 
The number of cases pending is normal. 


Since 1st April, 1937, a separate division of the District Court 
of Jaffa has been sitting in Tel-Aviv, having a separate estab- 
lishment of Judges under their own President. The following 
table shows the work in the District Court at Tel-Aviv Registry 
for the period from 1st April to 31st December. The figures 
shown are included in the above tables, with the exception of 
cases shown as pending at rst April. 

Cases transferred 
from Jaffa District 
Court on 1.4.37. 


Pending. Entered. Decided. Pending. 
Civil ace 172 595 509 258 
Criminal ... 16 123 108 31 
188 718 617 289 


18. Land Courts.—Cases entered in these Courts during the 
year numbered 495; 1,017 were pending at the end of the pre- 
vious year; 984 were decided, and there were 528 pena 
at the end of the year. 


93 


19. Supreme Court.—Civil appeals to the number of 298 were 
pending at the beginning of the year; 274 were filed during - 
the year; 525 were decided; and the number of pending appeals 
at the end of the year was 47. 

Twenty-four criminal appeals were pending at the beginning 
of the year; 157 were ieleed during the year; 170 decided; 
and at the end of the year there were II appeals pending. 


20. Court of Criminal Assize.—Nine cases were pending from 
the previous year; 42 cases were entered during the year; 40 
cases were decided; and eight cases were pending at the end 
of the year; one case was stayed and two were referred for 
trial to the District Courts. 


21. High Court.—Seventy-four cases were entered in this 
Court, and 28 pending cases were carried forward from the 
previous year. Ninety-three cases were decided, and at the 
end of the year nine cases were pending. 


The 93 cases which were decided may be classified as 
follows: — 


(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus proceedings, 
under Section 6 (a) of the Courts Ordinance, Cap. 28... 3 

(2) Petitions under Section 6 (b) of the said Ordinance in 
execution matters ave ite an es ees 51 

(3) Other petitions under sub-section (b) for orders directed 
to public bodies or officers cas ae mae es 19 

(4) Petitions under Section 6 (c) relating to change of venue 
oftrials... se a 36 So eat ea 3 
(5) Other petitions not coming within the above sub-sections 17 


Total ... en 93 


22. Special Tribunal.—No cases were entered in this Tribunal 
during the year under review. 


23. Revenue.—The revenue of the Courts for the year under 
teview was £P.165,904, as compared with £P.145,075 for 1936. 


24. Advocates.—No complaints of such a nature as to move 
the Chief Justice to constitute a Court of Discipline have been 
received against any practising advocate during the year under 
Teview. 


Religious Courts. 

25. Moslem Community.—In the Moslem Religious Courts 
17,930 cases were decided aere the year, including 180 
al . The Sharia judges issued 8,187 deeds of marriage and 
1,146 decrees of divorce. £P.6,743 was collected in fees. 


26. Orthodox Community.—The Ecclesiastical Courts of the 
Orthodox Patriarchate in Jerusalem sat in that town and also in 
Acre, Haifa, Jaffa, Nazareth and Gaza. The revenue from 


94 
fees during the year amounted to £P.210. The cases disposed 
of numbered 538, of which 12 were heard on appeal. The 
mop Sed of the cases were concerned with matrimonial matters 
and the administration of estates. Thirty-eight cases affected 
change of religion. 


27. Jewish Community.—The Jewish Rabbinical Courts 
heard the number of cases shown in brackets:—Jerusalem (in- 
cluding a Court of Appeal) (335), Jaffa-Tel-Aviv (599), Haifa 
(230). Tiberias (46), Safad (42), Petah-Tiqva Gay Hedera 
32), Raanana (28), Bnei-Brak (219), Mazkeret Batya (ro), 
Zikron Yaakov (6), Ramat Gan (150), Kiryat Yosef (2), 
Affuleh (6), Rehovoth (15), Pardess-Hanna aa), Nes-Ziona 
(33). The classification of suits was: divorces, guardianship, 
trusts, wills, and confirmation of documents. 


28. Syrian Orthodox Community.—The Court of this com- 
munity disposed of I0 cases: seven cases were concerned 
with matrimonial affairs, and three with the administration of 
estates. : 


29. Armenian Patriarchate.—The tribunal of this Patriarchate 
heard 19 cases during the year, concerning divorces, guardian- 
ship and succession. 


30. Latin Community.—During the year 111 cases were heard 
by the Latin Ecclesiastical Courts, concerning succession, wills 
and matrimonial matters. 


Cases Pending, Entered and Decided During 1937. 








A Supreme Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.37. during year. during year. 31.12.37 
Civil... ou ne 298 274 525 47 
Criminal Bee ae 24 157 170 11 
Total ... eae 322 431 695 58 
B High Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.37. during year. during year. 31.12.37. 
Total .. aie wis 28 74 93 9 
Cc Court of Criminal Assize. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.37. during year. duving year. 31.12.37. 
Total ... oot nee 9 42 40* 8 


* Does not include one case in which proceedings were stayed and two 
which were referred for trial to the I° strict Court. 


95 














D Special Tribunal. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
+ 2.1.37. during year. during year. 31.12.37. 
Total ... ao or _— — = as 
E District Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
I.1.37. during year. during year. 31.12.37. 
Civil... 0. oe 794 2,140 2,339 595 
Criminal on ae 124 1,803 1,737* 190 
Total ... 8 Soo 918 3,943 4,076 785 
* Includes 573 appeals and 1,164 original trials. 
F Land Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.37. during year. during yeay. 31.12.37. 
Total ... ae vee 1,017 * 495 984 528 
G Magistrates’ Courts. 
Cases Summarily Dealt with. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.37. during year. during year. 31.12.37. 
Civil... 4,352 51,932 51,882 4,402 
Criminal 598 67,147 66,500 1,245 
Total . 4,950 119,079 118,382 5,647 
H Magistrates’ Courts. 


Cases Presented by Police and Individuals for Preliminary 


Total ... 


Investigation. 


Now included in ‘‘ G’’. 


Municipal Courts. 


Tel-Aviv, Acre and Gaza. 


Pending Entered Decided 
1.1.37. during year. during year. 


548 5.436 5,884 


Pending 
31.12.37. 
100 
























































tor'6L S16'¢S LgE‘Zs PEE bb Ig1‘'z6 SExr‘gS $99‘98 Fol'€S of6'SL GLz'gh | oe + DIOL 

6Lg'b _— zlor —_ Leg'€1 _ €o€'S1 _ Lz9‘gr _ see squeirem jerads 

Surpjoy sazerysiseyy 
alojoq pasieyd suosiag 
gers _ Sob‘zr —_ go€‘gz _ gib'bz _ Crb‘61 ae syanoy fedionyy 
Ler‘lo zE6'1S 6z0‘gt €gg'th o1f‘oS Lrr'vS ye br gh6'6r Pgh SE S}INOD ,Sa}VIYSISLTY 
_ S6b _ £bS _ zok‘T _— z+6 _ : oes sqyinog pur] 
£og‘t obr'z €g9q'r 9gS‘t 69L'I oo£ ‘z gtt‘z £ob‘z IbE‘z + sqyunog 31481, 
I 2 * yeunquy, jereds 
ze _ 1g —_— of _ lz _ €€ ‘azIssy [BUILD Jo 31n0) 
_ $l _ III _ gir = Gor _ : ? qanog ysiy 
LS1 blz Lez Wiz 611 L6z ler got €91 + qanog euraidng 

*pouruessy | “1801 fp yousustsd | “ptAID «= ourms4dy | “pear | pousms4d | “tat ouruera) 
*LE6I “gf61 “SE6I “bEOI “EE6I ! 
t 














*SAnoD) SnoIsYaY UDYI 494J0 BUYSID Ut SJANOD [Jv Us Spoaddy Surpnjouy “pasaquy sasvy £ 


“speadde €2¢ pure syetsy peurs1s0 bor'r sapnouy » 


















































o1z'6L Ezgiss 6b LS Lol'€+ z€Q'16 L16'S¢ i Sg9‘og bol'€S zol'SL got'lr “** 110.7, 
6Lg‘b —_— zLo'b — Leg‘€1 — | €o€'Sr — | Lzg‘gr — | syueliem peroeds 
| Surpjoy soyeysiseyy 
| | ar0yeq pasieyo suosiag 
bee's — 660'z1 _ 1bz‘gz _ git'bz _— gih‘6r _— syinog yedroranyy 
00S ‘99 zggirs obbige Szz'1b 60g'64 19z'zS bbb'hb gh6‘6r Ler'ce obz'br syanog SaPIBSIBLJ 
_ $36 _— bes _— bho'r _ zb6 — 009 re synog pury 
olfl't 6££'z 989'I Log‘t ggl'r 691'z gtt'z fob‘z 6LE‘z ggz‘z sqanog 4oUy4sIG 
_— _— _ z _ = = = _— = yeunquy, Tetoads 
ob _— ob — Le — le = se = “azyssy [eUTUNID Jo 3N0D 
= £6 _ €or _ Szr — Sor _— 16 ynoD ys 
oLlt Sze Lez gzz orl gre Lr got gor Sbz qanog aureidng 
“JOURUIAD | “ptatD | PoUuruesD ppoUurusay 1308 yousuersy | “1808 peusMeeeD | “12089 
a 
“LE6I “9€ 61 “S61 f EOI “E61 


ee ee a 
“spnoy snorsyay uvyy 4ayjo auysap_ ut SEND Iv ur spvaddy Furpnjouy “papioaq sasv-) uM 


oigtzea y GOOgle 


98 


VIII.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


1. The safeguarding of the economic interests of the com- 
my is constantly the pre-occupation of Government as 
‘ollows : — 


(a) The railways, posts, telegraphs, telephones, ports and 
roads are in public ownership and administered by Govern- 
ment Departments. 


(b) Haifa Harbour and the Oil Dock were constructed 
by a Government Department. 


(c) All water supplies are administered by the Municipali- 
ties or by the Local Councils concerned. 

Note.—The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was completed 
early in 1936 by a Government Department, employing a special staff. 
It is now operated by the Public Works Department and the distribu- 
tion within the city is administered by the Jerusalem Municipality. Asa 
result of this new supply, the price of water to the consumer has been 
reduced from 80 mils to 45 mils per metre cube. 


(d) The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been abolished. 


(e) All mineral resources are Government property and 
may only be exploited by private persons in accordance 
with the provisions of the Mining Ordinance. 


(f) Other Palestine Ordinances cover the control of: — 


(1) Fisheries, forests and game. 
(2) The cultivation, manufacture and sale of tobacco 
or liquor. 
(3) The manufacture and sale of salt and matches. 
(4) The export of fruit. 
(5) Mewat (waste) lands. 
(6) Companies. 
(g) Measures are being taken to carry out a cadastral 
survey and a settlement of title to land. 


2. It has not been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services and 
utilities. The Jewish Agency is, however, a large shareholder 
in the Palestine Electric Corporation; and the Palestine 
Economic Corporation of New York, the Directors of which are 
non-Zionist Jews co-operating with the Jewish Agency, has a 
considerable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


3. A complete list of concessions and the names, of the con- 
cession-holders is appended to this report (Appendix III). 


99 


4. The latest balance sheets of the several companies holding 
concessions are furnished as an appendix to this report 
(Appendix I). 


_5- Provisions are made to secure economic equality under 
different headings as follows:— 


(a) Concessions— 


(x) All concessions granted by Government for the 
exploitation or development of the natural resources 
of Palestine or public services include time-limit 
clauses, in the interests of genuine and expeditious 
development, affecting the commencement of the work 
and the expiry of the concession. 


(2) Concession rights may not be assigned without 
the consent of Government which may also take over 
undertakings in the event of war or of other similar 
emergency. 


(3) At the end of the term of the concession, the 
undertakings and all their assets and effects revert to 
Government. 


(4) The concessionaires’ accounts are, by right, 
open to the inspection of Government which may also 
invest in the capital of the Company. 


(5) All leases of State Domain Lands specify the 
right of Government to resume possession of the area 
—wholly or in part—for public utility purposes. 


(6) The employment of local labour by concession- 
aires is adequately safeguarded. 


(b) Land Tenure.—The Palestine Government has 
removed the Ottoman prohibition against a foreign corpora- 
tion holding land and has abolished the special Ottoman 
tax upon immovable pope owned by corporate bodies. 
All foreign bodies, whether individual or corporate, may 
hold land in Palestine upon the same terms as any Pales- 
tinian individual or corporate person. 


(c) Mining Rights (in particular, Rules in regard to Pros- 
pecting).—Economic equality is secured by the provisions 
of the Mining Ordinance, 1925, which, inter alia, prevents 
speculative ‘‘ tying-up ’’ of undeveloped mineralised areas 

- by prospectors. 


(d) Fiscal Regime. (Direct and Indirect Taxation.) 
(e) Customs Regulations (Imports, Exports, Transit). 


Note.—For reasons of cunvenience these two headings are taken 
together. 


roo 


There is no economic discrimination either in the Fiscal 
Regime or in the Customs Regulations of Palestine. 


Prior to the War, certain foreign charitable, Teligious and 
educational institutions enjoyed, under the Ottoman Law of 
Silhi 1281 A.H. and various firmans, special privileges in respect 
of import duty, State and municipal taxation and titles. 


_ These privileges have been maintained in toto by the Pales- 
tine Government, but no fresh privileges of this nature have 
been granted. 


Otherwise foreign nationals are liable to the same taxation, 
State or municipal, as are Palestine citizens. 


Save for slight exceptions, which will disappear in the course 
of tai taxation on immovable property is now of two kinds 
only :— 


(1) The Urban Property Tax, which is a rate on net 
annual value in all towns and is assessed by committees 
on which the public and the Government are represented 
in equal proportion. 


(2) The Rural Property Tax, which is a tax per dunum 
of land in all rural areas. 


The Ottoman Law of Professional Tax (Temettu), which was 
assessed only upon Ottoman subjects and not upon foreigners, 
has not been applied by the Palestine Government. 


6. The Palestine Government has agreed to extend certain 
facilities, including the landing, warehousing and transhipment 
of goods and a certain degree of manipulation, in free zones 
which will be set up in the port of Haifa. These free zones 
will, of course, be under general Governmental control and 
subject to such prohibitions or restrictions as to importation into 
orte as are required by international conventions or local 
needs. 


Officials of the foreign Government concerned will be allowed 
to take charge of all processes within the zones and will be 
granted reasonable concessions in respect of local taxation. 


The Government of ‘Iraq is specially interested in these 
developments. . 


7. Aspecial customs agreement with ‘Iraq was concluded and 
came into force in February, 1937. 


Notes:— 
(1) Owing to the unsettled conditions there was little develop- 
ment in mining during the year. 


IOI 
(2) The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was com- 
pleted in 1936 and has been working satisfactorily. 


(3) Consideration continues to be given to the provision 
of water supplies in the following towns in Palestine:— 


Jaffa. : Beit Jala. 
el-Aviv. Ramallah. 
Haifa. Bireh. 
Bethlehem. 


(4) The concession period of the popular El Hamme mineral 
springs was increased from 31 to 45 years, with effect from the 
2oth December, 1930, and the Company increased its capital 
by £P.20,000 and has considerably improved and developed its 
accommodation. 


(5) During the year an agreement was made with the con- 
tractors of the Tiberias Hot Springs under which the springs 
were leased to them for a period of 60 years. 


(6) A topographic and hydrographic survey of Lake Huleh 
basin was carried out last year. 


(7) The development of the Dead Sea Concession has pro- 
ceeded satisfactorily. 


(8) The Palestine Sulphur Quarries, Ltd., continued work 
during the year without interruption. A mechanical drying 
plant was installed on their leased area south of Gaza, which 
enables the product to be classified into four grades. A Dorr- 
Oliver classifier plant was also erected. 


(9) The Palestine Electric Corporation operated the new 
station in the Haifa—Acre Bay near Haifa, which was completed 
in 1936, and a diesel driven station at Tel-Aviv. The Corpora- 
tion has commenced the construction of a 30,000 kw. steam- 
driven station at Tel-Aviv, which is due for completion in 1938. 


The construction of an extra high tension line from the Jordan 
Power Station to Tel-Aviv has been completed and is already 
in use. During the year the Corporation have extended their 
supply mains and constructed a number of small sub-stations 
to meet the increasing demand. 


(x0) The Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation 
have completed the erection of a second generator in order to 
meet the growing demand for electrical energy. 


A number of small sub-stations have also been constructed 
and the supply mains extended. 


102 


1X.—HOLY PLACES. 


Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem. 


1. The roof of the Basilica of the Nativity at Bethlehem has 
been repaired by Government in order to make it waterproof. 
The Orthodox, Latin and Armenian Communities have been 
requested to contribute in equal shares to the cost of the repairs. 
The Latin and Armenian Communities have paid their respective 
shares, while the Orthodox have protested, claiming the right to 
pay the whole cost. 

The annual cleaning of the Basilica was carried out without 
incident on 29th December, 1937, in the presence of a British 
Assistant District Commissioner. 


A dispute between the Latin and Orthodox Communities is 
pending in regard to the use of certain parts of the Grotto of 
the Nativity on the occasion of the Latin Epiphany. 


Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre, Jerusalem. 

2. The Easter ceremonies were celebrated as usual and no 
untoward incident occurred. It is noteworthy that by agreement 
between the three principal Communities electric light was used 
for the first time during the respective Easter celebrations in the 
Rotunda of the Basilica. 

A dispute that has arisen between the two hereditary Moslem 
janitors of the Basilica, in regard to their respective claims to 
the exclusive right of sealing the Tomb at the Orthodox 
ceremony of the Holy Fire, is under consideration by Govern- 
ment. 

The restoration of the mosaics in the Calvary Chapel, which 
was approved in 1931 by the Archaeological Advisory Board, 
is in process of execution by the Latin Community. 

The Armenian Patriarchate installed an electric lamp and 
wires in the Chapel of St. Nicodemus. Protests having been 
received from other Communities on the ground that this instal- 
lation constituted a contravention of the status quo, the lamp 
and wires were subsequently removed on the instruction of 
Government. 


3. The period of two years, for which the temporary con- 
solidation of the Basilicas of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem 
and of the Nativity at Bethlehem was designed, has now 
expired; and although there are no signs of immediate and 
serious collapse, the expert advice which Government has 
received leaves no doubt that the continued stability of the 
Basilicas cannot safely be presumed. Accordingly the Heads 
of the principal Christian Communities concerned have again 
been invited ty Government to co-operate in the promulgation 


103 . 


of Ea palate anpey for funds for the permanent restoration of the 
Basi , and they have been warned that, unless funds are 
forthcoming in the reasonably near future, Government may 
find it necessary, in the interest of the public safety, to close the 
Basilicas to the public before the Western Holy Week, 1938. 
The whole question is receiving the Government's closest 
attention. 


El Haram as Sherif. 


4. The Supreme Moslem Council repaired the mosaics of the 
toof, and removed for replacement the deteriorated porcelain 
oe the western frontage of the octagon of the Dome of 

e : 


Wailing Wall and Rachel’s Tomb. 

5. There has been greater co-operation between the Vaad 
Leumi, the Chief Rabbinate and the Agudath-Israel throughout 
the period under review in the matter of the preservation of 
Jewish interests at the Wailing Wall and Rachel’s Tomb. 


6. The following is a summary of the Christian and Moslem 
teligious services which were broadcast by the Palestine Broad- 
casting Service during the year: — 

6th January.—Orthodox Eastern Service (from the 
Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem) . 


7th January.—Reading from the Gospel in Arabic, 


Coptic, Syriac and Amharic a Representatives of the 
1: 


Coptic, Syriac and Abyssinian ches. 


18th January.—Armenian Service (from the Basilica of 
the Nativity, Bethlehem). 


25th March.—A Roman Catholic Service in Latin and 
Arabic (from the Latin Church in the Garden of Gethse- 
mane, Jerusalem). 


28th March.—Roman Catholic Service (from the Basilica 
of the Holy Sepulchre, Jerusalem). 

Anglican Service (from St. George’s Cathedral, Jeru- 
salem). 

Anglican Service (in Arabic) (from St. Paul’s Church, 
Jerusalem). 


1st May.—Orthodox Eastern Service (from the Basilica 
of the Holy Sepulchre, Jerusalem). 


104 


and May.—Armenian Service (from the Basilica of the 
Holy Sepulchre, Jerusalem). 

Readings from the Gospel in Arabic, Coptic, Syriac and 
Amharic by Representatives of the Coptic, Syrian Ortho- 
dox and Abyssinian Churches. 


and May.—Mawlad Ceremony (Birth of the Prophet) with 
commentary and description of the Mosque (from the E} 
Aqsa Mosque). 


gth June.—Byzantine Mass (from St. Anne’s Church, 
Jerusalem). 


24th December.—A Carol Service in English (from the 
’ Courtyard of the Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem). 
Roman Catholic Service (from the Basilica of the 
Nativity, Bethlehem). 


25th December.—Anglican Service (from St. George’s 
Cathedral, Jerusalem). 

Anglican Service (in Arabic) (from St. Paul’s Church, 
Jerusalem). 


26th December.—A descriptive programme entitled 
“* Christmas in Bethlehem ”’ arranged at the request of the 
British Broadcasting Corporation, and broadcast from the 
Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem. 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious 
observance throughout Palestine. 


The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescrip- 
tions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows: — 


‘* All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of con- 
science, and the free exercise of their forms of worship 
subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals. 
Every religious community recognized by the Government 
shall enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs of the com- 
munity subject to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order 
issued by the High Commissioner.”’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change of 
religious community is regulated by the Religious Community 
(Change) Ordinance and is directed to secure that there will be 
public notification of the change of legal status which is involved. 


105 


An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, 
to make regulations for the organization of any religious com- 
munity which applies therefor. Separate regulations are to 
be made in each case suited to the special circumstances and 
organization of the community concerned. The regulations 
may provide for the constitution of councils or boards of the 
community, which shall have juristic personality, and may 
confer on them power to impose contributions and fees for 
communal purposes which shall be recoverable in the same 
way as municipal taxes and fees. 


The only regulations of this kind which have so far been 
made are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish community, 
which contain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and 
religion to Jews who wish to hold aloof from the established 
community. 


Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, so 
as to allow every labourer to enjoy, in freedom of conscience, 
that weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, subject to 
technical exigencies or considerations of emergency; and a six- 
day working week is general in such works. The precise method 
of securing this end depends on the kind of work to be done, 
the period fixed for its completion, the locality in which it is to 
be carried out, and the different racial and religious elements 
of the labour employed on it. The matter is usually susceptible 
of adjustment by the District Commissioner concerned, in con- 
sultation with the undertaker or contractor responsible for the 
Wee ae if need be, with the religious head of the community 
affected. 


There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual crafts- 
men, who can do their work in their own time. 


As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.) undertaken 
by Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours 
to avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour unavoid- 
able to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions as 
might encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All 
Government officers are granted the weekly day of rest observed 
by the religious community to which they belong. But in the 
case of certain departments, such as the Railways, Post and 
Telegraphs, and Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff, the 
racial distribution of technical skill, and the essential continuity, 
for example, of watch and ward duties, entail the consequence, 
in some centres, that some employees shall perform essential 
services on their weekly day of rest. 


106 


2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done 
by Jews and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the 
Wailing Wall Order in Council, which was printed in Appendix I 
to the Report for 1931.* 


3. The registration of schools is required by the Department 
of Education and granted subject only to compliance with 
sanitary requirements of the Department of Health. The estab- 
lishment of schools in Palestine by communities or private 
organisations or individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 


The Education Ordinance ensures the rights of communities 
to maintain their own schools for the education of their own 
members. All teachers are required to register their names and 
certain particulars with the Education Department, but except 
for this formality there is no restriction on the free exercise of 
the educational profession in a private school, that is, a school 
not receiving assistance from public funds. Private schools, 
other than those private schools exempted by the High Commis- 
sioner on the ground that only religious instruction is given, are 
subject to inspection by certain officers of the Departments of 
Education and Health. No changes in the curriculum or 
internal management of a private school established or main- 
tained by a religious association may be required by the Depart- 
ment of Education. 


The full text of the Education Ordinance was given in 
Appendix I to the 1932 Report. t 

4. A draft Ordinance to amend the existing Fundamental 
Law of the Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem is now under 
the consideration of Government. 


XI.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 


The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prisons 
Service in 1937 was £P.867,295. 





* Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 75, 1932. 
t Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 82, 1933. 


107 

































































Leg‘€| S69'€| or | 6zZ | zor] g€€ |or1‘1) 6zr ee | 2b | gr | 6z | €o|/—|]S |’ | 2 | Lb $]0j0.[, 
Gof | z6z | 1 ¢ ghz | oz |zr €r |— | + + — |§ b | —|—|—|—] % | - aatarag suostig oy, 
gLS‘€| Eor'€| 6 bzl | bSz'1| z1€ | bor‘'1| grr 6z lo gi tz | 6S |}—|S | & | ZL | EF} + aoI0q doYOg PY 
slelelrlelelglg/elrss/e/gleleirigely 
8 8 || 5 8 & | 3 B/S | SPELL ELEIE Ss 2s] 
a a2 [oe ie | & 2 2 oe eye Ses pe Vee ie 
S| 2) 2/2) oe) 2 S| Flor 2 [2 )* 
3 = - Ss 2 by S S ? = 
& | 8 5 z = 8 = 
; Fa q ¢ 
2 ’ 
e 
“sunystay rsumystay ‘sunny 
~$144D 
“syupy 42410 *saoqoagsuy *saa0u[Q 

















—repun sv sem ‘LE6r ‘raquiasaq }sI€ ay} UO YYSUays ayy 


v 


:» GOogl 


Digit 


108 


2. Compared with the previous year the establishment of the 
Police Force was increased by the following officers and other 
tanks: — 


District Superintendent I 
Deputy Superintendents 2 
Assistant Superintendent Bae des I 
British Inspectors... ote as wa 3 
Palestinian Inspectors at wee 3 
First British Sergeants as ae ed 2 
Second British Sergeants... re Pd MDZ 
Palestinian Sergeants... aes end ots 5 
Palestinian Corporals... Pen Pes age aE 
Constables (British) ... athe sa vs 250 
Constables (Palestinian) ie ae a. 288 


The increases were mainly due to the formation of a special 
Police Division to control the Palestine—Syria frontier from Ras 
an Nakura in the west, to Samakh in the east, and the establish- 
ment of British Police Reserve Forces in the towns of Jerusalem, 
Jaffa and Haifa. 


3. With the exception of a few cases of typhoid which occurred 
among the British Police, the health of the Force has been 
uniformly good throughout the year. 


4. A new Police District was established with headquarters 
at Safad, and styled the Frontier Police District. Two new police 
stations and twelve new police posts were opened during the 
year. 

5. Two hundred and twelve British and one hundred and 
thirty-nine Palestinian non-Commissioned officers passed the 
pone pay examination. Five British and seven 

alestinian personnel were awarded special proficiency pay 
in recognition of outstanding service. 


6. There were seventy-two British and Palestinian recruits in 
training at the beginning of the year. Seven hundred and ninety 
British and Palestinian recruits were accepted during the year, 
and six hundred and twenty-five were posted to Districts. 

A Promotional Course was assembled in December, 1936, and 
was completed in 1937 and a further promotional course was 
held during the year. Seven British and twelve Palestinian 
other ranks were promoted to the inspectorate. 

7. In the higher language examinations eighty-one British 
personnel passed in Arabic and nineteen in Hebrew; and in the 
lower language examination two hundred and forty-three passed 
in Arabic and eighty-seven in Hebrew. One British policeman 
passed the Government elementary examination in Arabic. 

8. There are now thirty-six wireless telegraphy stations 
operating throughout the country, eleven of which were put into 
service during the year. In addition, eight vehicles of the 
Police Force fleet were equipped with wireless telephony 
receiving sets. 


Tog 

g. The expansion of the wireless telegraphic communication 
scheme has been of great value and messages amounting to 
well over three million words were handled during the year. 
The particular utility of the mobile wireless units has not been 
fully explored as these have not been long enough in service. 
They are, however, proving of great advantage in the larger 
towns both for traffic work and for public security purposes. 
Transmitting and receiving apparatus is now being fitted to 
eighteen adtonal vehicles of the Police Force fleet. 


to. Of the First Aid Division Police, eighty-four members 
qualified in First Aid tests held by the Order of St. John of 
Jerusalem. There are now in the Force six hundred and ninety- 
two officers and men competent to render first aid to the injured, 
and one hundred and two officers and other ranks have passed 
the proficiency tests for life saving and have been awarded 
certificates by the Royal Life Saving Society. 


11. Road Traffic.—There was an increase in vehicular traffic 
during the year. 


The intensive measures which were taken by Government 
during the previous year with regard to the control of vehicular 
traffic and licensing have produced gratifying results in the way 
of reducing both general and road accidents. The following 
table of accidents will be of interest, particularly when it is 
remembered that during 1936 road traffic was reduced to 
approximately 25 per cent. of its proportions owing to the con- 
tinuance of disorders for a period of six months:— 


: 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
Fatal road accidents ... 154 153 129 105 
General accidents wee 1,202 1,527 1,109 1,126 


12. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners was satisfactory. 


At the end of the year there were twenty-seven inmates in the 
criminal lunatic section, and seventeen prisoners under treat- 
ment in the tubercular ward of the Central Prison, Acre. 


Fifty-four prisoners escaped from the central prisons, jail 
labour companies and lock-ups. Of these, seven escaped from 
the precincts of the prison, six from lock-ups, thirty when on 
outside labour, one from a Government hospital, three when 
under escort and seven were honour prisoners on work outside 
the prisons. 


Twenty-nine prisoners were recaptured. 


Eighty-two inmates aa hee from the reformatory schools at 
Tulkarm and Acre, of whom sixty-six were recaptured or 
returned voluntarily. 


IIo 


Under the Penal Labour Ordinance 5,475 prisoners were 
released and employed on services of public utility. No wages 
were paid to them for this work. This figure shows an increase 
of 1,246 on the previous year. 

A daily average of 798 convicted prisoners in jail labour com- 
panies was employed on road making, quarrying and 
agricultural work. 


The convicts in the central prisons are employed on carpentry, 
weaving, basket-making, tailoring, blacksmithy, printing, shoe- 
making and on the repair of mail bags. The prisoners receive 
no payment for their work. 

The number of prisoners in custody on the 31st December 
was as follows: — 

Convicted. Awaiting trial. 


Central Prison, Jerusalem ... wis 333 139 
Central Prison, Acre ... age pay 405 234 
Jail Labour Company No. 1 aes 364 _ 
Jail Labour Company No. 2 out 372 — 
Farm Labour Camp, Acre ... Ay 119 338 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem... aie 53 ai 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups... ae 26 110 
Southern a te Sane ae 46 87 
Gaza LN ds rare ae 15 25 
Northern a Nae tapar a, 10 66 
Nazareth yy ie pcoes eer 16 52 
Nablus ” Bi Vaan one 46 85 

1,865 1,157 


The distribution of sentences was as follows:—debtors 46; 
up to 3 months 339; 3-12 months 464; I-5 years 500; 5-15 years 
437; Over I5 years 24; life 46; capital punishment 9. 

At the end of the year there were 225 convicted offenders in 
the boys’ reformatory schools. The average age on admission 
was thirteen years and eleven months. 

During the year, 1,258 debtors were imprisoned as compared 
with 843 in 1936. 

In addition to 526 prisoners awaiting trial at the end of the 
year, 631 were detained under the Regulations made under the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1931. 


13. Crime.—The Criminal Investigation Department is under 
the command of a Deputy Inspector-General, and the staff 
consists of one District Superintendent, one Deputy District 
Superintendent, four Assistant Superintendents, five Inspectors, 
five Sergeants, four corporals, twenty-three detectives and 
twenty-one clerks. 

The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are to 
prevent and detect crime by the collection of information and 
evidence and by investigation in collaboration with the district 


IIrI 


police, to watch and report upon political movements, to repress 
seditious activities, to maintain criminal records, finger prints, 
and photographs, to examine the regular organs of the Press 
and occasional pamphlets with a view to action in case of 
seditious, inflammatory, or pornographic articles, to prevent the 
smuggling of arms, drugs and entry of illegal immigrants (and 
for this purpose Criminal Investigation Department men are 
posted to the ports), to scrutinize applications for naturalization, 
to arrange deportations and extraditions, and to maintain liaison 
with appropriate departments and authorities in Egypt, Syria, 
Trans-Jordan, India, ‘Iraq, Cyprus and Europe; to maintain 
the closest appreciation of the state of public security from the 
political and criminal points of view. 

The following are comparative tables of crime statistics for 
each of the years 1933 to 1937 inclusive : — 


= 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 





Indictable offences ... ah 2,881 2,172 1,753 3,971 2,653 
Non-indictable offences... 9,721 8,454 | 10,525 | 11,502 | 14,399 
Crime :— 
Murder... oi ne 108 109 15 254 192 
Attempted murder ese 97 122 1I5 508 250 
Highway robbery ose 34 32 32 122 221 
Theft by breaking into 
premises pee ays 493 337 858 1,194 935 
Animal theft Aah rp 312 499 393 463 543 
Agrarian offences... ae 829 425 443 688 439 




















Police dogs continued to give valuable service in the detection 
of crime. he demand for the services of the dogs was so great 
and the strain thrown upon them was so considerable that two 
additional trained dogs were immediately purchased during the 
year and two more are now on their way to Palestine. Out of 
a total number of 221 cases in which the dogs were employed 
during the year, they were successful in 80 cases. 

Eleven persons were extradited from Palestine to,,Syria, 
twenty to Trans-Jordan. Twelve were extradited from Syria 
and twenty from Trans-Jordan. 


14. Criminal Records Office.—The Criminal Records and 
Fingerprint Bureau now holds 47,734 dossiers of convicted 
criminals; 7,644 were opened during 1937. Fingerprint identifi- 
cation slips received for search numbered 14,209 and in 3,791 
cases previous convictions were traced. In three cases criminals 
were directly identified from fingerprints which they left on the 
scenes of their operations. 

Eight hundred and sixteen Arabs and eighty-seven Jews were 
detained under the Emergency Regulations or the Prevention of 
Crime Ordinance for various periods. 


112 


15. Communism.—Communist activity continues to demand 
a good deal of attention and police surveillance. Of twenty-five 
Communists prosecuted, twelve were acquitted and thirteen 
convicted. Ninety-four Communists were bound over under the 
Prevention of Crime Ordinance and the Defence Regulations. 
Forty-six Communists were deported, a further fifty-five left of 
their own accord and were prohibited from returning, and forty- 
three orders of exclusion of undesirables were made during the 
year. : 

Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 

16. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force includ- 
eae Reserve at the 31st December, 1937, was 1,056 made up 
as follows : — 






































3 
g | 8 
N \ 
Ealhea lee iy 
7/ilé 38 
os s 2 2 6 
2 | Re g ; S| 8 ; 
a a ae as Se als a 
gs, fl} oy; oy sa gia 
Officers ... eons 24 9 9 7 3; — 1 53 
Warrant Officers 9 _ 9 
N.C.Os. and ‘ 
Troopers | — 397 214 125 24 43 21 824 
Total ... eee 33 | 406 | 223 132 27 43 22 | 886 
Reserve N.C.Os. 
and Men ween) os 113 23 28) — _ 6| 170 
Grand Total ... 33 519 246 160 27 43 28 | 1,056 





17. Recruits enlisted during the year numbered 70, of whom 
Ig were Arab Moslems; 23 Arab Christians; 11 Circassians; 
1 Druze; 4 Egyptians and Sudanese, and 12 Jews. 


18. Sixty-six men were discharged on termination of contract 
or on other grounds, and 16 of these were enrolled in the 
Reserve. One hundred and ninety-three other ranks, time- 
expired, were re-engaged for a further period. 


19. The discipline of the Force continues to be satisfactory. 
There were no desertions nor were any men tried by Court 
Martial. 


20. The general health of the Force was very good. Four 
hundred and eighty-eight cases were treated in the Frontier 
Force hospitals and 11 cases in Government and other hospitals. 

There were 132 cases of malaria, a decrease of 175 over the 
number of cases in 1936: 29 of these were primary cases. 








113 


21. No active operations took place in Palestine or Trans- 
Jordan, but all units of the Force have been called out in aid 
of the Civil Power throughout the year. 


22. Individual and collective training and co-operational 
training with the Royal Air Force were carried out in accordance 
with the programme laid down. In only two cases was the pro- 
gramme curtailed on account of units being called out in aid 
of the Civil Power. 


23. The annual courses for rifles, machine guns, and light 
automatics revealed a satisfactory standard in weapon training. 


24. The progress of educational classes was satisfactory 
throughout the year. Forty-seven candidates passed the exami- 
nations held for first, second and third class certificates. 

A class in English has been formed at Ma‘an for other ranks. 


25. The ais estimates of expenditure of the Force for 
the financial year 1937-8 amount to £P.200,094, including 
4P.13,033 for extraordinary works, and the approved grant-in- 
aid from the Imperial Government amounts to £P.147,035. 
26. Horse Breeding Scheme.—The Force now possesses— 
4 thoroughbred Arab Stallions; 


4 countrybred Arab Stallions purchased in Trans-Jordan 
(as remounts) ; 


Q specially selected mares purchased in Trans-Jordan (as 
remounts). 
As in previous years, the countrybred stud stallions and mares 
have been with squadrons doing ordinary troop work. 


The Breeding Scheme has become popular, and constant 
demands are being made by the Mukhtars of villages for horses 
to stand at stud. 


XIL.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 
AND TREATIES. : 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Palestine. 
(i) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 

Country. Name. Date of Signature. 
Egypt ... ... Provisional Agreement... «.. 7.8.22, Ramleh. 
Syria... ... Provisional Agreement... «+» 1.7.21, Palestine. 

15.7.21, Syria. 
Addendum ... Bes Ee, «++ 10.1.24, Palestine. 

28.1.24, Syria. 
Amendment see see ++. 1.9.33, Palestine. 


23.9.33, Syria. 


114 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 
Egypt 


‘Iraq 


Syria... 


Syria... 
Trans- Jordan 


Egypt 
Egypt 
Egypt ... 
France ... 
France 


Great Britain 


Greece 
«Iraq ‘ 
Switzerland 
Syria 


Syria 
Syria 


Syria 
Syria 


Palestine—conid. 


(ii) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 

Agreement to facilitate commer- 
cial relations between Egypt 
and Palestine. 

Exchange of Notes oh 

Special Customs ‘Agreement ‘to 
facilitate commercial relations 
between ‘Iraq and Palestine, 
Exchange of Notes 14.12. 23-0 

Customs Agreement 


Amendment 5 
Transit Agreement 


(iii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Convention concerning the Re- 
ciprocal Enforcement of Judg- 
ments. 

Agreement concerning the Meas- 
ures to be applied for the Con- 
trol of Dengue Fever. 

Arrangements for the Transit of 
Palestinian Pilgrims through 
Egyptian Territory. 

Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of Palestine 
on the one part and by France 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

Parcel Post Agreement aids 

Agreement between the Post 
Office of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Ireland and 
the Post Office of Palestine for 
the Exchange of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement oe 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Agreement concerning the Im- 
portation of Antiquities. 

Agreement to provide for the Dis- 
tribution of certain Receipts 
from Animal Tax. 

Parcel Post Agreement 


Money Orders Agreement 
Agreement regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 


Date of Signature. 
18.8.36 
(Effective date). 


18.8.36. 


14.2.37 
(Effective date). 


4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 
22.10.35, Jerusalem. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


28.12.33, Cairo. 
(Effective date). 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Jerusalem. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


31.3.36/19.6.36 
10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


13.3.36/28.3.36. 
29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27- 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 

Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 
17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 


II5 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 
Syria and the 
Lebanon. 
Syria... 


Trans-Jordan 


Trans-Jordan 
Trans- Jordan 


Trans-Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


United States of 
America. 


Syria 


Palestine—conid. 


(iii) OTHER AGREEMENTS—contd. 


Name. 

Agreement for the Reciprocal 
Grant of Gratis Visas. 

Agreement relating to the Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement for the Taking of Evi- 
dence on Commission for the 
purpose of any Criminal or Civil 
Matter. 

Agreement as to the Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Convey- 
ance of Corpses from Palestine 
for Burial in Trans-Jordan and 
from Trans-Jordan for Burial 
in Palestine. 

Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to Regulate the Service 
of Judicial Documents between 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 

Convention regarding the Rights 
of the Government and Nation- 
als of the United States of 
America in Palestine. 


Agreements concluded in 1937. 


Agreement to facilitate the move- 
ment of certain animals from 
one territory into the other for 
purposes of grazing and water- 
ing. 


Date of Signature. 
20.8.32, Jerusalem. 
5.9.32, Beirut. 
18.9.35, Jerusalem. 


25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 
14.11.29, Jerusalem. 
25.2.29, Jerusalem. 


6.3.29, Amman. 
1.10.29. 


16.7.34 (Amended 
24.8.35/1.9.35). 

23.11.34, Amman. 

13.12.34, Jerusalem. 


3-12.24. 


2.10.37, Jerusalem. 


(B) Multilaterai Agreements and Conventions. 


Date of Date of 
Name. Signature. Accession. 
International Convention prohibiting the Use of 26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
White (Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufac- Berne. 
ture of Matches. . 
International Convention relative to the Protec- 13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 
International Opium Convention and subse- 23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
quent relative papers. The Hague. 
Additional Protocol to the International Copy-  20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
tight Convention signed at Berlin on the Berne. 
13.11.08. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
; Barcelona. 
Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navi- 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
gable Waterways of International Concern. Barcelona. 
Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- Barcelona. E 


national Concern. 


116 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—contd. 


Name. 

Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 
matters). 

International Convention relating to the Simpli- 
fication of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Railways and Protocol of Signature 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electric Power and Protocol of 
Signature 

International Agreement as to Contagious 
Disease of Animals. 

International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Ex- 
ploration of the Mediterranean Sea. ; 
International Convention for the unification of 

certain rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 


Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial’ 
Navigation and Additional Protocol of May, 
1920. 

International Convention relating to Inter- 
national Exhibitions. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 


International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protec- 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of 
Foreign Arbitral Awards. 

International Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick 
in Armies in the Field. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 


Date of 
Signature. 


20.4.21, 


Date of 
Accession. 
9.10.22. 


Barcelona. (Ratification). 


12.9.23, 
Geneva. 


24.9.23, 
Geneva. 


3.11.23, 


Geneva. 


9.12.23, 
Geneva. 


9.12.23, 
Geneva. 


9.12.23, 


Geneva. 


9.12.23, 


Geneva. 


25.1.24, 
Paris. 

21.6.26, 
Paris. 


26.4.29, 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 


Brussels. 


24.4.26, 
Paris. 


13.10.19. 
22.11.28, 


Paris. 
19.2.25, 


Geneva. 


25.9.26, 


Geneva. 


2.6.28, 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 


Geneva. 


27.7-29, 
Geneva. 


18.5.04, 
Paris. 

4.5.10, 
Paris. 


23-5-27- 


12.3.26. 


29.8.24. 
(Ratification) . 
22.9.25- 


22.9.25. 


22.9.25. 


22.9.25. 


13.7.27- 
9.10.28. 
19.12.29. 


2.6.31. 
(Effective 
date). 
4.12.30 
(Effective 
date). 
11.7.22 
(Effective 
date). 
17.12.30. 


25.9.28 
(Effective 
date). 

18.6.27 
(Ratification). 


1.10.31. 
26.5.31. 


23.6.31. 
(Ratification) 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
6.5.32 
(Effective 
date). 


117 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—cont. 


Name. 
International Convention for the Suppression of 
the Traffic in Women and Children. 
International Agreement regarding False Indica- 
tions of Origin on Goods. 


International Convention for the Protection of 
Industrial Property. 


European Broadcasting Convention 


International Convention for Mutual Protection 
against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for Sanitary Control 
of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


Universal Postal Convention 


Agreement concerning Insured Letters and 
Boxes. 


Convention for the Unification of certain rules 
relating to International Carriage by Air. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connection with Bills of Exchange 
and Promissory Notes. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Cheques. 


International Convention relating to Taxation 
of Foreign Motor Cars. 

International Convention. for the Regulation of 
Whaling. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 
Geneva. 


6.11.25 12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 
6.11.25, 12.9.33 
The Hague. (Effective 
date). 
19.6.33, 15.1.34 
Lucerne. (Effective 
date). 
25-7-34, 3-5-35- 
Athens. 
12.4.33, 1.8.35. 
The Hague. 
9.12.32, 24.5.35- 
Madri 
20.3.34, 1.1.35. 
Cairo. 
20.3.34, 1.1.35. 
0. 
12.10.29, 3-3-35- 
Warsaw. 
7.6.30. 16.10.36. 
(Effective 
date). 
19.3.31. 16.10.36, 
(Effective 
date). 
30.3.31. 29.4.36. 
24.9.31, 17.2.37 
Geneva. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United King- 22.7.26 oe 
dom and Albania. 
Austria see 3.12.1873 
30.7.35- 
26.6.1901 
Belgium oy 29.10.01 ... 
Belgian Congo qoee 
Ruanda-Urundi BB 3) and 
2.7.28 
Bolivia ... 22.2.1892 
Chile... 26.1.1897 
Colombia 27.10.1888 
2.12.29. 
Cuba 3-10.1904 
17.4.1930. 
48607 


Date of Application. 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


23.1.28. 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


18.2.28. 
13.1.28. 
5-12.30 (Effective date). 


12.12.31 (Effective date) 


E 


118 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine—conid. 


Country. . Date of Signature. Date of Application. 
Czechoslovakia ee ILL.24, Ss see -15.7-27- 
Protocol 4.6.: 26. 
Denmark Se eee 31.3.1873 on we  10.2.28, 
Ecuador . Sn +. 20.9.1880 ee se 19.1.28. 
Estonia avd wee T8TL25 oe wee + aes 10.3.29, 
Finland... Be see 30.5.24 vee use ses 25.11.26, 
Germany ss «. 14.5.1872 and... «. 17.8.30 (Effective date). 
10.12.1928. 3 
Greece ... egeit)) cade SAHOO? 2.5, oer s+ 19.4.28. 
Guatemala... os 4-7-1885 ... is ws IT.9.29. 
Hayti ... aH see 7-12.1874 aes wee -13.1.28, 
Hungary ve eee = 3012.1873 and ... ves 254.28. 
26.6.1901. 
5 : 18.9.1936. 
‘Iraq... REP BAM 2h 1GZ2 50%. Pes «.» 15.6.33 (Effective date). 
Latvia’... 0 16.7.24 0 o ott a 76.26. 
Liberia ... ie wees 15.12.1892 ae «-. 16.10.28. 
Lithuania ger Peete 1836.26» 205 on 1. 29.3.27 (Ratification). 
Monaco ane +. 17.12.91 and... «ss 5-7.31 (Effective date). 
. 27.11.30. 
Netherlands... ws 26.9.1898 ae vee 27.1.28. 
Nicaragua sa es 19.4.1905 ed see -12.1.28. 
Norway hor +. 26.6,1873 See ses 13.12.29. 
18.2.1907. 
Panama eS s+ 25.8.1906 a see 24.17.28, 
Paraguay See ses 129.1908 ae «. 16.1.28. 
Peru .-... se ves 26.1.1904 eo vs 16.17.28. 
Poland ... AY; ve IE.1.1932 ae +. 12.3.34 (Effective date). 
Portugal 2 eee + 17.10.1892 te «+. 23.6.34 (Effective date). 
20.1.1932. 
Roumania ae se '21.3.1893 Sen ve IE.1.29. 
San Marino ... «+ 16.10.1899 Bi «9.7.34 (Effective date). 
San Salvador ... ss 23.6.1881 ue ... 8.8.30 (Effective date). 
Siam... a ss 4.3-IQII ... an ses 27.2.28, 
Spain ... wae 46.1878 and 2. se 13.2.28, 
19.2.1889. 3 
Switzerland... we. 26.11.1880 fas w+ 19.9.29. 
29.6.1904. 
19.12.34. 
United States of 22.12.31 ... an ves 24.6.35. 
America. ; a 
Yugoslavia... ++» 6.12,1900 ae ve 1.11.28, 


- In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 
list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has: been applied to the following 
countries :— 

Argentine. *  *- - Mexico. 

France. Tunis, 

Italy. Uruguay. 


119 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and © 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. 
Between the 
United King- 

dom and 

Austria ... 


Bulgaria 
Czechoslovakia ... 
Egypt 


Spain 

Union of South 
Africa. 

Yugoslavia 


48607 


Name. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 

Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23.. 

Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7+ 6. 30, 
Cairo. 

Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of... 

Prolongation until 16.2.38 by Notes of... 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14.12.33. 

Convention regarding the Suppression of 
Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 
-into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2.12.24, London. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 
of Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and. Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
23.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3-4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 

Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 
tions 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 

Exchange of Notes 28.11/10.12, 1929, 
modifying this Agreement. 

Trade Agreement, Exchange of Notes, 
18.11.35, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.28. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 

Trade Agreement, 27.2.1935 aoe 

Notes on Flag Discrimination in Portu- 
guese Ports, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 

Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 
Commercial Agreement, 30.8.35, Pretoria 
Supplementary Agreement, 10.3.36, Cape- 

town. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
12.5.27. 


Date of 


Application. . 


5-6.26. 

2.12.27. 
13.4.28. 
25.2.29. 


5.6.25. 
11.6.30. 


16/19.2.33. 
13/14.2.37. 
13.2.26. 


13.10.33. 


2.12.26. 
21.6.29, 
5-7.29 
(Effective 
date). 
23.3.27. 
9.7.29. 


1.6.30. 


25.5.24. 
24.4.23. 
10.12.29. 
1.1.36. 
2/19.9.32. 
19.6.24. 


24.7.-35- 
14.10.33. 


6.8.31. 


1.12.28. 


1.7.35. 
4.4.28. 


Ez 


120 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom 
Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Name. 

Austria ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
31.3.31, London. 

Belgium ... ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
21.6.22, London. 

Belgium ... ... Supplementary Convention regarding 
Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 4.11.32, Brussels. 

Czechoslovakia ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
II.11.24. 

Denmark ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 

z in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
29.11.32, London. 

Sstonia ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
22.12.31, London. 

Finland ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.8.33, London. 

France ... ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
2.2.22, London. 

Extension to French Colonies and Terri- 
tories under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 


1.8.33. 

Germany ... Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
20.3.28. 

Italy eas .. Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 


Recognition of Passenger Ship Certifi- 
cates and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 
25.1.29. 

Italy an ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
17.12.30, London. 


Italy wee ... Notes respecting Documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.31, London. 

Netherlands  ... Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 

Netherlands ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 


in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
31.5.32, London. 

Norway ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
30.1.31, London. 

Poland ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
26.8.31, Warsaw. 


and Foreign 


Date of 
Aptlication. 
1.4.32 
(Effective 
date). 
13.3.25 
(Effective 
date). 
27.6.35 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 
date). 
27.3-34 
(Effective 
date). 
11.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
27.6.35 
(Effective 
date). 
22.3.23 
(Effective 
date). 
20.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
25.11.29 
(Effective 
date). 
11/25.8.30. 


25.8.32 
(Effective 
date). 


13.4.31. 


1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 
23-534 
(Effective 
date). 
14.11.31 
(Effective 
date). 
17.10.32 
(Effective 
date). 


I2r 


(CE) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine—cont. 


Date of 
Country. Name. Application. 

Portugal ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 30.4.33 

in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 

9.7.31 London. date). 
Spain... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 23.2.31 

in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 

27.6.29, London. date). 
Sweden ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 23.2.31 

in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 

28.8.20, London. date). 


Other Treaties concluded in 1937 which appiy to Palestine. 


Lithuania «.. Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 29.6.37 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
24.4.34, Kovno. Date). 
Hungary ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 25.6.37 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
25.9.35, Budapest. Date). 


Czechoslovakia ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 5.1.37 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
15.2,35, Prague. Date). 


XH11.—ANTIQUITIES. 


1. During the year licences were issued for archaeological 
excavations, soundings or clearances at the following sites: — 

(a) Et-Tell, by Monsieur le Pasteur Parrot, for Les 
Musées Nationaux at |’Ecole du Louvre, Paris. 

(b) Tell al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), by Mr. Gordon Loud, 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(c) Mount Scopus, Jerusalem, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, 
for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(d) Balata, near Nablus, by Professor E. Sellin and Dr. 
Steckeweh, for the German State Institute of Archaeology. 

(e) Sheikh Abreik, by Dr. B. Maisler, for the Jewish 
Palestine Exploration Society. 

(f) Tell Duweir, by the late Mr. J. L. Starkey, for the 
Wellcome Archaeological Research Expedition to the Near 
East. 

(g) Jisr Banat Ya‘qub, by Dr. M. Stekelis, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(kh) Abda, near Beersheba, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly, for 
the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(1) ‘Auja el Hafir, by Mr. H. Dunscombe Colt, for the 
Bnitish School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

48607 E3 


122 


(j) Isbeita, by Mr. H. Dunscombe Colt, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(k) Affuleh, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(1) Khirbet Minyeh, by Dr. Puttrich-Reignard, for the 
Goerres-Gesellschaft, Freiburg, and the Islamic Depart- 
ment of the Berlin State Museum. 

(m) Bethlehem, Ard el Baten, by Miss E. W. Gardner, 
for the Wellcome Archaeological Reseaich Expedition to 
the Near East. 

(n) Tell esh Shum, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 


2. The Inspectorate of the Government Department has been 
occupied in preventing damage to historical sites and monu- 
ments and in investigating, by systematic excavation and other 
means, discoveries of antiquities made either by the Department 
or in the course of agricultural, industrial and other works. . 

Excavations by the Department have been continued at the 
Citadel in Jerusalem and at Khirbet el Mefjir, near Jericho. 


3. Library.—During the year, 186 books (excluding periodi- 
cals) , comprising 351 volumes, have been acquired by purchase; 
28 books have been presented. 

The authors’ catalogue has been amplified by the addition 
of joint-authors’ cards, and now contains about 7,000 entries. 

e subject-catalogue has also been much expanded, and 
now contains approximately 10,000 entries. 

A duplicate subject-catalogue on the visible-index system has 
been prepared for use in the stack-room. 

A short copy of the authors’ catalogue on the loose-leaf 
system has been prepared in triplicate, and copies distributed 
to the three principal archaeological libraries in Jerusalem, 
which will also receive cards of all further acquisitions for incor- 
poration in their respective catalogues. 


Records.—Work on the records collection has been continued, 
including new entries on sites discovered in 1937 and new 
material on sites already known. Eleven volumes have been 
added to the collection, which now consists of 98 volumes on 
Palestine and eight on Trans-Jordan. 

The work on a general bibliography for all Palestinian sites is 
well in hand. A systematic subject-index to the material con- 
tained in records is being prepared. 


Quarterly —Volume VII (1937), complete with index, is in 
ress and will be published early in 1938. The copy for 
olume VIII is being prepared. 


4. Museum.—During 1937 1,200 new acquisitions were 
registered in the inventories. 


123 


.. The detailed cataloguing was continued, but was held up very 
considerably by the work of writing and translating the Calle 
Book, referred to below. A new Subject Catalogue was started, 
for which some 10,000 cards were typed. 

Six divisions with excavators were made. 

The Catalogue of Scarabs was published, and also the short 
Guide to the Exhibition illustrating the Stone and Bronze Ages 
in Palestine. 

’ The arrangements for opening the South Gallery, South 
Octagon and South Room to the public were completed.* The 
South Students’ Gallery was also arranged and put into use. 

The Gallery Book, a description of all the antiquities on show 
in the South Gallery, was written and translated into Arabic and 
Hebrew. These three versions were then reproduced by roneo- 
graph to the number of about 1,300 in all, involving some 
150,000 quarto pages, and bound, for use in the Gallery. The 
translation into Arabic and Hebrew of this and other explana- 
tory material introduced an element unusual in museum 
administration, and occupied much of the time of the two 
Assistant Keepers for the second half of the year. 

Some hundred of ivories found in the excavations at Megiddo 
by the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago were 
si es and repaired in the laboratory, preparatory to being 

vided. 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


I. The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance 
with Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows: — 

‘* All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of the 
Government and all official notices of local authorities and 
municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the 
High Camatisdionce, shall be published in English, Arabic 
and Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates 
and discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to 
any regulations to be made from time to time, in the 
Government offices and the Law Courts.” 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to 
the use of English, Arabic, and Hebrew in the Law Courts was 
more exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows: — 

‘“In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a tri- 
lingual area, every process, every official copy of a judg- 
ment,: and every official document shall be issued in the 
language of the person to whom it is addressed, and written 





* The Museum was opened to the public on the 13th January, 1938. 
48607 ' E4 


124 


and oral pleadings shall be conducted in any of the three 
official languages. The Legal Secretary may from time to 
time issue rules* restricting the languages of pleading in 
any Court or class of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 
“In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court 
shall, and in other area may, accept a declaration and 
register a document in any of the three official languages.’ 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, 
Haifa and Jaffa, and also the District of Jaffa and the Sub- 
Districts of Tiberias and Safad. The recognition of the three 
languages in the Courts involves some complication in the 
hearing of cases, and occasionally trials are protracted. The 
rules have, however, on the whole worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and 
committees, and departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic and Hebrew. 


4. For the use of Arabic and Hebrew characters. in trans- 
mitting inland telegrams see Chapter XXIV—paragraph 15. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 
A list of the days which are recognized as holy days by the 


various communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix II 
to this Report. 


XV1I.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
See separate section on Trans-Jordan, page 297. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


The international labour conventions applied to Palestine are 
set out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 1933. 


2. The Government Statistician is instituting a system for the 
collection of employment statistics among the principal employ- 
ing departments of Government, the municipalities, the large 
local councils and the large employers of labour. Monthly 
returns of employment by Government departments and munici- 
palities are now being submitted to the Government Statistician, 
and at the beginning of 1938 the large individual employers will 
be invited to furnish a monthly return of the number of their 
employees and the amount of their pay rolls. 





* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


125 


On analysis these statistics will furnish a sample survey of 

employment throughout the country and will afford valuable 
information regarding the commercial and industrial situation in 
the several districts and in the principal towns. The Govern- 
ment Statistician will also be enabled thereby to establish a 
monthly index number of employment. 
_ A family budget inquiry is under consideration. After this 
inquiry has been completed, reliable index numbers of the cost 
of living will be compiled and it will be possible to determine the 
trend of real wages prevailing in the country. 


3. For the reasons stated in paragraphs 3 and 4 on page 136 
of the Report for 1936, little progress was made in the organiza- 
tion of statistics of unemployment. 

The following systems of periodical reports on the numbers 
of unemployed workers are in operation: — 

(i) As in previous years, District Officers report at the 
end of each quarter the estimated numbers of unemployed 
urban Arab workers in seven towns and the estimated num- 
bers of villagers coming to these towns in search of work. 

(ii) Five Jewish labour organizations supply monthly 
teturns of the numbers of unemployed workers registered in 
their labour offices. 


4. The unemployment figures of Arabs furnished by District 
Officers were either the result of their own estimation, or of the 
estimation of mukhtars, the municipal authorities or the labour 
unions, or a combination of two or more of these estimates. 
These figures have proved to be defective and unreliable. 

It is hoped that, with the co-operation of the district adminis- 
tration, more reliable figures may be obtained in 1938. It is, 
however, evident that as a result of the decline in residential 
building, the decrease of the purchasing power of the people and 
the hesitancy of investors, the number of unemployed has in- 
creased as compared with previous years. The increase in Arab 
unemployment has been primarily due to inactivity at the Jaffa 
port and secondarily to the decline in the building activity of the 
Arabs in Haifa. 


5. The unemployment reports of the Jewish labour organiza- 
tions have been furnished regularly only during the latter part 
of 1937. This system is still under trial, and some time will 
elapse before the trade union statistics of unemployment are 
finally included in the system of social statistics dealt with 
by the Office of Statistics. 


6. Unemployment was considerable both among Arabs and 
ews throughout the year, except in the early spring, when a 

ge number of labourers were engaged in the picking, sorting, 
packing and transportation of citrus fruit and in other seasonal 
work in the groves. 


124 


and oral pleadings shall be conducted in any of the three 
official languages. The Legal Secretary may from time to 
time issue rules* restricting the languages of pleadmg in 
any Court or class of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 
“In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court 
shall, and in other area may, accept a declaration and 
register a document in any of the three official languages.’’ 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, 
Haifa and Jaffa, and also the District of Jaffa and the Sub- 
Districts of Tiberias and Safad. The recognition of the three 
languages in the Courts involves some complication in the 
hearing of cases, and occasionally trials are protracted. The 
rules have, however, on the whole worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Bere Aven ans colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and 
committees, and departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic and Hebrew. 


4. For the use of Arabic and Hebrew characters. in trans- 
mitting inland telegrams see Chapter XXIV—paragraph 15. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognized as holy days By the 
various communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix II 
to this Report. 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
See separate section on Trans-Jordan, page 297. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


The international labour conventions applied to Palestine are 
set out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 1933. 


2. The Government Statistician is instituting a system for the 
collection of employment statistics among the principal employ- 
ing departments of Government, the municipalities, the large 
local councils and the large employers of labour. Monthly 
returns of employment by Government departments and munici- 
palities are now being submitted to the Government Statistician, 
and at the beginning of 1938 the large individual employers will 
be invited to furnish a monthly return of the number of their 
employees and the amount of their pay rolls. 





* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


125 


On analysis these statistics will furnish a sample survey of 

employment throughout the country and will afford valuable 
information regarding the commercial and industrial situation in 
the several districts and in the principal towns. The Govern- 
ment Statistician will also be enabled thereby to establish a 
monthly index number of employment. 
_ A family budget iaaity is under consideration. After this 
inquiry has been completed, reliable index numbers of the cost 
of living will be compiled and it will be possible to determine the 
trend of real wages prevailing in the country. 


3. For the reasons stated in paragraphs 3 and 4 on page 136 
of the Report for 1936, little progress was made in the organiza- 
tion of statistics of unemployment. 

The following systems of periodical reports on the numbers 
of unemployed workers are in operation:— 

(i) As in previous years, District Officers report at the 
end of each quarter the estimated numbers of unemployed 
urban Arab workers in seven towns and the estimated num- 
bers of villagers coming to these towns in search of work. 

(ii) Five Jewish labour organizations supply monthly 
returns of the numbers of unemployed workers registered in 
their labour offices. 


4. The unemployment figures of Arabs furnished by District 
Officers were either the result of their own estimation, or of the 
estimation of mukhtars, the municipal authorities or the labour 
unions, or a combination of two or more of these estimates. 
These figures have proved to be defective and unreliable. 

It is hoped that, with the co-operation of the district adminis- 
tration, more reliable figures may be obtained in 1938. It is, 
however, evident that as a result of the decline in residential 
building, the decrease of the purchasing power of the people and 
the hesitancy of investors, the number of unemployed has in- 
creased as compared with previous years. The increase in Arab 
unemployment has been primarily due to inactivity at the Jaffa 
port and secondarily to the decline in the building activity of the 
Arabs in Haifa. 


5. The unemployment reports of the Jewish labour organiza- 
tions have been furnished regularly only during the latter part 
of 1937. This system is still under trial, and some time will 
elapse before the trade union statistics of unemployment are 
finally included in the system of social statistics dealt with 
by the Office of Statistics. 


6. Unemployment was considerable both among Arabs and 
Ue throughout the year, except in the early spring, when a 

tge number of labourers were engaged in the picking, sorting, 
packing and transportation of citrus fruit and in other seasonal 
work in the groves. 


126 


At the end of the year and before the orange picking was in 
full swing, the number of Jewish workers wholly unemployed 
or provided with casual work was roughly estimated at 
8,000-9,000. This number includes workers changing jobs but 
does not include persons who have no sufficient means of liveli- 
hood but who do not belong to the working class and cannot be 
considered as unemployed workers. In addition, there was a 
large number of workers in part-time employment who were 
classified as partially unemployed. Their number was roughly 
estimated at 5,000-6,000. The total number of unemployed 
“‘ units ’’ (after the conversion of part-time employees into full 
“‘ units ’’) was nearly 13 per cent. of the total number of Jewish 
wage and salary earners in Palestine. At the end of 1936 the 

rcentage of unemployed ‘‘ units ’’ of the total number of 
aes workers in Palestine was estimated at 8 per cent. 


7. During the last quarter of 1937 unemployment in towns 
increased. The situation was aggravated by the decline in earn- 
ings and also by the fact that many of the unemployed workers 
had been out of work for a long time. There was a marked 
decrease in the purchasing power of the working classes. 


8. The net income of the Unemployment Fund of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour, which was principally derived 
from contributions by members of that organization, was stated 
to have reached £P.104,822 at the end of 1936 and £P.137,640 
at the end of November, 1937. Only a small part of the Fund 
was allotted for direct financial aid to unemployed workers. 
The main purpose of the Fund is to increase the sources of 
employment by supporting constructive and other works under- 
taken ty workers’ institutions and by various public bodies. 


A sum of £P.56,750 is reported to have been invested by 
the Unemployment Fund in this way since January, 1933, while 
4P.232,100 is reported to have been invested by institutions 
which co-operated with the Unemployment Fund. 


g. There has been a decrease in building activities since 1935, 
which is illustrated by the following figures of average monthly 
floor areas of building for which permits were issued by the 
municipalities of Jerusalem, Tel-Aviv, Jaffa and Haifa. 


Square metres 
1933 sao ioe ae Bary ee a: 1a 65,221 
1934 ee nad ond ra se ae ae 88,672 
1935 Bt a aon eee wey ote wk IOI, 192 
1936 ane ee wae aus ae oes aes, 61,507 
1937 a 48,115 


The number of Jews employed in building in 1937 was not 
more than two-thirds of the corresponding number in 1935. 





127 


10. No reliable information is available regarding the changes 
in the volume of employment in the manufacturing industries; 
but it appears that no improvement took place in the course 
of the year under review. In many industrial undertakings the 
practice of part-time work was maintained. 


1x. The number of Jewish workers in the villages of the Mari- 
time Plain remained practically unchanged. There were sharp 
fluctuations in the state of employment in the villages. The 
unsatisfactory condition in the citrus trade caused a tendency 
among the orange-growers to economize in the cultivation of 
the groves. Attempts to cut down the wages of agricultural 
labour were made at the beginning of the orange-picking season. 
Negotiations regarding standard wage rates were in progress 
between the orange-growers and the workers’ organization, but 
at the end of 1937 no agreement had yet been reached. 


12. The number of additional Jewish labourers absorbed in 
1937 was less than in the three preceding years. _ A census of 
ewish Labour was carried out by the General Federation of 
ewish Labour in March, 1937. is census was taken at the 
usiest time of the year, when an appreciable number of persons 
who are not usually working on the basis of contract might 
have been employed in the picking, sorting and packing of 
oranges. On the other hand, a certain number of workers were 
not enumerated during the census. 
The following comparative table illustrates the growth of the 
number of Jewish workers in Palestine and its distribution by 
towns and villages during the last 11 years: — 


Number of Jewish wage and salary earners in Palestine. 














1926 1930 1937 
Class of labour. | 
Number. Sal Number. a isek, Number. opie 
Total ‘ 22,509 100 23,554 100 90,063 100 
In towns... 18,067 80 16,545 7o 63,283 70 
In rural areas 4,442 20 7,009 30 26,780 30 














In addition, 14,059 working men and women were enumerated 
in smallholders’ settlements and in communal settlements estab- 
lished by Jewish workers. In 1926 the number of the members 
of the settlements of this type was 2,678. 


13. A number of the members of the collective settlements 
accept outside work. The increase in unemployment and the 
decrease in the prices of milk and vegetables may have affected 
the income of these settlements. 

Seventeen new workers’ settlements were established in 1936 
and 1937. 


128 


‘14. Since the end of 1935 there has been a constant decline 
in the wage-rates both of Arab and Jewish labour. The down- 
ward movement of wage-rates has continued in 1937. 

During the year under review the weighted index number* 
of wage-rates of Arab labour showed a decrease of 5-4 per cent., 
while the weighted index number of wage-rates of Jewish labour 
showed a decrease of 4-8 per cent. 

In the Arab industries wage-rates declined in building, wood- 
works, in the manufacture of building material and in the soap 
and oil industry. The wage-rates of Arab agricultural workers 
also appear to have declined. 

In the Jewish industries wage-rates declined in all branches 
except printing and stationery. An appreciable decrease in the 
wage-rates was observed in the magiacuiring industries con- 
nected with construction, wood-working, metal-working and 
the manufacture of building material. 

The wage-rates paid in the building industry declined appre- 
ciably between October, 1936, and Ftarch, 1937, but showed 
only a slight decrease in the second half of 1937. The activities 
of the trade unions and the fact that many building under- 
takings are maintained by the workers’ contracting offices and 
co-operative groups probably account for the relatively slow 
decline of wage-rates in construction. 

Wage-rates of Jewish agricultural workers remained 
stationary during the first ten months of 1937, but by the end 
of the year there was a tendency towards a decrease in the 
wage-rates of unskilled agricultural labourers, in spite of the 
resistance of the trades unions. 

It is believed that actual earnings decreased more than is 
shown by the index numbers of the daily wage-rates, on 
account of periods of unemployment and curtailed hours of 
work. 


15. While the practice of part-time employment and of cur- 
tailed hours of work which had been introduced in 1936, was 
continued in 1937, no change occurred in the normal hours of 
work and in other conditions of work, except wages. 

In September, 1937, by-laws were enacted by the municipal 
council of Tel-Aviv concerning opening and closing hours of 
shops and restaurants. These by-laws provided for all shops, 
industrial undertakings and offices and restaurants to be closed 
on Saturdays and Jewish holidays; the opening and closing 
hours of shops, offices, etc., are fixed at 5 a.m. and 7 p.m. 
respectively; restaurants are as a rule to be closed between 
the hours of I a.m. and 5 a.m.; the general regulations regard- 
ing opening and closing hours are modified in respect of 
various types of shops, such as groceries, shops in specified 





* General weighted index numbers of daily wage rates for eight industries 
constructed by the Office of Statistics. 





129 


markets, etc.; restaurants are allowed to be opened and to 
serve meals during certain fixed hours on holidays and on the 
eve of holidays. 


16. An important change occurred in the system of recruit- 
ment of labour at Tel-Aviv. In previous years many disputes 
arose out of the problem of the distribution of work between 
the various labour organizations. In 1937 a Central Labour 
Office was established at Tel-Aviv for the purpose of distri- 
buting work in building and public works between the partici- 
pating labour organizations. The registration of persons seek- 
ing employment is not effected by the Central Labour Office, 
but by each labour organization separately. Under the new 
arrangement the work available is distributed by the Central 
Labour Office between the labour organizations according to a 
fixed ‘‘ key ’’ which was determined a few years ago in con- 
nection with the distribution of work in municipal building 
undertakings. The labour organizations supporting the Central 
Labour Office propose to undertake a census of building labour 
in Tel-Aviv with a view to revising the ‘ key de 


17. No change has been observed in the principles of organi- 
zation or in the activities of the Arab labour unions. ost 
of these societies are at an early stage of organization. Some 
of the existing Arab labour unions include not only wage- 
earners but also artisans working independently. 


18. No mixed Arab-Jewish unions have been established 
during 1937 and those which were active in the past practically 
ceased to function because of the strained inter-racial relations 
still existing in Palestine. 


19. Fifty-three labour disputes caused by demands of an 
economic nature came into notice durin, e year, including 
nine disputes in which there was no actual stoppage of work. 


The particulars of the labour ee as compared with the 
previous years are shown in the following table:— 
‘ 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
1. Total number of labour disputes 
which came under notice oe 57 49 60 20 53 
2. Causes of disputes : 
(a) Disputes over wages, hours of 
work and conditions of 


work 25 23 36 10 19 
(b) Disputes over discharge ‘of 

workers a 4 4 8 I 1z 
(c) Disputes over employment of 

union labour 5 8 7 6 13 
(d@) Disputes caused by irregular 

payment of wages ... 4 I 3 2 4 
(e) Disputes arising out of the 

race of the workers sapleget 16 12 4 I 3 
(f) Other causes . see . 3 I 2 _ 2 


130 


1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937- 
3. Settlements of disputes which were 
concluded each year :— 
(a) Number of instances where 


the workers were successful 32 27 33 13 16 

(6) Number of instances where 
the workers failed ... sea 13 15 12 5 12 

(c) Number of compromise settle- 
ments ate, ge dee II 6 13 2 ar 

4. Number of strikes and lockouts in 
progress ... Ys ae ce 45 41 57 15 4 

5. Number of workers involved in 
strikes and lockouts ey ses 2,049 2,051 3,648 956 6,305 

6. Number of man-days lost in strikes 
and lockouts ese aes «+» 19,354 17,273 28,415 11,625 21,167 

7. Number of disputes where no stop- 


page of work was caused by the 
workers employed at the estab- 
lishment under dispute ... on 12 8 3 5 9 


20. The number of disputes which occurred in 1937, as well 
as the number of workers involved and man-days lost in 1937 
exceeded the corresponding figures for 1936. 

Of the total number of 6,305 workers involved in strikes 
and lockouts, 3,135 were Arabs who lost 12,700 man-days, and 
3,170 were Jews who lost 8,467 man-days. The number of 
disputes over discharge of workers and over employment of 
union labour showed an increase as compared with the preced- 
ing four years. The number of instances where workers were 
successful in securing their demands was proportionally less 
than in any of the preceding four years. 


_ 21. Among the disputes which involved Jewish labour in 
1937 there were two cases, one in a cardboard boxes factory 
and another in a large bakery, where modern machinery was 
introduced and the displacement of manual labour by machines 
was intended. In both cases a compromise settlement was 
arrived at, and no immediate discharge of labour took place. 


22. In three cases stoppage of work for a short time was 
declared simultaneously in a large number of building under- 
takings at Tel-Aviv. 

The aim of the labour unions and artisans’ organizations who 
declared the suspension of work was to organize the labour 
market. In two cases carpenters and tinsmiths, whose earn- 
ings had fallen considerably, stopped working in order to intro- 
duce uniform tariffs. In a third case about 2,000 building 
workers struck for one day in order’ to support the union’s 
demand to abolish work on a contract basis and to return to 
the system of employment on the basis of daily wage-rates. 


23. Most of the Arab workers who struck during the year 
were road labourers who demanded an increase in wage-rates. 
A large strike also occurred in a cigarette factory where a 
reduction of the personnel took place; a compromise settlement 
was ™ 


131 


24. The Ordinances which were published as bills in 1935 and 
1936 entitled the Masters and Servants Ordinance, the amended 
Employment of Women and Children Ordinance and the 
amended Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance respectively. are 
still under consideration by Government. No labour legislation 
was enacted or published. in the form of bills in 1937. The 
principles of the proposed labour legislation were set out in 
para phs 24, 25, 27 and 28 of Section XVII in the Report 
or the year 1936. 


25. As in previous years factory inspection has been carried 
out chiefly the Welfare Inspector, whose duties weré 
described in detail in paragraph 30 of Section XVII in the 
Report for 1936. Inspection was hampered by the state of 
unrest in the country. 


XVIII.—TRADE. IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 


Increased scuviy. during the year by the Military and Police 
Forces in search for firearms resulted in larger seizures than 
the very considerable seizures made during the previous year. 
The following is a comparative table of seizures of firearms and 
ammunition effected during 1936 and 1937:— 


1936. . 1937. 
Type. Service- Unservice- Service- Unservice- 

able. able. able. able. 
Rifles wie as gee 317 II 1,239 15 
Pistols and revolvers hs 307 12 1,461 29 
Shotguns ... ose ens 73 8 144 8 
Bombs and grenad ae 420 23 105 14 
Rifle ammunition, rounds 13,903 _ 19,216 _— 
Pistol and revolver ammu- 

nition, rounds ... 3,087 — 5,141 — 


2. The following is a table of seizures effected on or near the 
Palestine-Trans-Jordan Frontier:— 


Police Firearms Civcumstances of 
Date. Division. seized. Seizure. 
28th May Nablus __ Six rifles and one From a party who were 
revolver (with challenged by the police 
94 rounds of am- when crossing the Jordan 
munition). into Palestine. The accused 
re-crossed the Jordan back 
Teaving the arms behind 
them. : 
13th June Tiberias Tworevolvers,one From smugglers at Adassia 
shotgun. Ford on the Jordan. 
21st June Tiberias One automatic Seized by Police Beisan at 
pistol. Jisr Sheikh Hussein. 
26th June Tiberias One revolver and From Arab Bashatweh lands, 


two rifles. 


130 


1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937- 
3. Settlements of disputes which were 
concluded each year :— 
(a) Number of instances where 


the workers were successful 32 27 33 13 16 

(6) Number of instances where 
the workers failed ... AG 13 15 12 5 12 

(c) Number of compromise settle- 
ments eee ee eee Il 6 13 2 2r 

4. Number of strikes and lockouts in 
progress ... ate ee roe 45 41 57 15 44 

5. Number of workers involved in 
strikes and lockouts_... ss 2,049 2,051 3,648 956 6,305 

6. Number of man-days lost in strikes 
and lockouts xe S06 ++» 19,354 17,273 28,415 11,625 21,167 

7. Number of disputes where no stop- 


page of work was caused by the 
workers employed at the estab- 
lishment under dispute ... eee 12 8 3 5 9 


20. The number of disputes which occurred in 1937, as well 
as the number of workers involved and man-days lost in 1937 
exceeded the corresponding figures for 1936. 

Of the total number of 6,305 workers involved in strikes 
and lockouts, 3,135 were Arabs who lost 12,700 man-days, and 
3,170 were Jews who lost 8,467 man-days. The number of 
disputes over discharge of workers and over employment of 
union labour showed an increase as compared with the preced- 
ing four years. The number of instances where workers were 
successful in securing their demands was proportionally less 
than in any of the preceding four years. 


_ 21. Among the disputes which involved Jewish labour in 
1937 there were two cases, one in a cardboard boxes factory 
and another in a large bakery, where modern machinery was 
introduced and the displacement of manual labour by machines 
was intended. In both cases a compromise settlement was 
arrived at, and no immediate discharge of labour took place. 


22. In three cases stoppage of work for a short time was 
declared simultaneously in a large number of building under- 
takings at Tel-Aviv. 

The aim of the labour unions and artisans’ organizations who 
declared the suspension of work was to organize the labour 
market. In two cases carpenters and tinsmiths, whose earn- 
ings had fallen considerably, stopped working in order to intro- 
duce uniform tariffs. In a third case about 2,000 building 
workers struck for one day in order to support the union’s 
demand to abolish work on a contract basis and to return to 
the system of employment on the basis of daily wage-rates. 


23. Most of the Arab workers who struck during the year 
were road labourers who demanded an increase in wage-rates. 
A large strike also occurred in a cigarette factory where a 
reduction of the personnel tonk place; a compromise settlement 
‘was reached. 


131 


24. The Ordinances which were published as bills in 1935 and 
1936 entitled the Masters and Servants Ordinance, the amended 
Employment of Women and Children Ordinance and the 
amended Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance respectively are 
still under consideration by Government. No labour legislation 
was enacted or published in the form of bills in 1937. The 
principles of the proposed labour legislation were set out in 
sa, ig 24, 25, 27 and 28 of Section XVII in the Report 
or the year 1936. 


25. As in previous years factory inspection has been carried 
out chiefly the Welfare Inspector, whose duties weré 
described in detail in paragraph 30 of Section XVII in the 
Report for 1936. Inspection was hampered by the state of 
unrest in the country. 


XVIII.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 


Increased pen vity during the year by the Military and Police 
Forces in search for firearms Reulied: in larger seizures than 
the very considerable seizures made during the previous year. 
The following is a comparative table of seizures of firearms and 
ammunition effected during 1936 and 1937:— 


1936. ., 1937. 
Type. Service- Unservice- Service. Unservice- 
able. . able. able. able. 
Rifles ove ae ae 317 Ir 1,239 15 
Pistols and revolvers... 307 12 1,461 29 
Shotguns ... ses aes 73 8 144 8 
Bombs and grenades aces 420 23 105 14 
Rifle ammunition, rounds 13,903 _ 19,216 _— 
Pistol and revolver ammu- 
nition, rounds ... aes 3,087 _— 5,141 — 


2. The following is a table of seizures effected on or near the 
Palestine-Trans-Jordan Frontier: — 


Police Firearms Circumstances of 
Date. Division. seized. seizure. 
28th May ... Nablus Six rifles and one From a party who were 


revolver (with challenged by the police 
94 rounds of am- when crossing the Jordan 
munition). into Palestine. The accused 
re-crossed the Jordan back 
leaving the arms behind 


them. 
13th June ... Tiberias Tworevolvers,one From smugglers at Adassia 
shotgun. Ford on the Jordan. 
21st June ... Tiberias One automatic Seized by Police Beisan at 
pistol. Jisr Sheikh Hussein. 
26th June ... Tiberias One revolver and From Arab Bashatweh lands. 


two rifles. 


132 


Police Firearms Circumstances of 
Date. Division. seized. Seizure. 
4th July =... Jerusalem One revolver. At Mundasi Ford on the 
Jordan. Owner escaped. 
8th July ... Tiberias Two rifles. Seized in a tent at Arab 
Bashatweh. 
27th December Tiberias One revolver. Found by police patrol near 


Jisr Sheikh Hussein. 


Licensed Firearms. 


3. The following table gives details of licences issued during 
1936 and 1937:— 











1936. 1937. 
Police 
District. Pistols Pistols 
Rifles. and Shotguns.| Rifles. and Shotguns. 
Revolvers. Revolvers. 
Jerusalem ... 30 165 769 37 300 7O5 
Northern ... 36 160 1,237 27 647 1,950 
Southern ... 48 53 927 6 40 1,144 
Nablus... 23 30 850 20 49 437 
Nazareth ... 13 42 533 16 143 456 
Gaza aay 39 6 164 48 10 173 
Totals ... 189 456 4,480 154 1,189 4,865 
Decrease | Increase | Increase 
35 733 385 




















The increase in the number of firearms licensed during 1937 
was mainly due to the issue of provisional licences to carry 
firearms for self-protection during the abnormal conditions which 
prevailed in the country during the year. 


4. During the year under review 610 persons were convicted 
for the possession of firearms and ammunition under the Fire- 
arms Ordinance, 1922, and the Defence Regulations, as com- 
pared with 522 persons during the year 1936. 


Liquors. 


5. The variation in the number of factories licensed to manu- 
facture intoxicating liquors and spirits during the past five years 
was as follows: — 


1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 
16 16 





Spirits site ass 23 15 16 17 
Wine des wae 15 15 15 14 14 15 
Beer ... Sea sige —_ _ _— I I I 

Total ss 38 31 30 31 31 33 





Digitized by Google 


133 
Their output was as follows:— 


Other 
Year. Wine. Arak. Beer. Cognac. Spirits. 
Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. 
1932 ane 3,155,928 52,944 _— 160,720 420,912 
1933 aia 1,629,125 38,307 _— 121,292 686,989 
1934+ 2,378,922 41,855 = 203,495 853,681 
1935 ax 2,619,980 51,611 242,600 295,539 1,012,598 
1936 «-. 2,257,556 58,540 1,954,786 = 187,593. 1,070,234 
1937. «+» 3,393,569 58,985 1,830,245 364,876 948,208 
Imports and Exports. 
Commodity. Imports. Exports. 
Litres. Litres. 
Beer cr és ane «1,154,839 7,920 
Wine ast vee aoe ses 124,619 687,815 
Arak aga oie ae we 52 1,031 
Cognac and Brandy ... axe 15,342 14,643 
Other Spirits sé re 91,280 2,618 


6. During the examination of the Annual Reports for 1935 
and 1936 the Permanent Mandates Commission raised the ques- 
tion of the prevention of the unauthorized use of trade marks 
for wines and spirits. The use of any mark or label with the 
intention of passing off the goods sold thereunder as those of 
another person is covered by the provisions of the Merchandize 
Marks Ordinance, which was promulgated in 1929, and applies, 
inter alia, to wines and spirits. 

That Ordinance, which is strictly enforced by the Department 
of Customs, Excise and Trade, provides against the application 
to goods of any such figures, words or marks, or arrangement 
or combination thereof, whether including a trade mark or not, 
as are reasonably calculated to lead persons to believe that the 
goods are the manufacture or merchandize of some person other 
than the person whose manufacture or merchandize they really 
are. 


7. Incidence of Drunkenness during 1936 and 1937. 


























1936. 1937. 

Number of persons convicted. Number of persons convicted. 

On four On four 

Once. On ee ee gree or more | Once. eats Om eres or more 

eeeas "| “occasions. | : ‘\occasions. 
Moslems 319 30 6 2 355 12 4 3 
Christians 69 5 I _— 68 I = — 
Jews Ss 27 7 _ = 53, t = = 
Total ... | 415 42 7 2 476 | 14 | 4 3 





Digitized by Google 
fs 


134 
8. The distribution of cases of drunkenness among the various 
police divisions is shown hereunder:— 





On four or 

On two On three more | 

Division. Once. occasions. occasions. occasions. _ 

Jerusalem Urban ... 76. 2 _ _ e 

Jerusalem Rural .... 4 _— _— —_ x 

Hebron sie oa _— _ —_— _ ‘ 
Haifa Urban eee 204 8 2 3 
Haifa Rural BG 2 — _ = 
Acre oes Se 8 I _— _— 
Jaffa .. re " 129 3 2 = 
Ramat Gan . ey 2 _ — —_— 
Tel-Aviv a6 21 —_ _ —_ 
Ramleh 3 —_ — _— 
Nablus 12 _ _ —_ 
Jenin _ _ — —_ 
Tulkarm I _ _— —_— 
Nazareth 3 _ _ — 
Safad 2 _— —_— —_— 
Tiberias 7 _ _— _ 
Gaza 2 _ _ — 
Beersheba ive _ _ — —_ 
Total ee 476 14 4 3 





g. The traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs is governed 
by the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance enacted during the year 1936 
(see paragraph 12 on page 147 of the Report for 1936). 


International Opium Convention. 


10. The number of import certificates for dangerous drugs 
granted during the year was 135. 


Actual imports were as follows: — 


Kgs. 
Medicinal Opium... . ae ++. II+100 
Opium in the form of preparations. one ss 16°390 


Indian Hemp in the form of galenicel Preparations 


(Tinctures and extracts) . 0°770 
Morphine fe Con 2:948 
Diacetylmorphing 0°233 
Cocaine 6-238 
Eucodal 0-178 
Dicodide O' 1105 
Dilaudide 0-061 
Acedicone 0-018 
Codeine 24°750 
Dionin... 1-498 


Iz. The Permanent Mandates Commission at its Tbinty pecond 
(Extraordinary) Session raised the question of the significance of 
the increased seizures of opium effected during the year 1936. 
Whilst there is no definite information as to the intended destina- 
tion of opium seized, the indications that Palestine is becoming a 


135 
market for the consumption of narcotic drugs are still few. There 
are on the other hand strong indications that Palestine is being 
ve as a dumping and distributing centre of this pernicious 
trade. 


12. Seizures of narcotic drugs effected during the year are 
indicative of increased activity on the part of drug dealers. 


13. The following table shows seizures of narcotic drugs during 
the last three years: — 


Year. Hashish. Opium. Cocaine. Others. 
Kilos. Kilos. Grammes. 
1935+ ses 42°597 33° 507 93 Nil 
1936 eis vee 457624 QI+007 7 Nil 
1937 ee ws -75°190 186-406 471 Nil 


Of the 186 kilogrammes of opium seized more than go kilo- 
grammes were seized in Gaza, ae affa, Ir in Hebron and 
the remaining amount was confiscated at the frontier customs 
stations. 


One hundred and seventy-two persons were prosecuted in 
connexion with illicit drug traffic, of whom 124 were convicted 
and 21 were awaiting trial at the end of the year. Fines ranged 
from £P.1.500 mils to £P.30 and terms of imprisonment from 
seven days to two years. The fines imposed amounted in the 
aggregate to £P.236 and the terms of imprisonment to nineteen 
years and ten months. 


Anti-Narcotic Measures. 


14. The measures taken by the Police for the suppression of 
traffic in narcotic drugs include supervision of the movements 
of known drug dealers, employment of agents to collect informa- 
tion, exchange of information with other Governments, patrolling 
of frontiers, and searches of vehicles and animals en route for 
Egypt. 

With a view to preventing the smuggling of narcotic drugs 
into Palestine by ocean-going steamers, Customs guards and 
members of the Port and Marine police are posted on all ships 
entering the ports of Jaffa and Haifa during their period of stay. 
Lighters, motor launches, and fishing vessels are closely 
examined and lightermen, stevedores, other port workmen, and 
crews of visiting craft are carefully searched on coming ashore. 
The baggage of incoming passengers is examined by the Cus- 
toms authorities. Prompt advance information in regard to 
suspect ships or individuals coming to Palestine is passed to the 
Customs authorities by the Criminal Investigation Department 
of the Palestine Police. 


136 


XIX.— EDUCATION. 


Conditions during the first term of the school year 1936-7 were 
not normal. The Arab general strike was not ended till 
12th October, 1936, whereas the Government school session 
normally begins in the middle of September. Many school 
buildings remained occupied by the military authorities till the 
end of December. For these reasons work in Government 
schools suffered considerably during the first term. Thereafter, 
however, it continued without interruption. 


Owing to the decrease in Government funds available for the 
purpose, the continuation of the normal programme of expan- 
sion of Arab elementary education initiated in 1933 was tempo- 
rarily suspended. Its continuation was however resumed in the 
school year 1937-8. 


The Hebrew public system, on the other hand, expanded 
considerably in 1936-7, notwithstanding the disturbances of 1936 
and the unfavourable economic situation. The following is a 
comparative table for two years :— 




















1935-36. 1936-37. 
Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 
Arab Schools :— 
Arab Public System (Govern- 
ment) Schools wie ae 384 42,765 382 42,713 
Other schools :— 
Moslem schools ee oes 183 12,275 175 12,537 
Christian schools... BS 187 21,720 181 22,897 
Total—Arab Schools A 754 76,760 738 78,147 
Jewish Schools :— 
Hebrew Public System (Va’ad 
Leumi) Schools ove ean 354 41,147 373 47,288 
Other schools ... ea.) ane 200 19,064 208 19,985 
ie 
Total—Jewish Schools ... 554 60,211 581 67,273 
Grand Total... side 1,308 | 136,971 1,319 | 145,420 














Under the term Christian Arab schools are included all those 
maintained by foreign missionary bodies. 


The 78,147 pupils in Arab schools (55,361 boys and 22,786 
girls) comprise 54,051 or 69-2 per cent. Moslems (42,219 boys 
and 11,838 girls), 22,393 or 28-6 per cent. Christians (12,139 








137 


boys and 10,254 girls) 935 or I-2 per cent. Jews (403 boys and 
33 Aid and 762 or I per cent. others (600 boys and 162 


orThe 67,273 pupils in Jewish schools (34,698 boys and 32,575 
girls) include 9 Moslems and 17 Christians. 


2. No fresh legislation was enacted during the year under 
Teview. 


3. The number of classified officers employed by the Depart- 
ment in December, 1937, was 1,072, against 1,007 in December, 
1936, of whom 13 were British and the rest, with very few 
exceptions, Palestinians. 


The expenditure by the Department of Education in the 
school year 1936-7 on education services was approximately as 
‘ollows : — 


(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Arab and Hebrew). 

















Overhead Charges :— £P. £P. 
Salaries... on eis eee es oe 18,203 
Other Charges... a ass rG is 4ol 
18,604 
(6) Schools :— 
(i) Government (Arab) :— 
Salaries . 151,894 
Grants to local authorities for ‘school buildings _ 
Books, furniture and equipment on 10,073 
Scholarships, maintenance, allowances, etc. 6,703 
168,670 
(ii) Non-Government :— 
Block Grant to Hebrew Public System oes 45,000 
Per capita grant G to other schools :— 
Jewish... nH ais 2,496 
Moslem An a 1,463 
Christian (including foreign) | oe see 1,439 
50,398 
(c) Miscellaneous :— 
Grant to Board of Higher 5\ Studies ane ao 500 
Transport and Travelling. on es as 3,986 
Other minor charges ns ie eee eee 855 
5,341 
£P.243,013 





The revenue from the sale of books and school materials in 
Government schools during the school year 1936-7 amounted to 
pe ee and that from school fees to £P.2,701, a total of 

-4,351. 


5. The distribution of educational benefits between Arabs and 
Jews was based on the proportion of school age population, and 
educational ex: pa ecient incurred by other Government Depart- 
ments was included in the calculation. 


138 
’ The actual ree by the Department under ‘‘ schools ”’ 








was apportioned as follows: — 

Arab Schools :— £P. £P. 
Government ete ay + 168,670 
Non-Government eae ace 2,902 

? 171,572 

Hebrew Schools :— 

Hebrew Public System ... ss 45,000 
Others... wea a as 2,496 
47,496 


The benefits to Arab schools are gross, and should be reduced 
by £P.4,351, the amount of the revenue from sales and fees 
shown above. 


6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1936-7 
by other Government Departments upon educational services : — 


Approximate 
Department. Object. amount. 
£P. 

Agriculture ... Supply of trees vs Ss na one 345 
Health ... ... Hygiene and Medical Care of Pupils wee 2,000 
Secretariat ... Printing and Stationery... oe ae 460 
Public Works 

(Recurrent) ... Rent, repairs, office furniture, etc. aay 11,668 


These figures exclude any share of overhead charges for 
salaries and other administrative expenditure by the Depart- 
ments concerned. 


In addition, the following sums were expended during the 
year by the Public Works Department on new Government 
(Arab) schools or on additions to existing Government (Arab) 
schools: — 





£P. 
From the Public Works Extraordinary budget... 8,243 
From Loan Works budget... one aie oe 50,908 
£P.59,151 


The net expenditure of all Government Departments was 
distributed as follows: — 


£P. 
Arab education oa ans ese oe Mee 245,702 
Jewish education oe is ae 52,770 
Administration—Department of Education (Arab 
and Jewish) ... one ore eve one 18,604 





£P.317,076 





139 
If the expenditure on Administration and all Special expen- 
diture (including the expenditure by Public Works from its 
Extraordinary and Loan Fund budgets) are excluded, the net 
expenditure was distributed as follows: — 





£P. 
Arab education iy Wie oe «+. 186,060 
Jewish education nos eee eae «48,418 
£P.234,478 





The ratio of the expenditure on Jewish to Arab education was 
therefore 26 per cent. 

7. There are no exact figures of the total educational expen- 
diture of private bodies. n paricules no reliable estimate can 
be made of the expenditure of foreign organisations. 

The figures of the Jewish Public System are given in para- 
graphs 21 and 22 below. 


8. The numbers of children in the age group 5-15 on Ist 
October, 1936, was approximately as follows:— 





Arabs :— 
Moslems and others ... 237,221 
Christians nee ibe 22,941 
: 260,162 
Jews 64,415 


The ratio of ae to Aiabet in 1 the age group 5-15 was therefore 
24-76 per cent. on Ist October, 1936. 
on the 1st October, 1937, the estimated figures were as 
follows:— 
Arabs and other non-Jews (excluding foreign Christians) :— 





Moslems and others... 241,167 
Christians ns as? 24,753 
2054 920 
Jews 66,546 


Thus the propria of Jewish to non-Jewish children was 
25-02 per cent. on Ist October, 1937, an increase of 0-36 over 
the previous year’s figure. 

The pupils attending schools in Joly. 1937, were as follows. 
The age range is 3-20, but the very large majority are in the 











range 5-I5:— 

Boys. Girls, Total. 

Arabs and other fon Jems 
Moslems F 42,227 11,839 54,066 
Christians ess 12,147 10,263 22,410 
Other denominations .. 600 162 762 
Total... 25% 54,974 22,264 77,238 
Jews ae see ast 35,085 33,097 68,182 











Grand Total... 90,059 55,301 145,420 











140 


These figures do not include pupils in a small number of 
Christian schools which have rendered no statistical returns; 
but otherwise they cover the whole population, settled and 
nomad. 


g. Education in Palestine is not compulsory and is by no 
means universal. The extent of education varies considerably 
among the various religious communities. Thus in the Jewish 
and Christian communities, almost 100 per cent. of the children 
receive education of some kind or other; the period of schooling 
varies from about five years to ten years or more, the average 
being about 8-9 years. In the Moslem community the extent of 
education is smaller and the demand for greater educational 
facilities still outstrips the efforts of the Government within the 
limits of its available resources, to make good the deficiency. 
Further, the demand for the education of girls in Moslem 
villages, though increasing, has been relatively small, while at 
the same time there have been great difficulties to contend with 
in the supply of women teachers to villages. The approximate 
percentages of Moslem children who receive education for some 
period or other, however insufficient, have been estimated as 
follows: — 


Boys. Girls. 
Per cent. Per cent. 
In towns ae oe wee 75 45 
In villages... ase an 40 I 


The period of schooling averages about six years in Govern- 
ment town schools and four to five years in Government village 
schools. The average in Moslem non-Government schools is 
believed to be less. 


School Fees. 


to. Arab Public System.—In the Government kindergartens 
and elementary schools education is free. In the lower 
secondary classes day-pupils are required to pay £P.3 a year, 
and in the higher secondary classes £P.6 a year. Boarders at 
the Government Arab College and the Women’s Training College 

ay 4£P.24 and £P.21 a year respectively. At the Government 
Tide School, Haifa, boarders are charged £P.12 a year. A 
number of pupils in the secondary schools are exempted from 
payment of any fees when poverty is established. 

In the Kadoorie Agricultural Schools (Arab and Jewish) the 
students pay £P.24 a year for tuition and board. The boarding 
fees for pupils in the hostels at Tulkarm and Jenin are £P.10 a 
year. At Beersheba Beduin Hostel no fee is charged. 

Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees 
paid rarely exceed £P.I a year, and are usually less than 
500 mils; in some places the practice of paying fees in kind 
persists. 





I4I 


In the town cee schools the fees are usually about 
Z#P.2.500 mils a year. In the Raudat al-Maaref College at 
Jerusalem the tuition fees in the elementary classes are £P.6 a 
year and in the secondary classes they rise to £P.8. Boarders 
pay 4P.36 a year for board, lodging and tuition. 


Jewish Schools—The education rates and other revenues 
which support the Hebrew public schools are, in many localities, 
supplemented by school fees assessed according to the means of 
the parents and the grade of the class. Total exemptions as 
well as part remissions of fees are frequent. 

In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or main- 
tained by local authorities, the fees range from £P.6 to £P.12 a 
year. In the elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to £P.12 
and in the higher classes of the secondary schools rise as high 
as £P.26 per annum. 

In the bulk of the purely private schools the fees charged are 
lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciably 
higher. 

At the boarding section of the Reali Secondary School at 
Haifa, pupils are charged £P.1I0 a year. : 

At the agricultural boarding schools the fees charged vary 
from £P.30 to £P.72 a year. 

In the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, 
the fees, if any, are generally small. 


Christian Schools—No information is available regarding 
the fees charged in the schools controlled by the Latin Patriarch, 
the Greek Catholic Archbishop of Galilee and the Consulates 
of certain foreign states. 

In some of the German secondary schools the maximum fee is 
4P.5 a year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the secondary 
classes. In the Syrian Orphanages the maximum fee paid by a 
boarder is £P.20 a year inclusive. 

In the European and American missionary town schools the 
maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in the large majority of these schools the fees are very much 
lower. In the secondary classes the fees range from £P.6 to 
£P.15a year. In addition to tuition fees, boarders pay boarding 
fees which do not usually amount to more than £P.35 a year. 
£P.75 a year is charged for a boarder in the British Community 
School in Jerusalem, which is open to British children only. 

Generally speaking no fees are charged in the village mission- 
ary schools nor any in the schools of the Orthodox and Latin 
Patriarchates. 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


11. During the school year 1936-7, as in the preceding year, 
965 classified teachers were employed in Government schools. 
Of these six were British and the rest Arabs. There were in 


142 
addition 192 unclassified. teachers, mainly in Ne eo pe by 
Government, and 17 paid by local authorities. us the total 
number of teachers in Government schools was 1,174 as against 
1,163 in 1935-6. Seventeen women teachers resigned on 
marriage, and two for other reasons. Two men teachers were 
retired on pension, and ten were retired on other grounds. 


12. Elementary Education.—In the third term of the school 
year 1936-7 there were 380 Government elementary schools with 
42,568 pues (382 and 42,630 in the previous school year). 

e following table gives the numbers and percentages of 
applications for admission to Government schools accepted and 
deferred in the first working term of 1936-7, and in September, 
1937:— 





1936-37 September, 1937. 








Lack of accommodation still retards poe in the grading 
of classes by age. Entries are deferred for one, two, or three 
years: thus the age range of the lowest class is excessively wide 
and the average age of entry too high. 

The number of pupils who repeat the lowest class has been 
further reduced, but ‘‘ repeaters’ for the lower elementary 
course are still somewhat numerous. The average length of 
school life is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


13. Town Schools.—The following table gives figures for town 
schools in the school years 1935-6 and 1936-7: — 


1935-36. 1936-37. 





Total 








Over 1,500 village boys and roo village girls attended town 
schools. Two small hostels attached to Tulkarm and Jenin 
Boys’ Schools exist for the benefit of these village boys, but in 


143 


general villagers attending town schools are pay lodged under 
their own arrangements. The boarding school for the children 
of Bedu Sheikhs at Beersheba accommodated 56 boys. 

In July, 1937, a seventh (top) elementary class existed in 
19 boys’ and 11 girls’ schools in towns, with 585 boys and 200 
girls. The majority of children do not proceed beyond the lower 
elementary cycle, a self-contained unit of five classes in towns 
and four in villages. ae 

The commercial class (third secondary) opened in September, 
1935, at the Jaffa elementary-secondary school for boys, con- 
tained 13 boys in 1936-7, as against four in 1935-6. Instruction 
is given through the medium of English and Arabic, and French 
is also taught. 

A new Government girls’ school building was erected in 
Jerusalem and completed in April, 1937. The new boys’ 
school building erected the previous year remained in mili 
occupation throughout the year under review. The new build- 
ings for the Government Trade School at Haifa could not be 
prepared to receive popils until October, 1937, owing to the 
military occupation earlier in the year. 


14. Rural Schools.—The following table gives figures for 
village schools in 1935-6 and 1936-7: — 







1935-36. 1936-37. 





Schools. Pupils. 


22,987 


No village schools were opened or closed in 1936-7. 

Fourteen villages erected new buildings or made additions 
to existing buildings. The villagers paid about £P.1,914 and 
Government contributed £P.1,030. is amount was paid out 
in 1935-6 but owing to the situation in the country the buildings 
were not erected until 1936-7. No grants-in-aid to local bodies 
for school buildings were issued during the year. 

Out of the 315 village schools, 257 included the full four 
years of the elementary course, or more. Higher elementary 
classes existed in 59 villages. 

Practically every village school has now a small library for 
the use of its teachers, pupils, old pupils and adults generally. 

Evening classes for illiterate adults were conducted in eleven 
villages. 


144 
15. Secondary Schools——There were 626 pupils in the 
secondary classes of 13 Government schools, as against 496 the 
Poe year. These figures include the students at the two 
olleges in Jerusalem. 


16. Government Arab College——The building was occupied 
early in the summer of 1936 by the military, and was not 
released till February, 1937. The number of students was 85 
during the rest of the year (67 Moslems and 18 Christians), and 
there was no post-matriculation class for teacher training. 
Twenty of the 1936 fourth class, who had refrained from taking 
the matriculation examination in 1936 owing to the strike, took 
it in 1937 together with the 1937 fourth class. 


17. Training of Teachers.—(a) A Diploma examination was 
held in July, 1937, for the students of the Government Arab 
College training class of 1936. All eight candidates passed. 

(b) Fifteen new students were admitted in December, 1936, 
to the Women’s Training College, making a total of 60, of whom 
17 were Christians and 43 Moslems. 

In the Diploma examination held in July, 1937, 13 out of 15 
passed. 

(c) The Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarm, which was 
closed in April, 1936, remained closed throughout the year under 
review. Consequently the Men’s Rural Training Centre, which 
is attached to the Agricultural School, also remained closed. 

(d) The Women’s Rural Training Centre, opened in Ramallah 
in November, 1935, had 25 students, all Moslems. The 13 
students of the second class completed the course in July, 1937, 
and have now been appointed to village schools. 


18. Scholarships.—Eight Government scholars were main- 
tained in British universities and colleges. Three of them com- 
pleted their courses in the summer of 1937 and were 
subsequently appointed to teaching posts. Three other selected 
candidates were thereupon sent to England to fill the vacancies 
thus created. Six scholars were maintained at the American 
University of Beirut; two grades in the summer and were 
replaced by two others. hree scholars were maintained in 
trade schools in Egypt; a fourth was sent in September. Twelve 
scholars were maintained in non-Government secondary schools 
in Palestine. All these scholars are Arabs. 


Hebrew Public System. 


Ig. The Executive Education Committee, consisting of repre- 
sentatives of the Jewish Agency, the Va’ad Leumi, the Tel-Aviv 
Municipality and the Jewish settlements, remained in control of 
the Hebrew public system. A representative of the Government 
Department of Education attended the meetings of the 
Committee. 


145 


20. By a decision of the Va’ad Leumi in June, 1937, the 
“Labour ’’ schools ‘which previously received grants-in-aid 
were recognised as fully maintained schools. The decision is 
to be fully implemented only in the school-year 1938-9. 


a1. The actual recurrent expenditure and revenue of the 
Jewish central authority for 1936-7 are shown below. Expen- 
diture showed an increase of £P.11,728 over the previous year. 
Revenue— 




















1. Central Authorities— £P. £P. 
Jewish Agency ais one ay oie 23,000 
Government . oe ae 42,800 
Palestine Jewish Colonial Association Sek 2,740 
68,540 
2. Local Sources 
Tel-Aviv Municipality By eae wes 25,882 
Other local authorities Ra oe Bs 15,180 
School fees... oe eae er ae 18,937 
59,999 
3. Miscellaneous ee 5, ye ass ey 1,706 
4. Deficit, 1936-37... au ws et Se 1,256 
Total ... avs £P.131,501 
Expenditure— £P. £P. 
1. Administration and Inspectorate— 
Salaries ave tes re An oe 5,615 
Collection Office nae oat oe eat 1,831 
Other charges 28 D5: Ge Mie 1,408 
8,854 
2, Schools— 
(i) Matntained schools. 
Salaries ... Se tees 99,888 
Rent and maintenance nee oe 3,338 
Furniture and equipment oe 2,130 
105,356 
(ii) Assisted schools. 
Grants to Labour schools ee 7,000 
Grants to other schools ... ase 3,688 
10,688 
3. Miscellaneous— 
Contribution to pension fund 23a oe 4,187 
Pensions and gratuities... 1,617 
Substitutes in cases of sickness, “Tife in- 
surance, etc. or a6. oe ao 799 
6,603 





Total... wae £P.131,501 


146 


The Government grant for the financial year April, 1936, to 
March, 1937, was £P.42,000 for recurrent charges as a, ne 
4P.36,000 in the previous year, the increase of £P.6,000 
due partly to the increase of Government expenditure on Awe 
education, partly to the increase of the ratio of Jews to Arabs 
in the child-population. No part of the increase in the grant is 
normally applied to the first half of the financial year but to 
expanded services in the new school yout starting at mid- 
financial year. A sum of £P.2,200 was, however, used to cover 
the deficit from the school year ending September, 1936, and 
£P.800 was carried over to the succeeding school year ending 
September, 1937. The per be recurrent grant for the school year 
ae was therefore £P.42,800 


ant of £P.4,352 was also made by Government to the 
Vern Leumi as a first instalment in respect of non-recurrent 
expenditure on buildings and equipment. 


22. The receipts and expenditure shown in paragraph 21 are 
only in respect of the services maintained directly by the Va’ad 
Leumi. Most of the expanded and new services are provided 
by the local authorities. The following table gives the actual 
cost of maintaining the schools in the Hebrew public system, 
mention being made of the sources of revenue : — 












Sources of Revenue. 





Grade or Central. 
Type 
of School. 





42,303 
137,061* 
1,194 
3,873 
2,349 





186,780 | 128,301 | 315,081 











*Inclusive of administration expenses incurred by Local Authorities. direct. 
+ Comprises: £P.42,800 i 61 per cent.) from Government. 
£P.23,000 (or 32°7 per cent.) from Jewish Agency. 
£P.4,425 (or 6:3 per cent.) from the Palestine Jewish Colonisation 
Association. 


23. The iene tables give comparative figures regarding 
schools and pupils :— 


147 
Table I.—Administrative Groups. 








1936-37. ° 





General... Ene 24,239 
ae eas 10,053 67 
6,855 











41,147 * 47,288 


The secondary schools. also include elementary classes, and 
the purely secondary classes number about 2,633 pupils. 


24. The schools, especially the elementary schools, have con- 
tinued to show improvement. The adverse economic conditions 
of the country have, however, been felt by local authorities, and 
schools have suffered in consequence. ; 

The Secondary School Leaving Examination was conducted 
by the Va’ad Leumi Department of Education and nine schools 
submitted 247 candidates. One hundred and ninety-seven 
students passed the examination and 50 failed. 

Eighty-five out of ninety-five students of the top classes of 
three teachers’ colleges were awarded diplomas. An external 
examination was had by the Va’ad Leumi Department for 
uncertificated teachers; out of 36 only 21 passed. 

Much was done for adult education by local authorities and 
by semi-public bodies. 

A lean of £P.72,000 for new schools was obtained by the 
Tel-Aviv Municipal Council from Barclays Bank, and the 
erection of four school buildings was begun in the summer. 

The Va’ad Leumi was authorised to contract a loan for the 
acquisition of land and erection of school buildings in towns 
other than Tel-Aviv. 


148 


Other Schools. a 


il 
25. I.—Moslem Schools.—During the year 175 Moslen 
schools were maintained, with an enrolment of 12,537 pupils, o— 
whom 2,096 were girls. Two of these schools have secondary 
classes and a number are comparable with Government ele 
mentary schools. The very great majority, however, ar 
old-fashioned and inefficient. 


26. II.—Christian Schools.—The following table gives com-. 
parative figures for two years. The figures are only approxi-4 
mately correct, as some groups of Catholic schools, not always? 
the same groups, have for some years past failed to render; 
statistical returns. 











1935-6. 1936-7. 
Pupils." 
Catholic 14,375 
Protestant 4.994 ~ 
Orthodox ... 2,874 
Others 654 
Total wae 187 21,720 | 181 22,897 





The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by local and foreign bodies. 








1935-6. 





(a) Palestinian: 
Latin Partriarchate ... 
Orthodox Patriarchate wae 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate ... 
Syrian Orthodox Patriarchate 
Syrian Catholic Patriarchate : 
Armenian Catholic Patriarchate ... 
Orthodox Societies ... oe 
Custodia di Terra Santa... 
Greek Catholic Archbishopric 
Others F as an 








(b) Foreign : 
French 
British 
German 
Italian as 
United States 
Swedish 

















149 


, 27. III.—Jewitsh Schools (not included in the Hebrew Public 
System) .—The following table gives comparative figures for two 









1935-6. 1936-7. 





Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 





ce Israélite Universelle .. fee 9 4,222 9 4387 
Jewish Association... I 433 I 416 
’s International Zionist Organi- 

















i cs 2 151 5 287 

dat Israel Organisation =o wee 18 1,783 20 2,079 
Ben Shemen Orphanage* ae I 242 _ _ 
‘Pekidim and Amarkalim of Palestine I 285 I 290 
Under Private Control es 168 11,948 172 12,526 
| Total . am 200 19,064 | 208 19,985 


* Included this year in the Hebrew Public System. 


It will be seen that there has been an appreciable increase 
iin the number of pupils attending the Agudat Israel schools, 
which have an orthodox and religious character. Some of the 
| Agudat schools are, however, now combining a religious 
curriculum with more secular studies. 


Secondary and Post-Secondary Education and Examinations. 


28. The following summaries show the numbers of schools in 
which secondary education was given: — 









































1935-6 1936-7 
be By 
4 HE ee 
3 F 
2/88/38) 2/2/38) 8/4 
Y 1) Q i) n Y Q S 
ab Public System : 
Training Colleges... 2 7 72 63 2 8 85 60 
Secondary Schools ... | 11 18 371 —| um 20 481 | — 
13 25 443 63 13 28 566 60 
foslem Schools 2 6 92 _— 2 6 118 —_ 
aristian Schools : 
Teaching in English... 14 46 430 | 321 17 52 486 | 422 
» » French... 8 30 274 | 115 9 31 282 | 202 
»  » German 9 13 68 50 5 6 57 25 
» » Greek ... I 2 22 4 [ I 2 12} — 
32 | 91 | 794} 490] 32 | 9t | 837] 649 
Yebrew Public System : 


Training Colleges... 4 17 153 | 358 4 18 219 | 448 
Secondary Schools ... Ir 39 |1,034 | 865 12 48 | 1,302 | 1,331 



































150 


2g. Students are admitted to the Government Law Classes in 
Jerusalem in alternate years only and, since candidates were 
admitted in the previous year, there were no new admissions 
in 1936-7. 


30. Out of 153 candidates who entered, 145 sat for the Pales- 
tine Matriculation Examination in July, 1937. Of these 92 
obtained the Matriculation Certificate and 23 qualified for the 
School Certificate. 


31. Hebrew University.—At the end of the academic year 
1936-7 there were 112 members on the staff of the Hebrew 
University, including 30 professors and 26 lecturers. 


The number of students enrolled was 779 (of whom one-third 
were women), as against 620 in the preceding year. Under- 
 Hateeete numbered 731, of whom 517 were in the Faculty of 

umanities, 214 in the Faculty of Science, and 48 were research 
students. About 20 per cent. of the students received their 
secondary education in Palestinian schools and about 80 per 
cent. in other countries, notably Poland, Lithuania and 
Germany. Seventeen candidates presented themselves for the 
University entrance examination, of whom 11 passed. 

Two students in the Faculty of Humanities graduated with the 
degree of M.A., and the degree of M.Sc. was granted to 14 
students in the Faculty of Science. 


In the Faculty of Humanities, a provisional post for the 
teaching of the History of Halacha (Jewish Law) was estab- 
lished. A lecturer was appointed to the vacant position of 
lecturer in Arabic Language and Literature, and a teacher in 
Arabic was appointed. New Professorships were established 
in Social Philosophy and Principles of Education. Elementary 
instruction in the English Language was introduced, and special 
courses were given in Educational Psychology and in_ the 
Sociology and Economics of the Modern Near East. The Uni- 
versity received a large bequest from South Africa for the 
establishment of a Museum of Jewish Antiquities. 

In the Faculty of Science, Assistantships in Geometry and in 
the Physiology of Plants were established. Further progress 
was made in the equipment of the Institute of Physics. Instruc- 
tion in Chemistry was extended so as to enable beginners to be 
admitted to the University in this subject. 

In addition to the scientific publications of the University 
staff, the Hebrew University press continued its series of Hebrew 
translations from classical philosophical texts. The series now 
comprises 17 volumes. 

Construction was begun on the Nathan Ratnoff Medical School 
Building, which is to contain the medical laboratories of the 
University. 


151 
A refectory was installed in the Club House. 


The aggregate expenditure for the financial year 1936-7 
amounted to about £P.107,000. Government continued its 
grant of about £P.500 towards research in anti-malarial and 
agricultural-veterinary work. 


32. Language Examinations for Government Officers.—Five 
out of 12 candidates passed the lower standard Arabic, and 
six out of eight the lower standard Hebrew examination; while 
in the higher standard examination, one out of two passed in 
Arabic and five out of six in Hebrew. The Arabic examinations 
were taken by eight Jewish and six British officials, while the 
Hebrew examinations were taken by 14 officials, all of whom 
were Arabs. 


33. Government (Arab) Teachers’ Examinations.—At the 
Teachers’ Lower Certificate Examination, 27 out of Y assed 
in Part I (Pedagogy), and ro out of 33 in Part II (School 
Subjects). At the Secondary Teachers’ Certificate Examination, 
four out of nine candidates passed in Part I (Pedagogy), and 
7 out of 24 in Part II (School Subjects). An Elementary 
Teachers’ Higher Certificate examination, designed for older 
teachers barred in their grade, was also held: five out of six 
passed in Part I, and seven out of nine passed in Part II. 


34. Foreign Examinations.—Thirty candidates entered for 
London University Examinations conducted in Jerusalem, of 
whom thirteen passed. Twenty-three candidates also presented 
themselves for other British examinations, namely those for the 
London Association of Certified Accountants, and the Chartered 
Surveyors’ Institution. Of those entering 12 passed. 


Agricultural Education. 


35. Agricultural education of an elementary nature is provided 
in many of the general schools, both Arab and Jewish. There 
are also a number of special institutions with various standards 
and aims:— 

(a) In the Avab Public (Government) School System there 
were 209 gardens in general elementary or secondary 
schools, with a total area of 2,166 dunums (about 540 
acres). Of these gardens 88 were supervised by trained 
agricultural teachers. 

The school nurseries raised over 21,600 fruit trees during 
the year, and distributed 2,820 seedlings, either free or at 
a low price. Over 16,500 forest tree seedlings were also 
raised, and over 2,440 were similarly distributed. Two 
hundred and eighty-four dunums were planted with vege- 
tables, and 123 dunums with cereals. Twenty-one thousand 
seedlings of improved vegetable varieties were distributed. 

48607 F2 


152 


In January, 1937, about 23,000 forest trees, 2,700 fruit 
trees, and 5,500 grape vines were planted by Government 
school pupils. . 

Twenty schools kept bees, with a total of 160 hives; 
poultry was raised in twenty schools, and rabbits in three 
schools. Experiments were made with preserving orange 
juice, extracting scent, and preservation of eggs. 

Twenty-four demonstration plots for Arab farmers were 
worked by the schools in co-operation with the Agricul- 
tural Department. 

(b) Agricultural studies are as yet a less prominent part 
of the Jewish School System but are being steadily 
developed. 


36. The two Kadoorie schools, maintained partly from the 
Kadoorie bequest but largely by Government, are, with Mikveh 
Israel, the principal special institutions for vocational training 
in agriculture :— 

(a) The Kadoorie Agricultural Arab School, Tulkarm, 
which was closed owing to the general Arab strike of 1936, 
remained closed throughout the whole of the school year 
1936-7. 

(b) The Kadoorie Agricultural Jewish School, Mount 
Tabor, reopened in December, 1936, with 59 students in 
three classes. The first class to complete the course left 
the school in April, 1937. 

(c) Mikveh Israel._—The total number of pupils in the 
three classes was 260, all boys and boarders. ie accom- 
modation available at the school was enlarged by means of 
the Government special grant of £P.4,500, and it is hoped 
that in 1937-8 the number of pupils may be cree: to 
300. 


37. Other agricultural institutions, which are mainly of a 
more elementary and practical type, are as follows: — 
Number of pupils (approximate) . 


(a) Jewish: Boys. Girls. Total. 
Children’s Village, Ben-Shemen ... a. «=8I 55 136 
Children’s Village, Meir Shefeya ... ve 62 55 117 
Agricultural School, Pardess Hanna we 43 4 47 
Girls’ Agricultural School, Nahalal eo 94 94 
Wizo Girls’ School for Domestic Science 

and Agriculture, Nahalat Yitzhaq eo 60 60 
Five Training Farms for Girls (Wizo 
and Women Workers’ Council) ... —_— 185 185 


Girls’ Agricultural Farm — School, 


Talpiyot- Jerusalem rs 37 37 
(b) Non-Jewish : 
Trappists’ Agricultural School, Latrun ... 16 a 16 


Salesian Agricultural School, Beit Jamal... 47 _— 47 
Latin Agricultural School, Rafat ... vs 30 _ 30 


153 
Improvements were effected in some of the girls’ agricultural 
school farms. The boarding section of the Pardess Hanna 
school, which is secondary with an agricultural bias, moved 
into its own buildings. 


Manual Training and Technical Education. 


38. Manual work as part of the general curriculum was further 
developed in Government schools and more vocational trainin; 
in few special centres has been continued. Rug and blanket 
weaving has been introduced at Dura village school. From the 
small weaving section at Bethlehem Government Boys’ School 
have sprung two small weaving industries using modern power 
looms. 


39. The Government Trade School for Arabs at Haifa was 
equipped and furnished during the summer. It was opened 
in October, 1937, with 50 pupils. Of these 40, selected from the 
higher elementary classes, constitute a first year class in general 
carpentry and mechanics prior to specialization in various 
trades. The remaining ten pupils are a special class selected 
from the second Secondary Class of technical sections of Jaffa 
and Nazareth, for a year’s continuation course. They are bein, 
trained as teachers of drawing and manual work in gener 
schools. 


40. A second storey was added to the Max Pine Trade School 
at Tel-Aviv to accommodate the carpentry section in addition 
to the existing mechanics section. 

A new trade school was opened in Yajur settlement, near 
Haifa, for immigrant Jewish youth, mostly from Germany. 


41. Higher technical education is provided at the Hebrew 
Technical Institute, Haifa, which trains civil engineers, archi- 
tects, and mechanic-electrical engineers. Thirty-eight students 
took the final diploma examination, controlled by Government, 
of whom 31 passed in the ‘‘ Project ’’ part and 22 in the Written 
part. e laboratories and workshops were considerably 
extended with the help of a Government grant. To the Institute 
are attached a Trade School and a Technical Secondary School, 
comprising 117 and 100 pupils respectively. 


ign Technical Schools and Institutions in Palestine are as 
follows : — 


Pupils. 
—————oos 
Arab Public System : Boys. Girls. Total. 
Government Trade School for Arabs, Haifa * Se 5° _ 50 
Moslem Schools : 
Moslem Orphanage, Jerusalem* one st we 236 45 281 





* Includes a boarding section. 
48607 F3 


154 


Christian Schools : 


Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem (trade! Becton) mS as 54 7 61 
Salesian School, Bethlehem * ... fom ET, — «12 
Ratisbonne School, Jerusalem ea oon see 205 — 205 
Hebrew Public System: 
New Bezalel School of Arts and Crafts, Jerusalem... 11 12 23 
Rebecca Somekh Trade School for Girls, Jerusalem — 46 46 
Max Pine Trade School, Tel-Aviv... ‘ vee 84 _ 84 
Mizrahi Trade School, Tel-Aviv aS 19 — 19 
Trade School for Yemenite Girls, Shekhunat 
Marmorek_... re — 84 84 
Hebrew Technical Institute, Haifa: 
i. Trade School... sie ria Deine 3122 — 122 
ii. Vocational High School aa Ste ae 59 21 80 
ii. Engineering College... BH aoe ve 399 21 420 
Ludwig Tietz Trade School, Yajur* .. ge sa 65 _— 65 
Jewish Private : 
Belilios Trade School, Jerusalem... fs oes 20 —_— 20 





* Includes a boarding section. 


Education of Defectives. 


42. There has been no appreciable change in the number of 
blind and of deaf and dumb persons cared for in special schools. 
The following are the figures for the year:— 


Arabs : Blind. Deaf and dumb. 
Syrian Orphanage 8 in school (boys) 
Jerusalem An Re 5 in workshops (boys) _— 
Moslem Orphanage, 14 in workshops, 
Jerusalem Be including 4 girls _ 
Sisters of St. Vincent de 21 in school, 13 in school 
Paul, Jerusalem ws including 4 boys including 3 boys 


The ‘“ Thankful Hearts’ 
League ’’ School for the 


Deaf (Miss Chapman’: 9), 12 in school 
Jerusalem oes — all boys 
Jewish : 
Institute of the Blind, 
Jerusalem mA 23 as 


Alliance Israélite ” School 
for the Deaf and Dumb, 
Jerusalem a _ 25 


The municipal aioe for mentally defective children at Tel- 
Aviv was transferred to better premises and was enlarged; it had 
roo pupils. A similar school in Petah Tiqva also continued to 
exist. A Jewish school for the mentally defective children 
exists in Jerusalem. 


Physical Training, Athletics, Scouting, etc. 
43. Progress was made with courses for teachers of Physical 
Training in Government schools, and the general level of 
athletics was raised. 


155 


Scouting and guiding suffered seriously from the disturbances. 
There was a total only of 813 Scouters, Scouts, Cubs and Rovers 
in the Boy Scouts (Arab) Association as against 3,358 in 1936, 
and approximately 700 Guides and Guiders as against 800 in 
the preceding year. 


_ The new Association of Jewish Scouts (boys and girls) estab- 
lished in the preceding year under the aegis of the Va’ad Leumi 
Department of Education continued to make progress. The 
suns of Scouts and Guides was 1,600 as against 1,450 in 
1935-6. 


‘ Probation Service. 


During the year considerable progress has been made in the 
development of the Probation System. Full-time and part-time 
Probation Officers have replaced the honorary officers in the 
principal towns and it is now possible more accurately to deter- 
mine the causes and treatment of juvenile delinquency. 

In 1936, 1,437 boys were dealt with by the Courts; in 1937 

number was 1,830, of whom 1,376 were Moslems, 353 Jews, 
ror Christians. Last year 314 cases out of the total number 
were dealt with under the Emergency Regulations or for offences 
directly connected with the political situation; this year only 86 
boys were charged with political offences, so that the increase 
in the number of actual delinquents dealt with was 621. 


The practice of hearing all juvenile cases in camera, or, more 
usually, in chambers is now firmly established. The Juvenile 
Offenders Ordinance which was enacted on 18th February, 
1937, will legalise this practice and all Courts hearing cases 
against children or young persons will be known as Juvenile 
Courts and will conform to Rules already prepared under the 
Ordinance. The date when the Ordinance will come into force 
has been postponed until arrangements are completed for segre- 
gating young offenders from adult prisoners while detained in 
custody awaiting trial. Plans for the provision of a Remand 
Home are now in hand. 

The essential co-operation between police and Probation 
Officers has been maintained and strengthened by the develo 
ment of the Probation System. In those districts where if 
time Probation Officers are working the willing help and assist- 
ance given to the newly appointed Probation Officers by the 
Police has been much appreciated. 

Quarterly statistical returns of juvenile offenders are submitted 
from each police district to the Probation Office. 

The Probation Staff kept in close touch with the Boys’ 
Reformatory School, Tulkarm, and with the Adolescent Camp 
on the Government Stock Farm, Acre. It has not been possible 
to proceed with the building of the Cottage Home for younger 


48607 F4 


156 


boys, but the site has been purchased. A scheme for the after- 
care of boys released on licence from the Boys’ Reformatory 
School has been introduced and will be developed in the future. 


The number of boys committed to the Reformatory School 
was 177, compared with 129 in 1936. This represents 9-6 per 
cent. of the total cases dealt with, as compared with 8-9 per 
cent. in 1936. 


There has been a marked increase in the use of probation. 
Boys to the number of 369 were placed on probation for periods 
varying from 12 months to 3 years. 


Apart from the regular staff there are 25 honorary Probation 
Officers, both Arab and Jewish. The Arab honorary Probation 
Officers for the most part are headmasters of Government 
Secondary Schools, and the Jewish honorary Probation Officers 
are the trained social workers of the Department of Social Service 
of the Va’ad Leumi and the Social Service Department of the 
Municipality of Tel-Aviv. Their willing help and co-operation 
is invaluable. 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


1. Epidemic Diseases.—During the year 1937 there were 
11,694 cases of notifiable disease reported with 1,388 deaths, as 
compared with 7,130 cases with 883 deaths during 1936. 


The diseases showing the greatest increase were typhoid 
fever with 2,049 cases in 1937 as compared with 1,148 in the 
previous year, and measles with 7,594 cases in 1937 whereas 
3,489 cases were notified in 1936. 

Owing to the disturbed condition of the country during the 
year 1936, the movement of the general population between 
villages was greatly restricted. There is reason to believe that 
this had the effect of limiting the spread of infection, and further 
there is evidence that, on account of the risks, medical aid was 
not sought in mild forms, and consequently a number of cases 
escaped notification. These two factors would explain also the 
apparent increase in certain other notifiable diseases in the year 
under review. 

The incidence of measles was fairly constant for the first three 
months of the year, but a sudden increase occurred in the month 
of April, with a gradual decline to the month of September, 
when the incidence showed a gradual increase to the end of 
the year. 

There was a decrease in the notifications received during the 
year of both dysentery and scarlet fever, the former with 373 
cases in 1937 compared with 583 in 1936, and the latter with 
116 cases compared with 197 in 1936. 


157 
Twenty-two cases only of influenza were notified in 1937. 
The distribution of these was scattered and no localized out- 
break occurred as in 1936, when 234 cases were reported. 
No case of smallpox occurred in 1937. Protective vaccination 
was proceeded with steadily, especial attention in this connection 
being maintained in relation to new immigrants to the country. 


2. Ankylostomiasis.—The campaign for the investigation and 
treatment of hookworm disease was continued during the year. 
This work consists in the investigation of new areas, treatment 
and re-treatment of infested individuals, and re-survey of 
previously treated cases. 

The campaign is coupled with the introduction of rural sani- 
tary measures, and most villages in infested localities have now 
been supplied with latrines. During the year, 3,988 individuals 
were examined for hookworm and other helminths, of whom 
1,026 were included in a re-survey and the remaining 2,962 in 
new uninvestigated localities. 

The incidence of hookworm infestation in the whole group 
averaged 46 per cent. 

Treatment was carried out in 1,687 new cases and a second 
treatment in 498 cases, making a total of 2,185 individuals 
treated. 


3. Schistosomiasis.—The survey of the incidence and extent 
of schistosomiasis infestation was continued throughout the 
year. This work comprises field investigations regarding the 
localities infested by molluscan hosts, the incidence of infested 
molluscs, and the incidence of human infestation. 

During the year 3,442 individuals were examined, of whom 
393 or II-42 per cent. were found to be infested with 
Schistosomum haematobium. Only nine cases of mansoni were 
recorded. The principal foci in Palestine, so far as present 
investigations go, appear to be the Rubin River and the lower 
reaches of the Auja River (Jaffa District). The former must 
be considered the most important focus of dissemination of 
this disease, by reason of the annual Moslem festival which 
draws many thousands from all districts to this particular 
infested area. 

An attempt was made with some degree of success to secure 
control during the period of the festival. Treatment of water 
with copper sulphate and intensive collection of snails appeared 
to have considerable effect, and the same measures will be 
Tepeated annually. 


4. Tuberculosis.—At the various tuberculosis clinics of 
Government, there were recorded 3,786 attendances during the 
year. Of these, 304 were new cases, of whom 237 were pul- 
monary and 67 extra pulmonary. 


158 


Notified deaths from tuberculosis (all forms) during 1937 were 
234, as compared with 201 in 1936. 


5. Venereal Diseases.—The main treatment centres in Jeru- 
salem, Jaffa, Haifa, Nablus and Hebron worked satisfactorily 
throughout the year, and there is now evidence that the public is 
beginning to understand the value of early treatment in this 
group of diseases, which is given free at all Government clinics. 

uring the year, 1,164 mew cases of venereal diseases were 
treated at Government clinics. The campaign against endemic 
syphilis prevalent in the Hebron district was continued. The 
work of the Women Medical Officers amongst the female section 
of the population has also made favourable progress, and there 
was an increasing attendance at women’s clinics. 


6. Malaria.—Routine antimalarial measures were maintained 
in all districts during the year, and both towns and rural areas 
have been kept under satisfactory control. 

The spleen rates both in urban and rural areas are lower than 
in 1936. 

The urban rate based on the examination of 38,792 school 
children was I-51 per cent. as compared with 1-77 per cent. 
in the previous year. 

The rural rate taken on 43,883 children produced a figure of 
4°74 per cent. as compared with 5 per cent. in 1936. 

A few cases of malaria occurred amongst the military forces 
and Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, which must be expected 
owing to movements of patrols in uncontrolled areas at night. 


7. Considerable progress was made with drainage schemes. 

The drainage of the Birket Ramadan Scheme near Tulkarm 
was finally completed, and is functioning satisfactorily. 

At Rubin, complete regrading and sloping of all the drainage 
channels of the main swamp was carried out early in the year. 

Temporary clearing and regulation of the Ras-el-Ain spring 
area with subsequent anti-larval control gave most satisfactory 
results, not a single case of malaria having been reported from 
this area, as compared with a small epidemic in 1936. 

Filling work at Wadi Amud on the northern shore of Lake 
Tiberias was completed by the end of the year, a permanent 
work of considerable importance from an anti-malarial stand- 
point. 

A survey of the Naamein River Basin (Haifa Bay) was 
carried out, and a complete permanent drainage and reclamation 
scheme was prepared and is under consideration by Govern- 
ment. It is hoped that work will be commenced on this impor- 
tant work in 1938. 


159 
8. Infectious Diseases. 











1936. 1937. 
Diseases. _ L 
Cases Deaths. Cases Deaths. 
Acute Poliomyelitis 21 5 18 4 
Anthrax wats ies 31 4 25 | 4 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis 107 52 44 25 
Diphtheria na 257 26 373 32 
Dysentery 585 39 373 27 
Encephalitis Lethargica 2 ¥ 3 2 
Influenza 234 3 22 3 
Measles . 3,489 199 7,594 669 
Paratyphoid 170 3 201 7 
Pneumonia ... 531 386 513 390 
Puerperal Fever 45 18 45 24 
Relapsing Fever 23 “= 40 _ 
Scarlet Fever 197 _ 116 _— 
Typhoid 1,148 | 143 2,049 193 
Typhus oes 280 262 3 
Undulant Fever 7 _ + | — 
Blackwater Fever I _ | 2 I 
Kala Azar | 2 2 4 7 4 
Total 7,130 883, 11,694 1,388 
g. Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1933-7. 
Birth- | Number Number Death- 
vate per of pavenpoen of vate per Infant Infant 
. Year. I,000 births poesia deaths r,000 deaths. mortality. 
living. registered. “vegistered. living. 
1933 --- 44°38 46,089 1,038,331 20,866 20:09 6,656 144°41 
1934 --- 41°59 45,942 1,104,605 24,136 21°85 7,245 157769 
1935 --- 45°16 53,940 1,194,529 22,249 18-62 7,092 131748 
1936... 44°88 56,993 1,269,952 20,465 16-11 6,929 121°57 
1937 --- 41°58 54,749 1,316,767 24,882 18-90 8,369 §=152°86 
10. Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1937. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews Others. Totals. 
Estimated population on 
30th June, 1937 109,769 809,394 386,084 11,520 1,316,767 
Deaths ... 1,527 20,088 3,004 263 24,882 
Death-rate per a 000 of 
population 13°91 24°82 7°78 22°74 18-90 
Births... 3,683 40,261 10,297 508 54,749 
Birth-rate per y 000 of 
population... 33°55 49°74 2667, 44710 4758 
Deaths—lInfants under 
one year 409 7,220 589 91 8,369 
Infant mortality-rate per 
1,000 births 127°34  179°33 57°20 79°13 152786 
Natural Increase | per I, 000 
of population 19°64 24°92 18-89 21°35 22°68 




















iy Google 
i 


160 


11. The estimated mid-year population is based on the Census 
of 1931 after allowing for the natural increase of population 
and that due to migration. His ag Forces and nomadic 
Bedouin tribes, the latter numbering 66,553 in 1931, are not 
included in this figure. 


12. Regulation of Trades and Industries.—Establishments 
licensed under the Trades and Industries (Regulation) Ordi- 
nance increased from 14,975 in 1936 to 20,296 in 1937, the reason 
for the increase being that many establishments were closed 
during the disturbances in 1936 and not re-licensed until early 
in the year under review. 

During the year 1937, the following additions were made to the 
Schedule of Controlled Trades and Industries : — 


(a) Factories for the manufacture of Artificial or 
Imitation Vinegar. 

(b) Shops for the repair or sale of Bicycles (for pur- 
pose of Police Supervision) . 


The Public Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance and rules 
thereunder were made more effective during the year by more 
rigid and systematic inspection. 

Particular attention has been given to the Standard of Food- 
stuffs Rules, especially to the enforcement of the standard 
requirements for butter, edible fats and oils, imported condensed 
milk and dried milk, while the local native butter (samneh), 
frequently the subject of adulteration in the past, is now under 
more rigid control. 

A standard for and a definition of ‘‘ honey ’’ was added to the 
Standard of Foodstuffs Rules, to secure control of a product 
also a common subject for adulteration in past years. 

During the year under review, 7,215 samples of foodstuffs, 
including milk, were taken for analysis and examination, and in 
689 cases samples were found to be either adulterated or below 
standard, suitable action being taken in each instance. 


13. Drainage.—Progress was made with the construction of 
main sewers and connecting laterals in the city of Jerusalem. 
The Consulting Engineers appointed by Government in connec- 
tion with main drainage schemes for Jaffa and Tel-Aviv have 
submitted their reports and their recommendations are now 
engaging the attention of Government. 

rovisional and temporary schemes are being carried out for 
local areas in those towns where conditions necessitated imme- 
diate drainage and sewage disposal in advance of the main 
scheme. Improvement of drainage arrangements in both Tel- 
Aviv and Jaffa port areas were put in hand. The Sanitary 
Engineers of the Department of Health advised on sewer exten- 
sions for execution in Nablus, Jenin, Safad, Tulkarm and 
Qalqilieh. 


161 


14. Village Sanitation —During the year, 1,965 bore-hole 
latrines were installed in 36 villages. 

Of the tar-barrel variety, 1,149 were installed in the Southern 
District. ; 

Village sanitation is now complete in the Southern District. 


15. Water Suppy: Towns.—The water supply problems in 
Jerusalem have been satisfactorily and adequately met by the 
new Ras-el-Ain supply, which was brought into operation in 
the previous year. 

The Consulting Engineers’ investigations in regard to a source 
of supply of water for Haifa resulted in a satisfactory and abun- 
dant source being found in Wadi Fallah. 

The Department co-operated in the analysis of water samples 
obtained in the course of the hydrographic survey of Beersheba 
district. 

Hygienic supervision of all main supplies in towns has been 
continued and advice has been given on schemes for industrial 
purposes, schools and villages. 


Villages.—The Village Water Supplies Committee continued 
to function during the year, but on account of the disturbed 
conditions of the country and curtailment of funds only little 
progress has been made. Improvement has, however, been 
made to the water supplies in thirteen villages, at a cost of 
£P.9,366. In addition, work was picpresice towards comple- 
tion of the improvement of sources in fourteen villages that had 
been recommended by the Committee. 

Since its inception in October, 1933, 222 schemes have been 
approved by the Committee, of which 191 have been completed. 


16. Port Quarantine Work and Moslem Pilgrimage.—The pro- 
posed development of Tel-Aviv port to deal with all classes of 
traffic has entailed the organisation of a quarantine service. The 
De ent has also advised on the buildings required for dealing 
with passenger and immigrant traffic and the provision of a port 
disi ralecting plant and equipment. During the year 535 steam- 
ships and II sailing vesseds called at Tel-Aviv port, 835 steam- 
ships and 649 Sailing vessels at Jaffa port, and 1,839 steamships 
and 587 sailing vessels at Haifa port, 2 steamships and 308 
sailing vessels at Acre port, and 7 steamships and 60 sailing 
vessels at Gaza port. 

Quarantine surveillance of air traffic was maintained at the 
various ports. The number of aeroplanes and seaplanes dealt 
with were as follows: Gaza, 236; Lydda, 1,181; Haifa, 281; 
and Tiberias, 37 (seaplanes) . 

The usual sanitary measures for the health control of the Hejaz 
pilgrimage were carried out. 424 Palestinian and 24 Trans- 
Jordan pilgrims proceeded to Mecca under the official arrange- 
ments. Fifteen foreign pilgrims passed through Palestine on 


162 


their way to the Hejaz and 685 on the return journey after the 
pilgrimage had been completed. The health of the pilgrimage 
was satisfactory and no infectious diseases occurred amongst 
returning pilgrims. 


17. The Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc.—The registers of 
persons licensed to practice in the various professions were 
revised during the year and resulted in the cancellation of 81 
doctors’ licences and 40 dentists’ licences of persons who had 
ceased to practice in Palestine. There were 85 new licences 
to practice medicine, 59 new licences for dentistry, 33 pharma- 
cists’ and 32 midwives’ licences granted during the year. 
The number of persons holding licences at the end of the year 
are shown in the following table : — 


Licences of Doctors, Dentists, Pharmacists and Midwives, 1937. 





Cancella- 
Licensed | Licensed | Cancelled tions Licensed 
_— until end during during | withdrawn | until end 
of 1936. 1937. 1937. during of 1937. 
1937. 
a 
Doctors ee 2,202 85 81 —_ 2,206 
Dentists se 573 59 40 I 593 
Dental _Practi- 
tioners ay 28 _— _ _ 28 
Pharmacists... 362 33 2 — 393 
Asst. Pharmacists 45 —_— j _— _ 45 
Midwives we 484 32 3 —_ 513 




















18. Hore and Dispensaries.—Satisfactory progress was 
made in the construction of the new Government Hospital in 
Haifa and the building programme is well up to the time table 
of work arranged. The opening of the Hospital should be 
possible by the end of 1938 as originally planned. 


Extension of the Government Hospital, Jerusalem, and the 
construction of an Infectious Diseases Hospital, Jerusalem, will 
be undertaken next year. : 


There were no new developments of Municipal or Voluntary 
Institutions, though plans were prepared for the construction 
of an additional wing to the Tel-Aviv Municipal Hospital by 
the Corporation so as to bring the approved accommodation to 
300 beds. This addition is necessitated by the deferment of the 
scheme to construct a new general hospital for the town. 


There was a marked increase of the total work done by public 
medical institutions. Admissions to Government and Municipal 
hospitals totalled 20,091, compared with 18,574 in 1936, and 
those to voluntary general hospitals were 35,025, compared with 


163 
28,341 in 1936. Outpatients attending as new cases at all 
institutions, Government, Municipal or Voluntary, were 
879,907, compared with 764,931 in 1936. 
19. The following is a classified summary of new patients 
reba to hospitals or attending dispensaries and clinics during 
e year :— 








. Unclassi- 
Sy Mostems.| Chi | jews. | fied and | Totals. 
‘ others. 
In-patients : 
Government and 
Municip} Hospi- 
9,126 2,506 8,389 7o 20,091 


vaaniery Hospitals 9,087 5,019 18,827 2,092 35,025 


Government and 
Municipal Dispen- 














saries 5 133,988 20,141 26,906 318 | 181,353 
Voluntary Organiza. 
tions : 108,394 | 39,351 | 547.150 3,659 | 698,554 





20. The following tables provide more detailed information of 
the activities of: 
A. Government and Municipal Hospitals. 
B. Voluntary General Hospitals. 
C. Special Hospitals: 
(a) Voluntary. 
(6) Government. 








savak fo 
Dua jo 
pardnz20 
spaq fo 
AQuinn 


















































L-€S2 | 6SZ‘gt | €€z‘r 160‘0z| o£ 6g€'g| goS‘z| 9z1'6| So ge L€z | o1$ "$1070 T, 
0-07 IgS gI So9 — Sog _— — — — ze — "'  quauIuIaAOy ‘yeIg loug 
o-bgz | Lob‘9 ecb $S6'9| — | Lt6‘g| + € €z _— — | rz ediorunyy ‘atay-[a., 
g-br | zgh th mes | 1 I 1z gos | z z id bz “"* JUBUIUIIAOS) ‘ezeD 
0-01 | gzz tr bez — —|¢ 1bz — — — |g “+ quamUIaA0y ‘eqoysis0g 
£.z6 | $So'z €gr goz‘z} — |1 $¢ riz‘z| € 1 4 61 6¢ : quauUIaA0y ‘sntqeN 
1-zg | obzz €or 16€‘'z| — | bz Zev | SE6'r| -€. L €L Lo “* quouruiaA0y ‘egef 
6-€z | Lee gz LLL — |92 S11 | og _ — | gz _— ne "+ guauruIaAOy ‘peyes 
€-€€1 | 6So'€ 10z 16z‘€| Lo 1vS | Leg | o€g'r| gr 6 ol +L : "+ quoUIUIaAOy ‘eyIeyy 
1-€6 | 006'z Ebr zfo'k | z $61 | O£0‘T| ggo‘r| gt gr Ir €L “* quemuraAoy ‘ueresniaf 
ei elie | Ss) Se) ee 
“pardns90 Be; ei; F le} ele) Ee] ee] es 
5799 $0 | .s24n49 : : = 3 3 - 3 & 
aaqunu | ,, “syyvaq 2 S *syoqidsoyy 
asvaaan 1d | ; | 
awa 
“suoissuup y “ys8uaAS-pag JoUIMONT 























*LE6I—SIVLIdSOH] TVdIOINAJY GNV LNAWNUAAOD (vy) 


1» Google 


Digit 





Qz €.Lz 
29 b.ze 
ae gel 
oz 9-61 
s¢ 8:6 
tr G.z1 
os 6-0¢ 
wg rei 
91 1-91 
sv gh 
gz G.L1 
See 
bz 
+s 
691 


“pardns0 spaq 
fo ‘ON a8vaaan Kp10q 











9 ze SBLIOqLL 


T zl emngy Gs 
cael cement Gis e270 ‘s 
= cama be “ “ 
+ ozI & st 


_— — | v€ wayesniof | wermysere 


oor | *1g | 09 SeLIOqLL 
€Sz | og€‘'r| of qyerezeny 
gzg | ze uoiqeH 
ZI of wayesniof 
1bL | Sb sniqen 
— | £9 eze4) 
“gs egef 
8s peyes 
woresniaf 


























“suDsstyD 





“suossssupy 














“+ guysefeg ul Inoqe’y ystmof 
yo doRerepag Te1auey jo puny 41S 
 (W's'n pue 
wopsuryy peu Apsour ‘peoiqe 
pue spuny Teso]) wyoyD Ins1g PIO 
oh (v's'n pue 
wop8uryy pezug Apsour ‘peoiqe 
pue spuny Te90]) UNTTOYD InsIg Meany 
se (peoiqe pure [eso] 
‘suopjeuop a7zeALg) qoepey] qessiyq 
. pueRoos jo qomnyqD 
jars UOISSI [Opal Ysinquipy 
* UOISSIy JSeq oy} pue weyesniof 
ore a smal 0} WOISsT asHug 


Ayao0g Areuorssty yorngy 


Ke ee eollaury jo uonezt 
-UeZIO IsIUOIZ S,UaMIOMA, YeSsepeLT 








‘L€61—s1vilasof] AMNVINN TOA (gq) 








1o0z'T 


too'r 
€zb‘r 
col 

bLL't 
L6S‘1 


1z7'€ 


ta 


€oz 
19Z 


ge 
Cor 


b£o'r 


or 


99 


eyeH 
woypesniaf 


eyreH 
| egel 


woyesnief 


yorezeNn 
egef 
weyaTyyeg 
| woyesniof 
Eyre 
| abr 
yey 








uelUunsayed 





“+ ounoy, 
1p PURTTEIT B[BUOLN SUOIZeIOOSSY 
S2TTEYD “FS JO S19}SIS JO JOPIO 
Ayato0s ayduray, 
ies ren ies  “woqy 
We YPOMIasIey JOC{ UleIa A Uasso 
-uoyRIC Jayosiyeydysa Ay YOsturayyy 
““wepleajsuy ‘puey A[oY ay ur 
Ayrunurmog ystmaf ay} Jo s10}99} 







| org pue siojny ‘yepez oreeys 







Bee : “+ peytdsoy yous 
one eyreyy jo Ajlunuruog ystmof 
“-auyjsafeg ur anoqe’y ystmoaf jo 

uoljeropa,y Te1aued jo puny yoIS 





‘avak fo pua w 
pardnos0 spaq fo ‘oN 
“pardn390 spaq 
fo ON aSvaanv Apwwq 








“sadavyosiqy 


“symwacy 











“suowsiad ayo 


pun parfissyjqu 


“sumysuay 


“smajso Wy 














“suoisswupy 





“ysBuaays-pagq PoUIUMO N 


*suo1jn20T 





~puoo—L£€61—SIVLIdSOH AUVINATOA (q) 


‘AnouoyoN 











ogle 


ed by Goc 


Digit 


167 

































































OSI o-SS1| 6 ¢ €1 — |+ 6 — | Zs1 
zs gi | 1 € + — |r € — | 2 
bor |z-€o1r | g z 6 — |€ 9 — | Sor 
— 
€11 L.€11| 666 | Z >v6 — | Sr 991 eZ Gor 
L. |_— 
19 $.66 | 6z I €€ —_— €€ _— — 09 
61 S.1z | 9 + — |r —|¢ 09 
€¢ g-ze | $16 — | 46 — |i ggr | o€Z | SF 
slelelrlelelylelele 
acsig&s |] & 8 é = § = s g 
gq jae] F | F 2 eg] e | $ 
& a] a |] - iS 3 a 
sei 8s | s a | 
So 12s . y 
geile 
gg | k= r) 
5 : $ = $ 
° a 
Ss “suotsstuppy & 
- 














waqarqied 
xoyatyeg, 


waresniof 


wayesniof 


wopesnief 


40140907 


LE61—sivildsopH{ Tv12a4g (9) 


ueransayeg 


‘jeuoryeu 
1930] 


qsHugd 


‘pouonpussquy 








z ‘ON Teqdsoy [jue 


I ‘ON Tezdsopy TeqUAPL 
ee aelcors yeveds yuaurusaa0y (9) 


so[qeinouy pue ouesuy 10y 
ammoyy ‘AJaIoG WIYSeN YyeIZy 


“++ wopuo’T ‘A3a1ID0g UeIAeIOW 

Teuoryeusaz0] ‘peyidsoyy «= today] 
pueysuq ur 

waresnief jo ugof “35 Jo ep1O 

ayy jo reydsopy ormeqyydo 

‘steyidsoyy =ereds Arequnjo, (») 








“uoypsiundsg 1011450] 





168 


21. Ophthalmic Service.—The. proposed expansion of the 
ophthalmic service to deal with acute epidemic conjunctivitis 
in the villages of the Southern District was again deferred for 
reasons of economy, but the normal services worked satisfac- 
torily throughout the year. Ophthalmic clinics functioned during 
the season in ten towns and First Aid clinics in twenty-one 
villages, while special First Aid clinics were opened in three 
additional villages for short periods to deal with localized 
epidemics. 

The Mobile Ophthalmic Unit operated from May to October 
in thirteen villages not served by permanent clinics. 


The following cases were treated: — 


Total 
New cases. Attendances. 
Ophthalmic Clinics... 39,572 573,789 
Subsidiary wileee First-. Aid Ophthalmic 
Posts ... Sa 32,590 408,010 


In schools, the school medical service as part of its normal 
routine dealt with 5,414 new cases of ophthalmic disease and a 
total of 1,246,272 and 1,670,162 attendances were recorded in 
town and village schools respectively. At general outpatient 
clinics of the Government Department, 9,722 new cases of eye 
disease were treated. 

The Ophthalmic Hospital of the Order of St. John in Jeru- 
salem dealt with 907 patients and 21,369 outpatients. 


22. Grants-in-Aid from Government to Jewish Medical Ser- 
vices and Institutions.—The annual recurrent grants were : — 


£P. 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Service ... ne bor 2,041 
Infant Welfare Services o: wee oe 1,771 
Contribution to Tuberculosis Hospital, Safad nee som 1,700 
Contribution to Tel-Aviv Municipal Hospital... oe 6,841 





Total £P.12,353 





Non-recurrent grants were : — 


£P. 
Hebrew University for Malarial Research Investigations 180 
Hebrew University Hospital bys aaa i we 3,100 





Total £P.3,280 





23. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services.—Three new 
village infant welfare centres were opened during the year. 
There are now 35 Government and Municipal infant welfare 
centres in towns and villages, with 10,582 infants on the 
registers. There are also 42 Centres maintained by Jewish and 
other voluntary organizations, with 6,885 children on the 


169 
registers. As stated above, annual grants are given to the 
re centres by Government through the Council of the Jewish 
mmunity. 

The number of pupils graduating at the Government Training 
School for Midwives, Jerusalem, was sixteen. 

The work of practising midwives and village dayas is super- 
vised by Superintendents of Midwifery in six districts, namely, 
hears Jaffa, Nablus, Haifa, Caz and Hebron. The 

uperintendents at these centres undertake also the supervision 
of the work of the Government infant welfare centres in the 
towns and villages of their districts. 

Prenatal and gynaecological work has developed satisfactorily 
with the assistance of the two women medical officers appointed 
last year. Antenatal clinics are held in Jerusalem, Jaffa, 
Ramleh, Nablus, Acre and Haifa, and gynaecological clinics at 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Nablus, Acre and Haifa. The attendances 
at the gynaecological clinics numbered 26,867 and cases referred 
to the medical women for special antenatal examination num- 
bered 5,500. These clinics are mainly attended by Moslem 
women and are performing most useful work amongst this 
class of the community. 


24. Laboratory Services.—The Department of Health con- 
tinues to provide, as in previous years, all facilities for the 
laboratory diagnosis and for the investigation of epidemiological 
conditions. Its laboratory service also carries out the chemical 
analysis of foods, waters, drugs and the like and undertakes 
chemico-legal and medico-legal examinations, agricultural 
analysis and the verification of weights and measures. The 
Central Laboratories also prepare calf-lymph, anti-rabies 
vaccine and other prophylactic and curative vaccines, including 
anti-typhoid, anti-cholera, and anti-plague; in addition, they 
undertake the histo-pathological examination of morbid material 
and all kinds of bio-chemical investigations. The Central 
Laboratories, situated in Jerusalem, comprise bacteriological, 
chemical, entomological, agricultural, forensic and physical 
laboratories, together with the central anti-rabies manufacturing 
institute and the calf-lymph establishment. Port and quarantine 
laboratories are provided at Haifa and Jaffa and these also 
cater for the diagnostic needs of the adjacent towns and districts. 
The Department exercises supervisory control over other 
laboratories and scientific institutes maintained by private funds 
and approves the issue of annually renewable licences to persons 
considered qualified to conduct public pathological and bacterio- 
logical laboratories. Standards for the preparation and issue 
of therapeutic substances have been prepared and rigidly 
enforced. 

During 1937 bacteriological examinations and investigations 
have totalled 261,505, an increase of 41,325 over the 1936 figure. 


170 


In addition, the Bacteriological Division of the Central Labora- 
tories has prepared 376,400 doses of calf-lymph, 215,190 c.c. 
of killed carbolised antirabic vaccine, 132,720 c.c. of anti- 
enterica and 7,620 c.c. of anti-plague prophylactics, a total 
unit dosage of 731,930. Vaccine issues have included 187,745 
doses of peter iee 241,505 c.c. of antirabic vaccine, 78,120 c.c. 
of T.A.B., 47,880 of T., 1,505 c.c. of anti-cholera and 196 of 
anti-plague vaccines. Record issues of anti-enterica and car- 
bolised virus have been made as a result of the enhanced 
incidence of the typhoid-paratyphoid group of fevers and of the 
increased activity of biting animals respectively. Antirabic 
vaccine has been issued to 39 different provincial treatment 
centres where 2,630 bitten persons-at-risk have received advice 
and specific treatment. As in previous years the success rate of 
vaccine virus insertions has exceeded 95 per cent. among the 
primary vaccinations. Research into improvement of anti- 
enterica vaccines has continued, while other activities include 
the bi-weekly control of the Jerusalem Water Supply and the 
Y.M.C.A. swimming pool, the routine examination of raw 
milks for tuberculosis and the performance of nearly 10,000 
Wassermann reactions, with Kahn Test control series, in con- 
junction with the intense anti-syphilis campaign now being 
waged by the Department. 

In the Entomological Division, the identification and classi- 
fication of insects of medical importance and interest has been 
undertaken. The work has comprised the routine examination 
of mosquitoes and sand-flies and of fleas parasitic on the rats 
trapped at the ports of Jaffa and Haifa. 


In the Chemical Division, 11,900 samples of all kinds have 
been dealt with during the year. These have included some 
3,700 samples of milk examined in the 12 provincial centres 
equipped for the purpose; 300 of these milks have proved to be 
below standard. The control provided by the Public Health 
(Rules as to Food) Ordinance 1935, is being applied progress- 
ively and in addition to the sampling of milk mentioned above, 
some 3,400 samples of other foodstuffs have been examined. 
The extended period of time for compliance with regulations 
granted to importers of condensed milk expired on 1st October. 
Since that date 62 samples of condensed milk have been taken, 
of which 41 have been below standard or improperly labelled. 
When possible, re-labelling in Customs has been allowed. The 
bio-chemical branch has dealt with 1,900 specimens from official 
and private sources. In the agricultural branch, 1,015 samples 
of soil, water, fertilizer and agricultural products have been 
examined and investigations into local soil problems have been 
undertaken. Three contributions to local and foreign scientific 
journals have been made during the year. Exhibits concerned 
in criminal investigations have numbered 380. 


17 


25. Town Planning and Housing.—During the year under 
review town planning progressed satisfactorily in its decen- 
tralized form. The working of the Town Planning Ordinance, 
1936, was thoroughly tested and in general the approval and 
publication of schemes and other matters was considerably 
accelerated. At the end of the year the position was as follows 
with regard to the number of town planning areas : — 





Northern District. Year declared. 
Haifa bes ene Fak Wes ee 1921 
Nablus dee see we eae ace 1921 
Tiberias... iG ae dere nan 1922 
Affuleh_... tee one ane on 1926 / 
Tulkarem aes at aoe 1929 
Nathanya 1934 
Acre Es a ee 1936 
Hadera_... oe see ae “es 1937 

Jerusalem District. 

Jerusalem ... or ue oa wes 1921 
Hebron ae aie be oe eae 1936 
Ramallah ... re ae ve ae 1937 
Al Bireh ... fees te ne ast 1937 
Jericho... ee — tes os 1937 
Southern District. = 
affa eee bein aes ee8 sas 1921 
Tel-Aviv... ess was oe aie 1921 
Lydda mae a ay ve aie 1922 
Ramleh___... ate bce as ase 1922 
Beersheba ... Me Shs aes tet 1922 
Gaza oe ee oh Te nee 1923 
Petah Tiqva ey aa a de 1937 
Lydda Air Port ... tae ces aie 1937 


26. It will be seen that during the year new areas were 
declared for Hadera in the Northern District, Ramallah, al 
Bireh and Jericho in the Jerusalem District and Petah Tiqva 
and Lydda Air Port in the Southern District. 


27. The co-ordinating link provided by the membership of 
the Legal Draftsman and the Town Planning Adviser on the 
Town Planning Commission in each of the three Districts was 
of great “importance in ensuring a unified policy in matters 
relating to building by-laws and major town planning principles. 
Without this very necessary link the tendency in each District 
would have been to legislate and plan in such a manner as to 
take into consideration local requirements only. 


28. In the Southern District a system of urban and rural areas 
was instituted for places like Ramleh, Lydda, Petah Tiqva, etc. 
It has been found that, whereas it is essential to obtain some 
form of town planning control over as large an area as possible, 
such control should be less intensified in relation to the distance 
from the built-up sections of the town. By the institution of 


172 


dual areas it is hoped to provide stricter supervision for urban 
town planning areas with boundaries which coincide with those 
of the municipality, and a looser control for rural areas. 


29. Rural areas coincide in extent with the boundaries of the 
village land of which the town forms the nucleus. In such rural 
areas it is anticipated that a modified form of control will be 
sufficient to ensure the working of the Ordinance in such matters 
as the alignment of roads, the erection of buildings, zoning, etc. 


30. Draft schemes for various areas were in course of prepara- 
tion during the year. In the majority of instances such areas 
were entirely lacking in respect of local technical staff. In all 
cases schemes were prepared as a result of numerous visits to 
the area by the Town Planning Adviser, when the general 
Bonen of town planning were explained on the spot to local 
officials. 


31. The town planning sections of the three District Commis- 
sions were set up at the end of 1936 in the offices of the three 
District Commissioners, and during the year were working well. 
As provided for in the Ordinance, objections to schemes were 
carefully considered by all Commissions. In every case detailed 
objections are separately discussed both by the local and District 
Commissions and are disallowed only when they conflict with 
the greater interests of the public at large. 


32. Twelve District Town Plannin ee were held in 
the Jerusalem District, 10 in the Northern District and 11 
in the Southern District. In addition to these, monthly meetings 
of the Local Commissioners were held in Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa, 
Tel-Aviv and other centres. 


33. Consideration was given to the housing of displaced 
inhabitants of Jaffa and the Government housing scheme in the 
neighbourhood of Sheikh Darwish village in the Southern 
District was completed during the year. Provision has been 
made in the fully developed plan of this area for the housing 
of 76 families in 19 blocks of four dwellings each. Sufficient 
open spaces have been planned in the centre of the settlement. 
A connecting road, water supply and sanitation have also been 
provided. ‘The site covers an area of approximately 30 dunums 
on slightly undulating sand dunes commanding a view of the 
sea to the west. The individual houses with verandahs have a 
floor area of approximately 43 square metres. They are one- 
storey dwellings with a verandah and private courtyard and 
separate latrine to each dwelling. A children's playground has 
been included as an essential feature of this layout. When fully 
developed the site will accommodate a total number of 380 
persons, taking an average of five persons to a family. 


173 
34. Considerable building activity was displayed in all im- 
portant centres during the year, but there was a noticeable 
slowing down in comparison with previous years, owing, it is 
peeved to the uncertainty as to the ultimate future of 
estine. 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from 
Ist July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Govern- 
ment) to the 31st March, 1937, are set out below:— 











Revenue. Expenditure. 

1st July, 1920, to bo gist March, 208k 1,136,951 1,259,587 
1921-1922 a 2,371,531 1,929,341 
1922-1923... ee mae ae 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-1924... ee ne ao 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-1925... Bag es sas 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-1926... ats wae za 2,809,324 2,092,647 
1926-1927 tes eee 2,451,365 2,123,568 
1927 (April to » December) abe see 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 ... oe 356 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929 ... ae ad ee an 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 ... Ks oes as a 2,389,546 2,536,504 
1931 .. see 2,333,895 2,374,867 
1932 (January * to March) bon aes 657,289 511,656 
1932-1933 on oo 3,015,917 2,516,394 
1933-1934... ish a6 aie 3,985,492 2,704,856 
1934-1935 --- oo oe ss 51452,633 3,230,010 
1935-1936... ses ane oe 5»779.457 4,236,202 
1936-1937... See a5 aie 4,640,821 6,073,502 
£P.49,303,055 44,467,926 

Surplus Balance at 31st March, 1937 4,835,129 
£P.49,303,055 


Revenue. 
2. Summaries of the Revenue and Expenditure under Heads 
for the years 1932- 3 to 1936-7 inclusive are contained in 
Appendices I and II of this Section.* 


3. The revenue for the financial year 1936-7 aggregated 
£P.4,640,821 and the expenditure amounted to £P.6,073,502, 
or an excess of expenditure over revenue of £P.1,432,681. 

The revenue under Head I, Customs, amounted to 
£P.2,019,479 as compared with £P.2,751,246 in 1935-6 or a 
decrease of £P.731,767 in the year under review. The adverse 
effect on trade of the strike and disturbances in the first six 
months of the financial year is reflected in a fall in the total 
value of imports in the first six months from £P.8,744,916 in 
1935-6 to £P.5,868,755 in 1936-7, whereas the respective figures 





* Pages 204 and 205. 


174 


for the last six months of these years were £P.8,588,235 and 
£P.8,579,989. The commodities showing the greatest decline in 
import duty were wheat, sugar, beer, tobacco, cement, wood, 
and iron bars for building purposes, benzine, motor cars and 
parts, wearing apparel, machinery, cotton piece goods and silk 
tissues. The most important change in Customs Duties in 
1936-7 was the exemption of hard wheat from import duty in 
February, 1937. A Customs agreement with the Government 
of ‘Iraq concluded in December, 1936, included exemptions from 
and reductions in the rates of import duty on certain com- 
modities of ‘Iraqi origin imported into Palestine by the 
Baghdad-Haifa land route including barley, ghee and rice. 
Exports with the exception of antiquities are not subject to 
export duty but it is interesting to note that the value of exports 
or home products in 1936-7 was £P.4,425,000 as compared with 
4P.3,758,700 in 1935-6. The main increases were in oranges, 
potash, bromine, hides and skins and edible oils. 

The revenue under Head II, Port and Marine, amounted to 
4P.110,206 and shows an increase of £P.2,609 over the revenue 
collected under this Head in 1935-6. The port at the open 
roadstead of Jaffa was closed during the disturbances. is 
resulted in a diversion of shipping to Haifa Port with con- 
sequential increases in berthage and wharfage dues. The Oil 
Dock was not completed during the year and consequently 
the minimum payment of £P.30,000 per annum under the con- 
tract with the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company did not become opera- 
tive, but a sum of £P.16,000 was received from dues levied 
on oil loaded into the company’s vessels from sea-lines. 

The revenue from Head III, Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted 
to £P.852,948 as compared with £P.1,082,427 in 1935-6, or a 
decrease of £P.229,479. 

The main decreases occurred under the following sub-heads:— 
Road Transport Licence Fees (£P.11,851), due to a decrease 
in the number of vehicles and to variations in the rates of 
fees; Animal Tax (£P.20,093); House and Land Tax 
(4P.28,548); Tithes (£P.19,998); Rural Property Tax 
(4P.15,783) ; Urban Property Tax (£P.46,192). Collection of 
these taxes was rendered very difficult in certain urban and 
nearly all rural areas during the period of the disturbances 
and collections thereafter were low owing to the poverty of the 
taxpayers—remissions of £P.938 and £P.16,500 being granted 
in respect of Animal Tax and Rural Property Tax respectively. 
Other decreases occurred under Stamp Duties (£P.35,538) ; 
Tobacco Excise (£P.33,305) and Fines and Forfeitures 
(£P.18,084). On the other hand there was an increase of 
4P.11,508 from Wines and Spirits Excise on account of 
increased consumption of locally-brewed beer, the production of 
which Anetseed from 242,028 litres in 1935-6 to 2,204,742 litres 
in 1936-7. 


175 

The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £P.703,129 as compared with £P.913,027 in 
1935-6, or a decrease of £P.209,898. The most important 
decreases occurred under the following sub-heads:—Court Fees 
(4£P.27,244), the number of cases entered falling from 107,669 
in 1935 to 84,132 in 1936; Registration of Companies and 
Partnerships Fees (£P.14,600); Registration of Immigrants 
Fees (£P.21,784), the number of immigrants being 25,709 in 
1936-7 as compared with 56,549 in 1935-6; Registration of Land 
Fees (4P.202,586); Veterinary Receipts (£P.5,051) due to a 
reduction in the importation of cattle for slaughter; Miscel- 
laneous (£P.4,366) and Warehouse Rents (4P.13,322) which 
were affected by a general decrease in the volume of imports 
using storage accommodation and by the closing of Jaffa Port 
for six months of the year. 


Land Registration transactions in 1936-7 numbered 34,271 as 
compared with 50,873 in 1935-6. e assessed value for 
registration purposes of the properties transferfed in 1936-7 was 
£LP.4,234,919, as compared with £P.10,029,456 in 1935-6. 

Increases occurred under :—Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fees 
(£P.15,403), due to increased exportation and to an increase in 
the rate of the fee; Fruit Inspection Fees (£P.5,585); Porterage 
Charges—Haifa Harbour (4£P.21,231) ; owing to collections in 
1935-6 being for nine months only and to an increase in the 
rates in 1936; Quarantine Fees (£P.3,189) and Sale of Water 
to Jerusalem Municipality (£P.34,719), the latter being a new 
sub-head. The Municipal Corporation of Jerusalem pay 25 mils 
per cubic metre to Government for water pumped from Ras el 
Ain to the Municipal Reservoir on the outskirts of Jerusalem. 
Operation costs are charged to Expenditure under Head XXIV, 
Public Works Department. 

The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphs, amounted 
to £P.477,493 and was £P.58,597 in excess of the receipts in 
1935-6. The main increases occurred under:—Sale of Stamps 

-13,867); Telegraphs (£P.7,631); Telephones (£P.28,259), 
and Broadcast Licence Fees (4P.4,372). The increases under 
Telegraphs and Telephones were to a considerable extent due 
to payments by the Military Authorities for these services. The 
number of licences for Broadcast Receiving Sets increased from 
14,295 at 31st March, 1936, to 22,568 at 31st March, 1937. The 
total revenue earned by this Department in 1936-7 was less by a 
sum of £P.25,609 than the total expenditure incurred by or on 
account of the Department, exclusive of debt charges in respect 
of capital expenditure—amounting to £P.188,126 and met from 
Loan Funds—or interest on capital works executed in the past 
under the votes of Public Works Extraordinary. 

The revenue under Head VI, Revenue from Government Pro- 
perty, amounted to £P.50,317 as compared with £P.23,952 in 


176 


1935-6. The increase of £P.26,365 is mainly accounted for by 
an increase in revenue from rents in the Haifa Harbour Re- 
claimed Area, the annual revenue from which is now 
approximately £P.34,000. 

The revenue from Head VII, Interest, amounted to 
£P.150,730 as compared with £P.141,279 in 1935-6, an increase 
of £P.9,451. The sum of £P.149,765 was earned on the invest- 
ment of sueplae balances as compared with £P.135,440 in 
1935-6. _On the 31st March, 1937, a sum of £P.675,000 was due 
to the Joint Colonial Fund while a sum of AF 4,415, 3 was 
invested in stock. At the 31st March, 1936, a sum of £P.657,500 
was held in the Jourt Colonial Fund on behalf of the Palestine 
Government and a sum of £P.4,526,329 invested in stock. 
There was a decrease of £P.5,144 in the interest receipts on 
various loans made by Government, mainly to cultivators, 
which, owing to the disturbances and resultant poverty, it was 
impracticable to collect. 


The revenue from Head VIII, Miscellaneous, amounted to 
4P.128,020 as compared with £P.154,02I in 1935-6, a reduction 
of £P.26,001. A decrease of £P.15,000 occurred under Profits 
from Currency owing to a decrease in the currency in circulation 
and to the depreciation of investments held by the Currency 
Board; and while, in 1935-6, there was an appreciation of invest- 
ments which realized £P.30,717 there was a depreciation in 
1936-7 amounting to £P.165,704. Adjustments in respect of 
epee and depreciation of investment on account of sur- 
plus balances are based on the middle market price of invest- 
ments held at 31st March as compared with the price on the 
same day in the previous year. Overpayments recovered in 
respect of expenditure incurred in previous years reali 
£P.22,565 more than in 1935-6 owing mainly to a refund of 
£P.22,000 by the Jerusalem Municipal Corporation of grants 

aid to them in previous years towards the cost of works which 
ee various reasons had not been carried out at the 31st March, 
1937. 

The revenue from Head IX, Land Sales, amounted 
to £P.2,441 as compared with £P.18,874 in 1935-6. The sub- 
head, Sale of Beisan Lands, shows a reduction of £P.16,341 
as, owing to the disturbances, practically no sales were effected 
during the year. : 

The revenue from Head X, Grants-in-Aid, consisted of :— 

P. 
Three-quarters of the Expenditure under Head . 
XXI, Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, 
during the year 1936-7 (£P.179,257) ..- 134.443 
Whole Expenditure on capital works in 
Trans-Jordan under Head XXIX, Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary, 


during the year, 1936-7 5,243 


£P.139,686 


177 


The total receipts amounted to £P.142,578, being £P.138,000 
from the Parliamentary Grant-in-Aid for the year 1936-7, and 
£?.4,578 from sundry adjustments in respect of payments made 
in previous years. The actual amount due was £P.139,686 and 
the unexpended balance together with local receipts amounting 
to £P.3,333, was transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit 
Account for adjustment of the grant in 1937-8. 

The receipts under Head XI, amounting to £P.6,371, repre- 
sent assistance given by the Colonial Development Fund in 
respect of interest charges on the capital cost of certain schemes. 
A fixed grant of £P.5,000 was received in respect of the Jeru- 
salem Water Supply Scheme; and interest at bank rate on actual 
expenditure was granted in respect of the Hebron Water Supply 
and Village Water Supply Schemes in the amounts of £P.192 
and £P.1,144 respectively. 


Expenditure. 


4. The variations in expenditure in 1936-7 as compared with 
the expenditure in 1935-6 are due to the following causes: — 


I. Pensions.—Expenditure: 1935-6 £P.34,243, 1936-7 
£P.37,040. The main excess occurs under Pensions and 
Gratuities (4P.3,182), due to the payment of new pensions and 
gratuities to officers retiring on reaching the age limit and 
pensions to members of the Police Force on termination of 
appointment after fifteen years service. 


Il]. His Excellency the High Commissioner.—Expenditure : 
1935-6 £P.9,103, 1936-7 £P.10,254. The increase is due to the 
apepinement of an additional Aide-de-Camp and the purchase 
of a car. 


IV. Secretariat.—Expenditure: 1935-6 £P.39,487, 1936-7 
£P.69,463. The principal increases occur under Personal 
Emoluments (£P.13,077) ; Telegrams, Telephones and Postage 
(£P.6,329) ; Stationery (£P.2,107) and Paper and Materials 
for the Printing Press (220,063). The increase under Personal 
Emoluments resulted mainly from the payment for a full year 
in 1936-7 of the salaries of the Printing and Stationery Office 
which was opened in December, 1935, but there was an increase 
in the staff of the Translation Bureau which accounted for part 
of the increase. 

It should be recorded here that provision for the payment 
of Cost of Living Allowances was transferred from the ‘‘ Miscel- 
laneous ’’ Head to the Departments concerned, and the Personal 
Emoluments votes of all Departments show considerable 
increases on this account. 

The increase under Secretariat votes for Telegrams, Tele- 
phones and Postage was caused mainly by the increased use of 
the telegraph on account of the disturbances. In 1935-6 the 


178 


expenditure on Stationery, Paper and Materials was provided 
as to £P.14,160 from the Miscellaneous vote and as to £P.7,465 
from the Secretariat vote whereas of the total expenditure of 
£P.18,479 in 1936-7 £P.16,535 was provided from the latter 
vote and only £P.1,944 from the Miscellaneous vote. 

V. District Administration.—Expenditure: 1935-6 £P.154,840, 
1936-7 £P.156,931. There was an increase in expenditure 
amounting to £P.13,112 under Personal Emoluments in 1936-7, 
owing mainly to the fact that the collection of the rural property 
tax was transferred from the Mukhtars to tax collectors, thereby 
necessitating the employment of 64 additional tax collectors. 
The introduction of this tax and the increase in the volume of 
work in District Offices also accounted for considerable increases 
in clerical staff and the transfer of the charge for Cost of Living 
Allowances from the Miscellaneous Head to the Departmental 
Head increased the Personal Emoluments vote by £P.5,444. 
On the other hand the cost of the application of the Rural Pro- 
perty Tax fell from £P.13,477 in 1935-6 to £P.1,457 in 1936-7, 
expenditure being required for re-assessment and revision 
proceedings only. : 

VI. Legal Department.—Expenditure: 1935-6 £P.II,000, 
1936-7 -14,011, an increase of £P.3,011. The Town 
Planning Ordinance, 1935, necessitated the institution of Town 
ere Headquarters and Regional Administrations, the cost 
of which in 1936-7 amounted to £P.2,111. The transfer of 
Cost of Living Allowances from Head XXVI, Miscellaneous, to 
the Departmental vote accounts for a further £P.728. 

VII. Judicial Department.—Expenditure: 1935-6 £P.94,151, 
1936-7 £P.100,882. The increase of £P.6,731 resulted mainly 
from the transfer of Cost of Living Allowances from the Mis- 
cellaneous to the Departmental Head. 5 

X. Customs, Excise and Trade.—Expenditure: 1935-6 
£P.243,449, 1936-7 £P.277,477. The increase is £P.34,028. 
The increase of £P.18,291 under Personal Emoluments resulted 
from the increased cost of labourers employed at Haifa Harbour 
under the Government Porterage Service, to cope with the 
increase in the volume of imports arising from the diversion of 
shipping to that port from Jaffa during the disturbances, and 
to the inclusion of provision for Cost of Living Allowances. The 
item ‘‘ Drawbacks of Customs Duty ’”’ shows an increase of 
4P.47,573 owing to an increased share of these drawbacks being 
paid to the Trans-Jordan Government and to refunds of import 
duty paid to contractors in respect of goods supplied to His 
Majesty’s Forces. On the other hand refunds in respect of 
revenue collected in previous years fell by £P.5,251 and Special 
Expenditure was less by £P.26,215 owing to the purchase in 
1935-6 of a new tug (4P.20,553) and the conversion of two 
other tugs into oil-burning vessels (£P.7,363). 


179 


XI. Department of Health. Expenditure : 1935-6 
£P.194,632, 1936-7 £P.204,350, an increase of £P.9,718. There 
was an increase of £P.18,0go in Personal Emoluments, of which 
£P.8,236 resulted from the transfer of Cost of Living Allowances 
from Head XXVI, Miscellaneous, to the Departmental Head. 
During the year the Government took over the entire control 
and maintenance of the Jaffa Municipal Hospital and it was 
also found necessary, owing to the lack of epidemic hospital 
facilities in the Southern District, to open a 25-bed epidemic 
hospital in the Jewish Settlement of Bnei-Braq near Petah- 
Tiqva. The demand for increased accommodation at Govern- 
ment Hospitals apd commitments arising from the extension 
in 1935-6 of gynaecological and infant welfare services also 
involved the appointment of additional probation and midwife 
nurses and hospital servants in 1936-7. A contribution of 
£P.15,199 was made to Jewish Health Services in respect of the 
following : — 


£P. 
Grant to Municipal Hospital, Tel-Aviv... 6,841 
Maintenance grant to Tuberculosis Hospital, 
Safad we Nee Ss, ges es 1,700 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Services ... 1,765 
Infant Welfare Work ae 1,193 


Petah-Tiqva Hospital, Construction Grant 3,700 


£P.15,199 


XII. Department of Education.—Expenditure: 1935-6, 
£P.221,087; 1936-7, £P.243,244. Increase £P.22,157. The 
principal increases occur under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.24,096, of which P.14,100 is due to Cost of Living Allow- 
ances); Grant-in-Aid to Schools of the Va’ad Leumi (£P.6,000); 
and, under Special Expenditure, Grant-in-Aid to Schools of the 
Va’ad Leumi (£P.4,352) in respect of an adjustment of arrears 
of the share capital expenditure on Arab schools. On the other 
hand there was a decrease of £P.6,725 under Grants to Local 
Authorities for school buildings. These grants are given to 
Local Authorities who provide sites for and contribute towards 
the cost of construction of village schools under approved 
schemes. No applications were received in 1936-7. Educa- 
tional conditions were abnormal in 1936-7 as, owing to the 
disturbances, schools were closed during the greater part of 
the year and when they re-opened the services were restricted 

enerally to those approved in 1935-6. The increase under 

ersonal Emoluments of approximately £P.10,000, exclusive of 
Cost of Living Allowances, resulted from the payment for a 
full year in 1936-7 of additional teachers appointed in the latter 
part of 1935-6, and normal increments. . 


180 


XIII. Department of Agriculture and Fisheries —Expendi- 
ture: 1935-6, £P.181,003; 1936-7, £P.177,387; being a decrease 
of £P.3,616. The title of the Department of Agriculture and 
Forests was changed in 1936-7 to Department of Agriculture 
and Fisheries, consequent on the establishment of a separate 
Department of Forests. The cost of the separate Department 
of Forests was P.24,322, of which £P.10,088 was for Personal 
Emoluments. In effect, therefore, there was an increase of 
oppronmany 4P.20,000 in the expenditure on the Department 
of Agriculture and Fisheries. The main increases occur under 
Personal Emoluments (£P.10,213) including Cost of Living 
Allowances (£P.3,322); Citrus Advertising Fund (£P.15,404) 
and Fruit Inspection Service (4P.2,503). On the other hand 
the fumigation service, on which £P.5,260 was expended in 
1935-6, could not be carried out in 1936-7 and no expenditure 
was incurred. 

The citrus advertising campaign was extended and a sum of 
4P.34,.325 was expended as compared with £P.18,g21 in 
1935-6. A grant was given to the Beit Jamal Agricultural 
School for olive oil experiments and the extension of dairies and 
stables, and campaigns against the Mediterranean Fruit Fly 
and bovine tuberculosis were instituted. 

During the year the following grants were made to Jewish 
Institutions for research and experimental work: — 





£P. 

Grants for Citrus Research by the Experimental Station 
of the Jewish Agency ... ave ao ae a3 3,000 

Grant to Jewish Agency Experimental Fruit growing at 
at Hillside Station, Kirvat Anavim ... a ves 300 

Grant to Jewish Agency for Intensive Farming Experi- 
ments ae ate: wes at ust soe on 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for Research _... ais on 2,950 
Grant to Hebrew University for Field Mice Investigations 200 
Graut to Hebrew University for Spirochaetosis Research 180 
£P.6,930 





XVII. Department of Development. — Expenditure : 
1935-6, £P.8,304; 1936-7, 4P.17,244. Increase £P.8,940. It 
was found necessary to out a contour and hydrographic 
survey of the whole of the Huleh Basin in connection with the 
concession of a part of that area to the Company formed for the 
operation of the Concession. The survey was carried out in 
collaboration with this Company, who paid the share apper- 
taining to the area conceded to Jewish interests. The Govern- 
ment share in the cost amounted to £P.6,709. 


XVIII. Police and Prisons. — Expenditure: 1935-6, 
£P.527,467; 1936-7 £4P.744,619. Increase of £P217,152. 
The major increases are divisible into two categories, namely 
(a) additional expenditure incurred as a direct result of the 


181 


disturbances, and (b) expansion of normal services. The ex- 
penditure incurred under (a) above amounted to £P.145,095, 
the principal increases being under Supernumerary Police 
£P. Pain ag caso Subsistence Allowances (£P.16,089), 
Transport and Travelling (£4P.41,577), Uniforms, Clothing and 
ae) (4P. 70.700), Upkeep of Mechanical Transport 
(4P.4,374) and Ford Cars (£P.9,425). Approximately 3,000 
Supernumerary Police were enlisted during the year. Apart 
from increased expenditure on travelling allowances, other 
expenditure totalling £P.39,500_ was incurred on the hire of 
motor vehicles, as the existing Police vehicles were unable to 
meet unaided the full demands for regular and continuous 
atin of all routes and for transport in connection with 

olice movements. The hire of transport was, however, prac- 
tically dispensed with after the purchase of 65 Ford cars at a 
cost of £P.9,425 in the latter part of the year. As regards (b), 
the expansion of normal services, there was a considerable 
increase in Police Personnel for the expansion of the Criminal 
Investigation Department and the traffic and mechanical trans- 
port sections and for the strengthening of the establishments in 
the Districts. 


XXII. Defence. — Expenditure: 1935-6, —_ £P.145,289; 
1936-7, £P.1,297,000. Increase £P1,151,711. The details of 
the actual expenditure of £P.1,297,000 are made up as under: — 








£P. 

Excess of Army Troops 951,000 

One-half of excess cost of Royal ‘Air Force in Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan 4 Z ae 45,000 
Army Works Services in Palestine | we Wed 283,000 
Royal Air Force Works Services in Palestine Ate Bue 22,000 
1,301,000 

Less 

Overpayment in 1935-6 ... a s53 Sc wee 4,000 
£P.1,297,000 





(See also paragraph 10 below.) 


XXIII. Posts and_ Telegraphs. — Expenditure: 1935-6, 
£P.310,778; 1936-7, £P.351,943. The increase is £P.41,165. 
The original estimate of the Department provided for increases 
in Personal Emoluments amounting to ee. 41,686 in excess of 
the estimated expenditure in 1935-6. The actual increase of 
expenditure on Personal Emoluments in 1936-7 over the actual 
expenditure in 1935-6 was £P.35,558. The increase in per- 
sonnel was necessitated by the marked increase in the quantity 
of postal matter handled by the Department, the extended use of 
the telegraph service and the very heavy demand for new 
telephones. 

48607 G 


182 


Additional expenditure directly attributable to the distur- 
bances amounted to approximately £P.8,700, mainly to pro- 
vide for labour and for overtime allowances (£P.3,400) and 
additional requirements in maintenance stores (£P.4,200) for 
the repairs of routes damaged by acts of sabotage. Other in- 
creases occurred under the Renewals Fund (£P.8,780), due to 
a revision of the basis of calculation, and Broadcasting 
grammes (£P.7,498), due to the fact that the service was only 
inaugurated during the year 1935-6. 

On the other hand, the payments in respect of Conveyance 
of Mails amounted to £P.50,541 only, as compared with 
4P.71,925 in 1935-6, the decrease being due to delay in the 
rendition and consequently the settlement of the international 
accounts. 


XXIV. Public Works Department.—Expenditure: 1935-6 
£LP.58,694, 1936-7 £P.76,397. The increase is £P.17,703. The 
major increase occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(GP.16,283) owing to staff expansion to deal with the extended 
building programme and the new Jerusalem Water Supply 
(4P.4,310). The provision under the latter service, which 
was inaugurated in 1935-6, represents the cost of personnel 
and other charges involved in the administration by the Depart- 
ment of the section of the scheme for Ras el Ain to the 
reservoir at Jerusalem. 

XXV. Public Works Recurrent.—Expenditure: 1935-6 
£P.288,086, 1936-7 £P.320,350. The increase is £P.32,264. 

The following is an estimate of the expenditure under this 
Head directly attributable to the disturbances: — 


£P. 

Loss of Stores in Transit ... 265 a Bas ake 100 
Workmen’s Compensation, Hospital Treatment of 

Employees, etc. ate ae se we 350 
Lydda Air Port Fire (M.T. Vehicles and Instruments) ... 2,000 
Housing Accommodation (Married Police Billets) oes 8,000 
Jerusalem Water Supply—Repairs to Damages, Pro- 

tection Works, etc. ES ra aa 8,000 


Maintenance of Roads and Bridges Bee one 10,000 


Extra Cost of Road and Other Works carried out under 


abnormal conditions, approximately 7,000 





£P.35,450 





This expenditure diverted funds that in normal times might 
have been applied to more productive works. 

The main increases occurred under Maintenance of Jerusalem 
Water Supply (£P.17,918), the new scheme for which was 
opened early in 1936; Maintenance of Roads and Bridges 


183 


(4P.16,905) and Maintenance of Mechanical Transport 
(4P.4,209). On the other hand a decrease of £P.9,827 occurred 
under Rent of Offices and Quarters, the expenditure in 1935-6 
being abnormal owing to payment of rent in respect of certain 
buildings for two Muharrams falling within that financial year. 


XXXVI. Miscellaneous.—Expenditure : 1a £P.297,473, 
1936-7 £P.502, 160. The increase is £P.204,687. The principal 
increases occur under the following items:— 


(a) Emergency Relief Measures (£P.22,095). During the 
disturbances Jewish refugees were evacuated from Jaffa, 
Hebron and Beisan to Tel-Aviv, Jerusalem and Tiberias 
respectively. The maintenance and ultimate rehabilitation 
of indigent refugees was undertaken by the Vaad Leumi 
and other Jewish bodies with the assistance of contributions 
from Government in agreed proportions of actual expendi- 
fuire (in most cases Government contributing a moiety of 
the cost). The bulk of the refugees were from Jaffa to 
Tel-Aviv, where eventually some 4,000 had to be rehabili- 
tated. 


(b) Compensation for a of Property caused by demoli- 
tions at Jaffa (£P.6,230). It was found essential during 
the disturbances to demolish a part of the slum area in 
Jaffa and to pay compensation for disturbance and loss of 
property to the persons ejected from the area. 


(c) Depreciation on Investments (£P.165,70. 704) 
value at middle market prices of the securities eld by th 
Crown Agents for the Colonies on account of surplus baa 
was £P.4,415,993 at 31st March, 1937, as compared with 
their book value of £P.4,581,697, or a depreciation in value 
of £P.165,704. 


(a) Wnite-off of Agricultural, Seed, Fodder and Earth- 
quake Reconstruction Loans (£P.119,788). At the 31st 
March, 1935, the total amount which had been issued during 
previous years in the form of loans to cultivators and to 
persons in need of assistance after the 1927 earthquake was 
4P.810,646. Of this total £P.608,019 had been repaid 
at the 31st March, 1937, while sums aggregating £P.24,481 
had been written off. The total outstanding at the 31st 
March, 1937, was, therefore, £P.178,146 on which interest 
had accrued to the extent of £P.12,676. The write-off of 
these loans was approved in cases where there was no 
prospect of effecting recoveries or where the individuals 
would be fiancially crippled if Government were to press 
for recovery or to seize the properties which formed the 
security for the loans. 

48607 G2 


184 
The write-off amounted to £P.119,788 as under:— 


£P. 

Agricultural Loans, Tot e34 bas oes ies oe 3,097 
Seed Loans, 1928... oad bee wee os 2,365 
Agricultural Loans, 1930... eo mae as bas 15,672 
Agricultural Loans, 1931... as ao fe _ 4,571 
Agricultural Loans, 1932-3... ae one bee Sie 30,536 
Agricultural Loans, 1933-4... us ee as ae 30,309 
Fodder Loans, 1933-4 ae par ane a0 a 17,274 
Agricultural Loans, 1934-5. “i ate ae ae 4,285 
Earthquake Reconstruction ‘Loans aan on es 11,679 
£P.119,788 


Decreases of note occurred under the following items:— 


(a) Grants to Municipalities (£P.13,573). The grants 
to Municipalities in 1935-6 were considerably increased to 
provide for essential improvement works, which, owing to 
the limited financial resources of the Municiplities con- 
cerned, had had to be postponed. The grants in the last 
three years were as under: — 


£P. 
1934-5 see saa 45,186 
1935-6 one mae 91,480 
1936-7 eae 77,997 


The details of the actual grants paid in 1936-7 were: — 











£P. 

Northern District : 
Haifa es aie des one ees 29,700 
Acre oes one one oes oi 577 
Beisan oe wee a eee oss 356 
Jenin ae ae ae se abe 250 
Nablus wes ace ee ake Se 3,250 
Nazareth ... ae ie ee Ose 808 
Shefa Amr eae ea wes ee 250 
Safad eee ae aes ne Sie 350 
Tulkarm ... aa au pos aa _ 
Tiberias... ee cin wus mae 496 
36,037 
Southern District : £P. 
Jaffa ee ees ee <3: ae 12,500 
Tel-Aviv... Ad Fer ae ane 20,000 
Ramle ss: ane ae ae i 1,500 
Gaza s os one eee ss 12 
Beersheba . os BS ae wee 350 
Majdal_—i... ae ar aye es 200 
Khan Younis wee as Pas ae 1,250 
35,812 





185 








Jerusalem District : £P. 
Jerusalem ... ee eae tee oe 3.438 
Hebron... a oa se Ae 1,000 
Ramallah ... 1,060 
Bethlehem ... a at aa Ae 60 
Beit Jala ... ie ade wee on 500 

6,058 
Total... £P.77,907 





b) Flood Relief Works, Tiberias (£P.7,580); Payment 
of Tithes assigned to Private Waqfs (4P.9,054) ; Contribu- 
tion towards the construction of the Mafrak- ~fisr Majamie 
Road (£P.16,948). These services carried out in 1935-6 
at a total cost of £P.36,453 only required Spenditare of 
4P.2,871 for completion in 1936-7. 

(c) Cost of Living Allowances (£P.60,762). Provision 
for these allowances was transferred in 1936-7 to the appro- 
priate departmental Heads. 


XXVII. Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary.—Expendi- 
ture: 1935-6 £P.132,301, 1936-7 £P.129,002. The decrease is 
£P.3,299. The expenditure may be summarised as under:— 


£P. 
(a) Additional Trunk Lines, Reconstruction of Routes, 
Trunk and Distribution cables and Underground Cables 46,973 


(8) Additional Subscribers Circuits and additional 


Exchange Switchboards_... 36,346 

(c) Development of Undesmoand Cables a Ducts, 
Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa and Tel-Aviv ... 28,130 

(d) Installations of Automatic Exchanges and ‘Conver. 
sion of Subscribers to Automatic Apparatus... Fi 12,594 
(e) Broadcasting Station, Jerusalem... ey sie 3,305 
(f) Other Works tee ee tee os a 1,654 
£P.129,002 


The development of underground cables and ducts in the 
ae cipal urban areas under (c) above had become neces- 
fy beens there is a limit (about 500 pairs) to the weight of 
aes which can be carried by overhead routes; and with the 
growth of urban networks the limit had been reached in certain 
cases. Underground circuits also have the advantage of being 
less susceptible than overhead wires to climatic changes, storms 
and sabotage. 

Expenditure under (e) was required owing to an under- 
estimation of the cost of the building and land for the Broad- 
casting Station, Jerusalem. The total expenditure on this station 
to the end of 1936-7 was £P.33,799. 

48607 G3 


186 


XXVIII. Public Works Extraordinary. — Expenditure: 
1935-6 £P.645,044, 1936-7 £P.705,094. The increase is 
£P.60,050. @ approved provision for 1936-7 aggregated 
4P.766,545 and this was supplemented by further provision 
under Special Warrants to the amount of £P.28,743, thus rais- 
ing the total provision to £P.795,288, of which the sum of 

-705,094 was expended. The under-expenditure is due to 
the non-completion of works in progress (4P.77,590), the non- 
commencement of works ‘for which provision had been made 
EN works abandoned (£P.2,143), works postponed 
4P.2,168) and savings on works completed (4P.6,563). 

The expenditure for the year falls into the following cate- 
gories:— 





£P. 
(1) Works and Buildings ... ees aes 87,222 
(2) Construction of Roads and Bridges ... 233,708 
(3) Miscellaneous oie One 384,164 
£P.705,094 





The increase of £P.60,050 in the expenditure under this Head 
in 1936-7 as compared with the expenditure in 1935-6 is as 
follows: —Works and Buildings (decrease of £P.3,742); Con- 
struction of Roads and Brid; (increase of £P.23,008) and 
Miscellaneous (increase of fbsova). The major services 
carried out under Works and Buildings were the construction 
of Tel-Aviv Post Office (4P.18,148), additions and improve- 
ments to the Animal Quarantine Station, Haifa (£P.2,878), 
additions to British Police Camp and purchase of land, Mount 
Scopus, Jerusalem (£P.9,101), Camp for Farm Labour and 
uae Delinquents, Acre (£P.5,376) and Detention Camp, 

arafand (£P.7,952). The major road works carried out were 
thq construction of Rehovoth-Gaza Road (£P.20,997), Tul- 
karm-Nathanya Road (£P.13,948), Jaffa-Salama-Wilhelma 
Road (£P.15,008), Section of Affuleh-Beisan Road (£P.16,137), 
Jaffa-Haifa Road (£P.87,202), Secondary Roads (£P.9,660), 
reconstruction of a section of the road from the Haifa-Nazareth 
Road to Jinujar through Nahalal (£P.11,645) and reconstruc- 
tion, re-alignment and widening of roads, etc. (£P.11,137). 

Under Miscellaneous, the continuation of the construction of 
the Airports at Lydda and Haifa accounted for £P.118,432, 
Jaffa Port Improvements for £P.62,870, the Cargo Jetty and 
Ancillary Works at Haifa Harbour for £P.70,337 and Haifa 
Oil Dock and East Reclamation Area for 25,273. These 
works are being continued in 1937-8. Other works of interest 
are Demolition Works at eae (£P.11,287), a Housing Scheme 
at Jaffa (£P.10,112), which is being continued in 1937-8, the pre- 
paration of plans by the Consulting Engineers for the extension 
of Haifa Harbour (£P.10,000) and a charge against this Head 


187 
of £P.18,479 for that part of the cost of the Jerusalem Water 
Supply Scheme which is in excess of the amount provided under 
Loan Funds. 

Of the total expenditure of £P.705,094 under this Head it is 
estimated that expenditure amounting to £P.103,908 may be 
ascribed directly to the disturbances. This includes Detention 
Camps (£P.9,350), Demolition Works, Jaffa (£P.11,287), 
Housing Scheme arising from demolitions (£P.10,112), con- 
struction and acceleration of construction of roads of strategic 
importance (£P.65,970). 

XXIX. Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary: Ex- 
penditure: 1935-6 £P.18,477, 1936-7 £P.9,944. The decrease 
is £P.8,533. Apart from the continuation of the reconstruction 
of Zerka Camp (£P.3,971) the expenditure was incurred on 
a works of improvement both in Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


Railways. 


5. The Railway deficit charged to Government expenditure 
in 1936-7 was £P.69,631 as compared with £P.124,159 in 


1935-6. 

e final results in 1936-7 of the four Railway systems, 
operated by the General Manager, Palestine Railways, were 
as under : — 

Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit. 


£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Palestine Railway wee 716,754 766,590 —_— 49,836 
Kantara-Rafa Railway... 180,945 114,601 36,344 _ 
Hejaz Railway ... ++ IOI,400 121,195 _ 19,795 
Petah-Tiqva Railway ... 6,414 840 5,574 _ 


In order to arrive at the deficit charged to Revenue the 
accounts of the Kantara-Rafa Railway and the Petah-Tiqva 
Railway are excluded, as the surpluses are subject to special 
arrangement. In the case of the latter Railway there is an 
obligation to pay interest to the colonists and to Government 
on their respective advances for the construction of the line. 
The surpluses in previous years have been insufficient to pay 
the interest in full and at 31st March, 1937, after distribution of 
the year’s surplus, there was an outstanding debt of £P.10,313 
due to the Petah-Tiqva colonists. 

The agreement provides for the repayment to the colonists of 
the amount advanced (£E.20,000) with interest at the rate of 
6 per cent. per annum, but a prior charge exists in favour of the 
Government of Palestine in respect of interest on the excess cost 
of the line met by Government over the contribution by the 
colonists. That excess was £P.33,846. Any deficiency in the 
payment of interest to Government, together with interest at 
5 per cent. thereon, has first to be met before the claim of the 

48607 G4 


186 


XXVIII. Public Works Extraordinary. — Expenditure: 
1935-6 £P.645,044, 1936-7 £P.705,094. The increase is 
4P.60,050. The approved provision for 1936-7 aggregated 
4£P.766,545 and this was supplemented by further provision 
under Special Warrants to the amount of £P.28,743, thus rais- 
ing the total provision to £P.795,288, of which the sum of 
EE 05 604 was expended. The under-expenditure is due to 
the non-completion of works in progress (£P.77,590), the non- 
commencement of works for at provision had been made 
(£P.1,730), works abandoned (£P.2,143), works postponed 
(4P.2,168) and savings on works completed (£P.6,563). 


The expenditure for the year falls into the following cate- 
gories:— 


£P. 
(1) Works and Buildings ... see mee 87,222 
(z) Construction of Roads and Bridges ... 233,708 
(3) Miscellaneous”... Ye See 384,164 


£P.705,094 


The increase of £P.60,050 in the expenditure under this Head 
in 1936-7 as compared with the expenditure in 1935-6 is as 
follows: —Works and Buildings (decrease of £P.3,742); Con- 
struction of Roads and Bridges (increase of £P.23,068) and 
Miscellaneous (increase of £P.40,724). | The major services 
carried out under Works and Buildings were the construction 
of Tel-Aviv Post Office (£P.18,148), additions and improve- 
ments to the Animal Quarantine Station, Haifa (£P.2,878), 
additions to British Police Camp and purchase of land, Mount 
Scopus, Jerusalem (£P.9,101), Camp for Farm Labour and 
ven Delinquents, Acre (£P.5,376) and Detention Camp, 

arafand (£P.7,952). The major road works carried out were 
tha construction of Rehovoth-Gaza Road (£P.20,997), Tul- 
karm-Nathanya Road (£P.13,948), Jaffa-Salama-Wilhelma 
Road (£P.15,008), Section of Affuleh-Beisan Road (£P.16,137), 
Jaffa-Haifa Road (£P.87,202), Secondary Roads (£P.9,660), 
reconstruction of a section of the road from the Haifa-Nazareth 
Road to Jinujar through Nahalal (£P.11,645) and reconstruc- 
tion, re-alignment and widening of roads, etc. (£P.11,137). 

Under Miscellaneous, the continuation of the construction of 
the Airports at Lydda and Haifa accounted for £P.118,432, 
Jaffa Port Improvements for £P.62,870, the Cargo Jetty and 
Ancillary Works at Haifa Harbour for £P.70,337 and Haifa 
Oil Dock and East Reclamation Area for £P.25,273. These 
works are being continued in 1937-8. Other works of interest 
are Demolition Works at Jaffa (£P.11,287), a Housing Scheme 
at Jaffa (4P.10,112), which is being continued in 1937-8, the pre- 
paration of plans by the Consulting Engineers for the extension 
of Haifa Harbour (£P.10,000) and a charge against this Head 


187 


of £P.18,479 for that part of the cost of the Jerusalem Water 
Supply Scheme which is in excess of the amount provided under 
Loan Funds. 

Of the total expenditure of £P.705,094 under this Head it is 
estimated that expenditure amounting to £P.103,908 may be 
ascribed directly to the disturbances. This includes Detention 
Camps (4P.9,350), Demolition Works, Jaffa (4P.11,287), 
Housing Scheme arising from demolitions (£P.10,112), con- 
struction and acceleration of construction of roads of strategic 
importance (£P.65,970). 

XXIX. Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary: Ex- 
penditure: 1935-6 £P.18,477, 1936-7 £P.9,944. The decrease 
is £P.8,533. Apart from the continuation of the reconstruction 
of Zerka Camp (£P.3,971) the expenditure was incurred on 
minor works of improvement both in Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


Railways. 

5. The Railway deficit charged to Government expenditure 
in 1936-7 was £P.69,631 as compared with £P.124,159 in 
1935-6. 

The final results in 1936-7 of the four Railway systems, 
operated by the General Manager, Palestine Railways, were 
as under: — 

Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit. 


Palestine Railway vee 716,754 766,590 —_— 49,836 
Kantara-Rafa Railway... 180,945 114,601 36,344 _ 
Hejaz Railway ... see TOI,400 121,195 _ 19,795 
Petah-Tiqva Railway ... 6,414 840 5,574 _— 


In order to arrive at the deficit charged to Revenue the 
accounts of the Kantara-Rafa Railway and the Petah-Tiqva 
Railway are excluded, as the surpluses are subject to special 
arrangement. In the case of the latter Railway there is an 
obligation to pay interest to the colonists and to Government 
on their respective advances for the construction of the line. 
The surpluses in previous years have been insufficient to pay 
the interest in full and at 31st March, 1937, after distribution of 
the year’s surplus, there was an outstanding debt of £P.10,313 
due to the Petah-Tiqva colonists. 

The agreement provides for the repayment to the colonists of 
the amount advanced (£E.20,000) with interest at the rate of 
6 per cent. per annum, but a prior charge exists in favour of the 
Government of Palestine in respect of interest on the excess cost 
of the line met by Government over the contribution by the 
colonists. That excess was £P.33,846. Any deficiency in the 
payment of interest to Government, together with interest at 
5 per cent. thereon, has first to be met before the claim of the 

48607 G4 


188 


colonists is due for payment and any deficiency in respect of 
such payment also bears interest at the rate of 5 per cent. per 
annum. The agreement further provides that after meeting the 
charges for interest the net surplus shall be set aside to repay the 
loan of £E.20,000 made by the colonists. In 1923-4 £P.568 was 
repaid to the colonists and £P.267 in the year 1924-5. An 
amount of £P.2,868 of the net surplus of £P.5,574 in 1936-7 was 
absorbed in the repayment of interest to Government and is 
included in the revenue of the Palestine Railway. 


Special arrangements were entered into regarding the Kantara- 
Rafa Railway with effect from 1st April, 1933. Prior to this 
date a moiety of the profits of this Railway was credited to the 
Special (Renewals Fund and a moiety of the profits was 
divided between His Majesty’s Government and the Palestine 
Railway in proportion to their respective capital interests in 
the Railway. is method of division gave way to a commuted 
payment on a rental basis with effect from the 1st April, 1933, 
and a sum of £P.4,000 has been agreed upon as the annual rent 
to be paid by the Palestine Railway for the use of the line, but 
this is subject to reconsideration at the end of 1937-8. A moiety 
of the profits (£P.36,344) resulting from the operation of the 
Kantara-Rafa Railway was contributed to the Kantara-Rafa 
Railway Special Fund, and the remainder (£P.36,344) was in- 
cluded in the Palestine Railway Revenue. Expenditure includes 
a rental payment of £P.4,000 on this account. 

The net deficit charged to Government expenditure under this 
Head was, therefore, £P.69,631 consisting of the deficits on the 
Palestine and Hejaz Railways which were £P.49,836 and 
4P.19,795 respectively. 

The following comparison is afforded between the revenue of 
the four sections of the line in 1935-6 and 1936-7:— 

Kantara- Petah- 


Palestine Rafa Hejas Tigua Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Railway. 


fp. fe. £P. fp. fp. 





Coaching : 
1935-6 ... ses 210,940 80,388 34,635 _ 325,963 
1936-7 ... «es 201,872 79,103 37,138 _ 318,113 
Goods : 
1935-6... see 336,166 35,637 61,560 2,400 435,763 
1936-7... «+» 434,507 99,437 56,732 6,209 596,885 
Miscellaneous : 
1935-6 ... ws 41,710 3,027 6,556 67 51,360 
1936-7 ... s+ 80,375 2,405 7,530 205 90,515 
Total : 
1935-6 ... £P.588,816 119,052 102,751 2,467 813,086 
1936-7 ... £P.716,754 180,945 101,400 6,414 1,005,513 


189 

Tourist traffic receipts showed a decline of approximately 
31 per cent. as compared with 1935-6. In ordinary passenger 
travelling, it is estimated that revenue declined by some 
£P.36,000 on the Palestine and Kantara-Rafa Railways owing 
to the disturbances, but this was compensated to the extent of 
about £P.27,000 by additional military traffic. 

The increase under goods transport is mainly due to an 
increase of £P.100,000 on account of military transport and 

ly to the diversion of Jaffa cargoes to Haifa. Of the total 

increase £P4I ,335 is represented by increased orange traffic. 

The following table affords a comparison between the expendi- 
ture of the Railways on all sections in 1935-6 and 1936-7 : — 

Kantara- Petah- 


Palestine Rafa Hejas Tiqua Total, 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Railway. 

















f fj 6 i P. 
Maintenance and co a as op é 
Renewals of Ways 
and Works : 
1935-6 ++ 83,955 31,049 22,179 214 137,397 
1936-7 s+ 79,980 34,573 27,175 214 141,942 
Maintenance and 
Renewals of Loco- 
motives and 
Rolling Stock 
1935-6 eee 75536 18,888 22,624 140 117,188 
1936-7 ve 87,217 18,250 31,140 140 =: 136,711 
Transportation Ex- 
penses :— 
1935-6 see 151,659 26,827 46,031 377. = 224,894 
1936-7 w+ 153,973 26,086 39,309 377 219,745 
General Charges 
1935-6 see 50,672 25,286 17,418 109 93,485 
1936-7 vee 61,288 29,348 15,555 109 ~—- 106,300 
Debt Charges 
1935-6 se 157,140 - 63 _- 157,203 
1936-7 «ee 157,140 — 63 _— 157,203 
Extraordin: 
Eependicae 
1935-6 e+ 123,966 _— 4,483 _ 128,449 
1936-7 wee 152,992 —_— 7,989 _— 160,981 
Contrib ution to 
Palestine Railway 
Renewals Fund : 
1935-6 «+. 60,000 _ _ _ 60,000 
1936-7 ses 74,000 = _ = 74,000 
Contribution to Kan- 
tara-Rafa Railway 
Special Fund : 
1935-6 ee _ 8,501 _— _ 8,501 
1936-7 eo 36,344 = fee 36,344 
Total :— 
1935-6 £P.702,928 II0,551 112,798 840 = 927,117 


1936-7 £P.766,590 144,601 121,195 840 1,033,226 

















190 

Operating expenditure increased principally owing to 
increased protection of the railway, repairs due to damage 
caused by sabotage during the disturbances in 1936 and an 
increased contribution to the renewals fund from £P.60,000 to 
£P.74,000. 

The financial position of the four sections of the Railway for 
the two years under review is summarised below :— 


1935-6. 1936-7. 
Surplus (+) Surplus (+) 
Deficit (—) Deficit (—-) 

£P. &P. 


Palestine Railway wea ans vee SII4, 112 - 

Kantara-Rafa Railway ... vale «. + 8,501 + 36,344 

Hejaz Railway... ee aa 12 — 10,047 — 19,795 
* Petah Tiqva Railway... wee 1,627 + 5,574 


The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 
for the period 1st April, 1936, to 31st March, 1937, were as 
under :— 








£P. £P. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods Ben as Se 636,379 
Miscellaneous one oes are ist 80,375 
716,754 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses ee ade a 382,458 
Debt Charges ee ea be Soe 157,140 
Capital Improvements... es ae 152,992 
Renewals ... tse aes sas ee 74,000 
766,590 
Deficit ... ais Dae oss ane a5 £P.49,836 


It will be observed from the comparative table of the Railway 
expenditure that there has been an increase of £P.63,662 in 
Palestine Railway expenditure in 1936-7 as compared with that 
of the previous year. The increase is made up as under: — 


£P. 
Operating Costs Le ahs ao 20,636 
Extraordinary Expenditure ... oa 29,026 
Renewals Fund eae om wee 14,000 
£P.63,662 


The increase in operating costs is chiefly attributable to the 
increased traffic, mainly military, and to unforeseen expen- 
diture incurred as the result of the disturbances in 1936. 


IQ 


There is an increase of £P.29,026 in capital expenditure, and 
the main works and services carried out in 1936-7 were :— 


(a) Purchase of and Improvements to Locomotives and 


Rolling Stock ... 83,300 

(5) Construction of Sheds and Station Alterations and 
Improvements ... 25,034 
(c) Acquisition of land for Railway Purposes ss an 13,026 
(d) Extension of dual gauge to Kiryat Motzkin ... ae 7,144 
(e) New Station, Haifa a des ie 11,412 
{f) Machinery for mechanical workshops... aes wate 3,773 
(g) Minor New Works ee . es ore 3,733 
(4) Other Works and Services ae dais si hs 5,570 
£P.152,992 


In addition to the above expenditure the following amounts 
were disbursed from the Renewals Fund :— 


£P. 
(a) Permanent Way Renewals (Sleepers, etc.) _... “ae 21,481 
(6) Renewals of Locomotives and Boilers ... “ee oat 41,038 
(c) Revote from previous years a a see ae 504 
£P.63,023 


6. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railway proper to 
31st March, 1937, is appended : — 
&P. &P. 
From Loan Funds. 
Purchase of Assets from His Majesty’s Govern- 
tment (included in Item II of Appendix VI) 784,854 
Other Expenditure (see Item I of Appendix VI) 1,639,021 


2,423,875 
From Revenue. 
Capital Improvements to 31st March, 1936... 785,800 
Capital Improvements in 1936-7 wee oss 152,992 
————— 938,792 
£P.3,362,667 


7. The revenue and expenditure of the Kantara-Rafa Railway 
for the year ended the 31st March, 1937 were as under : — 





£P. £P. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods oe wi “th ae 178,540 
Miscellaneous a eee oe 250 Ze 2,405 
‘ 180,945 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses the sa we eas 108,257 


Net Earnings tae as fe Ee S08. £P.72,688 


192 
These earnings were apportioned as under in accordance with 
the special arrangement regarding this Railway of which 
mention has already been made :— 





£P. 

Renewals Fund tists ey sae aes 36,34 
Palestine Railway ... a Ve Sed 36,344 
£P.72,688 





There has been an increase of £P.55,686 in the net ‘earnings 
over the previous year’s figure due mainly to the inc 
military traffic on this section of the Railways. 


8. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway for 
the year 1936-7 were as under: — 











£P. £P. 
Revenue. 
Coaching and Goods tae ve, mie ae 93,870 
Miscellaneous ass ee ads sae aes 7,530 
101,400 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses eae oH wes eee 113,143 
Capital Improvements... ee o35 on 7,989 
Debt Charges aoe gee ne ee San 63 
121,195 
Deficit ade esse Sa =08 ie sont £P.19,795 





The increase in the operation expenses of this Railway is 
principally due to measures necessitated by the disturbances in 
1936. 


The main items of capital expenditure, which totalled 
4£P.7,989 for the year, were the purchase of three new boilers for 
locomotives (£P.3,082) and two 105 c/m gauge rail inspection 
cars (£P.1,601) and the reconstruction of two derelict under- 
frames 105 c/m gauge as third class coaches (£P.1,870). 


g. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah-Tiqva Railway 
for the year under review were as under: — 








£P. £P. 

Revenue. 

Goods esa ee See rh ea 6,209 

Miscellaneous eae oe aan ins 205 

6,414 

Expenditure. 

Operation Expenses re es ae 840 
Net Earnings... on ar sus an £P.5,574 





193 


Defence. 


ro. A sum of £P.1,333,000 was provided in the Estimates for 
1936-7 to cover the contribution to His as Government 
towards the excess cost of the Royal Air Force Units and Army 
Units stationed in Palestine and Trans-Jordan and the cost of 
Army and Royal Air Force Works Services in Palestine. The 
amount due is paid quarterly on the basis of one-fourth of the 
sum provided in the United Kingdom Estimates in respect of 
Palestine’s contribution towards the cost of Defence. The 
amount due for the last quarter, however, is adjusted so as 
to allow for the latest estimate of excess cost received from the 
War Office and Air Ministry, and such contribution is then 
demanded as is sufficient to cover the balance of the excess 
according to those Estimates. The sum paid in respect of the 
year 1936-7 amounted to £P.1,297,000, but a sum of £P.4,000 
was deducted in respect of the amount overpaid in 1935-6 in 
excess of Palestine’s actual liability for that year and carried 
forward as part of the contribution for the year 1936-7. The 
total payments made, therefore, in respect of 1936-7 amounted to 
£P.1,301,000. 


The following contributions have been made:— 


Financial 
period in Financial year in which 
which payment Amount. liability is incurred. Amount. 
was made. 
£P. £P. 
1928 ... vee 53,500 1927-28 (1 year) woe ia aes 31,000 
1928-29 (9 months) ... tae ane 22,500 
1929 ... ond 30,375 1928-29 (3 months) ... ea eee 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) ... One oe 22,875 
1930 ... aaa 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) ... aa oe 7,625 
1930-31 (payment for 6 months at 
the original rate of £P.33,500 p.a., 
which was subsequently revised 
to £P.75,250 p.a.) ... or ane 16,750 
1931... a 86,000 1930-31 (payment of balance o' 
contribution for the year at the 
revised rate of £P.75,250 p.a.) ... 58,500- 
1931-32 (6 months) wes See 27,500 
1932 (January 
to March) ... 27,500 1931-32 (6 months) ... eee prs 27,500 
1932-33 eae: 90,000 1932-33 (1 year) Gee ae Se 90,000 
1933-34 ave IOI,000 1933-34 (I year) als ae ae 101,000 
1934-35 s+ 103,875 1934-35 (I year)... 0s ve 103,875 
1935-36 cle 145,289 1935-36 (I year) eat ate fis 145,289 
1936-37 sss 1,297,000 1936-37 (I year). we wee 1,297,000 


Total £P.1,958,914 


194 
Assets and Liabilities. 


11. The Assets and Liabilities are set out in Appendix III.* 
At the 31st March, 1937, the surplus balance amounted to 
4P.4,835,129, as under:— 

£P. £P. 

Surplus Balance at 1st April, 1936 ... 6,267,810 
Revenue for the period rst April, 1936, to 

31st March, 1937... 4,640,821 
Expenditure for the period Ist April, 1936, 

to 31st March, 1937 6,073,502 
Deficit for the period 1st Apri, 1936, to 

31st March, 1937... ne 1,432,681 


Surplus Balance at 31st March, 1937 eel £P.4,835,129 


AssETS. 
Municipalities. 
12. The outstanding advances due by- Municipalities at the 
31st March, 1937, are summarized as under: — 
£P. 


Jerusalem—New Abattoir and Incinerator an a 12,526 
Haifa—Oil Storage Area... a8 sie vee 9,143 
Tiberias—Construction of Roads ... wes ie3 6,267 
Other Municipalities—For Works and Services aes ues 348 

£P.28,284 


In addition, the sums of £P.51,875 and £P.29,116 have been 
advanced to the Jerusalem Municipality in connection with the 
City Drainage Scheme and the Jerusalem Water Supply, respec- 
tively. These amounts appear in the Statement of Assets and 
Liabilities under ‘‘ Advances in Anticipation of the New Loan.’ 


Agricultural Loans. 


13. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of 
loans are summarized as under : — 





: £P. £P. £P. 
(a) Agricultural Loans (1919-23) 
£P.576,319 (Northern, Southern and 
Jerusalem Districts)— A 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 12,860 
Repayments during the year 
1936-37 24 
Amounts written. off during the 
year ... an nee fs ss 3,097 3,121 
——— 9.739 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 1-7 per cent.). 


* Page 206. 


195 





























: &P. £P. £P. 
(6) Agricultural Loans (1928) 
£P.19,366 (Northern District)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 5,027 
Repayments during the year 
1936-37 sy 12 
Amounts written-off during the 
year ... ses sae a wes 2,365 2,377 
Sed 2,650 
(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 13-7 per cent.). 
(c) Agricultural Loans (1930-31) 
£P.29,979 (Northern and Southern 
Districts) — 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 22,287 
Repayments during the year 
1936-37 60 
Amounts written-off during the 
year 15,671 15,731 
6,556 
(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 21-9 per cent.). 
(d@) Agricultural Loans (1931-32) 
£P.17,136 (Southern District)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 5,067 
Repayments during the year 
1936-37 ” 19 
Amounts written-off during the 
year 4571 4,590 
477 
(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 2-8 per cent.) 
(e) Agricultural Loans (1932-33) 
£P.53,537 (Northern, Southern and 
Jerusalem Districts)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 36,121 
Repayments during the year 
1936-37 Es 88 
Amounts written-off during the 
year ... ee 30,536 30,624 
5.497 
(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 10-3 per cent.) 
(f) Agricultural Loans (1933-34) 
£P.57,259 (Northern, Southern and 
Jerusalem Districts) — 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 54,195 
Repayments during the year 
1936-37 oe 138 
Amounts written-off during the 
year... sue 30,310 30,448 
23,747 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 41-5 per cent.) 


196 


(g) Fodder Loans (1933-34) £P.20,720 
(Northern, Southern and Jerusalem 
Districts) — 

Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 
Repayments during the year 

1936-37 : 

Amounts written-off during the 
year 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 14-1 per cent.) 


(4) Agricultural Loans (1934-35) 
£P.6,313 (Northern and Jerusalem Dis- 
tricts)— 

Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 

Repayments during the year 
1936-37 see 

Amounts written-off during the 
year 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
instalments due 31-2 per cent.) 


(i) Agricultural Loans (1935-6) 
£P.4,988 (Jerusalem and Southern 
Districts) — 

Total loans issued to 31st March, 

1936... 

Repayments. during the year 
1936-37 


(Percentage of arrears to the total 
loans 99:8 per cent.) 


(7) Seed Loans (1936-37) 


(k) Bee-hive . Loans (Northern, 
Southern and Jerusalem Districts)— 
Outstanding at 31st March, 1936 
Total loans issued during the year 
1936-37 aes Aes ae 


Repayments during the year 
1936-37 ee 


{Percentage of arrears to the total 
instalments due 85-3 per cent.) 


17,274 





4,285 — 





1,788 


495 





20,314 


17,387 





6,296 


4,290 





4,988 


2,283 


78 





2,927 


2,006 


4,977 


32,868 


2,205 


£P.93,649 


With the exception of £P.55 under (4), the instalments com- 
pe ing the outstanding balances of (a) to (i) are now overdue. 

he loans under (7) are repayable in one or two instalments and 
the loans under (k) are repayable in three equal instalments. 


197 


Earthquake Reconstruction Loans. 


14. The position with regard to advances made on account 
of Earthquake Reconstruction Loans is summarized as under: — 








£P. £P. 
Advances outstanding at 31st March, 1936 ... 16,764 
Repayments during the year 1936-37 vee 330 
Amounts written-off during the year oes 11,679 
12,009 
Amounts outstanding at 31st March, 1937 ... £P.4,755 


These loans were made principally to persons residing in 
Lydda, Ramle, Nablus and Nazareth. The arrears of due instal- 
ments at the 31st March, 1937, amounted to £P.3,891. 


Investments. 


15. The cost price of stocks held on Government account in 
respect of available balances and loan funds at the rst April, 
1936, was £P.4,437,333 and during the year further surplus 
funds were invested to the extent of £P.55,787, making a total 
investment of £4,493,120. The value of these stocks, based on 
the middle market price prevailing on the 31st March, 1937, 
was £P.4,415,993 as shown in Appendix V. Investments held 
on behalf of funds in the custody of Government consist of stocks 
forming the Endowment Fund of the Palestine Archaeological 
hg valued at £P.263,754; and the investment of the sur- 

us balances of the Police Fines Fund, valued at £P.3,460. 
The total investments, therefore, at the mean market value at 
the 31st March, 1937, amount to £P.4,683,207, as compared 
with total investments amounting to £P.4,808,538 held on the 
31st March, 1936. 


Advances in Anticipation of the New Loans. 


16. The Palestine Loan Ordinance, 1934, authorised the 
raising of a loan of £P.2 million for the following purposes : — 


(1) Resettlement of Displaced Arabs ... 250,000 
(2) Water Supply and Drainage Schemes for Jerusalem 
and Haifa, Water Supply for Hebron and various villages 


and Survey of Water Resources... ea 933,000 
(3) Agricultural Credits ... 200,000 
(4) Construction of Oil Berth and “Reclamation Scheme 

at Haifa se 210,000 


(5) Public Buildings, including "Jerusalem Post Office 
and various Educational Buildings, and purposes inci- 
dental to, or connected with, any of the purposes 
mentioned in this Schedule, including the Sad of the 
Loan ... wee se we an aes C ies 407,000 





£P.2,000,000 





198 

The bulk of the Loan is to meet the cost of municipal water 
supplies and drainage schemes which will ultimately be revenue- 
earning. His Majesty’s Government have approved free grants 
from the Colonial Development Fund of the interest payable 
on the Loan in respect of the capital cost of schemes as under : — 

Jerusalem Water Supply ... £P. 9,000 in 1934-35. 

£P.12,000 in 1935-36. 

£P. 5,000 in 1936-37. 

£P. 5,000 in 1937-38. 
Jerusalem Drainage Scheme {£P.5,250 in 1934-35 and the four 


succeeding years. 

Hebron Water Supply ... 5 years at full rate and 5 years at half 
rate. 

Village Water Supply +. 5 years at full rate. 


The fixed grants in respect of the first scheme, as well as full 
interest calculated at bank rate on expediture incurred to the 
31st March, 1937, in respect of the latter two schemes, aggregat- 
ing in all £P.6,336, were received during the year from the 
coon Development Fund and carried to Revenue under 

lea : 


The provision of £P.250,000 for the Resettlement of Arabs is 
in conformity with an undertaking given by His Majesty’s 
Government in 1930 that provision would be made for the 
resettlement of those Arabs who might be found, after inquiry, 
to have been displaced from the lands which they occupied in 
consequence of the lands passing into Jewish hands, and who 
had not obtained other holdings on which they could establish 
themselves or other equally satisfactory occupation. 


17. The work on the majority of the schemes enumerated in 
paragraph 16 has been started, and the expenditure thereon has 
been met from surplus balances pending the issue of the new 
loan. The expenditure on this account during the year 
enous to £P.119,917 and was incurred on the following 
works: — 





£P. 
Resettlement of Displaced Arabs ... wa eee oe 828 
Water Supply and Drainage Schemes, etc. set ses 41,488 
Public Buildings, etc. ose 4 nat ots es 77,601 
£P.119,917 





The total expenditure on these services amounted at 31st 
March, 1937, to £P.1,172,841, and a statement is appended 
showing the expenditure to the 31st March, 1936; the expenditure 
in 1936-7; the expenditure to 31st March, 1937; and the un- 
expended balance at that date:— 





Work. 


1. Resettlement of Dis- 
placed Arabs a 
2. Water Supply and Drain- 
age Schemes, etc. :— 
(i) Jerusalem Water 
Supply ats 
(ii) Jerusalem Drain- 
age Scheme 
(iii) Haifa Drainage 
Scheme ws 
(iv) Haifa Water Supply 
(v) Hebron Water 
Supply 
(vi) Water Resources 
Survey ase 
(vii) Underground Water 
Investigations 
(viii) Improvements of 
Village Water 
Supplies ae 
3. Agricultural Credits :— 
(i) Investment in Land 
Mortgage Com- 
- pany ... aos 
(ii) Long-Term Loans 
for Hill Areas ... 
4- Construction of Oil Berth 
and Reclamation 
Scheme at Haifa :— 
(i) Haifa Oil Dock ... 
(ii) Haifa East Re- 
clamation Area 
5- Public Buildings, includ- 
ing Jerusalem Post 
Office and various Edu- 
‘cational Buildings and 
purposes incidental to, 
or connected with, any 
of the purposes men- 
tioned in this Schedule, 
including the raising of 
“the Loan :— 
(i) Government Arab 
College oe 
(ii) Government Schools 
in Towns 
- (iii) Government Tech- 
nical and Trade 
School ss 
(iv) Capital Grants to 
Jewish Institu- 
tions Ss 
(v) Jerusalem Post 
ice 


(vi) Cost of Raising of 
(vii) Unallocated 


Total 
Provision 
in 
proposed 


Loan 
Schedule. 
£P. 


250,000 


370,000 
150,000 


130,000 
200,000 


10,000 
6,000 


22,000 
45,000 


150,000 


50,000 


150,000 


60,000 


27,000 


106,000 
40,000 


20,000 
156,000 


56,000 
2,000 


£P.2,000,000 


199 
Expendi- 
ture to 
gist 
March, 
1936. 
£P. 


83,787 


351,928 
43,288 


2,783 
1,304 


9,436 
4,130 


14,370 


32,273 


1,052,924 


Total 
Expendi- 
Expendi- ture to 
ture in grist 
1936-37. March, 
1937- 
£P. £P. 
828 84,615 


% 155,565 


= 54.435 


119,917 1,172,841 


98,125 


125,562 
196,302 


2,904 


46,469 


2,288 


3.375 
66,738 


56,000 
2,000 


827,159 


200 


LIABILITIES. 
Deposits. 

18. Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund.—The balance in this 
account represents the difference between the amount received 
by way of fees on exported citrus fruit and the amount expended 
on advertising. The gross amounts appearing in the account 
during the year were as under: — 








Fees collected during 1936-37 She oie Bie 34,326 
Debit Balance brought forward from 1935-36 ... 553 
Advertising Expenditure during 1936-7 ... ues 19,454 

20,007 
Credit Balance at 31st March, 1937 aes ase £P.14,319 





19. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.— 
The balance of the account is now made up as under: — 


£P. 
Amount of the Fund at 31st March, 1936 ... ae 278,622 
Less :— 
Depreciation of Investments held at the 31st March, 
1937, based on the mean market value ruling at 


that date Mies as 14,868 





£P.263,754 





20. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Fund.— 
When Mr. John Rockefeller, Junior, undertook to provide 
$2,000,000 for the cost of construction and endowment of this 
Museum, it was estimated that the building would be completed 
in 1930, and the gift was promised on the understanding that 
the last payment would be called for not later than the 1st 
January, 1931. Owing, however, to unforeseen difficulties, con- 
struction has not proceeded according to schedule and the 
building had not been completed at the 31st March, 1935. Never- 
theless, a sum of $1,000,000 was received in November, 1929, 
and an endowment fund created. Subsequent building grants, 
on a dollar basis, were also made from time to time with an 
extension of the period of call to the rst January, 1933. 

Owing, however, to the fall in the value of sterling, the dollar 
values of the building grants were considerably in excess of the 
original sterling equivalents, while the enactment of the United 
States Gift Tax Law in June, 1932, increased by almost 100 per 
cent. the cost to Mr. Rockefeller of his benefaction. Moreover, 
the delay in construction of the Museum had postponed the 
necessity for maintenance, and interest thereby accrued on the 
Endowment Fund, although certain expenditure was inevitably 
incurred on staff and research work in connection with the classi- 
fication and arrangement of archaeological material, records, 
and library. 

In view of these changes, it was suggested that the original 
pledge should be replaced by a new arrangement which 
ultimately took the following form:— 


201 


(a) The cost of construction of the Museum estimated 
at £P.200,000 should be reduced to £P.193,000. This was 
made possible by economies on certain items of equipment 
and fittings. 

(b) £P.14,000 of the unexpended balance of income de- 
rived from the Endowment Fund at 31st March, 1934, 
should be transferred to the construction account. 

(c) The Endowment Fund should be reduced by the 
amount required to complete construction (this reduction 
was effected in 1934-5) after taking into account the sum 
of £P.149,308 already paid by Mr. Rockefeller and the 
transfer of £P.14,000 From the balance of the current 
account. 


The amount of £P.4,296 shown in the Statement of Assets 
and Liabilities is made up as under:— 








£P. 

Amounts received from Mr. Rockefeller to 31st March, 
1935 «se ie re we ae see ae se 149,308 

Amount transferred from accumulated interest in 
current account S28 ete ive ae ae eke 14,000 
Amount transferred from the Endowment Fund Ge 29,692 
193,000 

Less 

Amount expended to 31st March, 1937 es oe 188,704 
Balance in hand at 31st March, 1937__... eis see £P.4,296 





21. Moslem University of Palestine.—In March, 1935, His 
Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad donated a sum of £P.7,543 
to form an Endowment Fund for the maintenance of a Moslem 
University in Palestine. This sum is now on sight deposit with 
Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.), Jerusalem, bearing interest at 
} per cent. per annum. 


22. Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest.—The bequest was made to 
His Majesty’s Government, who appointed the Officer Adminis- 
tering the Government of Palestine to be the local representa- 
tive for the administration of the trust. 


The bequest is for the construction and the endowment of 
Agricultural Training Schools at Tulkarm and Mt. Tabor. The 
total amount received was £P.121,551, but the bequest was 
enhanced in value by transactions on investments and by 
accumulation of interest to a total of £P.179,321. Of this total 
the sum of £P.93,084 had been remitted by the Crown Agents 
for the Colonies at the he March, 1937, for the construction 
and equipment of the schools, leaving an amount of £P.86,237 
in the fund, which was held partly on investment in the Joint 
Colonial Fund (£P.18,900) and partly in Trustee Securities 
(£P.67,335), the remainder (£P.2) being held in cash by the 
Crown Agents for the Colonies. 

Prior to the year 1934-5 interest from the Endowment Fund, 
together with school and farm receipts supplemented by a 


202 


Government grant-in-aid, were utilised both for construction 
and maintenance. With effect, however, from the 1st April, 
1934, these receipts were credited to Revenue, and recurrent 
expenditure on the schools was provided for in the Estimates 
of the Department of Agriculture and Forests. There remained, 
however, a balance of £P.4,756 in the current account at the 
ist April, 1935, which was utilised during 1935-6 and 1936-7 
for capital work on school construction, with the result that a 
balance of £P.1,458 only remained in the account at the 31st 
March, 1937. The estimated cost of construction and equip- 
ment of the two schools is £P.80,148, of which the sum of 
£P.78,265 had been expended to the 31st March, 1937. A 
further sum of £P.1,883 is, ea ay required to complete 
the work. Of this sum a balance of £P. 1,458 remains in the 
current account, and it will be necessary, therefore, to draw 
on the Endowment Fund in the hands of the Crown Agents for 
the Colonies to the extent of £P.425 in order to complete the 
construction and equipment of the schools. 


Loan Expenditure. 


23. The Sp from Loan Funds is shown in Appen- 
dix VI.* e Palestine 5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan of 
£4,475,000, issued at £100 Ios. per cent., r 
£P.4,497,375- 

The expenditure during the eee amounted to £P.511 and was 
incurred on the following wor! 





ve 
Jaffa Port Improvements . ae os 
Haifa Harbour Construction ... ae (Credits) 
Construction of Government Printing Office 1,486 
£P. 511 





24. The total expenditure from Loan Funds at the 31st March, 
1937, amounted to £P.4,422,42I1, leaving a balance of 
4P.74,954- 

Currency. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual 
Report for 1929.) 

25. During the year under review the Currency Board paid 
a contribution of £P.80,000 to the revenues of the Government 
of Palestine in respect of the year ended the 31st March, 1936. 


26. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the 
total value of currency in circulation at the 31st March, 1937, 
amounted to £P.5,626,134, or a decrease of £P.610,000 as com- 
pared with the value of currency in circulation at the 31st March, 


1936:— 





* Pages 212, 213 


203 
Coins and Notes in Circulation at 















































Denomination. 31st March, 3rst March, 
Coins :— 1936. 1937. 

Silver coins :— £P. £P. 

Ioo mils wis ae ay Vea 248,500 232,400 

50 mils 28 ais was live 231,500 213,000 
Face value of silver coins wes 1.. £P.480,000 445,400 
Nickel-bronze coins :— 

20 mils és vee wae as 27,320 24,100 

Io mils oe8 aes ae wes 35,080 33,300 

5 mils... ada os a ae 21,600 21,700 
Face value of nickel-bronze coins... {P. 84,000 79,100 
Bronze coins :— 

2 mils... id eas Ris Sis 2,576 2,896 

rmil ... NG ae ops og 4,624 5,104 
Face value of bronze coins... +. £P. 7,200 8,000 
Face value of all coins wee «.» £P.571,200 532,500 

Notes :— ns 
£P.100 ... ts sie RG ais 44,700 20,600 
£P.50... wee one aes ose 136,700 76,200 
£P.to we ae at vee: 1,188,340 962,340 
£P.5 ee ves wes #6 e+ 1,974,355 1,701,355 
£P.1 tee aes wee a8 ves 2,025,230 2,031,230 
£P.4 (500 mils) ... ane fe es 295,609 301,909 
Face value of notes... ame - £P.5,664,934 5,093,634 
Face value of coins and notes + £P.6,236,134 5,626,134 
Monopolies, 


27. (See eee 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual 
Report for I9g29 and paragraph 29 on page 165 of the Annual 
Report for 1933:) 

; Banks. 

As forecast on page 221 of the Annual Report for 1936, 
further measures of control over Banks were enacted in 1937. 
The Banking (Amendment and Further Provisions) Ordinance, 
1937, promulgated in October, provides inter alia that no bank- 
ing business shall be transacted except by a company with a 
Minimum subscribed capital of £P.50,000 of which not less 
than £P.25,000 has been paid up in cash. Companies already 
authorised to transact banking business, and whose present 
capital structure does not meet these requirements, are given 
two years in which to comply. In the case of foreign banks the 
minimum paid-up capital must be £P.100,000 or its earn 
The High Commissioner is given powers to restrict the use of 
the name ‘‘ bank ’’ and the transaction of banking business. 
Provision is also made for the appointment of an Advisory Com- 
mittee to advise Government on banking matters. 

In Appendices IX and X appear tables relating to all banks 
operating in Palestine compiled from the statutory statements 
submitted to Government. 


204 
APPENDIX I. 


Summary of Revenue for the years 1932-33 to 1936-37. 


Oe aa ee 


. Customs 
. Port and Marine 
. Licences, Taxes, etc. 


. Fees of Court or Office, 


etc. aoe 

. Posts and ‘Telegraphs og 

. Revenue from Govern- 
ment EroDe 

. Interest 

. Miscellaneous 

. Land Sales 23% 

. Grant-in-Aid... 

. Colonial Development 
Grants.. . 


£P. 











3,015,917 





1932-33 | 1933-34 | 1934-35 
(rst April, (rst April,|(rst A a. 
1932 to | 1933 to | 1934 to 
gist gist gist 
March, March, March, 
1933). | 1934). | 1935). 












£P. £P. £P. 

. [1,286,945 |1,868,598 |2,600,370 
15,822 56,488 90,701 
824,443 | 857,180 |1,075,295 
332,488 | 534,355 | 845,923 
229,819 | 287,843 | 355,817 
16,217 14,420 21,618 
83,775 | 56,896 | 97,102 
79,938 | 121,337 | 177,886 
18,682 26,609 31,640 
127,788 | 137,760 | 141,368 





_ 24,006 | 14,913 


3,985,492 |5,452,633 

























£P. s 
2,751,246 |2,019,479 
107,597 110,206 
1,082,427 | 852,948 
913,027 | 703,129 
418,896 | 477,943 
23,952 | 50,317 
141,279 | 150,730 
154,021 | 128,021 
18,874 2,441 
140,345 | 139,686 
18,793 6,371 
5-770.457 |4,640,821 

















205 


APPENDIX II. 


Summary of Expenditure for the years 1932-33 to 1936-37. 
ee —— 








1932-33 | 1933-34 
(zst April,|(rst April, 
Heads of 1932 to | 1933 to 
Expenditure. gist grist 
March, March, 
1933). | 1934). 
£P. £P. 
1. Pensions . 32,070 24,193 
2. Public Debt and Loan 
es, 124,355 | 127,198 
3. His Excellency the 
High Commissioner ... 9,199 9,313 
4. Secretariat ” 23,437 | 25,433 
5. District Administration 84,755 97,712 
7 Legal Department 10,155 10,451 
7. Judicial Department 84,459 | 89,534 
8. Treasury 14,550 15,746 
g. Audit Department ees 11,096 12,181 
1o.Customs, Excise and 
Trade ... 76,767 94,395 
11. Department of Health 111,052 | 135,838 
12. Department of Education | 159,520 | 179,635 
13. Department of  Agri- 
culture and Fisheries... _ — 
Department of Agri- 
culture and Forests ... 86,515 | 115,076 
14. Department of Forests... _— _ 
15, Antiquities Department 7,064 8,359 
16, Department of Lands and 
Surveys _ _ 
Land Settlement 22,772 27,298 
Lands Department 18,283 20,024 
Survey Department _... 48,571 60,007 
17. Department of Develop: 
6,618 7,822 
18, Police: and Prisons 475,042 | 486,605 
19. Department of Migration 18,737 | 21,392 
20. Office of Statistics ee —_ _— 
21. Trans-Jordan _‘ Frontier 
Force ... 169,701 | 172,318 
22. Defence ... - | 105,922 | 110,125 
23. Posts and Telegraphs + | 154,989 | 167,245 
24. Public Works Department] 45,193 49,496 
25. Public Works Recurrent | 178,018 | 189,369 
26. Miscellaneous... 206,835 | 189,908 
27. Posts and. Telegraphs 
Extrao. 14,672 27,487 
28. Public Works Extra- 
ordinary 94,240 | 134,359 
29. Trans - Jordan “Frontier 
Force E 5.134 | 13,075 
30. Railways (excess of Ex. 
itureover Revenue)| 116,673 59,259 
31. Colonial Development ... _— 24,003 
es! 











12,516,394 12,704,856 


1934-35 


1934 to 
gist 
March, 


1935). 


£P. 
28,747 
126,904 


10,694 
24,735 
108,790 
10,294 
91,545 
16,553 
12,793 


147,620 
166,311 
201,498 


147,286 


17,197 


26,541 


20,455 
62,810 


6,901 
506,712 
29,437 


165,165 
144,118 
225,048 

48,944 
228,875 
257,868 


71,623 
262,878 
26,592 


33,805 
271 





(zst April, 


1935-36 
1935 to 


gist 
March, 


£. 
34,243 


126,449 


9,103 
39,487 
154,840 
11,000 
94,151 
17,095 
13,628 


243,449 
194,632 
221,087 
181,003 

18,340 
115,823 


8,304 
527,467 
32,424 
1,499 
171,187 
145,289 
288, 086 
297,473 
132,301 
645,044 
18,477 


124,159 
690 





3,230,010 


4,236,202 


(xst April, 


1936). 


1936-37 
(rst Afril, 
1936 to 
gist 
March, 
1937). 


fp. 
37,040 





126,449 


10,254 
69,463 
156,931 
14,011 
100,882 
20,495 
17,998 


277,477 
204,350 
243,243 


177,387 


24,322 
23,920 


124,878 


17,244 
744,619 
36,965 
4,765 


179,257 
1,297,000 
351,943 
76,396 
320,350 
502,160 


129,002 
705,094 
9,944 


69,631 
32 





16,073,502 


206 


Liabilities. 

Joint CotoniaL Funp 

Derosits— 
Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund Ss ee 
Contractors’ Deposits... ay ae te 
Court Deposits ee Bae o 
Customs Deposits 
Haifa Harbour Reclaimed Area, Buildings 

Deposits 
Haim Nathaniel (Trans-desert r route, Palestine- 
Iraq) 

His Majesty’ 's Government 

Immigrants’ Guarantees . 

Insurance Companies’ Guarantees 

Land Registry Deposits 

Local Education commie ate 

Mecca Pilgrims’ Depos: : 

Moslem University tse pases (Contribution 
by His Highness The Nizam of Bt eydere bed) 

Municipalities... 

Orthodox Patriarchate . 

Ottoman Agricultural Bank we 

Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment 
Fund ... 

Palestine Archaeological “Museum Construction 
Fund 

Police Fines Fund : 

Posts and Telegraphs Deposits ‘Account 

Posts and Telegraphs Renewals Fund 

Private Waqfs_... : or) 

Russian State Property 

Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest 

Special Police Posts . 

Supreme Moslem Sharia Council | ‘ 

Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Grant-in-Aid 
Account ‘i eae ee 

Unclaimed Property 

Village Water Supplies and Roads 

Sundry Accounts : 


DraFts AND REMITTANCES 
Loan Account ‘ ie 
Excrss oF ASSETS OVER ‘LiaBILiires 
(Surplus Balance) 
FunpDED DEBT. £ 

Palestine Loan-Stockholders hs 4,475,000 
The Amount of the Sinking Fund at the 31st 

March, 1937, for the redemption of this Stock 

Was 408,353.10.9d. 


APPENDI. 
Statement of Assets an 
675,000. — 


14,318.911 
7.669.103 
75,100.270 


9,096.021 
41575-000 


10,000.000 
1,792.732 
11,966.428 
22,212.009 
12,768.729 
16,311.739 
706.890 


7:542.593, 
3,008.849 
1,248.692 
25,376.235 


263,753-575 


4:295.736 
4,264.516 
67,019.630 
48,780.000 
417-542 
7,967.210 
1457-741 
2,676.004 
1,302.390 


3,333-025 
935-685 
6,109.622 
10,547.028 
——————— 646,553-90! 
174.22¢ 
74:953-55% 
4,835,129.154 


£P.6,231,810.831 


207 


Ill. 

Liabilities at 31st March, 1937. 
Assets. 

Cass ... . oes 

ADVANCES— 


Agricultural Loans to Cultivators 

Earthquake Reconstruction Loans 

Flood Reconstruction Loans... 

Ghaffir Forces 

Government Officers 

Haim Nathaniel (Trans-desert route, Palestine- 


Insurance Companies’ Guarantees es 
Moslem University of Palestine (Contribution 
by His Highness The Nizam of ic hoieibaais ses 

Municipalities... 

Other Governments 

Postmaster General ans 

Posts and Telegraphs Advance ‘Accounts 
Police Horse Accounts ... a os 
Railways ... 

Sundry Accounts. 


ADVANCES IN ANTICIPATION OF NEw LoaN 
IMPRESTS 


INVESTMENTS— 
Available Balances and Loan Funds ... Ae 
Palestine Aresone} Museum Endowment 
Fund ... 
Police Fines Fund 


UNALLOCATED STORES— 
Public Works General Stores 
Public Works Quarry Account 
Posts and Telegraphs 


£P. Mils. 


93,649.041 
4755-126 
2,244.000 

13,036.443 
5544-055 


10,000.000 
22,212,009 


7542-593 
28,283.736 
5.316.707 
5»735-399 
14,449.969 
1,686.632 
50,812.438 


5.849.423 


4:415,993-358 
263,753-575 


3.459.988 


20, 598.574 
2,331.139 
18,780.226 


{P. Mils. 
52,322,745 


271,117.571 


1,172,840.649(a) 


10,613.006 


4,683,206.921 


41,709,939 


£P.6,231,810.831 


(a) Includes recoverable advances to the Jerusalem 


Municipal Corporation as under : 


(i) Jerusalem Water Supply Scheme 


(ii) Jerusalem Drainage Scheme 


£P. 
29,116 
51,875 





£P.80,991 





gth-z1g‘0S gF°"* wee eee eee eee eee nee eee eae wee (III xipueddy) sarjiqery 
PuUe s}osSY JO JUEUIO}E}G 94} UI UMOYS se JUNODOY soUeApY S,JoseUe [eIOUED jo souLleg 


ogt'gog Ao S98 $e% oe a ae ak ate “+ pagsnfpe 304 30u sure3z] Wpey : PPR 
zSOEV66b 38 ene aes og Se: sas @AOGS FUAUIE}EIG UI UMOYS Se }UNODOY s,JoInseal], 
sm “qt 
*AINSBOIL 84} UT 
yUNOdDy CdUBAPY 8,10BeUBY [BIENeDH ey} WPA syunoIy AempTeY oy) UT JUNODY 6,J0INSBELL, JO UOPET;UCIY 


3 9lo'zbg‘611' GF 9Lo'zb9661'gF 
zZSO'EV66b set BoC Be _junoooy S,Jainsealy, ‘9 
$£0'996'1 ee ia Bae oe ; * puny sour “¢ 
SibizS‘gfr °° en sTenaze pue ‘881035 paqeooyeug, “F g6€699'‘91 oe  sysodaq ‘+ 
ESozbrge - ie “** saoueapy “€ 1g6Llo‘6r1*** “  gunoody fa eye eably yeqog “€ 
€ES-Le6‘Sr pee ye sKemrey 0303 wendé3q ‘z $1g°9S9‘L6 pung spemauay Aemprey (eyey-ereyuey) reurs ‘z 
$L9°168‘9 nae rs ree a ve aes ysep “I 6b gzl‘€r s pung sjemousy Aempey ounsaeg *1 
srr “at sur ‘af 
“stassy *sanytquyT 


“LE6T ‘IVAW ISTE 38 JUSUTTIOAODH oUASAeA ey Aq pazeredo sABMIFeY 94} JO SEPTIGSP] pue spessy ey} Jo UaUIAIEIS 
ANILSATVd JO LNANNYAAOD 
‘AI XIGNAddV 


209 


APPENDIX V. 
Statement of Investments. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS. 


Nominal Value. 


£ 


(1) Available Balances and Loan Funds— 


British Guiana 1959/69 3 per cent. 
Stock so 
Ceylon 1959 3¢ per ‘cent. Stock... 
Ceylon 1959/64 3 per cent. Stock 
Ceylon 1940 3 per cent. Stock... 
Federated Malay States 1960/70 
3 per cent. Stock 
Jamaica 1958 3} per cent. ‘Stock | 
Kenya 1957/67 3} per cent. Stock.. 
Nigeria 1955 3 per cent. Stock... 
Northern Rhodesia 1955/65 3% per 
cent. Stock cB 
Straits Settlements 1937/67 3¢ per 
cent. Stock 
Trinidad 1958/68 3h per cent, Stock 
Trinidad 1965/70 3 per cent. Stock 
Uganda 1955/65 34 per cent. Stock 
Commonwealth of Australia 1939/41 
3 per cent. Stock 
Commonwealth of Australia. 195. 5/. 58 
3 per cent. Stock 
Commonwealth of ‘Australia ‘1945/75 5 
5 per cent. Stock 
Commonwealth of Australia 1943/48 
4 per cent. Stock 
Commonwealth of Australia 1946/49 
32 per cent. Stock : 
Commonwealth of Australia 1941 /4 3 
2} per cent. Stock é 
Bradford 1940/60 42 per cent. Stock 
Brighton 1940/60 44 per cent. Stock 
Burton-on-Trent 1953 3 Per cent. 
Stock - 
Canada 1940/60 4 per cent. Stock. 
Canada 1953/58 4 per cent. Stock... 
Canada 1930/50 34 per cent. Stock 
Canada C.P.R. 1938 Land Grant 
34 per cent. Stock oN 
Canada 1950/55 3} per cent. Stock 
Canadian N. Ontario Rly. 1961 3 
per cent. Stock ... 
Cardiff 1914/54 3 per cent. “Stock .. 
1952/55 3 per cent. Stock.. 
Bay 1953/55 3 per cent. 


Conversion 1944/64. 5 per cent. 
Conversion 1948/53 3 per cent. 
Conversion 1944/49 2} per cent. 
Edinburgh 1940/60. ‘ga per cent. 
Funding 1956/61 2 per cent. Stock 


23,000 


131,894 


75,000 
29,956 


250,000 
5,000 
15,000 
41,523 
20,000 
122,358 
45,000 
50,000 
19,727 


121,579 
82,581 
5,397 
17,000 
21,184 
12,500 
14,126 
7,007 
35,000 
92,266 
34,541 
118,470 


34,951 
107,062 


5,037 
34,000 
10,238 
24,000 


40,828 


+ 222,482 


553,616 


18,800 
121,327 


s. a, 


° 
° NoOoO°o aowod 


mood 


211 


Average 
Cost Price. 


22,253.500 
133,081.712 
75,000,000 
30,093.800 


250,000.000 
4:975.000 
14,850.000 
40,488,267 
19,600.000 


124,316.592 
44,700.000 
50,000.000 
21,017.350 

122,867.657 
77,655-964 

5,816.408 
17,486.538 
21,666.125 


12,625.000 
15,492.996 
7543-634 
33,445.192 
96,103.380 
34,288.272 
119,630.250 


35,531-751 
103,946.980 


5,173-703 
34,383.471 
10,268.149 
23,640.000 
47,667.570 

236,388.035 
550,887.712 


20,233.500 
112,812.633 


Middle Market 
Price on 31st 
March, 1937. 


£P. mils. 


22,540.000 
130,575-477 
72,750.000 
30,555-655 
242,500.000 
5,150.000 
15,450.000 
40,278.045 


20,600.000 


123,581.732 
47,250.000 
48,500.000 
20,516.478 


121,579-154 
75,148.888 
5,829.678 
17,340.000 


21,396.535 
12,250.000 
14,903.466 

7:392.742 


34,300.000 
95,034 396 
36,959.400 
119,655.327 


35,301.057 
108,133.579 


4,886,541 
32,980.000 
9,931.664 
22,920,000 
46,238.564 
223,038.334 
537,007.852 


19,834.000 
106,767.888 


210 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conid. 


Hertfordshire 1948/53 3 per cent. 
Stock . 

Hull 1941/61 5 per cent. Stock 

Hull 1921/51 3 per cent. Stock 

India 1942/47 5 per cent. Stock 

India 1954/59 34 per cent. Stoc! 

India 1949/52 3 per cent. Stock ... 

India 1948/53 4 per cent. Stock 

Liverpool 1955/58 5 per cent. Stock 

London Electric Transport Finance 
Corporation Guaranteed 2} per 
cent. Stock 1950/55... 

Middlesex 1948/53 3 per cent. Stock 

Natal 1929/49 3 per cent. Stock ... 

Newfoundland 1952 34 per cent. 
Stock fs 

Newfoundland 1950 “34 per cent. 
Stock He 

New South Wales 1930/50 3h per 
cent. Stock 

New Zealand 1945, “4h per cent. 
Stock zs 

New Zealand 1955/60 3t per cent. 
Stock 

New Zealand ‘1943/63 4 per cent. 
Stock e 

New Zealand’ 1940 33 per cent. 
Stock aay 

New Zealand 1945 3 per cent. Stock 

New Zealand 1949/54 34 per cent. 
Stock ae 

New Zealand 1952/55 3 per cent. 
Stock - 

Nuneaton 1953/56 3 per cent. Stock 

Palestine 1942/67 Guaranteed 5 per 
cent. Stock c 

Plymouth (Devonport) "1920/60 
3 per cent. Stock.. P 

Queensland 1945 34 per cent. Stock 

Queensland 1922/47 3 per cent. 
Stock BS 

Salford 1954/56 3 per cent. ‘Stock. 

St. Helen’s 1915/55 3 per cent. Stock 

Stoke 1955/65 3} per cent. Stock... 

Stretford 1955/65 3¢ per cent. Stock 

Swansea 1955 3 per cent. Stock ... 

Ulster 1943 34 per cent. Stock ‘ 

Union of South Africa 1945/75 

5 per cent. Stock 

Union of South Africa 1955/75 
4% per cent. Stock . 

Union of South Africa 1954/64 3 per 
cent. Stock 

Victoria 1929/49 3h per cent. Stock 

Victoria 1929/49 3 per cent. Stock.. 

Wakefield 1955 3 per cent. Stock... 


Nominal Value. 





72,159 
193,881 
51,259 


9,518 


140,000 
6,000 
12,880 
23,262 


d, 


eoo000000N 


ow 8° 


Ir 


10 


° 


wow aa 


NpPoOO 


Middle Market 


Average 


Price on 31st 


Cost Price. March, 1937. 


12,450.458 
55,039.100 
702.725 
27,064.863 
39,197.258 
297,458.795 
20,836.725 
44,974,000 


114,654.000 
68,594-755 
90, 301.296 
31,441.450 
31,997.800 

117,043.750 

4.768.796 
1,537-029 
10,325.600 


32,963.940 
140,084.534 


71,609.318 


191,988.774 
59,499.459 


11,268.571 


8,574.875 
36,745-748 


34,160.984 
35,432.375 
604.608 
19,150.248 
10,031.450 
4,107.200 
39,876.547 


1,159.163 
29,264.263 
140,417.871 
6,056.004 


12,466.256 
23,645.030 


£P. mils. 


11,940.559 
53,500.000 
679.000 
39,375-000 
37,992.291 
299,661.411 
21,659.437 
43,844.000 


105,789.000 
65,509.950 
88, 310.863 


32,445.000 
32,640.000 
118, 337.596 
4,668.750 
1,491.823 


10, 100.000 


33,875-543 
136,934.332 


71,437-521 


178,370.697 
49,465.594 


10,470.767 


8,202.500 
38,028.654 


35,106.188 
34,788.906 
588.037 
18, 538.345 
10,100.000 
4,014.266 
40, 200.301 


1,178.809 
30,1 30.857 


137,200.000 
5,940.000 
12,365.104 
22,797.670 


2iIlL 


APPENDIX V—conid. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conid. 


Nominal Value. 
£ s. a 
Western Australia 1935/55 3% Per 
cent. Stock 15,701 2 11 
Western Australia toe7/47 “34 per 
cent. Stock +. 25,000 0 O 
West Ham 1945 3 per cent. ‘Stock... 7,800 0 0 
Total 4,485,458 o 8 
(2) Palestine Archaeological Museum 
Endowment Fund— 
Birmingham 1946 or after 34 per 
cent. Stock 50,075 0 O 
British Guiana Demerara “Railway 
Perpetual 4 per cent. Stock... 1,967 0 0 
Bristol Perpetual Debenture 3} Per 
cent. Stock 7,079 2 6 
Canada 1953/58 4 per cent. ‘Stock. 10,000 0 0 
Commonwealth of Australia 1948/ 53 
3 per cent. Stock 10,000 0 
* Consolidated 1957 or after 4 per 
cent. Stock 22,177 0 9 
Conversion 1961 or after af per cent. 
Stock LS 6,347 6 3 
Croydon Irredeemable 34 per cent. 
Stock us 2,355 12 4 
Glasgow Irredeemable 3t per cent. 
Stock 5 21,550 0 O 
Hull Irredeemable “3b per cent. 
Stock A 7,803 10 9 
India 1931 or after’ 34 per cent. 
Stock es 32,149 10 7 
Liverpool Irredeemable 3h] per cent. 
Stock Se 51,083 5 I 
Manchester Irredeemable _ 4 per 
cent. Stock 3 12,125 6 3 
Swansea Irredeemable 3k per cent. 
Stock oe 13,817 17 8 
West Australia a 1935/55 3t Per cent. 
Stock + 15,158 17 
Total ... 263,689 9 6 
(3) Police Fines Fund— 
Commonwealth of Australia 1946/49 
34 per cent. Stock i 1,800 0 0 
Commonwealth of Australia 1964/74 
3} per cent. Stock ore 497 8 I 
New Zealand A -F9SS/C0 3k Per cent. 
Stock ane 1,181 5 4 
Total ... 3,478 13 5 


Avevage 
Cost Price. 


£P. mils. 
15,937.046 


25,129.117 
7:627.738 


4,493,120.660 


53,132.354 
2,050.859 


7:124.738 
10,518.812 


9.921.975 
18,462.827 
6,363.487 
2,466.242 
22,880.506 
8,298.430 
27,858.02 5 
53,535-436 
14,197.516 
14,631.226 
15,386.62 
266,829.054 


1,755.000 

504.770 
1,204.892 
3,464.662 


Middle Market 


Price on 31st 
March, 1937. 


£P. mils. 
15,544-135 


25,000,000 
7.644.000 


4,415,993.358 


49,824.625 
2,026.010 


6,866.751 
10,700.000 


10,100.000 
24,172.971 

6,410.785 

2,367.395 
21,765.500 

7,881.573 
28,452.333 
51,083.254 
13,277-217 
13,817.883 
15,007.278 


263,753-575 


1,818.000 

472.534 
1,169.454 
3.459.988 


212 


Date. Receipts. 
1937 Proceeds of 5 per cent. Loan 
gist March of £4,475,000Stock, issued 


at {100 Ios. od. per cent. 


Revised Allocation of Loan 
as approved by the Secre- 
tary of State. 

£P. 
Item I. 
Railways :— 
1. Railway Workshops 
2. Other Hauwey: Works 
3. Unallocated . : 


245,277 
1,394,634 
89 


Item II. 

Purchase of Railway and 
other capital assets 
from His Majesty’s 
Government ... ase 


Item III. 
Harbour Construction and 
Port Improvements :— 
1. Jaffa Port Improve- 
ments eee 
2. Haifa Harbour Con- 
struction 


204,000 


1,284,000 


Item IV. 


Telegraphs and Telephones 

Government Offices and 
Construction and 
Equipment of Printing 
Office ... 

Cost of raising Loan 

Unallocated 


188,231 


60,642 
120,303 
199 





APPENDIX 
Loan Account Statement 


Amount. 


4:497,375-000 
£P. 


1,640,000 


1,000,000 


1,488,000 


369,375 
£P.4,497,375 
£P.4,497,375-000 


213 


: 3ist March, 1937. 


Date. 


1937 


48607 


Expenditure. 


Item I. Railways :— 
1. Railway Workshops... 
2. Other Hallway ‘Works "(com 
pleted)... 


Item II. Purchase of Railway and 
other capital assets from His 
Majesty’s Government 


Item III. Harbour Construction and 
Port Improvements :— 

1. Jaffa Port Improvements ... 

2. Haifa Harbour Construction 


Item IV. Telegraphs and Telephones 
Government Buildings :— 
Acquisition of site See 
Government Printing Press 
Cost of raising Loan 


245,041.458 


1,393,979-057 


204,000.000 


1,210,921.053 


188,126.494 


21,300.000 
38,750.928 


120,302,458 


Amount. 
£P. Mils 


1,639,020.515 


1,000,000.000 


1,414,921.053 


368,479.880 


4,422,421.448 


74,953-552 


£P. 4,497,375-000 


214 























6Lb'g9€ gqF SLE‘60£'qF 
€0€‘ozr €0€‘oz1 a ee ete si ee rae ae _WeoT Bursyer Jo 3809 
661 A se peyeoorrea yf) 
ofo‘o9 zbg‘o09 200 suai yo yuotudsnb a pue ToRNISsU0) pure saolyO JUSTUUIIAOL) 
9z1‘ggi T£z‘ggr souoydaey pue sydeigajoy, 
‘af ‘at — sopun se dn apes (2) 
1 
HS6'bL reb‘zzbb SLE‘LOb‘D 000‘00$‘b 000‘00S ‘tb 
———— i 
96g (v)6Lb‘go€ (v)SLE‘6QE o00'zL€ 00'S hL ueo] oy} JO Surstes ay} Surpnyour 
‘gInpeyos sty} Ul pauoMuau sasodind ay} jo 
Aue y}IM pojdouu0d Jo 0} Je}Uaprout sasodind 
pue ‘yuowdojaaep jo syiom soUuTUT ‘shaains 
| ‘squoydejaz pue sydeisaje} ‘ssurpying oyqng “+ 
6Lo'EL 1z6'bIb'T oo0‘ggh'r ooo’ggh'I =| ~~ o00'S11'T _ Sremeaordtay Hog pur uoronsysuo0D noqieyy *€ 
— 000‘000'T 000‘000‘T 000‘000'T 000‘000'T “+ quauIUIaA0sy s,Azsaleyy StET 
toy s79888 Teiideo woo pur. Aessqrer yo aseyping “Zz 
646 1z0‘6£9‘1 o00‘oto'r 000‘obo‘r 000‘obo'r vt SABMTIEQT “1 
‘at ‘at ‘ay ‘at vs 
*LEOI ‘uvoT fo “ag fo “g2z6r ‘Jap suvoT, 
“aounpog ‘yOAD JT ISIE spaar0ag AanjaaaaS ayy | vatafy soy pun 
papuadxaup | yo aanjipuadxz qonyav fo 4q paaoaddo auysayvg “sy4om 
pony 4010201] 401;090]10-3y o% anpayIs 




















*LE61 ‘Ws ISTE JB sooupeg wo] Jo yuEWIA}EIg 
‘ILA XIGNAddV 


biaiized ty GOORTe 
Cc 


215 


‘AoTIeA ByIEZ ‘Aeaing pue soursyos sorddng raze 
a8eTIA pue uoiqepy ‘wepesnief aq} yo yoodsez ur puny yusmdoferaq yeruojo5 oy} wosy syueI2 souRsIsse 1ZE‘9'gF sepnyouy (a) 
“AayeA eyIEZ ‘Aang pue souteyos sarddng sojeyy oFeITTA pue UoIqaTy 94} pue samTayoS oSeureiq 
pae Ajddng sayeyq wofesnsof oq} yo yoodser ut pung yueuidofeasq femojoD oy} wor sjueI3 souRjsisse €6L‘gI'g? sepnpouy (p) 
‘somaqos serddng sozeyy o8eTIA pue uoIQayy oy} pue seuteyoS aSeureiq 
pue Ajddng s0j3e4, woresniof aq} yo yoodsaz ur puny yusudopeaaq jeruojoD 94} wos sjUeIS aouTysisse zzS‘br'g? sapnyouy (9) 
“pepyseg pue eplezy usemzoq oynor Aemres oiqissod 8 jo ‘sxsautSuq peAoy 
jo Ayred e Aq ‘Aaams [etree Ue JO 4809 a4} JOACD 07 punz JusuIdojaaag [eIUo[OD 943 Woy ysar9zUT snd yUeIS Qoo'bz"gF sepnfouy (9) 
“spun UkOT] 0} pedzeyo pue sreof snoraoid Uy us_e}EpuN sxIOM snorreA jo yoodsal ul 126'zoz-gF Jo yuauysn[pe ue sepnfouy (y) 
































obg‘tor‘r oSf‘voz 60L'10z €bz'€oz bol‘v6r'b | (2)LSo‘ob1 _ 00'S Lb'b “+ LE-9€61 
$zg'166 z£o‘v61 €o0'1gr Lgo'rzz 6r€'119'S | (p)gE1‘6Sr _ 00'S Lb‘ + g€-SE61 
969‘0rS Ir€‘991 gogz‘Lbr g6b‘10z zSE'Q6z'S | (9)rgz‘oSr _ 000'SLb‘b “** C€-bE61 
bzz‘eLe gtgSer glo‘Si1 S€9‘6L1 LzL'€zg'€ | (9)99Z‘191 -— o00'SLb‘y “** PE-E€61 
ISLE zSo'r1r S1S‘9g ozS‘6S1 6z1'ggg‘z ggt‘dz1 _ oo0'SLb'b | --- ee + €€-zE6r 
1£0'S9 IQt‘9z €gb‘oz zzE‘o€ $SS‘6z9 Pelle _ ooo'SZb‘b | z€6r ‘yore 07 Arenuef 
ZSE'VES gi6‘Sor lez'1g gg6‘orr gg6‘or1'z 606‘zzz _ o000'SLe‘b | --- rus 5200 1€61 
zg6‘zge Igb‘Sor giS‘zor SSS‘Ebr ogz‘grE‘z ggz'ib _— o000'SLr‘b of61 
L¥6‘00€ bog‘Ior brl‘gl 6gZ‘6E1 6b0'66z'z EzS‘bz _ o00'SLb'b 6z61 
oriLizve 1g$‘g6 og ‘zl Srr‘L€r ozS‘gbS‘z L6L'SE _— o00'SLb‘b | + #33 yy gz61 

(v)gzg‘zoS gSg'eL o6b'z$ 6£0‘0or S€0‘60L‘1 S¥E‘oE _ oo00'SZt‘b | £761 ‘raquiesag 0} [udy 
1€1‘11€ 9L9'16 zIE‘S9 O1g‘gII 6gg‘voE'z gLb‘og _— —_ ooh ES +++ Lz-9z6r 
lo‘Liz 11b'Sg 6g0'LE 266'€or gbh‘bo9'z gZg‘boz _ _— “+ gz—Sz61 
HSE'bSr obb'bg 169‘SE 999‘zor ozg‘6S6'1 gz1‘S6r _ _ ++ Oz—bz61 
goS‘Lbr g69°E6 ofS‘9€ 2LL‘66 9gZ‘SLo‘r zzg‘obz _— _— ++ bz-Ez61 
Sge‘61z blo'Lir o19‘gt ozS‘16 1£g‘60g‘r 000'S6z _ _ “ €v-ez61 
v6E‘Por 96S‘orr LEE‘ob gib‘06 rES‘1LE‘z —_ _ _ a "* ZE-1Z61 

1z61 ‘qoreyy 
009‘LS1 zlz'1zr gbo'1€ 6Lo‘oS bgg'Sti‘r _ _ _— 4sr€ 03 ‘oz6x ‘Ajnf{ 4sr 
‘aF ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘af ‘at ‘af ‘af 

a es a a be 
“SHAM “4tOOFT ie pie | ‘“uoswonpT “saaanos ayqoasnoe art “(saand: 
onan cr En Tne os Ul spies “WON suo | “(sain ‘i 

eh EE AED) NER a ee moat 1921 a ‘anak snypaystuspy 
uDYys 494f0 $ oNQqng 40 posounury 
anuanogy SIIANOS [OUsAXT i 





uo suds yunompy woasf onusaoy 


‘soRSAWS Peds 


e 


x 


g 


216 


‘A[UO SATE [COT » 








6Lg'bSz 
Lg6‘Lob‘1 


Lgi‘z 


zlg‘ozz 
LL¥‘ogi‘S 
QEE‘ob LL 
Sbo‘'bbL'z 
LSL‘zLLi€ 
69L‘b99 

































" 6Lg‘1S9‘1z 
9f9‘b6S obb‘6gS Be * ** S]yUNODDY 19930 
Lg6‘Lob'r | Lod‘rr1‘r | ***srau0}sNd Jo JUNOT" UO suOT}eSTTGO 
gS6‘zbz syunosoy 197370 iayjO pue s}UauIesIOpuy ‘seozUETeNs 
Lol't11't (e13000 10d se) Lgr'zz Eov‘E “** SxamIO}SN JO JUNODIE UO ssoUR}da00y 
enone 190430 pue s}usmesIopuq z96‘Loz S€g‘Eqz “* soped reT0. io syueg Woy ssouRApy 
‘gj BIEN IOj SIOTIOISND Jo sorjTTIqery | 6gZ‘bEz Lez‘tbz “  giqedeg stig 
Eb es oe (ex3000 10d se) |+-————_——— 
soounsdaooe 30} srouroysn9 josontiqery | 1g0‘116‘Er | CoS‘gor'br | - spisodeq e}0y, 
gl‘691 "+ sostuleig Hue | gol‘bob'€ | zoo‘og6‘z | -° szisodeg ouny 
bgl‘gSz's sjuourjsaauy | EZE‘obb‘or | 19S‘gzb‘11 s}isodeq pueueq 
bho'txz‘L e sooueapy | gbE‘ber‘b | SLo‘10€‘€ _Syueg 10} prey seourreg 
10g‘€gb‘z pezunoosig stig | €gl‘zbr 696‘Sor ¥ #SeInqusqaq 
Exz‘obs'y , SYUCG IIA play seoueTeg | 909‘ogr zbz1lt sPUNY sArasayy 
Sob‘gbo puey uo wong pue Aouariny | zEE‘zZ1‘1 | geb‘eSb'r «dn pred yeqtdep 
‘at ‘at ‘at 
"961 “LE61 “gf61 
‘soquaaydas “syessy ‘requisydeg wads “SOHMIqeYT 
30! 














“LE6T ‘xequiajdeag MOE om) puB ‘gE6T ‘equIeIdeg TOE 
ey} 38 SB oUPSAIeq UT ssoUsNq uO BuALIED syUBG [GIO] puB UBTsI0,5 JO SOPMIGETI pus sjyossy jo Areurumg 


“XI XIGNAddv 


217 


1-1 €vr‘oz1 6zg 
vor ggo‘'zbr 609 
£-0 Lig'z€ Lg1 
Let Lepely o$9 
9-0 S¥1‘Sg ozb 
g-0 069‘Eg gbr 
O-1 €gl‘Sor or6 
vr ogS ‘boi z7$6 
Lz brg‘Zgz £26 
L.6 LoL'S1o'1 | $gQ‘gr 
£.0 ZEb bE 19b 
g-S1 | €Lr‘1rbg‘'1 | L19‘z 
t.o 196‘1b 6g 
S.z 11L‘boz £9 
‘at 
‘TeIOL, 'szeu0}snD 
jo “yunoulry yo 
*yue0 Jog] qequinyy 








“LE6x ‘raquieydag q0F 














ZI 60z‘b11 1g¢ 
G.1 bLS‘gbr €zS 
£.0 €gg‘1€ zor 
G.z gb6'bbz ob9 
go SLE‘gL zzb 
8:0 19S‘SL S6 
Ier g6S‘zor Szg 
G.1 zog'Sbr zg 
Zz bSb'Siz £6S 
b.g 1v€'11g ogi‘'tz 
S.0 b69'Sb zzS 
1-21 1gl‘gSg't | Ezz'z 
6-0 z6E‘0g og 
g-1 Sgl1St 9S 
‘af 

“[2qOL, 's19T103SN>) 

jo “‘yunowy jo 

"3u99 Jog requinyy 








*9€61 ‘1aquieydag q}0£ 





syonpoid pornjoeynueur UO 

syoLIg pue jUaUIaD ‘803g 

"+ sgonpoid [eormey) 

(Asourqoemn Surpnyour) sjyonpoid [eqoyy 

Joqyeu pau 

os sto pue deos 

“(sorson09y amngrony  Borpajom) syonpoid saded pue poom, 

SUIqzO[D pue sa[BxeL 

syonpoid o008q0} pue FUP ‘poor 
fo vanjovfnuv py 40.7 





surploy TeINZ[NILIZe I0y 10 UD 

ey ‘ 4903S VAT] IO} 10 UD 

‘1+ 4MZ $7 IO BAIT SN.IZIO 94} 10J 10 UD 
aAnynoad py A0T 


4 Rew “* sarpoq 


Wn rexo008 3 zeyj}O pue Hoop ‘mnoqreyq ‘103eM Actors ‘sed oy 


‘ soHUOg NY o8eITIA Pure spoUNoD yeooT ‘sory Tedioranyy OL 





‘LE6T ‘xequmieydeg MOE pus ‘gg6T ‘requIeIdeg MOE 
3B se (szour036sNnD 0} seDUBAPY PUB poJUNOoSs{G stita) suvoy] yuvg jo uopNnd.Lnsig 


‘X XIGNGddv 


H 3 


48607 


218 
































_ TOO. Re a ——————— 
1g6‘bgb'or] ogf'EZ Stg'glo'6 | LS¥'Sg 
9S LEz‘6gS Sg6'r £.g of0'zog Sgl's “a2 “* suIaqT 193 
€.+ E11‘ghh gig _— _ _ (sede3z10ul) ssurpying 
S.¢ $zS‘glLS gS6 €.¢ rZr'¢1¢ FIO'r “* puey jo sseqoing 
ZO 6gLizz S6z z-0 6b1‘gi oS su1a9U09 JUaTTUTe}IOJUA 
t.o1r | Sgo‘ggo'r | g61'bz €.o1 Sgl‘L66 16g‘L1 sjenprarput ayeauid pur [euorssayorg 
¢.¢ 1L6'zL¢ oof 9S rLZL'1b¢ ece oe aes ame sae ere ‘03a ‘satje100s aAtye10d0-00 
para ‘squeq ‘sotueduros soueinsut Surpnjout ‘surs9u0o [eIoueUTT 
L.o bor'tl 6br 9:0 rLeLs Ihr : ae ae SUOT}NFYSUT BIquyIeYD pue snorsiayy 
9:0 o0gz‘6S 6¢L 9:0 gLo‘tg zz sie exe oes sasnoy Surpieog pure s}uvine}zsar ‘s[o}OFL 
S.z 100'€gz €Sr'r gz zLz'bSz zg amr ae ant "* saotaszas piodsuey pur saporyaa IOJ0 
40f 40 Of : Snoaunipaast 
1-¢ SLz‘ges bbb t.g zel‘Lig z16'S ald ie aes ale wg a3? “** syURYyoIaU [Ie}a1 OF, 
I-91 1fg‘bgg'r | bze'h O-gI | 6zE'EbS'1 | 66E'E ete oe a a * “*  syureyorour afesajoyM OT, 
BI4IUbWOD 10499) 
o-F obg‘git L61'I Lee bEg‘ogE gz6 oe =m ant sie UW01}9eI9 JO asINOD UI sSuIpfing 10,7 
uoINASUOD 
‘at ‘at 
‘TeIOL ‘sromlojsng | ‘Teo ], *s1ou10}sN5 | 
jo “yunoury jo jo “yunowy jo 
“quad Jog yaquinyy |3uU90 Jag requinyy 
*LE61 ‘1aquioydag y0f “9€61 ‘Iaquiezdag y}oF 











“pmuoo— Lol ‘equieydeg yIOE PUL ‘gEGT ‘1equIeIdeg YI0E 
38 sv (s1aWI0}sND 0} sedUeAPY pu poezUNODS! S[[}q) suBOT YUeY Jo UOMNG NSTC 


“pwoo—"X_ XIGNAddV 


biatized ty GOORTe 
Cc 


219 


XX1!1.—DEMOGRAPHIC, VITAL AND MIGRATION 
STATISTICS AND OFFICE OF STATISTICS. 


Demographic Statistics. 


NoTE.—For the latest full account of the population, its 
development up to 1931 and its geographical distribution, 
reference should be made to Chapters I and II of Volume I of 
the Census of Palestine, 1931. 


The de facto population of Palestine, exclusive of members 
of His Majesty’s Forces, was estimated to be 1,383,320 at 30th 
June, 1937, the division by religions being as follows :— 





Moslems ... Bay Ben 875,947 
Jews... Ge ss 386,084 
Christians dvs = 109,769 
Others ... ant Be 11,520 

Total Aen .+. 1,383,320 





The classification by religion has been adhered to in popula- 
tion statistics since the beginning of the British Occupation. 
This classification of vital occurrences is socially necessary be- 
cause the law of personal status in Palestine is the law of the 
particular religious community to which a person belongs. 


2. It was recognized at the census of 1931 that classification 
by ‘‘ race ’’ or “ nationality ’’ into the broad groups, Arabs, 
Jews and Others, is a political necessity. Statistics of migra- 
tion were put on a “‘ racial ’’ basis in 1935, and in 1938 the 
classification of vital occurrences will be two-fold, namely, by 
religious confession and by ‘‘ race ’’ or “‘ nationality ’’. The 
te-introduction of a classification of migration by religious con- 
fession will enable population records to be kept in future both 
by religion and by ‘‘ race ’’. 


At the 1931 census, persons were asked to state to which of 
the three groups (Arabs, Jews and Others) they belonged. 
The following table shows the inter-connection between the 
religious communities and the ‘‘ racial ’’ groups that the census 
tevealed among the settled population. Nomads, who 

48607 H4 


220 


numbered 66,553 at the census and were practically all Moslems, 
are omitted: — 









Christians.| Others. 


174,610 
8 





7 
174,378 
145 





Out of a total of 693,159 Moslems, 690,420 or 99-6 per cent. 
described themselves as Arabs. The remainder were prin- 
cipally Egyptians and Turks. Out of a total of 91,398 
Christians. 73,281 or 80-2 per cent. were Arabs, while the 
remainder were principally members of European races and 
Armenians. The members of other non-Jewish religions in 
the population, who are principally Druze by religion, numbered 
10,101 of whom 9,116 described themselves as Arabs. 


3. If it be assumed that now, as in 1931, the Arab popula- 
tion is made up of 99-6 per cent. of all settled Moslems, 80-2 

r cent. of all Christians, go per cent. of all other settled non- 
ews, and the whole Beduin population, the following rough 
estimate of the a pam at 30th June, 1937, classified by 
“race ’’, is reached : — 





Arabs ice 971,000 
Jews ... ay 386,000 
Others iy 26,000 

Total ... 1,383,000 





. A census of population was taken on 23rd October, 1922, 
and again on 18th November, 1931. In the intervening years 
statistics of births and deaths and of migration were used to 
estimate mid-year populations. A ceoepeny appeared 
between the expected population and the actual population 
enumerated in 1931, the discrepancy being due to incomplete 
recording of bi and deaths and of migration, and possibly 
to faulty enumeration of suspicious and primitive people. In 
the case of Jews the discrepancy was about 2,000. The dis- 
crepancy has been distributed over the inter-censal years and 


22r 


the adjusted series of estimated populations for inter-censal and 
post-censal years are as follows:— 


PoPULATION OF PALESTINE (EXCLUDING MEMBERS OF His 
Majesty’s Forces) AT THE CENSUS OF 1922, AND AS 
ESTIMATED AT 30TH JUNE IN EACH OF THE YEARS 1923-37, 
BY RELIGIONS. 


Year. All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Christians. Others. 
1922... a 752,048 589,177 83,790 71,464 7,617 
1923, oe 778,989 609,331 89,660 72,090 7,908 
1924... tae 804,962 627,660 94,945 74,094 8,263 
1925... eee 847,238 641,494 121,725 75,512 8,507 
1926... oS 898,362 663,613 149,500 76,467 8,782 
1927... te 917,315 680,725 149,789 77,880 8,921 
1928... ase 935,951 695,280 151,656 79,812 9,203 
1929... wale 960,043 712,343 156,481 81,776 9,443 
1930... on 992,559 733,149 164,796 84,986 9,628 
1931... s+ 1,023,734 753,812 172,028 87,870 10,024 
1932... ves 1,052,872 771,174 180,793 90,624 10,281 
1933. --- +++ 1,104,884 789,980 209,207 95,165 10,532 
1934 ee ve 1,171,158 807,180 253,700 99,532 10,746 
1935... ves 1,261,082 826,457 320,358 103,371 10,896 
1936... we 1,336,518 848,342 370,483 106,474 11,219 
1937. s+ 1,383,320 875,947 386,084 = 109,769 11,520 


5. There has been unrecorded illegal immigration both of 
Jews and of Arabs in the period since the census of 1931, but 
no estimate of its volume will be possible until the next census 
is taken. 


6. The estimated total population has increased in the 15 
years from 1922 to the middle of 1937, by 631,272 persons. The 
increase is due to immigration and to the excess of births over 
deaths, the allocation of the total increases between these two 
factors being estimated to be as follows:— 


All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Christians. Others. 
Total increase of 


population ... 631,272 286,770 302,294 38,305 3,903 
Increase by mi- 

gration a8 281,339 25,168 245,433 10,414 324 
Natural increase 349,933 261,602 56,861 27,891 3,579 


7. The precision of these figures is not great, but they indicate 
that all three religions have gained by migration, the smallest 
proportional gain being among the Moslems. It is of interest 
that the Jewish increase by migration in the 15-year period 
was rather less than the Moslem natural increase in the same 
period and that the total increase of the Jewish population was 
ees slightly larger than the total increase of the Moslem popu- 
ation. 


222 


The figures of increase by migration include about 10,000 
people, who were added to Palestine by an alteration of the 
boundary with Syria in 1923. The Jewish settlements of Tel 
Hai, Kfar Giladi and Metulla are in this area and had a total 
Jewish population of about 300, the remaining inhabitants of 
the area being Moslems. 


Vital Statistics. 

8. Records of vital occurrences are compiled for the settled 
population, statistics being available, classified by religion, from 
the year 1922. 

The nomadic population, among which vital occurrences are 
not recorded, numbered 66,553 at the census of 1931. 


A re-calculation of birth and death rates was made in 1936, 
based upon a revised series of estimates of the settled popula- 
tion in the years between the census of 1922 and the census 
of 1931 and mid-year estimates of settled population in the 
subsequent years. The accompanying tables give the average 
number of births and deaths, as well as the average crude birth 
and death rates and infant mortality rates, in the quinquennial 
periods since 1922 and in the individual years 1934, 1935, 1930 
and 1937. 











Births. 
Year. 
a 
All Religions.| Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 

1922-25 

average 32,338 25,976 3,388 3,669 406* 
1926-30 

average 41,831 33,023 5,296 3,089 423 
1931-35 

average 47,096 36,319 6,893 3.413 471 
1934 «+ oa 45,944 34,489 7,666 3,340 449 
1935 --- we 53,940 39,918 9,867 3,088 407 
1936 ... ue 56,993 41,543 11,009 3,869 572 
1937 «+» os 54,749 40,261 10,297 3,683 508 

Deaths. 

1922-25 

average 16,612 13,950 1,340 1,185 183* 
1926-30 

average 20,930 17,472 1,796 1,433 229 
1931-35 

average 22,066 18,306 2,101 1,433 226 
1934 -- ae 24,136 19,765 2,420 1,618 333 
1935 --- wigs 22,249 17,823 2,748 1,449 229 
1936 ... ae 20,405 15,624 3,271 1,345 225 
1937 <0» eu 24,882 20,088 3,004 1,527 263 




















oigizea y Google 


223 


ANNUAL RATE OF BirTHS AND DEATHS PER THOUSAND OF 
SETTLED POPULATION BY COMMUNITIES, 1922-37. 

















Birth rate. 
Year. 
All Religions.| Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 
1922-25 
average 46°34 50°09 34°81 36°37 49°36* 
1926-30 
average 48-58 53°45 34°29 38°55 46°17 
1931-35 
average 44°66 | 50°24 30°33 35°84 44°92 
1934 --- oe 41°59 46°56 30°21 33°55 41°78 
1935 --- s6% 45°16 52°54 30°80 35°61 42°86 
1936 ... oe 44°89 53°14 29°74 36°34 50°98 
1937 --- os 41°58 49°74 26°67 33°55 44:10 
| 
Death rate. 
1922-25 
average 23°73 26°83 13°62 16°13 22*10* 
1926-30 
average 24°34 28-31 11-66 17°91 25°06 
1931-35 
average 20°98 25°34 9°32 15"04 21-48 
1934 ... las 21-84 26-68 9°53 16°25 30°89 
1935 ..- suis 18-63 23°46 8-58 13°99 21-02 
1936 ... dae 16-10 19°97 8-82 12°63 20°05 
1937 .-- aie 18-90 24°82 7°78 13°91 22-83 














* Average 1923-25. 


INFANT MorTALITy: DEATHS OF INFANTS UNDER ONE YEAR OF 
AGE PER THOUSAND LIVE BIRTHS, 1922-37. 



















All Religions.) Moslems. Jews. | Christians. | Others. 
1922-25 
average | 178-70 190-39 122-90 144°35 | 115°92* 
1926-30 
average | 178-09 19346 95°83 158°56 | 146°73 
1931-35 
average 151°35 166° 41 77°99 136-28 161°05 
1934 --- s | 157°58 175715 78°13 152°39 | 202°67 
1935 --- 131°48 148-10 64°15 125°81 177°72 
1936 ... 121-54 136-15 68-70 113°72 I31°12 
1937 + 15386 179° 33 57°20 127°34 | 179°13 











* Average 1923-25. 


g. The very high birth-rate of Palestine is established by the 
preponderance of the Moslems, who show the highest birth-rate 
of all the religions. The Moslem settled population rose by 
natural increase at an average rate of 18,000 per annum, or 


biatized ty GOORTe 
Cc 


224 

about 24 per cent. per annum in the five years 1931-5. The 
Jewish birth-rate is considerably lower than the Moslem, but it 
was higher for the same quinquennium than in any European 
country except Rumania. 

to. A very great disproportion is evident between the Moslem 
and Jewish death-rates and has been accentuated by a steady 
decline in the Jewish death-rate over the period under review. 
While it is undoubted that the difference reflects a greater 
expectation of life, particularly in infancy, among Jews than 
among Moslems, it must be noted that the Jewish population is 
made up largely of young adult immigrants who are in those 
years of life when the risk of dying is at its lowest, and the 
smaller proportion of infants and old people which this immi- 
gration has produced is itself a cause a a is crude death-rate. 


Migration. 

1x. De facto population records are kept, the increase by 
migration being taken as the excess of arrivals over departures. 
However, no person is allowed to stay indefinitely in Palestine 
unless he falls into one of the categories of immigrants, and over 
a long period the excess of authorized immigrants over emi- 
grants gives approximately the same result as the de facto excess 
of arrivals over departures, which takes account of the move- 
ments of travellers and of residents making trips abroad. 

The following table shows the recorded immigration and 


emigration of Jews and non-Jews in the years since 1920:— 








Recorded Immigration. Recorded Emigration. 
Year. 

Jews. Non-Jews. Jews. Non- Jews. 
1920 (part) 5514 202 — _— 
1921-25 71,071 2,581 7.575* 5,382* 
1926-30 28,165 5.425 18,029 7,338 
1931-35 148,168 |. 8,921 1,062 1,067 
1931 is aud 4,075 1,458 666 680 
1932 vee 9.553 1,736 _ - 
1933 Bae te 30,327 1,650 _ — 
1934 we we 42,359 1,784 = = 
1935 se wee 61,854 2,293 396 387 
1936 tee 29,727 1,944 773 405, 
1937 aa See 10,536 1,939 889 639 











* Incomplete. 


Emigration statistics by race were not compiled prior to 1922 
nor in the years 1932-4 inclusive. In 1935, 1936 and 1937 the 
figures of emigrants are those of ‘‘ residents departing for a 
period of more than one year ’’. 

12. According to the records of the Department of Migration 
—supplemented by figures supplied by the Jewish Agency in 


225 


respect of early post-war migration and the classification of 
migrants by citizenship in the years prior to 1935—the total 
number of Jewish immigrants authorized to enter and to remain 
in Palestine in the years 1919-37, inclusive, was 300,162. Of 
these immigrants, 127,689 were of Polish citizenship, 30,642 of 
Russian, 15,028 of Rumanian, 9,493 of Lithuanian, 8,864 of 
Yemenite and 7,826 of United States citizenship. The number 
of German citizens was 31,458. _ Many persons migrating to 
Palestine from Germany are of other citizenship than German. 
In the same period the total number of Jewish migrants whose 
previous residence was in Germany was 39,471. 


Office of Statistics. 


13. The Office of Statistics, set up in accordance with the 
Statistics Ordinance of 1935, began active operations in 
February, 1936. It is a separate office, under the general 
supervision of the Commissioner for Migration and Statistics, 
but directly administered by the Government Statistician. 

14. The duties of the office are defined in the Statistics 
Ordinance as follows: — 

(a) to collect, complete, abstract and publish statistical 
information relative to the commercial, industrial, social, 
economic and general activities and condition of the people; 

(b) to collaborate with all other departments of the 
Government in the compilation and publication of statistical 
records of administration according to the rules; 

(c) to take any census in Palestine. 

Thus the principle of statistical centralization has been accepted 
in Palestine, as in the British Dominions and in various other 
countries. 

15. With the collaboration of the other departments of the 
Government, statistics are now being Saas ee and published 
on a wide variety of subjects. In particular, trade statistics, 
migration statistics and judicial statistics have been compiled for 
1937 on the card-punching, sorting and tabulating machines 
installed in the office, with the result that the publication of 
these statistics has been accelerated and the making of useful 
cross-classification facilitated. _ Summary trade statistics, for 
example, are now being made available within 25 days from the 
end of the month to which they relate. It is now proposed to 
extend the application of mechanical tabulation to the birth and 
death statistics of 1938, thus making possible the detailed study 
of the vital statistics of Palestine. 

16. In certain spheres of operation, notably that of wholesale 
and retail prices and cost of living, the Office collects statistics 
directly. In the collection of data on prices the Office has 
received cordial co-operation from leading wholesale and retail 
merchants, both Arabs and Jews, and issues detailed monthly 
bulletins showing wholesale and retail prices of extended lists 
of commodities in leading towns. The Office is also working 
upon a system of monthly statistics of employment, under which 


226 


leading employers will report each month the number of their 
employees and the amount of their pay rolls. The Government 
employing a aetr and the municipalities have already 
begun to supply the Office with monthly returns of employment. 

17. In certain other branches of its work the Office of 
Statistics publishes statistics secured by other Departments in 
the regular course of administration. us, with the collabora- 
tion of the Treasury and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, 
it issues monthly statistics of banks and credit co-operative 
societies. Again, in its general monthly bulletin are published 
statistics of the monthly production of the fisheries, compiled 
from material furnished by the Department of Agriculture and 
Fisheries, and statistics of land transfers and registered mort- 
gages obtained from the Department of Land Registration, 
together with shipping statistics, railway statistics, postal, tele- 
phone and wireless receiving stations statistics and statistics of 
““ true ’’ offences furnished by the appropriate departments. 

18. The first official statistical abstract of Palestine was pub- 
lished in June, 1937, containing some 140 tables summarizing 
the available information on the development of various phases 
of Palestinian social and economic life, and work upon a second 
improved and enlarged edition was actively in progress at the 
end of the year. The Office has also assumed the responsibili 
for the preparation of the annual Palestine Blue Book, to whic! 
a much-needed general index has been added. The Blue Book 
for 1936, containing valuable information on the general 
activities of the Government and detailed trade statistics for the 
year, has now been issued. 

Ig. Other publications of the Office, issued in mimeographed 
form for reasons of economy and up-to-dateness, include a 
general monthly bulletin of current statistics and more special- 
ized monthly bulletins on external trade, wholesale prices, retail 
prices and cost of living, operations of banks and credit co-opera- 
tive societies, citrus exports and security prices. Quarterly 
bulletins are issued on vital statistics, judicial statistics and 
labour disputes, and a half-yearly bulletin on wage rates. 
Annual bulletins are published on industrial accidents and 
““ real ’’ wages, i.e., the purchasing power of money wages. 

20. The library of the Office is an essential part of its equip- 
ment, not only on account of the valuable information shat 
it contains but also because of its usefulness as a guide to 
statistical methodology. Though at present small, it is steadily 
growing, mainly as the result of the exchange of publications 
with corresponding institutions and scientific societies in other 
countries. Its resources are at the disposal of all departments 
of the Government. 


XXI11.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 


1. There was considerable increase in the volume and value 
of imports into, and exports from, Palestine during the year 


227 


1937, as compared with the year 1936. Imports of merchandise 
during 1937 were valued at approximately £P.15,905,000, an 
increase of £P.1,926,000 over 1936; exports were valued at 
£P.5,820,000, an increase of £P.2,195,000. 

2. The early part of the year showed signs of revival from 
the effects of the disturbances of 1936, but the renewed rest- 
lessness throughout the country prevented a return to normal. 
This was reflected in the net revenue of the Department, which 
amounted to £P.2,720,719, thus showing an increase of 
£P.131,175, as compared with 1936, but a decline of 
£P.738,445, as compared with 1935. 


3. The Jaffa Port improvement works were completed during 
the year, and consequently, all rented storage areas were given 
up. The discharge of all classes of heavy goods was resumed 
in the early part of the year. 


4. Constructional work is still continuing on the Tel-Aviv 
jetty and lighter basin. The quay and storage accommodation 

ve been increased, and all categories of goods, other than 
cattle, may now be discharged at this point. 


5. An Ordinance was enacted during the year consolidating 
the law relating to customs tariffs and exemptions thereform, 
and meine possible a great increase in the amount of informa- 
tion on trade available each month to the producers and traders 


of Palestine. 


6. The tonnage of import and export cargo handled at the 
ports of Jaffa, Tel-Aviv jetty and lighter basin and Haifa during 
1933-7 was :— 













Tel-Aviv jetty 
Jaffa. and lighter 


Haifa. 
basin. 



































ischarged*| Loaded.* 

= 
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
1933 .. 348,797 96,888 _— _— 401,410 71,632 
1934... | 486,974 | 120,967 = = 589,203 99,756 
1935... | 402,263 | 171,819 = art 787,307 | 138,427 
1936 135,493 | 115,302] 27,514 1,854 | 756,723 | 165,029 


126,842 152,427 97,304 26,795 698,430 








* Exclusive of crude oil. 


7. The net revenue of the Department for the last five years 
was: —1933, £P.2,071,370; 1934, £P.2,936,513; 1935, 
AP.3,459,164; 1936, £P.2,589,544; 1937, 4P.2,720,719. 

8. The principal articles imported, from which the bulk of 


the import duty is derived, and the amount of import duty 
teceived from each in 1937 are set out below: — 


228 



























































#Spsoduty 1070], 


ogo'br age ‘+ soyersnoura | SEz‘dz orS‘€Cr'r < ors “199g 
ZIE‘zI “* opy zed spur € pue 1 | r1b‘Sg 6bbS69'L1 : age 990} 230g 
€gr‘Zi : “ory sod sqm or | bS€'zg L09‘61L‘1 : “suvaq aa70D 
IgO'IZ “as “opp aed spr S€ | €gz'bor 690'669 : seqny pue ‘eens qeqqny 
gol'br <a ae soqyer Snore A of1‘S6 = as oe fe ita F one syong} 

O}OU PUP SIED 10}0UI JO so1JOsseo0R PUL SHE 
Ebb'oz ea WW tad sjrur o$z | gZS‘zor gg6‘Sor S28 seseo snizt9 10j paredaid poos 
600'rf ““maaaoqon po “3u90 aod z1 | r10'99z 6bo'1Ib ate gc: “*  sansst} UaTTOOM, 
zob'iz “*  sazersnouea | Ebb Eee = * eas J fee sioyerasiiyar 

Pue sorper wey} 19430 ‘spoo8 [eory991q 
ogh'Sr “+ opp sed spur € pue r | +1S‘bgr LLz‘196‘€r = are “ze ssf G "+" sory ‘qm 
¥Q6'gz ory od sm g-o pure $.0 | Sg6‘bge o1S 66+ ‘ob ‘ mex sropr1a- pue ‘spor ‘sajsue ‘seq uoIy 
zbz'1z Ort aod stra $.1 pue $.0 | ggo‘zoz zoz‘bor‘oz oe ses “ 20RT 
z60'Ib = *' sw aad sjrut oof | r11‘€or 8g6'gEr : fs “+ Surpring 10y poo, 
gZS‘o€ tie OFT aod strut or pue ¢ | Szb‘gdr 61S 6bz'¢ pauuy pure ysoy ‘paqzyes ‘Arp ‘autiq ut ysiy 
gssiib 4 “*  sayer snore, | L69‘Sbz z6S‘SoS ws (saduod Surpnyoxa) sanssl} A[IS 
SbLizr id ory tod spr Sg.0 | €SZ‘Sbr 9SS‘929'69 as queued 
ESz‘Lb a3 “opp qed spr oz | r€Z‘b€z 690'zzb'z ene uss qaqyyng 
9Zg'So *** oppy tod spru oF 6zS‘1zE boS't sfona} qojour pure sivo 10j0Py 
Loo'gt oP] Jad spur ooo'r | 6gh‘oS zeb‘€g "t saqjeresig 
SLi‘bh ory sod strat oof | 6Zo0‘ZE bEbiorr ““painjzoeynuewun ‘sarva] OoDeqOT, 
bz6'12 “*  sagersnoue, | LoZ‘tzS _ ee _(sy208 Te) jeredde Sutreayy 
6z9'f6 # _ sazer snoue,a | o1r'bbb gbf‘€zo'€ : ***spoo8 aoard 003302 
1Sg'tS : sayer sno, | 9f€‘g1b go9‘g1f‘Lz ca “Imo Fea AA. 
zgb‘gor aap aad sprut $2.1 60b‘6gr 6bb 1 bhg‘og “"  guesorayy 
o6£ ‘611 “+ opry aod syram ¢ zSS‘1oz bgr‘€zr'bz zesns 
$6S‘L19 ‘aay tod spr 11 6zS‘1€z CLz‘g0S‘9S aulzueg 

‘at ‘ay 
‘anjvA “Aqyuond 

P Gag 2 “Ming fo avy yuasadg ‘219A 


1 by Google 


Digit 


229 


Jeqjo pue 


26S‘9 
ozg‘S 
goo'rr 


glh6 
zS6'L 
6169 
oS$‘9 
S6S‘g 
v10'%1 
gS6'6 
S¥6'S 
red 
606'o1 
zoS‘9 
1$1'9 
bLS'lx 





soyeI SNOLIeA, 


**'44940100 po *yusd Jod ZI 
“+ 44940100 po *yU90 ed g 


ory tod strum z pue r 
eWW Jod strur of 
ory ted strur oor 


‘“opry sod spur of pue oz 


8aje1 sNOLTE, 
‘++ ory zed stra oz 
“pang red stun $z 
yous [Tu I pue z-o 
‘++ geger snoLre, 

s97e7 snoLeA 


*++ws9aoppa po ‘3u90 sod ZI 


go78s sNOLTEA, 
sozBI SNOLIEA, 


zgf‘o€ 
gtz‘So 
gf6'Zer 


69£‘oz1 
b6E‘oL 
98S‘g 
106'Eb 
zSz‘Sr 
Ebgid 
€S1‘6g 
6zS‘zgr 
Evl'gz 
ofz'1Z 
SvS'bS 
L61‘gb 
gor'ler 





zS9'6Lg'9 


6Sz'11z'9 
gS6'PEe 
90z‘69 
€€z‘S6z 
o£9'19 
£g9'g19 
226'1gz'T 
€61'606'%6 
169‘SE€o'z 
Igz‘1z0' 
zSS‘Lez 
og9‘ghr'9 


‘uondurexe 0} popt}ue suoT}Nz13SUt 


Aueduioy wnajoyeg bery, !saynyzy4suy eo10g sry pue ‘Aumry ‘Aaeny { Areqyr !yueuruseaory Aq sqziodun sapnyouy 


suoneredaid yeT1oq pue Aroumnyieg 
s+ £19m0723S 

sv) GY-0 cf Ueq} 
Sse] JOU sye0qs UT paredead Ajyersads you ‘1adeg 
_ Pasrmeates pue yoeTq ‘s}904s TOIT 
““sTjea pue Zutaed Joy salty, 
“" pamnjoeynueuran ‘saaval oequioy, 
gay 
AMSTUM, 
_ STH UT essay Wey} 19930 ‘98004 
Anmog 
8834 
anog oAyy 
[to Buneouqny 
_MoyeroB ON 
ohy 
orem Arezrues 


230 
'g. Excise duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 
methylated spirits, salt and matches. The receipts during the 
last five years were:— 
1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 


Tobacco : 
Duty . is ss 222,864 255,588 246,677 230,582 223,367 
Licence Fees ... a 6,672 7,420 8,437 8,707 8,893 
Intoxicating Liquors : 
Duty . oad ane 38,853 42,260 49,586 66,337 61,734 
Licence Fees . : 3,723 3,753 3,819 3,797 4,009 
Methylated Spirits Duty 5,132 7,406 8,900 9,066 7,980 
Salt, Duty ad oC 12,550 14,300 15,550 13,500 14,900 
Matches : 
Duty ... us s+ 14,625 = 21,785 29,173 27,459 30,604 
Licence Fees ... coe 50 50 50 50 50 
Total ... --£P.304,469 352,562 362,192 359,498 351,537 





to. The number of licensed tobacco, tombac and snuff 
factories during 1933-7 was :— 
1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
12 





Tobacco and eal aa 10 10 10 12 
Cigars... _— 2 2 2 2 
Tombac ... ota ts I I I i I 
Snuff... an os 2 I I I I 
Total ... tus 13 14 14 16 16 





Their output was:— 


Cut Cigar- 


Year. Cigars. Tobaeco:\| setts: Tombac. 





Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. 





1933. «| 17,666 | 537,348 | 71,930 
1934 --- | 1,032 | 15,852 | 636,832 | 75,204 
1935 1,748 | 18,095 | 791,264 | 89,392 
1936... 2,142 | 16,480 | 815,196 | 77,883 
1937 --- 1,937 | 14,192 |756,907 | 74,671 























The number of tobacco growers in Palestine in 1937 was 
4,198, as compared with 2,473 in the previous year. 
The annual crops for 1932-6, in kilogrammes, were : — 


Tobacco. Tombac. 
1932 ies wae ose 565,617 5,771 
1933 ine aa, a 402,623 17,905 
1934 ie eae oa 958,344 52,829 
1935 ve os te 956,248 43,594 
1936 ike wen dae 1,232,689 4,178 


vigiizedey GOOSle 
Cc 


231 


11. The production of salt at Athlit (by sea evaporation) and 
at Jebel Usdum (rock formation) and of methylated spirits and 
matches during the last five years was as follows:— 


Unit. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
Salt ... Kilos 8,404,400 9,389,040 10,375,700 9,148,399 9,855,780 
Methylated, 342,156 493,712 593,307 604,398 = 532,032 
Spirits. 
Matches ... Gross of 127,761 175,758 221,275 217,433 237,220 
boxes. 


12. The value of exemptions granted during the year 1937 
was :— 





Exemptions Exemptions 
under the under the 
Customs Tariff Syria-Palestine Total. 
and Exemption Customs 
Ordinance. Agreement. 
LP. £P. £P. 
Food, drink and tobacco r 1,347,563 515,273 1,862,836 
Goods mainly unmanufactured- 1,095,646 5,610 1,101,256 
Goods mainly manufactured ... 3,672,626 644,771 4,317,397 
Animals living, not for food... 58,077 — 58,077 
Total ve £P.6,173,912 1,165,654 7,339,566 





These exemptions do not include benzine and other oils 
supplied free of duty from bonded installations in Palestine to 
certain undertakings. 


13. The value of goods imported b: y charitable and religious 
institutions, consuls and archeological societies during the past 
five years is shown below: — 




















Under the Customs Tariff and 
Under the Exemption Ordinance. 
Veaw. Ottoman Law 
Religious | Total. 
Orders. Charitable 
and other Consuls.* 
Institutions. 
Be. £e. Bp. Be. 
1933 ree 31,152 19,309 7,629 58,090 
1934 + 32,779 16,331 6,574 53,684 
1935} 31,492 23,330 8,167 63,439 
1936... 27,905 26,409 4,910 59,224 
193700 + 27,198 25,675 9,467 62,340 





* Including benzine, etc., delivered to consuls from bonded oil installations. 


14. In addition to the importation duty free of all articles 
consigned to them direct, the following goods were also supplied 
from bonded oil installations to His Majesty’s Forces, the 


oiaizes y GOOLE 


232 


Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes, the ‘Iraq Petroleurn 
Company, and other institutions entitled to exemption: — 


Supplied in 1937 free of duty to: 


Amount of 
ds 
Benzine. Kerosene. involved. 
Litres. Litres. 3 

His Majesty’s Forces ses 4,112,913 466,938 46,059 
Navy, Army and Air Force 

Institutes ... ane 402,237 143,609 4,676 

‘Iraq Petroleum Company .. - 1,116,611 180,574 12,599 

Other institutions ... «+. 1,066,444 4,641 11,739 


15. The following are analyses of Customs Taxation and of 
Imports into Palestine for the years 1933-7. 


ANALYSIS OF CUSTOMS TAXATION. 


Imports into Palestine are subject either to specific or ad 
valorem rates of duty, or are exempt from duty. In the case of 
exempted goods, there are three main groups: — 


A. Government; Military; Navy, Army and Air Force 
Institutes and ‘Iraq Petroleum Company Stores. 


B. Goods exempted under the Customs Tariff and 
Exemption Ordinance, other than imports at A. 


C. Goods, otherwise dutiable, exempted under the Syria- 
Palestine Customs Agreement. 


Taking the total import duty collected for each of the last 
five years as a basis, the equivalent ad valorem rates of duty, 
calculated in respect of the value of the total imports for home 
consumption less the value of goods imported free of duty under 
the three groups A, B and C, are shown in the following table: — 


“poragy sea AyNp yoryA uo sjiodun yye Jo onyea ay} syuoserder styT—"9}0N « 
cn ET 























6.42 L.gz 9-97 G.9z C.9z ns (mt) 7 sqzodum 10y Aynp Jo ayer wazozva po yuojeamnby 
‘quod rag | ‘yuad 19g | ‘JUadd0g | ‘yus0 40g | “qUO0 Jog 
000‘F9S‘g | ooo‘or0‘Z | oo0'bzZ‘or | oo0'Sgr'6 | ooo‘4o£‘g | ** see ae ane ase oe ‘9 pueg 
Vv sso] uordunsuoo auroy Joy syoduat [e}0} Jo anyeA (I!) » 
oo0o‘ggi't | ooo'bZz‘r | ooo'ror‘'r | 000'1z6 ooo0'giZ an * a a “+ quaulaai3y SUIO}SND aur}seTeq 
eg ay} rapun pozyduroxe ‘a[qeyNp esta.seyjzO ‘spood Jo onfeA “D 
6.12 £.bz £.bz bz tz ca (1) 3@ sprodurt s0y Aynp yo oer wasojva py yuopeamby 
‘quad rag | “uaoisg | “yuaoreg | ‘yuao 10g | ‘JUd0 Jog 
000‘0€4'6 | oo0'tgz‘g | oo0'Szg‘r1 | o00'90r‘or | o00'Sgo‘Z | g pur Vy ssa] uoIydunsuOD oUIOY OF sqzrodurt [e303 Jo onyeA (It) 
o00'Zz6'b | co0'F€o'b | oo0'6EL'b | ooo'bSg'E | o00‘6SS‘z | ** as ot ope V 3 spiodur ey} 19430 ‘aoueUTpPIQ, 
uondurexy pur yey su0jsnD ay} 1apun pozdurexo spoos joante, “g 
g-br €.91 €.L1 G.L1 G.L1 ane (1) 38 syrodur 105 Aynp Jo ayer wasozpa py yuaTeainby 
‘yuso og | ‘quoorsg | ‘Juaosag | ‘uso 10g | “300 Jog 
000‘LSg‘br | oo0'gr£‘z1 | 000'bgS‘g1 | CO0'0Q6‘E1 | COO'HHg'G | OV 882] uordumsuos amtog 10} spodurt 1e70 Jo onyeA (1) 
oo0'Lbz‘'t | oo0'rg9‘1 | 000'6gz‘1 | oo0'€61‘r | 000‘6Lb‘r : + sa103s Auedurod 
wmng[orjeq bezy, pue “Tay W'N ‘Areqya ‘JuauuIaA0D Jo anfeA “Vy 
000‘F06'S1 | 000‘646'E1 | oo0'€Sg'Z1 | ooo'€S1'E1 | ooo’EzI‘1I | *** : ois +*uoyduinsuos auoy 10F sz10durt [2307 Jo anyeA 
ooo'f£1‘z | ooo‘z10'z | oo0'oZg'z | ooo'o£b‘'z | oo0‘ggo'r ae as ® one oe “+ paqoatjoo Aynp yroduy 
‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘ay 
“LE6r “gf61 SE6T “PEO “EE61 

















ee 


ody Google 


Digit 















































9. r&b zG€ $€ +e site ‘as t1t Aq pajuasaidas g jo afeyuaciag 
000'€60'9 | o00'gof‘S | ooo'obg'S | oo0'SZ'b | ooo'LZz‘E II pue ] 3e Aqnp wos poydwioxe sziodun je yo anyeA “III 
8 €.o1 9-9 S.9 GL J] Aq pazuasaidar g jo advyusol9g 

o00'gg1't_ | ooo'bZz‘r | ooo‘ror‘r | o00'1z6 o00'giZ ee ee SuIO}sND BLIAS-sUysaTeg 
aq} Japun apenas ‘a1qeyNp asimiay}O ‘spoos jo anjeA ‘JJ 
9-€€ L.z€ 9-gz G.lz S.9z ] Aq poyuasaidar g jo agejuaoI0g 
000'Zz6'b | ooo‘b£o'h | o00'6EZ'b | oo0'bSg'€ | o00‘6SS‘z Sa10}S dietincs wnao.jeg besy, pue “WW N 
“Arey ‘WUaUIUIAAOD UeY} J9q30 ‘aoueUTpPIO Uuoydwexy 
pue yiey suiojsng oy} Jepun pozduiaxa spood jo anyea ‘[ 
o00'Lfg'br | ooo’gr£‘z1 | o00‘F9S‘g1 | 000‘096'E1 | oo0'bto'6 saaoys Kuvdmoy unajouag boay, puv “TY N 
aciaase ‘quamusanoy ssaj uoyduinsuos amoy of saodut fo anjvy “gq 
zor 6.64 6-6€ ¢.6€ eb III 4q pazussaidar y jo a8evzus0I0g 
ooo'obt‘Z | 000'696‘9 | o00'6z1‘L | 000'g96'S | o00'gSL‘h * 4ynp woy poydurexe syiodun qe Jo anfeA “TIT 
€.2 1-6 z+9 9 S.9 + Ty Aq paquaseidar y so a8eyuaoI0g 
ooo‘ggi‘t | ooo'bZz‘r | ooo‘ror'r | 000‘1z6 o00'gi1Z * ni JUsUDaISW sWIO}sND eIIAS-auysaleg 
ay} Jopun poydurexea ‘ajqeynp astmsoyyo ‘spood jo onyeA “TT 
g-gt L.ob gf ¢.€€ S.9€ 1 Aq paquasaidar y jo a8eyuasI0g 
ooo'bZ1‘g | o00'S69'S | o00'gzo‘g | oo0‘Lto'S | ooo'gfo'h u aoueuIpigQ uoyduexy 
pue ylrey, suro}snZ 04} Jopun poydurexe spoos [Te yo anfeA “T 
000‘Fo6'S1 | 000‘626‘E1 | ooo'€Sg‘Zr | ooo'ES1‘Sr | ooo’Ez1‘IT uoydunsuos aumoy sof sysodu fo ava “y 
‘ay ‘at ‘ay ‘at ‘at 
LE6r “gf61 “CE6I “FECT “EL6I 














‘ANILSHIVG OLNI SLUOdW] 40 SISATVNY 


diaized y GOOLE 


235 


Commerce and Industry. 


16. A number of new undertakings were established during 
1937 for the manufacture of celluloid toys, margarine, buttons, 
varnishes, citrus by-products, aluminium ware and flour. 

During the year, 207 new companies were registered with an 
authorized capital of £P.968,794, and 44 companies increased 
their authorized share capital from -4,338,550 to 
£P.7,200,350, while 4 reduced their capital from £P.81,089 to 
£P.73,054. The net total new capital during 1937 was 
&P.3,822,559. 

17. There was an expansion in the export trade resulting in 
increased production of rice, cotton yarn and thread, chocolate 
and confectionery, medicinal Peper ote) and iron wire netting. 
This was, however, offset by the decrease in the local trade; 
and on the whole, the economic and industrial development 
of Palestine received a set-back during the year under review. 

During the year, the Palestine shipping service between Haifa 
and Trieste was suspended, and an Air Service was inaugurated. 

18. The following table shows the increased imports of yarn 
in 1937, as compared with 1936: — 

















1936. 1937. 
Imports. 
Kilos. Value. Kilos. Value. 
£P. £P. 
Sik and artificial si 
yar cae Asn 103,570 40,747 165,641 60,741 

Cotton yarn... soe 430,302 
Woollen yarn ... tee 63,401 
Cotton, raw and waste... 535,215 
Wool, raw and waste ... 4,720 

Total ... 156,370 | 1,687,141 251,105 











1g. There was a considerable increase in the imports of raw 
materials used for the extraction of oil, as shown in the following 
comparative table for the years 1936 and 1937:— 











Imports. 1936. 1937. 
Tons. £P. Tons. £P. 

ees one Ore 2,506 36,979 2,180 44,872 
Sesame and gingelly seeds 1,338 20,715 24,407 
Linseed ee ie 1,208 12,979 13,963 
Sunflower seed ase 9,070 68,591 78,840 
Groundnuts, shelled... 8,488 108,647 226,382 
Total pert | 22,610 247,911 388,464 





— 


236 


Building Activity. 

20. There was a further decline in the building activity durin 
1937. The following table shows the approximate cost o 
private, commercial and industrial buildings in the four 
principal towns during the years 1936 and 1937:— 


1936. 1937. 
Value. Value. 
; £P. £P. 
Haifa ... aie sot +s 2,171,900 1,757,300 
Jaffia... es es ond 166,200 125,500 
Jerusalem 2s ae «+ 1,384,900 844,000 
Tel-Aviv dei ae ++» 1,567,000 1,034,000 


There were, however, considerably increased imports of build- 
ing materials during 1937, as shown in the following com- 
parative table for the last five years. These increases may be 
attributed to the replenishment of depleted traders’ stocks and 
the accumulation of stocks in anticipation of price rises. 


Imports. 1933. | 1934. | 1935. | 1936. | 1937. 


Os. £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Timber and wood for building | 253,767 | 460,410 | 500,137 | 202,569 | 403,I1II 
Iron bars, angles, rods and 
girders... eae as 
Sanitary ware a Sia 
Electrical fittings and in- 





240,096 | 520,604 | 614,407 | 289,707 | 384,985 
66,041 | 177,999 | 130,199 | 119,350 | 127,168 


sulated tubes and pipes ... | 59,559 | 100,609 | 133,457 | 91,581 | 114,903 
Cement an Se «| 88,328 | 267,624 | 288,968 | 133,328 | 145,753 
Paints and colours ... «+ | 39,339 | 57,664 | 64,150] 41,257 | 61,494 
Plate glass and window glass | 34,431 | 58,419 | 68,041 | 32,831 | 46,569 
Tiles and bricks... «| 34,443 | 88,334 | 125,483 | 61,752 | 83,334 
Door and window fittings* ... | 40,000 | 60,000 | 69,510 | 32,172 | 39,979 




















* Figures in respect of 1933 and 1934 are approximate. 


Citrus Trade. 


21. The date of the commencement of the export season 
1937-8 for oranges was 20th November, 1937. During the 
year 1937, 10,156,078 cases of oranges and 1,747,790 cases 
of grapefruit were exported, as compared with 5,714,969 and 
878,161 cases, respectively, during 1936. 


Imports. 


22. The total value of imports for home consumption in 
1937 was £P.15,903,666, an increase of £P.1,924,643, as com- 
pared with the preceding year. Increased values of imports, 
shown for almost every commodity, can be accounted for by 
the replenishing of traders’ stocks which had been depleted 
as a result of decreased purchasing during the disturbances of 
1936; by appreciated commodity prices; by accumulation of 
stocks in anticipation of further price rises and partly by 


237 


distribution during 1937, according to commodities, of imports 
by Government, N.A.A.F.I., ‘Iraq Petroleum Company and 
other institutions entitled to exemption. 


There were increases amounting in each case to more than 
£P.100,000 in the imports of wheat, wood for building, seeds, 
beans and nuts for expressing oil, iron and cast iron pipes and 
fittings, electrical goods, industrial machinery, prepared wood for 
citrus cases, cotton piece goods, apparel of all sorts, motor cars 
and trucks, and paper for printing and packing. Other articles 
showing great increases are coal (£P.86,000), fuel oil 
(£P.80,000), iron bars, angles, rods and girders (4P.95,000), 
iron sheets, black and galvanised (£P.70,000), cotton, silk 
and woollen yarns (£P.77,000), woollen tissues (£P.86,000), 
and silk tissues (£P.92,000). 

There were decreased imports of barley because of the heavy 
local crops, and of poultry and fresh fruits, indicative respec- 
oy of the development of the poultry industry and of horti- 

ture. 


23. The following table shows the principal commodities 
imported during 1936 and 1937: — 
























1936. 1937.* 





Quantity. | Value. 
£P. 


Quantity.| Value. 
£P. 





Barley 33,673 | 167,414 12,143 | 80,015 
Rice 17,946 | 162,369 | 20,104 | 202,088 
Wheat... 21,536 | 205,454 | 37,164 | 364,844 
Wheat flour 30,630 | 352,727 27,317 | 416,376 





Cattle for slaughtering 
i fay cows, and calves) 

and goats ... : 
Eges 









32,660 | 332,763 
337,037 | 303,303 
91,225 | 190,081 


4,894 


26,443 | 329,574 
305,144 | 275,045 
92,909 | 182,529 





Fish in brine, dry, salted, 
fresh, and tinned : 





164,902 5,250 | 178,425 


Poultry, alive 1,920 | 161,741 1,261 | 89,070 
Butter... 2,492 | 224,579 2,422 | 234,731 
Fruits, fresh 14,067 | 246,169 13,961 | 184,514 
Coffee 1,238 | 55,869 1,745 | 83,274 
Sugar oes 26,423 | 194,500 24,123 | 201,552 
Potatoes ... 17,604 | 105,266] 17,695 | 85,411 
Coal 38,949 | 55,112 | 96,123 | 141,368 


Wood for building” Sat 90,036 | 202,569 | 138,988 | 403,111 


, beans and nuts for 














expressing oils ... ror 22,660 | 248,420 30,313 | 388,629 
Fuel oil 0 81,958 | 178,836 87,922 | 258,699 
Paving tiles 258,468 | 52,170] 334,958 | 70,394 
Sanitary ware ~~ 119,350 am 127,168 

ot 69,567 | 133,328 | 69,877 | 145,753 





Tron bars, angles, rods, 
Tron and cast iron pipes, 
and fittings thereof 


36,188 | 289,707 | 40,500 | 384,985 











15,146 | 221,358 19,808 | 336,106 





1936. 1937.* 











Commodity. 
Quantity. Quantity.| Value. 
f. 
Dental, medical, surgical, 
and optical instruments 
and appliances... é 86,343 -- 76,615 
Radios and parts ‘thereof 64,957 _ 79,348 
Refrigerators and parts 
thereof . 72,749 _ 54.545 
Electrical goods “and fit- 
tings... 207,921 => 333,443 
Agricultural machinery ... 39,435 —_ 49,715 
Industrial machinery... 5551348 _ 711,326 
Wood prepared: J for citrus 
cases... vex 74,855 | 257,081 | 105,988 | 462,578 
Plywood ... ae Bt 3,195 60,389 3,283 65,679 
Yarn, cotton, silk, and 
woollen .. le i 597,273 | 128,470 | 842,929 | 205,079 
Cotton piece goods sia 12,497,170 | 305,896 13,023,346 | 444,110 
Woollen tissues ... sae 287,956 | 180,252 | 411,649 | 266,011 
Silk tissues = Bes 353.475 | 153.245 | 565,592 | 245,697 
Apparel, all sorts.. aoe —_ 408,183 —_ 521,767 
Drugs be a ee —_ —_— 126,928 —_ 133,543 
Benzine ... ae i 45,400 | 209,265 56,506 | 231,529 
Kerosene ... Z 59,602 | 189,230 60,841 | 189,409 
Lubricating oil and grease 2,682 50,200 4,021 71,236 
Upper leather... ci 148,269 68,240 | 185,816 96,517 
Motor cars and motor 
trucks ... $ 190,726 1,564 | 321,529 
Parts and accessories of 
motor cars and motor 
trucks ... — 64,649 _— 95,130 
Rubber tyres and ‘tubes. i 56,384 | 699,069 | 104,263 
Chemical fertilisers 48u 71,815 14,698 | 128,719 
Maize sa ae = 42,315 14,514 | 90,807 
Asphalt... ite ee 56,805 15,187 91,938 
Iron sheets, black and 
galvanised ans 51,038 6,211 | 120,369 
Paints, colours, varnishes, 
lacquers, and ochre... 41,257 1,731 61,494 
Tanned hides and _ sole 
leather ... : i 5 34,358 | 551,071 69,697 
Paper for packing citrus 
fruit... 30,684 3,387 91,018 
Paper, Printing. @ and pack ke 
ing . 91,987 9,721 | 196,583 
Stationery... ae 45,414 _ 65,238 
Used personal effects ae 555,975 _— 319,151 
Government stores Aen 793,029 
Military stores... oP 232,862 Distributed 
N.A.A.F.I. stores.. 58,955 according to 
‘Iraq Petroleum Company commodities. 
stores... 203,196 








* Includes imports by Government, Military, N.A.A.F.I., I.P.C., and other 
institutions entitled to exemption. 


239 
Exports. 

24. The value of exports of Palestine produce amounted to 

£P.5,819,779 in 1937, an increase of £P.2,194,546 over the pre- 
year, primarily due to increased exports of citrus fruit, 

which amounted to £P.4,329,703 in 1937, as compared with 

£P.2,853,946 in 1936, an rea of £P.1,475,757- 

Large exports of local produce as a result of the good crops 
and increased exports of locally manufactured articles accounted 
for an increase in 1937 of appeal. 4P.600,000 over 1936. 
The principal commodities showing increases were barley, maize, 
sesame seed, rice, cake and meal for feeding animals, olive and 
other edible oils, hides and skins, confectionery, cotton yarn and 
thread, potash, and soap. In 1937, exports of metal scrap 
amounted to £P.95,349, an increase of £P.85,961 over 1936. 

There were slightly decreased exports of melons and water 
melons, fresh vegetables, wines, and wearing apparel other than 
socks and stockings. 

A table chowing the principal exports of local produce and 
manufacture during the last five years is set out below: — 


























Commodity. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Barley ... fas 43 57° 19,270 421 I 56,650 
Lentils. : dei 1,556 744 3,384 566 
Maize . ‘ ee 2,376 4,734 14,792 6,448 
Rice... “3 $; _ — _- 4,288 57,573 
Wheat ... 827 1,857 1,000 | 57 9,762 
Cake and meal of meat, 
fish, etc., for seeding 
animals som 7,054 14,637 9,630 2,205 37,937 
Citrus fruit .. . |2,090,334 |2,672,603 |3,550,735 |2,853,946 |4,329,703 
Grapes... 2,538 2,346 1,368 697 | 2,098 
Melons and watermelons 20,643 30,003 30,869 20,138 16,065 
Almonds, unshelled ... 5,685 1,584 2,278 { 2,875 3,459 
Vegetables, fresh 4, 9,575 6,031 5,589 9,600 6,413 
Fruit juices ... A 6,793 6,751 9,145 | 8,589 | 9,924 
Brandy and cognac .. 2,206 5,721 852 2,671 | 1,842 
Wines . .| 22,270] 23,214 | 20,551 20,000 18,689 
Biscuits and cakes sf 1,517 1,256 1,007 1,143 1,219 
Passover bread 2,292 1,903 1,924 1,636 | 1,909 
Chocolate ea | 548 266 548 | 941 | 4,594 
Fish, fresh and frozen 1,972 2,538 4,500 3,574 
Olive oil, edible «+ | 20,786 18,687 26,223 91,067 
Oils, edible, other - | 27,071 35,978 51,129 | 112,400 
Olive oil, other than | | 
edible ig. — | — 570 3,482 8,501 
Olives, fresh and pre- | 
served | 640 555 | 2,008 1,208 
Confectionery and | 
sweets ee weil 2,118 1,489 | 7.117 | 15,147 
Sulphur ms -- 8 | 377 | 582 
Metalliferous ores and | 
scrap oe des | 2,337 6,762 4,993 | 9,388 
Wool, raw i. 4.3 1,241 | 1,088 1,961 | 6,323 
Animal grease pa | 339 221 | 696 | 2,417 
Sesame seed .. dsl 2,872 8,455 | 16,827] 4,877 








6 a IESE a ey 





Commodity. 


Hides and skins, un- 
dressed ae 
Bones and horns i 
Fenugreek (Hilbeh) ... 
Animal hair ... Eon 

Intestines ss 

Seeds, agricultural 

Cement 2 

Looking - glasses and 
mirrors ee 

Iron wire, all kinds ... 

Aluminium domestic 
ware.. 

Razor blades . 

Electrical goods and 
apparatus ... 

Furniture ne 

Olive wood manufac- 
tures 

Cotton yam and thread 

Cotton piece goods ... 

Artificial silk crepe and 
tissues 

Socks and stockings .. 

All other wearing 
apparel Ss 

Bromine 

Potash.. 

Drugs .. 

Chemicals, other 

Flavouring essences 
and other essential 
oils . oi ae 

Soap ... 

Leather handbags, 
purses, wallets, port- 
folios, and belts... 

Paper and cardboard, 
and manufactures 
thereof 

Antiquities 

Books . 

Buttons" - 

Curios and articles of 
piety ae 

Jewellery, all kinds |. 

Mother of pearl goods 

Pictures, albums, and 
postcards 

Stationery 

Straw mats ... 

Artificial teeth 

Dentifrices... 

Perfumery and toilet 
preparations 

Works of art ... 














1933. 1934. = 1935. 1936. 1937. 
éP. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
14,865 | 22,845 | 48,466 | 108,524 | 189,712 
87 76 178 255 1,563 
1,211 2,287 1,666 864 1,703 
164 129 192 1,329 1,405 
8,125 13,326 24,531 17,943 24,031 
425 466 396 346 1,171 
14,063 1,700 2,650 765 1,640 
3,249 1,973 2,775 1,311 1,907 
= 267 103 464 3,176 
_ 2,053 2,665 3,186 4,820 
oa 23 ar op 977 
245 510 384 202 1,152 
990 624 1,062 997 2,025 
1,726 1,691 8,435 1,928 3,952 
1333 1,931 1,678 | 19,298 | 40,574 
45 45 49 177 4.145 
II 30 4,668 4,299 8,254 
11,584 8,920 II,095 7,533 10,378 
26,959 | 38,124 | 63.459 | 47.449] 34,460 
21,560 22,600 18,751 35,097 48,269 
54,693 56,724 80,231 | 132,857 | 174,672 
1,016 632 531 816 1,743 
840 994 737 3,194 4,505 
3,923 7447 6,360 | 13,685 | 20,003 
79,342 | 71,532 | 79,311 | 53,798 76,296 
7:249 6,035, 6,731 4,006 5,724 
1,668 4,142 5,011 4,430 26,810 
566 7Or 1,240 492 1,660 
4,129 3,217 9,609 8,543 11,086 
_ 162 187 1,126 2,308 
3,936 51742 6,993 5,852 5,602 
2,622 1,819 2,000 1,205 1,996 
8,634 6,877 3,778 | 5.310 6,513 
799 645 833 1,442 3.414 
4,620 989 1,066 330 1,320 
618 530 982 2,007 1,476 
23,674 | 28,585 | 33,762 | 32,200} 34,431 
_— 46 390 277 1,008 
338 749 1,998 2,303 3,654 
296 654 398 403 1,360 











bor‘giliz 
oSS‘glr 
tLr‘o€ 


L6g‘b1E 
gbS‘b61'z 


zSg'gzg'L 
LSL‘6zb 
260‘9£9 
SLO‘SII 
6b1‘gzg 
6LL619'S 
a 
“LE6I 


6gg‘orr'sS 


Loz‘1Sz 
£6z‘zbo 
bo06‘bg 
zSz‘ers 
€€z‘Szg'E 
‘at 
“gf6r 


b6r'bLg‘S 


boS‘gqr 
1Z9‘00€ 
SHb'g9 
ggo'tzg 
ogh'Siz‘b 
‘a 
“SE6I 


ELE‘obg'b 


ogz‘0Sg 
gh6‘Egz 
Lro'6y 
gSS‘6Ez 
zgS‘Lz1'€ 
‘at 
“EOI 


L6g‘b1E 
€bg'bz6'1 
‘at 
“9f61 
4900 
9SVOAIMT 


€z0'6L6'Er 
‘at 
“9f6r 


ggo‘ezg 
€6b'ESg'L1 


‘at 
“SE6r 


o€h'ELz 
gSS'6Ez 
rgZ‘zSx‘St 
‘at 
bE6r 


S96‘gg6'E “gf 


gég‘thg 
zoe ‘6r€ 
Sgz‘gt 

€gg‘Zgr 


L£19'16S‘z 


‘at 
“€€6r 


glo‘9Sh'i1 


got ‘Shr 
€gg‘Zgr 
6ghEz1'1r 
‘at 
*EE6r 


“L-E€6I ‘SLUOdXY ANV SIUOAW] IVLOL JO AN IVA 


‘at 


Cz 


‘aynoy JOJO JIesep-suery 943 Aq bezy, woz z1suVs ut spoo¥ opnpout ZE61 07 S£61 seed oy} 10; GINSY OY « 


1000, 
“+ gtoeds jo sqi0dxq 
~sp008 wS10105 Jo s710dx9-9yy 
as “+ puoq wor; sy10dxq 
tt g}Isuex} UI spoon 


‘spogxg 


1070], 
atoeds yo sz1odury 


et e}istey UI Spoop 


sspaoguey 


—— - — 


“SOT}IPOUIMIOD 0} Surpsoooe (SasSETD Joy}O 94} UTYZIM) PoNqIIjstp-a1 o19M ‘AT SSVID UI papnyour 
Ajsnotaaid ‘uoydurexe 0} payyue suorjNnzysuUI 10430 pue ‘Aueduioy wnefoxyjeq beay ‘Arey ‘JueuTUIBACD &q sysodunt ‘L€61 uy » 














b6z‘gSh'z | LE6‘zgE'b | ggq‘€06‘S1| Ezo'6L6‘Er| C6v'ESg‘L1) rgZ‘zS1'S1| 6gb‘Ezr‘11) © 1210. 
zSo'Sh _ LLo'gs Pooy 107 jou ‘Sutary ‘spewruy 
—: E61 
zbz'erb'z ao = zbz‘€1b'z | Sof666'1 | 1€$‘116'r | bSo'hEo'z “x8q0 ‘payissejoun pue snoauR]aosty 
6z1‘€or 1Lb'b6 zg6‘e6 6€1‘€g "+ poof 10F Ou ‘Burayy ‘ sTeuuy 
—: L€61 0} snorasrg 
: —! sAI SSVI9 
~- IZE‘QES‘E | ogg‘6go'or| 6gb‘1SS‘q | PE6‘6gL‘or| Igz‘gor'6 | FOEEPL'S | -- oe Ao aes ore vig pony 
~oenueUr Ayureur 10 Atoms sapniy ‘III ssv19 
_— SLo‘9£9 ggg‘Zog‘r | €1g‘1L6 gobg‘zze'r | b6g‘gLo'r | Sgb‘ofg ase : ape pamnjoeynuewun 
Ajureur sapoysre pue s[eoyeur Mey i] ssv19 
_ 16b‘goz ibg‘Lbi‘h | oSE6E6'E | LLe‘gbo'€ | E60'zo6'z | Lig‘Szb‘z | -* ae o908q0} pue ‘YULIp ‘poo : [ ssv19 
‘at ‘at ‘at ‘af ‘at ‘at ‘at 
“gf6I “9f6I 
4opun 4300 « 4E6I "gf6r “SE6r HE6I “EOI “spaoguy 
asvasvaqy | asvacouy 























*L-E€61 “SASSVID AM ‘SLUOUXY ANV SLUOdW] AO ANIVA = '9z 


gle 


od by GOO 


Digit 


243 


“sarpIPOUITI0D 0} Zurps0oo8 (SesSETO 19430 O43 UIYZIM) PoyNqLysTp-o a19M ‘poo; Oy 3OU ‘Buray ‘spewmTUy uey} 19430 sprodxa ‘LE6I UI » 




































oO 
of gLS‘v61'z | 6LL‘61g'S | E€z‘Szg'E | ogh‘S1z‘b | zoS‘Lrz‘E | Lrg‘16S‘z | -- are oe 10101, 
_ olt €zz'z *** pooy Joy Jou ‘Buraqy ‘speuruy 
—: LE61 
of _ _ of +L6 6Lz g9z'S ne “gama ‘payissepoun pue snosursostyy 
eSl't SLg‘r Iz‘ £o€'z oe *e “+ pooy Joy jou ‘Zuray] ‘speuuy 
—: L€61 0} snotacrg 
— eAI SSVI 
_— gi6‘Lbr 966'b9S glo‘Lib bgr‘ol€ €bz‘b6z z60‘g0€ she oes “3 pain} 
~oeynrent Krureas 20 coe saporjIy : JIT ssvip 
_— zblgiz €gz‘Lle rbS‘gSr ¥r10‘LOT Sob‘Ss Sr6'1E y “" paanjoeynuemun 
Ayareur sepyre pue s[eayedr Mey IT ssv7) 
_ obb‘Lzg' | Léz‘Sle‘h | 1€g'Lbo'€ | 6Eb'1bL‘E o09eq0} pur ‘HULIp ‘poog : ] SSVID 














"gf 6r 
4000 
asvesoUy 


‘suogaq 










































































_ rel LEL‘6zb | 6LL°61g‘S | Lz6‘Eob | g99‘€06'S1] ozE‘Ege‘r | --- LE6r 
_— 1Sz _— - Loz'1$z | €€z‘Szg'€ | o6b‘LS1 | €zo'6L6'E1| giS‘gofE'r | «°° gt6r 
_ etl — boS‘ggh | ogh'Siz‘b | oo6'1zS | C6b‘ESg‘L1] zgo‘Igz‘I Ce6r 
_ z6g _ ogz‘oSg | zoS‘Liz‘€ | o€b'€Zz | rgZ‘zSr‘S1| gSr‘rZ1‘r | -* ver 
_ o$o'e _ glgithg | Lr19‘16S‘z | go€‘Sbhr | 6gh‘Ezr‘11] dgg'bor'r |: E€6r 
_— g$o'6r _ ZS6'SoS'1| 16b‘1gE‘z | 10S‘SSr | oz6‘ggl‘Z | zZg‘zSo'r | «°°  cE6r 
8 
‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at 
: ‘astp = ‘astp * ‘assp : b : 
919945 | upyouayy | 219°4S -uvyo4a ff 919945 | upyosapy 919945 | upyoua sa ia oa 
nino | svpuatvo 
“peaks woaf issuD4 T “sah 07 $8SUDAT *syaogxa-oy *9440Gxq paypunsy 









*(,'wry 600'Zz) sap “bs 6zb‘or : auyseTeg JO vay 


245 


27. IMPORTS, BY COUNTRIES, DURING 1936 AND 1937. 







































United Kingdom ... 2,775,912 2,518,669 15°84 
British Possessions... 596,959 4°27 731,331 4:60 
Austria < 181,490 1+30 151,907 0°95 
Belgium 381,909 2°73 495,372 3:11 
Bulgaria 128,467 0°92 193,275 1:22 
China a 77,649 0°56 117,304 0°74 
Czechoslovakia 421,385 3°01 473:527 2:98 
Denmark ... ae 78,926 0°57 83,710 0:53 
Dutch East Indies ... 70,322 0°50 90,556 0°57 
Egypt a 514,111 3°68 630,520 3°96 
France 213,756 1°53 270,099 I-70 
Germany 2,039,566 14°59 | 2,628,226 16°53 
Holland 227,002 1°62 229,779 1°45 
Hungary 126,651 0-91 116,438 0'73 
Tran ... 177,749 1°27 223,358 1°40 
‘Iraq... 156,172 I-12 361,160 2:27 
Italy... 85,763 0-61 320,503 2°01 
Japan 418,706 2°99 494,013 3:11 
*Lithuania 131,682 0:83 
Poland 428,779 3°07 475,269 2°99 
Roumania . 1,067,859 7°64 | 1,372,044 8-63 
Russia 126,897 0°92 98,921 0:62 
Sweden 97,824 0:70 125,646 0-79 
Switzerland 146,766 1°05 148,674 0°93 
Syria... 1,401,484 10°02 | 1,374,450 8-64 
Turkey 267,764 I-g1 254,159 1-60 
United States of America... 1,007,973 7°21 1,099,061 6-91 
Yugoslavia .. aes 155,950 Iei2 189,074 I-19 
Other Countries 605,232 4°33 504,939 3°17 
Total + 113,979,023 100-00 ]15,903,666 100-00 





* In 1936, Lithuania was included within ‘‘ Other Countries.” 


48607 I 


246 


28. EXPORTS, BY COUNTRIES, DURING 1936 AND 1937. 





Country of Destination. 








United Kingdom 


British Possessions ... 


Belgium 
Czechoslovakia 
Denmark 
France 
Germany 
Holland 
Italy ... 
Norway 
Poland 
Roumania 
Sweden 
Egypt... 
Japan... 
Syria ... 
Turkey 


United States of America ... 


Other Countries 
Total 











1,979,359 
68,329 
67,167 
52,612 
45,174 
47,517 

131,022 
198,956 
2,788 
53,931 
136,406 
72,022 
125,560 
62,964 
59,626 
310,248 
535743 
22,107 
144,702 


w 


WOH OM HWHWHOUWHH HHH 








35 | 3.149.423 
88 105,670 
85 177,344 
45 76,825 
25 58,709 
31 139,422 
62 106,094 
49 324,825 
08 77,505 
49 80,153 
76 157,384 
99 112,784 
46 155.447 
74 99,243 
64 35,847 
56 625,258 
48 114,656 
61 35,223 
99 187,967 














w 
* 
4 
n 





WOH OOH NRHN H HU HD HW 
ROO OY AGIOWE ww Oud & 
SLs SaSe Vee Sre eyes 











3,625,233 











3 


5,819,779 


100-00 





247 


Re-exports. 


29. The following table shows the principal commodities re- 
exported from Palestine during 1937 :— 























Serial 
No. of Commodity. : Unit. | Quantity.| Value. 
Customs 
Tariff. 
Crass I: Foop, Drink, AND 
Tosacco. £P. 

I Barley... ... | Kilo | 160,000 1,062 
20 Wheat, hard (triticum | durum) sae ss 79,000 618 
45 Sheep and lambs as ws | No, 1,015 857 
50 Eggs, in shell .. aes vee tae is 359,280 862 
57 Apples... . re aoe «.. | Kilo | 125,926 3,767 
71 Fruits, fresh, ne O28is SS tas nee a 44,956 1,611 
89 Ale, beer, and stout . aan ... | Litre 63,582 2,039 

197 Cigarettes ee .. | Kilo 12,600 9,822 
All other articles of Crass I rr _— 12,008 
Total Crass 1 ... si a — — 32,646 
Crass IT: Raw MaTERIALS 
AND ARTICLES MAINLY 
UNMANUFACTURED. 

226 Wood and timber, other .., Me 1,012 4,211 

262 Hides and skins of sheep and 1 goats, 
raw and dried vee Kilo 17,500 2,565 
265 Fur skins, raw ert rt 2,169 2,504 
All other articles of CLass II i - 1,795 
Total Crass II... —_ — 11,075 

Crass III: ArtIcLES WHOLLY 
OR MaInLy MANUFACTURED. 

348 Iron pipes, other one Kilo |1,012,900 14,829 
349 Iron pipe fittings and drawn tubes se 344,599 5,530 
360 Iron and steel manufactures ses —_— —_ 3,390 
366 Brass and copper sheets and bars ... | Kilo 17,812 1,126 

404 Metals wrought and manufactured, 
other, n.e.s. _— — 997 

412 Cinema film, synchronised with 
sound on film Re Kilo 5,533 II,100 

419 Medical, optical, and veterinary 
instruments — _ 7,116 

420 Photographic apparatus and cameras 

and parts thereof, and materials 
and accessories”... —_ _ 1,724 

421 Scientific instruments and appli- 
ances, N.e.s. — _— 884 
423 Other tools and implements _ _ = 3,486 

433 Electric refrigerators and parts 
thereof aa + Kilo 14,720 2,260 
434 Radios and parts thereof Fe vn 2,275 1,461 
435 Electrical apparatus, n.e.s. ... oe | — 1,177 
436 Electrical goods, other aes _— _— 4,013 

48607 I2 


diaizes »y GOOLE 





248 








Serial 
No. of Commodity. Unit. | Quantity.| Value. 
Customs 
Tariff. 
Crass I} I—(contd.). 
437 Machinery, agricultural is _ _— 2,048 
438 Machinery, industrial and manufac- 
turing : -- — 23,399 
440 Machinery, electrical, “for light and 
power —_— _— 1,400 
441 Machinery, marine _— _ 857 
444 Machinery, pumping... ase wel — 1,500 
440 Component parts of exempted 
machinery . —_ —_— 5,940 
482 Cotton piece goods, ‘grey, bleached, 
printed and dyed .. _ 19,537 3,052 
488 Cotton manufactures, other, 1 n.e.: 8. — — 694 
490 Woollen tissues & Kilo 2,991 2,086 
493/4 | Silk and artificial silk yarn .. 35 7,243 2,418 
519 Other miscellaneous artificial silk 
tissues pe ” 3,487 1,161 
525 Other carpets “of cotton, silk, wool 
or a mixture thereof as - 3,064 1,772 
544 Furs, prepared — — 2,244 
559 Wearing apparel of wool, n e. 28. «| = —_— 1,562 
564 Other wearing apparel of mache 
n.e.s. aH . — — 3.255 
595 Drugs, raw and prepared -- = 3,938 
606 Lubricating oil and grease ... Kilo 25,556 845 
629 Upper leather, other... is - 1,841 1,738 
658 Aeroplanes and aerial gliders _— _— 1,505 
666 Motor cars, omnibuses, lorries, and 
vans.. é No. 66 11,847 
668 Chassis and tractors .. a 3,023 
669 Parts of motor vehicles and ‘tractors Kilo 38,692 9,449 
671 Motor cycles and motor tricycles ... | — 1,914 
675 Vehicles and parts, n.e.s. _ —_ 1,140 
679 Rubber tyres and tubes for mechani- 
cally-propelled vehicles . | Kilo 15,786 2,750 
694 Books . : _ os 1,932 
704 Used personal efiects _ ad 72,409 
740 Stationery by —_— _— 1,840 
752 Goods manufactured, n. e. s. — _ 326,620 
All other articles in Crass ITI —- i 30,847 
Total Crass III _— —_— 588,582 
Crass IV: ANIMALS, LIVING, 
N.E.S. 
758 Horses.. No. 233 3,406 
All other animals, living, n.e.s. We 41 384 
Total Crass IV ” 274 3,790 
Total MERCHANDISE — — 636,093 





Digitize 








fein 
» Google 








249 

30. During the year 1937, drawback was granted in respect 
of rough, raw or uncleaned rice, known as cargo rice or loon- 
zain, used in the manufacture of cleaned rice and cleaned rice 
products exported from Palestine; and in respect of imported 
peeped wood or wood prepared in Palestine from imported 

ards or planks used in the manufacture of citrus cases 
exported from Palestine. 


Price Movements. 


31. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 
living are shown below:— 





Wholesale prices. Cost of living. 
(Basis, corresponding (Basis, January, 
month, 1922 = 100 per cent.) 
1937. 1935 = 100 per cent.) 

January ... Ave eee 118-3 62°4 
February ... is ats 117-0 61-0 
March vee ao oes 115°9 59°7 
April ae wee ee 1I5°7 61°4 
May... bes _ ae 109°3 58°5 
June das oe eee 105°3 57°1 
july... eae = ove 103°8 57°7 
August ae ae ae IO1*4 58°5 
September IOl‘3 58-4 
October ah ihe rer IOr'5 58-2 
November ... ost ws 100-0 58°5 
December ... see wae 98-1 57°7 

Average... one 1073 59°1 





The average index-number of cost of living in 1937 was 59-1, 


as compared with 56-4 in 1936, an increase of 2-7 points, mainly 
due to the general increase in commodity prices. 


48607 13 


250 











yduroxy oppy tod pra 1 net ste Aayreg 
ydwoxy ory sed spr or [10 JaAT] pod 
qduoxy opey tod pra 1 azrey 
ydurexy o[ry rod sprax € prey ‘yeoyy 
o ooS'€ + spruroSZ:$ qF 1apuyQ, 
Q3 oSz'€ *** o00'9 ae oSL¢ 
by ooo'f = *** o0Sz'9 “ 000°9 
ee oSZz ** o0S'9 Ne oSz'9 
« ooS'z *** oSL'9 ee 00S"9 
yduraxq se oSz'e ** ooo oh oSL-9 
ee oooz = OSzL “ ooo'L 
a oSZ'r 00S a oSzL 
ooS'r ** OSL: ef oo0$-Z 
« oSzr ** ooo'g Japun 10 o$Z-Z 
u0} ooo'r I2A0 IO 000°g 
mun ‘sn at “sw ‘at ‘sn ‘at 
“Aang fo any 
— st 
‘Tq UI pajsea siomod oy} Jopun apery 
pue osloxy ‘swojsng fo IOJNG 94} 
Aq paururiazop se uo} sad onyea oy} arey A, qyos ‘yeoqM 
ory sod yrur 1 ory tod spru € Agyreg 
“ing man “ANG 4ausoy ‘mousy fo uoydrsosaq 








—:L€6r Suump epeur Aynp j10dur Jo sayer oy} ul sadueyo oy} ore SuLmoyfoy ay, “zE 


*LE6L Suunp Ayng ysodwy jo sayey ul sasueyg 








yduiexq 

aq Jed sjrur 00S 

qdurexq 

yduiaxq 
es ooo'L + stra oSd: $ ai zepun, 
es o$Z9 *** 000°9 oSZ$ 
a 00S'g *** 0Sz'9 “ 000°9 
Me o$z'g *** 00S'9 os oSz'9 
« 00099 *** oSL:9 “ 00$'9 
<e oSZ'¢ ooo'L a oSZ‘9 
“ o0S'S Sel ee ooo 
a oSz'S o0S'Z “ oSz-L 
i 00'S oSL:L a 00S 
es oSly 000'g ss oSZ-Z 
<o 00S oSz'g ef 000'g 
“ oSz'b = *** ooS'g “ oSz'g 
“ ooo’ +" oSZ'g Lg o00S"g 
« oSZL€ *** 000°6 “ oSL'g 
nf 00S" 076 - 000°6 
ee oSz€ 00S°6 “a o0Sz'6 
a oo0'f oSL6 es 00S°6 
es oSL'z *** Coo'or a oSL‘6 

$s ooS'z = *** oSz‘or “ 00°01 

sf oSz'z = *** ooS‘or Japun Jo oSz‘o1 


19A0 JO 00S‘o1 
‘SN ‘at 


mn ‘ts at “st at 
“ting fo my 
— St 
‘WTY Ur pajsaa siamod ay} Jepun oepery 
pue esioxy ‘suiojsnd jo 1OzAeIIG 924} 
Aq peuruiayep se uo} Jad onyea ay} ara, 





1a40]00 py “yuad Jad ZI 
masojva po *yusd 13d Sz 


1340100 po *yuUa 13d ZI 
opp sod [rm 1 


es oooL *** syrur oSZ" s cif zepuyn 
ae o$Z'9 =***  000°9 oSZ¢ 
uf o0S'9 = ~OSz'9 a 000°9 
4 oSzg °° 00S'9 ot oSz'9 
ff e009 6*** —(0SL'9 <i 00S°9 
a oSLS ++ coal ee oSL:9 
a ooS'S * oSzL ee ooo 
i oSzS = oot “ oSzL 
a oo0'S + OSL:L oy o0S-Z 
i oSl'b + ooo'g as oSl-L 
“ ooS -* oSz'g “ 000'g 
GY oSz'b ** ooS-g Sf oSzg 
a ooo'y ** oSZ'g “ 00S"g 
u, oSZ€ ++ 0006 Japun Jo oSZ'g 
0} ooS'€ 19A0 10 000°6 

‘nun “STN ae ‘SiN ‘AF “SIN ‘at 
“hing fo mou 


—! 81 
‘ulq Ut pazsea sramod ay} Japun opery 
pue asioxq ‘surojsnd) jo JONI ay} 
Aq pouruisazop se 0} Jad onpea oy} o10y A, 





“soutgue a1y yo pred Sururoy 
sapoIyaa JoJo pue ‘satzITediorunm Aq 
payodurr asoy} ueY} 10430 





Axguinyieg 
‘saute oyqnd ur asn Joy sariwoyzNe 

yesor Aq payiodurr s8un3g ArezIueS 
e ae PITA 


*(a]NouIas Surpnyjout) euljoures pue 
}eayM punosg Jo paysnszo ‘yeoyAr Jo INO 


+ 


aurgue erty 


48607 


252 


axjt] sod syrur o1 
yduexy 
qduroxy 

ared sad strut oz 

ory sad spur of .€ 

yduroxy 

paiq sod sprur $z 

*yova [rum oz-o ‘Arenuef ysr£ 0} Aqnf ys1 
yoea prur 1 ‘aunf yjo£ 03 Areniqa.q ys1 


opty sod strum $4.0 


ory tod spru $z-0 
ory sed strut of .0 
oyty red strut of -o 

yduroxy 


ory red strut ¢ 





“Ang man 





qdurexy 

wmasopon py *yuad Jad z1 
madojon po “yua9 1ad Z1 
o[ry tod spr o$1 

ory rod stu of .z 


sazel SNOLIe A 
qdurexy 


yowe [Iu 0z-0 


o[ry ted strur oS .1 


ory tod spru of .0 


ory red sprur § 10 opry tod stm of. 1 


oyry ied [ru 1 


oyry ted sprur or 


ydurexy 


‘* UIBLIO asaueqa’] Jo JO uvIIAS Jo Jo0g 

: “"* 97819938 WNTOTeD 

is en ore “+ “wapoom ‘sooyg 

se he iis oa ands ‘sjquey 
‘oqo ‘sunjAse 

‘speyidsoy 0} pausisuoo yetjozeur Surpring 

eee ie pesseip pue aay ‘Anjnog 


eee ose woe os $894 


“aNOI Posop-sueI} eyTe}]-pepyseg 
pemp ey} Aq payodur utgu0 rbeiy 
JO INOY aol pue sor1I UayOIq ‘vou Uva|D 

“9}zNOI Aesop 

-suel} ByIeH-pepyseg yoomp om Aq 

peyodurr utsti0 tbesy jo (2011 o81e9 pue 
urezuoo, ‘Apped Surpnyour) so ysnoy 

“ayNOI 41asap-sueIZ 

epeH-pepyseg yoorp ay3 Aq poyrodut 
urs10 tbeiy yo passaiduroo 10 paup sozeq 

*a3mor 

Posep-suey eeH-pepyseg yop 043 
4q poyiodun ur310 rbery jo ‘ysary ‘sayeq 

*azmor 

Plosep-suel} eyreH-pepyseg yop 943 
Aq peyiodut uay utsi0 mbery jo aay5 

“Io}sId901 pure drysreumo 

ueluysseg JO wey} 04,0 sfassea 
surysy Aq 3yS8nvo ouysareg Ur papury ysty 





“AING 4dUAO.T 





‘yayap fo uoydisssaq 


a 


253 


Bf oszb 
oS ooo'h 
gi oSL'€ 
a o0S°€ 
ee oSz'€ 
000'f 
ey oz 
“ o00S"z 
ef oSz-z 
aa 000°z 
es oSL'1 
a 00S" 
fs oSzr 
“ o00°r 
ts oS: 
“ ‘ook 
“ oSz* 
vol, UN 


nun ‘st at “sit at 


‘ting fo soy 


opty sod spur € 

yduiexy 

S[tur 00'S “gF 19pup, 
oSz'S st 000°S 
o0$'S fe oSz°S 
oshg 00S°S 
000'9 “s oSZ¢ 
o0Sz'9 sf 000°9 
00S"9 sf oSz"9 
oSZ9 cs 00S"9 

* ooo'L Wo o$L'9 
sr Gad se 000° 
“ 00S*L st oSz 
oSZ:Z “6 o00S'2 
ooog =“ oSZ-£ 
oSz'g Be 000'g 
00S'g se oSz'g 
o$Z-g ee 00$"g 


000°6 1apun 10 o$Z'g 


19A0 10 000°6 
‘WN AF 


—! 61 


UY Ul poys0a sxomod 04} Jopun opery 
Pues osfoxy ‘suo}sND JO s0;00NG on} 
Aq pouyuiiezep se u0j sod ONyeA O43 aay 





—! st 
‘allq UT pozsea siamod ay} Jepun apely, 
pue osioxq ‘suojsng jo J0}eNG 247 
Aq pauruniazap se uo} sed anfea aq} a104, 


uaaojva po *yuad rad z1 


ydurexqy 





ene + (uninp wNdyH3) yeoym prezT 


‘auIySeTeq Url Jopys yeuee 10 auejdosse 
ue yo Joumo ay} Aq poyodur uaqm 
‘soutgua ouejdoise pue sropy3 jeuee 
‘sourjdozae jo syed ‘ sour3ue ouefdorsy 


Pivy pues 2jos ‘Bay AA 


oypy qed sy 9 
yore tlur oz-o ‘Asenuef 4s1€ 03 Ainf 381 
yowa pr 1 ‘aun 430€ 03 saquie.aq 481 


uo} Jad s[1ul 000'r 
qyduiexq 
durex 
qdwexq 
durex 


opty sod sprux € 
yduioxg 





| aun ‘swat ‘sit ‘at 


wmadopvn po *yud9 sad zr 
yore [tw oz-o ‘Arenuef 4s1€ 0} A[nf 381 
yora jiu 1 ‘aunf y30€ 07 Areniqay 3s1 


qydwexy 
wmasopon po ‘yuad Jad z1 
1240108 po “yuad Jed z1 
tmasojvn po *yuad Jad ZI 
1masojva po *yuee red ZI 


ory sed sprur € 





au oSz'b S[TUI 000" s. ‘GF yepun 
s oooh OSz'S 
‘s oSL€ * oo S$ “ ose: ¢ 
ae ooS'€ - oSZ°S Me 00S" 
ue o$z'€ *** 000°9 a oSZ:S 
sf ooo'— =***  (0Sz'9 a 000°9 
st oz *** o0S'9 fs oSz'9 
er ooS'z *** oSL9 " 00S"9 
of oSzz cool ed oSL‘9 
oe ooo'z = OSzZ a o000'L 
sf oSf1 00S i oSzL 
es ooS'r tt oGL2 es 00S" 
“s oSzI "* o00'g ee oSZ-L 
ee ooo'r °° oSz'g - 000°g 
bes oSL: 00S"g “3 oSz'g 
“ oo$* oSZg as o00S"g 
“ oSz’ 000°6 1apun 10 oSZg 
uol TIN. 49A0 JO 000°6 


‘st ‘dT 


sioutezUOd JOUUT Suipnjout ‘pouueos ‘seog 


ie Teys ur s83qq 
‘rapun Jo simu 000'S ‘qF 
st 0} aed anfea ay} aseqm ‘Aayreg 
“ae *'* saseo 10j sdooy uapoop, 
[f09 ur ue} Joqj0 WNIpETeg 
* (edaxo Surpnyout) mex ‘reaqqny 
x xaze] Jaqqny 
*‘quewusaA0cy Aq 
peaoidde are se syueinjzeuap jeorueyo 
yons q}1M puog Jepun paxtur st [Io yons 
yey} peptaoad ‘saseasip pue s}sed yuejd 
Jo [oI}UOD 10 UOTZUaAaId ay} I0y AeIds 
e jo uonjeredaid ay} ur pasn jlo azIG A 


penutjuoo—(uININp WINdIz11}) Fea prey 





“Ang man 


“ANG 49uss0 





‘ajayap fo uoydrsssag 


—— aE aT 


255 


*sanssy H[Is [eIoyTIe aseq} yo yoodser Ut ‘1038013 94} St JoASYOTyM ‘14940100 po “judd Jad SE IO » 


qduiexq 


qdurexy 
ydurexq] 


o[ty tod sprur oor 


s0[TH Jod syrur ofr 


s0]FY tod sprur oz 


opty sod strut oo1 


oyPy zed strut oor 
sO[Y tod sprur o$z 


s0[!Y Jad sprur ooz 


opty tod strut ooz‘1 


ojty 10d sjtur 000‘T 
qdurexy 


wmasojva po *yuas 19d Of 
zduexy 





S$o}eI SNOLIVA 


wmadojva py *yuad Jad ZI 
ory Jod strut oz 


ory tod strur $g 
ory rod sprur of 1 


opty tod sruz oz 


opty red strum $21 


ory rod sprut oF 
opty rod strut o$z 


ory 10d sprur ooz 


oyry sed spr 009 


ory sed strut oo 
wmadoqva po *yua2 Jod ZI 


masojpn po *yu99 aod 71 
MgaojvaA po *YUID aod z1 








‘sued urezuNoy Jo Jomnzorynueur 
® 0} pousisuod suod urezunoy 10f sqIN 
*suod urezunoy jo JoinzoeynueU & 07 
poustsuo sued uyezunoy OF STAM Ioqqny 
#23 eee 2 “OLIV Ploy, 
“y3Bu9] ut soard yoea sorjour 
OM} UY} Ssey JO (a) Jo syueuUIAYy (3) 
‘sonsst} HIS 
Teoyie snoouereosrar 19430 (f) 
‘aoeyins 
ues yzM yda0xa mojo 
auo ut aoatd 94} 10 ured 94} 
ut padp Jo payoeelq ‘payseatquy) (a) 
—! sonsst} HIS [BIOYIZIe snoaue][aosIpy 
*yq8us] ur soa1d yora saxjour 
OM} UL} ssa] Jo (q) Jo syueUMIEY (p) 
“y}3u9] ut aoa1d yore sazjour 
omy uey} ssa] Jo (v) Jo syueuUay (9) 
: ae pon adars 10430 (9) 
*a0eyINs 
uyjes yum ydaoxa nooo 
auo ut aoard ay} 10 ured 94} 
ut padp Jo payoeaiq ‘payovatquy (pn) 
—: adaip 
— sansst} HIS [eIOyNIy 
“sul[y Uo punos 
y3IM pastuoryouds ‘sug ydes807;eUINUT) 
“spiooar yetoods uo punos 
qjIM pastuoiyouds ‘swyy yder80;euIeUID 
aD “+ pauur so urerd ‘armm raddog 
*S19z3NYS Jo][oI UapoomM Joy 
‘Teyour jo saunay jo syred puv sduny 
(eaqy vrAwTeg) aUIsseg 


256 


33. Number and tonnage of steam and sailing vessels entered 
and cleared in the foreign trade of Palestine during the years 
1936 and 1937:— 























Entered. Cleared. 
1936. | 1937. 1936. | 1937. 

Steam ... :.. Number 1,985 | 1,992 1,934 2,001 
'. Tonnage | 4,976,026 | 4,817,329 | 4,754,455 | 4,849,637 
Sailing ... «»» Number 1,053 1,545 1,050 1,509 
Tonnage 29,849 44,291 30,361 43,218 
Total... .... Number 3,038 3,537 2,084 3,510 
Tonnage | 5,005,875 | 4,862,120 | 4,784,816 | 4,892,855 
—_ “ 1936. 1937. 
Total shipping dealt with ... ... Number ... 6,022 7,047 
Tonnage ... 9,790,691 9,754,975 


Business Names. 


34. During 1937, 327 applications under the Registration of 
Business Names Ordinance, 1935, were received, thus bringing 
the total number of applications to 2,148. The sum of £P.137 
was paid in fees. 


Trade Marks. 


35. Applications for registration of trade marks numbered 374 
during 1937, bringing the total of applications filed to 4,850. 
The sum of £P.1,915 was paid in fees. 

The following table shows the countries of origin of applica- 
tions in the last five years: — 

Number of applications. 


Country. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
Palestine ats nrc ba 94 137 145 114 147 
United Kingdom... ats 37 144 255 107 63 
Germany axe ves pa 56 44 206 68 66 
United States of America ... II 25 64 36 33 
Switzerland ... alee By 39 30 5 15 
France 5 12 21 32 10 
Holland 4 Ir 12 6 7 
Hungary 5 II 4 t 4 
Austria 3 9 13 4 I 
Poland I 6 9 4 I 
Sweden 3 6 5 I I 
Italy ... an I 6 5 3 1 
Egypt sue 8 5 46 10 2 
Czechoslovakia 5 5 5 7 3 
Portugal 4 I 2 1 
India ... _ 4 I _ - 


257 
Number of applications. 
Country. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
see 17 


tba theless 





> 

: 8 
Dicer a ee rel lentes 
GW Se paleperee ere 


Palco la beepeyreros 





g 
> 
So 
wo 
oo 
a 
w 
> 
iS 
° 
w 
x 
> 


Patents. 


36. The number of patent applications in 1937 was 230 (of 
wich 96 were from local residents), as compared with 264 in 
id previous year; and altogether 1,282 applications are now 

led. 

Receipts from fees amounted to £P.1,752. The main interest 
lies, as in the previous year, in the chemical and building 
industries. 


Classification of Patents. 
Number of 
Subject Matter. applications 
received. 

Chemical processes and apparatus... : a Eee 29 
Agriculture, farmyard, dairy appliances and manure ... cas 8 
Machinery, gearing mechanisms, cocks and valves F 7 
Ammunition and firearms ... 2 


Food preparation and preservation, filtering ‘and Purifying 
liquids bs I 

Cleaning, washing and i ironing as ae Ae, 

Wearing apparel... 

Storage, containers, packing and wrapping : 

Building materials and elements ; Plastering - ; scaffolding 

Distilling, iad abl and concentrating . 

Sanitary appliances .. 

Cooking and baking .. 

Cooling, refrigerators _ 

Stone crushing 

Electric machines and lamps 

Radio and sound recording... 

Electroplating 2a 

Dress fasteners 


el 


WW DOR YD 


258 


Classification of Patents—contd. 
Number of 
Subject Matter. applications 
received. 

Ventilation ... ee one she aes ove oe I 
Manufacture of fuel .. oe tan sa ae ee aes 18 
Furniture Yet Pac tes 2% ee ate nee vita 5 
Gas manufacture... or _ se Ee ee 2 
Treatment of grain and seeds an one eed ae a4 2 
Machine and hand tools... det ae 3 
Heating apparatus, burners, lamp st ‘shades and lighters ae aX 14 
Hollow ware and pipes eae res a5 oes 5 
Hydraulic engineering, irrigation ... wae mie ie wee 10 
Plastic compositions... . . 9 
Lifting and delivering ‘machines 2 
Road vehicles; railway... 3 
Medicine, surgery and dentistry 7 
Scientific instruments . I 
Paper manufacture ... 2 
Photography, transparencies ‘and cinema ‘systems ‘and films 5 
Printing, typewriters, duplicators, iste uonery eae 8 
Advertising ... eee I 
Toilet articles, perfumery ads 3 

230 


Designs. 
37. Forty-six applications for registration of designs were 
received during the year 1937, bringing the total number of appli- 
cations to 174. Fees amounting to £P.25 were collected. 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


The increase in volume of business recorded in previous 
years continued in 1937 and despite disturbances and their 
adverse effect on trade and development in general the rate of 
growth was maintained. 


2. Revenue.—Revenue amounted to £P.507,586 compared 
with £P.450,456 in 1936 and £P.409,173 in 1935. 
The principal increases were as follows: — 


Telephones... ee ae Dee ose os 
Foreign Parcel Post ... ade asa mae 5,477 
Telegrams aes oe ce Boe 4,688 
Wireless Receiving Licences” ois ae 3,818 
Miscellaneous ... oe sts ai ee 3,726 


3. Expenditure —Expenditure amounted to 6 com- 
pared wth LP. qaaSB0 ih 1936. papers 


The principal increases were :— 


Personal Emoluments +8 wis fh 31,086 
Conveyance of Mails ... aoe ee aay 12,769 
Maintenance Stores ... ‘ie dae See 2,219 
Renewals Fund as ose Sat as 5,158 


259 
The increase under Personal Emoluments was due to additional 
personnel having been engaged to cope with increased depart- 
mental activities and increments. In addition, the staff for the 
Broadcasting Service was required for the full year, whilst that 
service, having been inaugurated in March, 1936, was in opera- 
tion for nine months only during that year. 

The increase in the cost of the Conveyance of Mails was due 
to the fact that certain accounts for the carriage of mails in the 
international service were not received in time and payments 
due in respect of 1936 were as a consequence made in 1937. 


4. The surplus of revenue over expenditure was £P.112,650 
Ser acai with a surplus of £P.107,876 in 19306. 

The value of free services rendered to other Government 
Departments was £P.13,553 compared with £P.11,678 in 1936. 

5. The total value of cash transactions was £P.1,859,297 
compared with £P.1,783,113 in 1936. : 


Posts. 


6. Inland Mails.—The inland mail services generally were 
maintained with regularity and in conformity with schedule. 
There were seven services daily in each direction between 
| rape ei and Jerusalem and three services daily between 
aifa and the other three principal towns. 


7. Trans-Desert Mail—Bad weather in the opening and 
closing months of the year interfered on several occasions with 
the expeditious transport of the overland mails to ‘Iraq. 


8. Overseas Mails.—Increased use of the accelerated railway 
service from Syria via Anatolia afforded a quicker service to 
Europe and by the end of the year a considerable portion of 
the outgoing mails, more particularly for Eastern Europe but 
including Western Europe once weekly, was despatched by that 
route. 

European mails arriving by the direct Trieste—Brindisi— 
Palestine service continued to be disembarked at Haifa through- 
out the year as the Company has not resumed the use of Jaffa 
as a port of call for its mail steamers. 


g. Air Mails.—In addition to the existing air mail services 
the use of the Polish Air Service ‘‘ Lot ’’ for mails exchanged 
with Poland and the Italian air service ‘‘ Ala Littoria ’’ for 
mails with Italy three times weekly was commenced during 
the year. 

The Dutch Air Service ‘‘ K.L.M.’’ augmented their flights 
from twice to three times weekly in October, while the ‘‘ Lot ’’, 
which during the summer operated three services weekly, 
curtailed them in that month to once weekly. The additional 
services afforded the public the benefit of more frequent and 
expeditious services to most countries in Europe. 


260 


The summer air service to Cyprus by Misr Air Lines Com- 
pany was in operation from the beginning of June to the end 
of September. 

The total weight of air mails despatched to all destinations 
increased from 32,244 kilogrammes in 1936 to 34,674 kilo- 
grammes in 1937, an increase of 7-5 per cent. 

10. Parcel Mails.—The number of parcels received from over- 
seas showed a slight increase compared with the previous year, 
and the number of parcels despatched showed a slight decrease. 

11. Registered and Insured corresbondence.—A sum of 
4£P.37 was Fei as compensation for loss or damage to registered 
and insured correspondence. 

12. Returned Letter Office.—The number of undelivered items 
continued to decline substantially. Such items numbered 
512,187 in 1936 and 125,008 in 1937. Over one-third were 
letters and postcards, and the remainder consisted of printed 
matter. Approximately 1,500 of the items were registered. 
The value of articles found in undeliverable correspondence was 
£P.2,194.913 of which AP 1778-530 mils was represented by 
cheques and bills of exchange. e value of articles, other 
than cheques and bills of exchange, returned to the senders 
amounted to £P.326.189 mils, whilst the balance of £P.90.167 
mils remained unclaimed and undelivered owing to inadequate 
address. 

13. New Post Offices and Postal Agencies.—A Post Office 
was opened at Lydda Airport; a Postal neeney at Shekhunat 
Montefiori and the Postal Agencies at Khan Yunis and Kinnereth 
were converted into departmental Post Offices. 

The number of licensed postage stamp vendors was 258 at 
the end of the year, an increase of 15 as compared with 1936. 


Telegraphs. 

14. Traffic.—There was a decrease of over 15 per cent. in 
the total number of telegrams transmitted during the year. 

Notwithstanding this decrease, however, telegraph revenue 
increased from £P.27,446 in 1936 to £P.32,154 in 1937. 

15. Telegrams in Arabic and Hebrew script.—The accept- 
ance and delivery of telegrams written in Arabic characters 
was introduced at Roshpina last year, and the acceptance and 
delivery of telegrams in Hebrew characters was further extended 
to Shekhunat Borochov, Kiryat Haim, Magdiel, Tel-Mond and 
the branch Post Office at Herzl Street, Tel-Aviv (see paragraph 
18, page 270 of the Report for 1936). 

16. Teleprinters were installed in Jerusalem and Lydda Air- 
port for traffic in connection with the newly-opened Marine and 
Peo genta Wireless Stations. Working proved to be satis- 
actory. 


261 


A teleprinter multicommunication service consisting of a 
Telex exchange and _ Io stations was installed for the Depart- 
ment of Police and Prisons in Jerusalem. 

The Pama batteries hitherto used for Jerusalem Central 

ci 


Telegraph e were replaced by a Universal Battery of 
secondary cells. 


Telephones. 


17. During the first six months of the year, applications for 
telephone service were received at a high rate, averaging 160 
per month. On account of uncertain trade conditions, this rate 
declined during the second half of the year to an average of 
117 per month. Altogether 1,663 applications were received. 
This figure is the highest so far recorded in any one year. 


18. Considerable progress was made in the larger towns in 
reducing the long waiting lists of applicants for telephones which 
have been a constant feature of the service since 1933. In the 
pe towns all arrears of applications were cleared, but in 

el-Aviv there were still some applicants awaiting connec- 
tion at the end of the year. The greater portion of these will be 
dealt with when the Tel-Aviv automatic exchange is brought 
into service early in February, 1938, whilst the remainder will 
be accommodated later in the year, when the first extension 
to the automatic exchange is ready. 

There were 1,858 additional exchange lines installed and 482 
recovered, representing a net increase of 1,376 lines. The num- 
ber of telephone stations increased by 2,368. These increases 
are the largest yet recorded in any one year. 


19. Revenue and Traffic.—Telephone revenue increased from 
£P.165,141 in 1936 to £P.205,461 in 1937. 

Local calls amounted to 36,673,196, showing an increase of 
nearly 6,000,000 over the previous year’s figure. 

Trunk calls did not show an appreciable increase over the 
year 1936. Trunk traffic during the year 1936 was abnormal, 
due to the considerable use made of the trunk service by officers 
of Government and His Majesty’s Forces during the disturb- 
ances. There was however an increase of 28 per cent. in the 
number of trunk calls during 1937 over 1935. 

A number of additional trunk circuits was provided, notably 
three between Haifa and Beirut, thereby increasing the number 
of speech channels between those towns to six. Requirements 
generally, however, could not be met by additional physical 
circuits, owing to the already overloaded condition of overhead 
Toutes. 


20. New Exchanges.—New exchanges were established at 
Givat Brenner, Lydda Airport and Ramatayim, with continuous 
service at the two last named. 


262 


21. Conversions to Automatic Working.—Automatic 
exchanges were provided in replacement of manual exchanges 
at Hertsliya, Kefar Saba and Jericho. 


22. Provision of Continuous Service.—During the year con- 
tinuous service was provided at Hebron and ‘anana. 
exchanges, where attendance had been previously limited to 
the day time. A similar extension of service was effected 
at Hertsliya and Jericho by conversion to automatic working. 
At Kinneret exchange service was extended from five hours to 
12 hours daily. 


23. Telephone Kiosks.—The number of street kiosks affording 
call office service at all hours of the day and night was increased 
from four to 17. The use made of the facilities justifies further 
extension, and sites for 20 additional kiosks have been selected. 


24. Commercial Transmitters and Receivers—Four com- 
mercial transmitters were installed at Ramallah and the erec- 
tion of two 150-foot aerial towers was completed. Two of 
the transmitters are for Aeronautical Services, one for Marine 
service and one for the Police. The associated receivers for 
Aeronautical and Marine Services were installed at Lydda Air- 

rt and the transmitters are remotely controlled from there. 
The Police receiver was installed in Jerusalem, whence the 
transmitter is also remotely controlled. 


Engineering. 

25. External Plant.—Telegraph and telephone lines were 
maintained in a satisfactory working condition throughout the 
year. A great deal of work, however, was necessary to restore 
the trunk lines to full normal transmission quality owing to the 
extensive sabotage during the disturbances of 1936. Plant 
was wilfully damaged on several occasions during the year 
under review, but service was restored in all cases, with little 
delay. 

Satisfactory progress was made in laying main local cables 
and ducts in the principal and a number of the smaller towns. 


26. Internal Plant.—Extensions and alterations of a radical 
nature were carried out to Haifa and Jaffa Central Battery 
Exchanges to provide for additional trunk and subscribers’ lines 
and junctions to Urban Automatic Exchanges. In Jaffa the 
equipment of three local positions was converted for coder call 
indicator (lamp display panel) working, for the accommoda- 
tion of incoming junctions from the new Automatic Telephone 
Exchange in Tel-Aviv. 

The equipment in 12 telephone exchanges was completely 
replaced by reconditioned magneto and Central Battery equip- 
ment which had formed part of the exchange in Jerusalem super- 
seded by the present provisional exchange in 1936. The largest 





263 


of these exchanges, consisting of two trunk and two local posi- 
tions completely redesigned and rebuilt, was installed in Tiberias 
and resulted in a marked improvement in the service there. 


Main Automatic Exchanges were installed during the year in 
Jerusalem and Tel-Aviv. The installation of Tel-Aviv, 
together with junction equipment to Jaffa Manual Exchange, 
was completed before the end of the year and only the testing 
of equipment and actual change over remained to be carried 
out, while in Jerusalem the work of installation on an exchange 
initially equipped for 3,500 lines made satisfactory progress. 
The work in both exchanges was carried out by the Department’s 
staff under the supervision of the contractor’s representative. 

Classes were formed in both Jerusalem and Tel-Aviv for the 
staff and lectures dealing with the principles and details of 
Automatic Telephony were given by officers of the Department. 


Broadcasting. 


27. The broadcasting service gave programmes for five hours 
daily, in English, Arabic and Hebrew. 


The programmes of other Broadcasting organisations were 
relayed on 64 occasions. The most notable and successful re- 
broadcasts were those of the Coronation Ceremony on 12th May 
and His Majesty’s address to the peoples of the Empire on 
Christmas Day. Other outstanding programmes included the 
reading of a brief summary of the principal recommendations 
of the Royal Commission on Palestine and religious services on 
the occasion of Moslem and Christian festivals. Musical and 
dramatic programmes were also arranged specially on behalf 
of the Palestine citrus industry. 

Outside broadcasts were undertaken on 65 occasions, includ- 
ing outside broadcasts for the British Broadcasting Corporation, | 
the Whitehall Broadcasting Corporation, the Canadian Broad- 
casting Corporation and the National Broadcasting Corporation. 

Village receiving-sets were installed and maintained in 86 
villages. 

The number of licensed listeners increased from 20,400 in 
1936 to 28,516 in 1937. 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND FISHERIES. 


1. The conditions of drought experienced in the preceding year 
were fortunately not repeated in 1937, and it is possible to 
describe the year as ae been a distinctly good one for the 
agricultural community. Yields from cereal, forage and vege- 
table crops were on the whole much above the average over 
the greater portion of the country, with a fair though not a good 
teturn from leguminous crops. 


264 
2. Crops of es sesame and durra from all parts of the 
country gave the highest returns recorded for some years. The 
olive crop was the eviet picked for some years and berries 
contained a high percentage of oil. 


3. There were, however, exceptions in some sub-districts to 
the generally excellent winter crops. On the plains of the Acre 
sub-district, heavy flooding caused a loss; in the central regions 
of the Judean hills cold dry conditions in the spring kept 
cereals backward, and although early in the season there were 
excellent prospects of heavy yields in the eastern and southern 
parts of Beersheba, late rains failed to appear. The water-melon 
crop, which is of considerable importance to the country, was 
a heavy one. 


. The yields of the major crops of the country in 1937, com- 
pared with those of the preceding three years, are given in the 
ollowing table: — 


1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
Wheat ... Poy 85,171 104,353 76,059 127,420 
Barley ... 70,308 68,905 55,169 75,417 
Melons and Water 
Melons eo 36,447 68,799 81,335 102,859 
Lentils... aa 2,176 2,698 2,379 3,830 
Durra_... ae 46,830 46,135 22,122 61,023 
Sesame ... a 2,658 6,914 1,847 9,317 
Olive Oil... oa 1,329 9,018 3,150 9,600 


’ 1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 
Citrus Exports 
(cases)... +++ 5,526,097 7,330,846 5,897,310 10,786,365 


5. In a few instances applications for the remission of the 
rural property tax_were considered, and it became necessary 
to issue a loan to Beduin in the southerly region of Beersheba 
. towards the close of the year. Abnormally heavy floods had 
caused considerable damage, accompanied by loss of life, to 
property and stored grain. 


6. Although the grain harvest of 1936 had not been high 
there was at no time any shortage of tibn. Rough hillside 
grazing was fair during the spring, and combined with feed 
from the heavy stubbles, working and domestic stock have been 
in good condition throughout the year. 


7. It is satisfactory to note that the agricultural community 
has been spared the depredations of endemic diseases in field 
crops in any extensive form save the annual attack of Scythria 
separa the effects of which were nullified by the good 
rainfall. 


265 


8. The cultivation of potatoes continues to make satisfactory 
progress and the import by Government of several hundred 
tons of reliable seed potatoes for sale to farmers at cost price 
has increased the production from about a thousand tons in 
1932 to nearly ten thousand tons in 1937. 


9. Agriculture in Jewish Settlements has continued to progress 
on modern lines, and there is every indication that the Arab 
farmers are intensifying their holdings as far as is possible 
and making every effort to increase production from their farms. 


to. The use of better agricultural implements both for cultural 
and harvest operations continues to progress in Arab villages. 
The Government agricultural stations and demonstration plots 
have served a very useful purpose. 


11. There was a heavy demand for seed and seedlings from 
agricultural stations by Arab farmers. During the year over 
1,000,000 seedlings and about 250 kilogrammes of seed were 
distributed gratis. From Agricultural Stations a total of 76 tons 
of cereals and 14 tons of leguminous grain was reaped, of which 
82 tons were distributed gratis to farmers on repayment in kind 
after harvest time, and the balance sold. Work in connection 
with the improvement of natural pastures, hindered in 1936 
owing to the disturbances, has been resumed and a rotational 
grazing plot in the Beersheba area has been established. A 
quantity of imported grasses from Australia is being tried out 
both in Beersheba and in the northern areas which are favoured 
with a higher rainfall. 


12. Loans for Development in the Hills —The scheme for the 
distribution of £P.50,000 by Government as long-term loans to 
hill villages has been proceeded with and during the year under 
review approximately 1,125 applications totalling £P.31,551 
were approved by the Hill Loan Board, for the development of 
hill areas. Most of the loans are under £P.100 and have been 
approved for a period of five years, but where the loans exceed 
B00, the period of the loan has been extended normally to 
ten years, in order that the annual repayments of the loan 
should not be too onerous. So far, most of the loans have been 
for terracing hillsides and levelling rocky land, and their pre- 
paration for fruit-tree and vine planting. 


13. The loan fund is administered by a Board consisting of 
three Government Officers, and both the officers of the District 
Administration and of the Department of Agriculture and 
Fisheries co-operate in the supervision of the work of develop- 
ment by the villages in the hills. 


14. The General Agricultural Council held seven meetings 
during the year under review at which the various reports and 
recommendations of Committees appointed thereunder were 


266 


reviewed. On the recommendations of the Council, Government 
enacted legislation during the year to provide for the owner- 
ship of animal manure and to make further provision relating 
thereto. The poultry and egg industry has occupied an 
important place in the agenda of meetings of the Council and 
as a result a number of measures to stimulate the development 
of the industry have been taken, including the imposition of 
a duty on imported poultry, an increase in the existing duty on 
eggs during the period when local egg production is at its height, 
the abolition of the import duty on maize and cod-liver oil and 
a temporary reduction in the duty on imported barley. The 
Council has also given considerable attention to proposals for 
the control of bovine tuberculosis. 


15. The Citrus Fruit Committee held 12 meetings during the 
year to deal, inter alia, with amendments to the rules relating 
to the export of citrus fruit. The more important changes which 
were adopted provided for the reinspection of fruit and the sani- 
tation of groves and packing houses. Other matters dealt with 
by this committee included trade problems with certain importing 
countries, the advertising of citrus fruits, proposals for research 
to investigate the cause of wastage of citrus fruit during shipment 
to the United Kingdom, and the preparation of more compre- 
hensive statistics and their more expeditious publication. A 
special sub-committee also considered the question of by- 
products and submitted a comprehensive report on the 
possibilities of developing an industry to utilize larger quantities 
of ‘‘ cull ’’ fruit. The advice and co-operation of the Citrus Fruit 
Committee has been most helpful to the Fruit Inspection Service 
in its endeavours to improve the standard and quantity of fruit 
exported. 


16. The Plant Protection Committee held four meetings during 
the year. Careful consideration was given to the dangers of 
introducing into this eum injurious pests and diseases carried 
by imported fresh vegetables and other plants. Recommenda- 
tions have been made and are under consideration by the 
General Agricultural Council. Proposals have also been formu- 
lated, but have not yet been fully endorsed, to co-ordinate 
research work carried out by various private institutions in 
Palestine and the Government Plant Protection Service, in order 
to obviate any tendency to overlapping of work on research 
problems and to facilitate the dissemination of results by exten- 
sion officers for the control of pests and diseases. 


17. The Agricultural Chemists Committee held three meetings 
during the year to formulate a draft Fertilizer Ordinance and 
regulations thereunder, to protect farmers against adulteration 
of fertilizers. The draft Ordinance has been endorsed by the 
General Agricultural Council and is now under consideration 
by Government. 


267 

18. The Committee on Agricultural Economics and Marketing 
held four meetings during the year. It reviewed the position 
with regard to potato cultivation and as a result of its recom- 
mendations the period during which the higher Customs duty on 
imported potatoes exists was extended from 15th July to 
the 31st August. Proposals for increasing the import duty on 
cucumbers and other vegetables were also considered and 
recommendations submitted to a special Committee appointed 
by Government to consider the revision of the Palestine-Syria 
Customs Agreement of 1929. The Committee also examined and 
endorsed the recommendation of the Palestine and Egyptian 
Delegates, who had met in the summer of 1937 to discuss certain 
proposals to increase trade between Egypt and Palestine. 


19. The Agricultural Education Committee held one meeting 
to consider the classification of agricultural schools in Palestine, 
with a view to the adoption of uniform conditions of entry, 
standards, syllabuses, and the award of diplomas and 
certificates. 


Agricultural Education and Research. 

20. The issue of a monthly publication on agricultural topics 
as a supplement to the Palestine Gazette has been continued, 
and talks to farmers were broadcast once a week in the Arabic 
and Hebrew languages from the Jerusalem studio of the 
Palestine Broadcasting Service. 


Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm. 


21. The School remained closed as a result of the generally 
unsettled conditions of the country until 2oth October, 1937, 
when 48 students returned to the School out of the 60 who were 
dismissed in April, 1936. Of these 48, 25 have been given one 
term’s instruction to enable them to complete the course which 
they had nearly finished when the School was closed. The 
remaining 23 will remain at the School three terms before taking 
their final examination. 


22. A new Principal was appointed in February and the 
School staff was further strengthened by the creation of a new 
post of Vice-Principal, the appointment of a Science Master and 
a School Steward. 


23. Developments on the school farm include an increase in 
the area under irrigated fodder and the introduction of several 
up-to-date implements into the farm equipment. 


24. During the period of closure of the School, the syllabus 
was carefully studied and modified where necessary to meet the 
changing conditions in the country. Great attention is being 

aid to such subjects as Vegetable Production, Poultry and Bee- 
fering and Horticulture. During the first year of the course, 


268 


the student receives a thorough grounding in the sciences con- 
nected with agriculture and this part of the course has been 
made more comprehensive and more efficient by the appoint- - 
ment of a special Science Master with agricultural training. In 
the second year, the student gos on to receive further training in 
the production of crops and the management of stock, and is 
thus able to understand how the scientific principles which he has 
learnt during his first year may be applied in practice. 


25. Since the re-opening of the School, the students have 
shown every desire to make the best of their time, while the 
numerous applications which have been received from prospec- 
tive candidates indicate the importance which is attached to the 
two years’ course by farmers and landowners for the further 
training and education of their sons. 


Kadoore Agricultural School, Mount Tabor. 


26. Forty-two students completed their two-year course of 
instruction at the school. A slightly modified ee was 
prepared to enable students to attend classes one half of the day 
and work the other half in the field. In this way, practically 
all the farm work is done by the students under supervision 
of the instructors. 


27. Scientific excursions were made during the year and were 
of great educational value to the students. 


28. It is gratifying to record that the majority of the graduates 
have taken up agriculture as a profession. Some of them have 
formed a co-operative farm, and others work on the farms of 
their parents, or are employed on private farms. Four have 
specialized in Agriculture at foreign universities. 


29. 420 dunums of land were sown to wheat, barley, hay 
and maize for silage. Four dunums were devoted to a summer 
vegetable garden. 

1,164 forest trees of a dozen varieties and four dunums of 
oaks were planted and additional varieties of fruit trees were 
added to the area of the orchards and vineyards which remained 
at approximately 64 dunums. Over three tons of grapes, 250 
kilogrammes of plums and 90 boxes of grapefruit were gathered 
and disposed of. Considerable quantities of home-grown 
vegetables and fruit were tinned or pickled. 


30. The 41 head of cattle in the cow-byre were composed of 
21 cows, 14 heifers, 5 calves and 1 bull. The average milk 
yield for crossed breeds (Freesian x Damascus) was 3,855 litres 
with a 3-73 per cent. fat content. Cream, butter, leben and 
cheese were prepared in the school dairy. The sheep flock at 
the end of 1937 numbered 77 ewes, 25 large female lambs and 
3 rams. The average milk yield was 47 litres. 


269 
The poultry flock at the end of the year numbered 415 hens 
and 27 cocks. Culling has been carried out and has resulted 
in a marked increase in egg production. 
The number of beehives at the end of 1937 was 22. Damage 
was caused by wasps, which were strenuously combated. 


31. Generally the health of all livestock at the farm was good. 
Four cows which were affected with tuberculosis were 
slaughtered; and all the cows were free from contagious 
abortion. 


Veterinary Service. 


32. In general grazing was abundant throughout the year 
and the condition of livestock was satisfactory. As a result of 
the good early rains of this winter, grazing was available earlier 
than usual and there is every prospect that the present year will 
be a good one for livestock. 


33. The following table gives a comparative statement of 
imports of various categories of stock for the years 1936 and 
1937:— 


1936. 1937. 
Cattle for slaughter ee oes ao 36,500 28,500 
Sheep and goats ... oes one ae 332,500 333,000 
Horses, mules, camels and donkeys... 22,600 22,300 
Dairy cattle a3 mie een ony 2,150 500 
Poultry... sie ies ae ae 1,936,000 1,346,000 


The considerable decrease in the number of dairy cattle 
imported during 1937, as compared with 1936, is mainly due 
to economic depression and a consequent check in the develop- 
ment of the dairy industry in Palestine. The decrease in the 
number of poultry imported is partly due to a decrease in 
demand and partly to the imposition of a duty on poultry 
imported by sea. 


34. During the year, rules were published prescribing the 
conditions under which cattle, sheep and goats may be imported 
from the United States of America, while those rules applying 
to Hungary and ‘Iraq were modified. The rules Spolianlets 
imports of poultry from Great Britain were also modified. 


35. A survey of bovine tuberculosis was conducted dunng 
the year under review and it was ascertained that a consider- 
able increase in its incidence has taken place since the last 
survey in 1928. Schemes for the control of the disease are now 
under consideration. 


36. Foot-and-mouth disease broke out early in February, 
having been introduced from an adjacent territory by smuggled 
cattle. The disease here is of the mild type and causes 
telatively little damage. 


270 

37. Fourteen new herds were added during the year to those 
already under Government control for bovine contagious abor- 
tion, making a total of 117 herds which are being regularly 
tested. Of these, ror herds have not had a positive case during 
the last six months. The value of those herds from which the 
disease was entirely eradicated has greatly increased and the 
disease among dairy herds is well under control. 


38. Sixty-one outbreaks of anthrax were reported, involving 
14,000 animals, of which 209 died and the remainder were 
treated by vaccination. Protective vaccination of sheep and 
goats was continued as last year in the Jerusalem District and 
over 30,000 sheep and goats were vaccinated. In settlements, 
annual protective vaccination is practised regularly with excel- 
lent results. To make protective vaccination compulsory in 
those areas where the majority of flock-masters are willing to 
meet the cost of such treatment, suitable rules were promulgated 
during the period under review. 


39. Mortality among village livestock owing to tick-borne 
diseases was not considerable during the period under review 
due to the good condition of animals and their natural resistance. 
Losses among dairy cattle dipped regularly were negligible. 
Dipping of village sheep and goats in Government portable tanks 
and in permanent baths constructed by villagers with the assist- 
ance of Government was continued with satisfactory results. 


40. Parasitic gastro-enteritis in sheep and goats was respon- 
sible for heavy losses during the winter season. Several sporadic 
outbreaks of sheep and goat pox were reported and satisfactorily 
suppressed by suitable segregation measures. 


41. The blood-testing of 2,616 animals for dourine was carried 
out during the period under review and nine diseased stallions 
and 55 mares were thus detected. The stallions were castrated, 
while 16 mares were destroyed and their owners compensated. 
The remaining diseased mares were branded and their use for 
breeding purposes was prohibited. 


42. Thirteen cases of epizootic lymphangitis and nine cases of 
glanders were detected and the affected animals were destroyed. 


43. One hundred and sixty-nine cases of rabies were reported, 
53 of which were diagnosed by laboratory examination, while 
the others were confirmed as cases of rabies by Government 
Veterinary Officers judging from clinical symptoms. Over 
30,000 dogs and cats were dactrayed with the assistance of the 
Police and Local Authorities as compared with 13,362 animals 
destroyed during the preceding year. 


44. Towards the end of the year, arrangements were made to 
establish small animal dispensaries in rural towns, in charge of 
Stock Inspectors. At these dispensaries free treatment is given 


271 


to village animals for minor ailments and injuries under the 
supervision of Government Veterinary Officers. So far, 21 
dispensaries have been established and some 3,000 animals were 
treated during the year. 


45. During the early summer months the poultry industry 
was seriously threatened by an outbreak of fowl plague. B 
drastic quarantine measures and the slaughter of all birds 
exposed to infection, the outbreak was confined to certain 
localities only and did not spread. Over 6,000 head of poultry 
were destroyed. Apart from this outbreak the poultry industry 
continues to develop satisfactorily. In many newly established 
settlements the income from poultry farming is the main source 
of income and the majority of existing farms were enlarged. 
The sale of local eggs and table poultry is increasing annually 
and the development of the poultry industry is reflected in the 
increased sales of poultry produce. During the year 
95,000,000 eggs and 1,400,000 live poultry were up ale Figh 
prices of foodstuffs and increasingly large imports of table poultry 
and eggs during the earlier part of the year caused a consider- 
able amount of distress amongst poultry farmers. The industry 
was assisted by Government in the form of relief by reducing the 
import duty on maize and barley, by imposing a protective duty 
on imported fowls and by increasing the duty on imported eggs 
during the period February to June inclusive, when local egg 
production is at its height. 


46. 65,000 hatching eggs, 5,000 day-old chicks, 2,275 pullets 
and hens, 2,025 cockerels, 140 turkeys and 115 rabbits were sold 
by Government Poultry Stations at production cost. 


47. Bee-keeping continued to develop satisfactorily in both 
Arab villages and Jewish settlements. Populated modern hives 
are estimated to be about 25,000 and the yield of honey is esti- 
mated at 275 tons. The year’s honey crop was below normal 
in the citrus areas but was normal in the field and mountainous 
regions. In order further to assist the bee-keeping industry 
270 tons of duty-free sugar were imported and sold to bee- 
keepers by Government at cost price. 500 bee swarms were 
distributed from Government apiaries. : 


48. A successful refresher course was held for poultry farmers 
and a similar course for bee-keepers. The courses were attended 
by large numbers of students and lectures on both theoretical 
and practical subjects were given. These courses proved to be 
very beneficial and it is intended to repeat them. 


49. Government Stock Farm, Acre.—Four Guernsey cows, 
one Arab stallion and one Large White sow were acquired for 
use at the Stock Farm during the year. 291 animals in all 
were locally bred on the Farm during the same period. 


272 


Sales of stock from the farm included 6 jackasses, 1 mare, 
18 bulls, 4 cows, 80 pigs, 143 sheep and 195 goats. 


Livestock improvement work continued during the year. 
Eight jackasses were at stud in different districts during the 
breeding season. The Government Arab and West Highland 
Pony stallions were also made good use of during the season. 
Forty-two Government bulls were issued on loan to villages. 
Government continued to grant premiums to owners of selected 
village bulls and jackasses who in return undertook to allow 
their animals to be used for general stud purposes in the 
neighbourhood. The castration of inferior village male stock 
continued at the same time. Six Damascus male goats were lent 
to villages for crossing with the local breed of goat and a con- 
siderable improvement was observed in the half-bred progeny. 


A satisfactory cereal crop was harvested on the Stock Farm 
and green fodder was available throughout the year in 
abundance. 


Horticultural Service. 


50. Citrus exports for the season ending June, 1937, amounted 
to 10,790,II0 boxes as compared with 5,897,310 boxes for the 
previous season. The crop consisted of 9,166,903$ boxes of 
oranges; 1,542,046% boxes of grapefruit, 70,792 boxes of lemons 
and 10,368 of other citrus. 


The United Kingdom continued to be the most important 
market, absorbing 7,610,845 boxes. Exports to Continental 
countries were 1,331,445 boxes more than in the previous year, 
those countries showing an appreciable increase in their imports 
of citrus from Palestine being Holland, Germany, Sweden, 
Poland, France, Belgium, Roumania, Norway, Czechoslovakia, 
and Finland. 


51. The 1937-8 export season began on the 1st October for 
grapefruit and the 2oth November for oranges. The fruit was 
more advanced in maturity than usual and 3,859,773 boxes of 
the new season crop had been exported by the 31st December. 
Prices for grapefruit were good at the beginning of the season 
but soon dropped below the cost of production and marketing. 
Orange pus were low throughout, large fruit being sold at a 
loss, and the medium and small sizes showing little or no profit. 


52. In order to alleviate the difficulties of the citrus industry 
certain reductions in taxation were granted during the year, 
including a rebate on the Rural Property Tax on citrus groves 
from 825 to 500 mils per dunum, the exception from Customs 
duties of hoops for citrus boxes, and a drawback of 2} mils 
per box for 1937-8 for wood used in their make-up. 


273 

53. The citrus fruit advertising programme for 1936-7 was 
carried out with satisfactory results in the United Kingdom, Con- 
tinental countries, India, Palestine and Syria on a scale similar 
to that of the previous year and £P.20,400 was spent for this 
pu: . On account of the high percentage of non-exportable 
fruit available for local consumption the campaign in Palestine 
was intensified and advertising by means of the Palestine Broad- 
casting Service was carried out. The advertising fund had a 
credit balance of £P.9,950 at the close of the 1936-7 season, 
due to the fact that the crop was larger than estimated. 


54. The advertising programme for 1937-8 will be conducted 
in the United Kingdom, 15 countries in Europe, India, Canada, 
Syria, Hejaz and Palestine, and will be based on a total expendi- 
ture of £38,664. Films and radio advertising on the Con- 
tinent have been incorporated in the programme for the first 
time. 

55. The Citrus Fruit Advertisement Ordinance, 1933, was 
amended so as to enable the fund to be used to finance an 
approved scheme designed to benefit the citrus industry, wi 
the particular object of applying it to the financing of a scheme 
of research and investigation into the problem of wastage of 
citrus fruit exported from Palestine. 


50. A first year’s programme for an investigation into citrus 
fruit wastage has been drawn up and arrangements have been 
made for it to be carried out by the Department of Scientific 
and Industrial Research in the United Kingdom and the Jewish 
Agency Agricultural Research Station, Rehovot, Palestine, the 
cost being estimated at £P.3,167. This expenditure and that 
for citrus fruit advertising is to be paid from a fee of 34 mils 
collected on each box of citrus exported; there is thus no change 
in the rate of the fee collected under the Citrus Fruit Advertise- 
ment Ordinance. 


57. The general survey of citrus groves which was com- 
menced during the summer of 1936 was continued in 1937, and 
a total area of approximately 220,000 dunums has now been 
surveyed. 


58. The nine Horticultural Stations continue to be maintained 
and the fruit orchards are making satisfactory progress. 
number of investigations are being conducted, some of the more 
important being the vegetative ropeeaien of deciduous stocks, 
a study of stocks for deciduous fruits, methods of planting 
and cultivating bananas, and the effect of windbreaks on the 
quality and yield of oranges. 


59. 100,000 vines and 106,036 fruit trees were raised in these 
stations during the year, for distribution to the public in the 
1937-8 planting season. 


274 


60. The control of private pet nurseries was intensified in 
co-operation with the Plant Protection Service. Most of the 
owners applied for the renewal of their licences for the 1937-8 
season ; there were 42 licensed nurseries at the 31st December, 
1937- 

61. The olive crop was excellent. Picking commenced later 
than usual for the purpose of obtaining a higher percentage of 
oil. The use of combs for reaping the nog becoming more 
general. Improved methods of picking are being practised on a 
small scale. e Horticultural Service continues to receive appli- 
cations for a large number of trees. 


62. The vine crop was above normal throughout the country 
with the exception of the Ramallah Sub-District, where frosts 
in March injured the young growth. Berry Moth and powdery 
mildew caused considerable losses; prices were low. Phylloxera 
continued to spread, particularly in the Ramallah, Haifa, Acre 
and Safad vineyards and efforts were made to induce growers 
to replace infected vines with plants grafted on American stocks, 
of which it is estimated that about 900,000 were raised in private 
nurseries, in addition to those in Government nurseries. 


63. Bananas suffered heavy damage from frost in almost 
all areas. As a result there was a scarcity of bananas in the 
summer, with slightly increased prices. 


64. The Viticultural Officer and the Horticultural instructors 
have been touring the country for the purpose of advising fruit 
growers particularly in connection with the grant of loans from 
Government to growers in the hill district, the distribution of 
fruit trees and the care and treatment of vineyards. 


Plant Pathological Service. 

65. There was an increased intensity in extension work. The 
return of an officer from England, where he had been under 
training, made possible the organisation of a system of instruc- 
tion and demonstration which established a closer touch with 
the farmer than had formerly been the case. This has resulted 
in an awakening interest in pest control on the part of the 
farmers. Demonstrations in the control of pests of vines, figs, 
stone-fruit trees and vegetables were given in the hill villages and 
in Acre sub-district and in the Jewish Settlements. A con- 
spicuous success was obtained in the control of Prodenia lutura 
(Boisd) a serious pest of berseem (Egyptian Clover) in the 
Emek. The results of the work on the bionomics of black scale 
in Acre and the Jordan Valley were published and similar 
investigations were started in Jaffa area. 

66. Research on the Mediterranean fruit fly in the Jordan 
Valley was completed. Investigations into the pests of vegetables 
in the hills and of Mediterranean fruit fly in the hills has been 
begun. 


275 


Fisheries Service. 


67. There are engaged in the fisheries of Palestine 1,155 
whole-time fishermen and 350 part-time fishermen; 420 sailing 
boats and 10 motor boats. During 1937 the sea fisheries pro- 
duced 1,742 tons, valued at £P.54,224 and lake fisheries 
amounted to 290 tons, valued at £P.8,400. Eighteen permits 
to dang fish in Palestine have been granted to foreign fishing 
vessels. 


68. The preventive work of the Fisheries Service in conserving 
the fisheries was strengthened by the enactment in February, 
1937, of the new Fisheries Ordinance referred to in paragraph 80, 
page 290, of the Annual Report for 1936. 


69. The penalties for taking fish by explosives were increased 
and provision has been made for the issue of licences to take 
sponges. No such licences were issued during 1937, but 
enquiries have been received for the issue of licences in 1938. 


70. Twenty-eight persons were convicted of fishing by means 
of bed argh or poisons. Two foreign fishing vessels were con- 
victed of fishing within the territorial waters of Palestine. Under 
the new Fisheries Ordinance it is an offence to possess or expose 
for sale fish below a specified size of certain named species. 
Five convictions were obtained for contravention of this rule. 

71. During the year experiments have been carried out by 
the Fisheries Service in co-operation with the fishermen to deter- 
mine the minimum size of nets which will safeguard the fisheries 
and also secure an adequate return for the fishermen. 


72. The developed work of the Fisheries Service has resulted 
in the formation of two new fishing companies for the purpose 
of operating motor trawlers. The Fisheries Service has carried 
on demonstrations and experiments to establish the best type of 
trawl nets for the local conditions. Work has been begun on 
the production of special fisherman’s chart of Palestine on a 
scale of 1 in 100,000. The Northern sheet of this chart, from 
the northern frontier to Jaffa has been completed. 


73. Experimental transplantation of carp has been carried 
out. The purpose of these experiments is to establish the best 
species and conditions for restocking the inland waters. At the 
same time the rate of growth and migration of the endemic fresh 
water species have been studied by means of marking 
experiments. 

74. The collection and consolidation of statistical data con- 
cerning the fisheries has been greatly advanced during 1937. 
These data, which cover five years, permit the relative 
efficiency of different modes of fishing to be determined and thus 
ahs as a valuable guide in the promotion of the development of 

eries. 


276 


75. A new Fisheries Committee, composed of 12 members of 
the public under the chairmanship of the Chief Fisheries Officer, 
was formed towards the end of the year to consider and advise 
Government on proposals for the improvement and develop- 
ment of the fishing industry. The matters dealt with by this 
Committee and its sub-committees include legislation, practical 
problems of trawl fishing, conditions and problems of inshore 
fisheries, the financial resources of the fishing industry, and 
import duties on fish. The formation of the Committee has 
filled a long-felt want and it co-operates fully with the Fisheries 
Service in their efforts to regulate fishing in the interests of the 
industry as a whole. 


Meteorological Service. 


76. The Meteorological Service now forms part of the Depart- 
ment of Civil Aviation, which is at present engaged in increas- 
ing the number of official meteorological stations from Io to 22. 
At these stations readings of atmospheric pressure, temperature, 
relative humidity, cloud formation, wind velocity and rainfall 
are recorded by observers. In addition rainfall records are 
obtained by the Department of Civil Aviation from 75 non- 
official rainfall stations. To these are added records from the 
rainfall stations of the climatological net of the Hebrew Univer- 
sity, Jerusalem, thus making available for monthly publication 
records from upwards of 150 rainfall stations. meteoro- 
logical information published by the Dearne of Civil Avia- 
tion is available for exchange with Meteorological Services 
abroad. 


77. All records submitted by observers are now checked and, 
where necessary, corrected by the Meteorological section of the 
Department of Civil Aviation instead of in Cairo as was formerly 
the practice. 


78. The rainfall at official meteorological stations up to the 
31st December, 1937, as compared with that for the same period 
last year, is shown below: — 

Ist June, 1936, to rst June, 1937, to 





Station. 31st December, 1936. 31st December, 1937. 
Millimetres. Millimetres. 
Acre ... ase ce 294°5 335°1 
Beisan... ss ase 190°9 103°0 
Beersheba... aR 125°5 88-6 
Beit Gemal ... 271°7 137°7 
Gaza ... ave 220°2 173°2 
Haifa ... fad mp 381°5 348°1 
Jerusalem... wet 286°3 71°8 
Jenin ... ss oye 235°5 122-2 
Jericho eae Sue 82-0 56°5 
Tel-Aviv 353°7 235°0 


277 
79. Itis interesting to record that up to the end of December, 
1937, the rainfall at places on the Judean Hills, where precipita- 
tion is usually high, as at Jerusalem, was exceptionally low. 
The fall in Jerusalem was only a quarter of the rainfall of the 
corresponding period for 1936 and a third of the average. 


80. Shortly before the end of 1937, the Meteorological Section 
moved to the Lydda Airport, where a meteorological service 
for the guidance of air-pilots was commenced. Measurements of 
upper winds are carried out daily by means of pilot balloons. 
Daily weather maps are now produced. 

With the advent of civil aviation a more elaborate Meteoro- 
logical Service is being established, the aim of which is to 
provide information comparable with that collected by the 
Meteorological Services in Europe. 


Forest Service. 


81. The comprehensive forest policy the need for which has 
long been felt was continued during the year. Over one and 
three-quarters of a million plants were raised in ten forest 
nurseries. Government plantations in Forest Reserves absorbed 
1,338,000 plants and 700 kg. of pine seed. The total area which 
had been subjected to afforestation operations up to the end of 
the 1936-7 planting season was 20,000 dunums. Fifty-nine 
plantations on 2,000 dunums were formed by private agency, 
mainly Jewish, during the season. 423,000 plants were issued 
free from Forest Nurseries to the public during the year. 


82. In 1937, four new Forest Reserves have been proclaimed, 
and two cancelled, bringing the total to 277 Reserves, with a 
nominal area of 740,473 dunums. A large number of encroach- 
ments has reduced the aggregate area considerably. 


83. An area of 4,271 dunums of State Domain lands disclosed 
by Land Settlement and Land Court decisions have been 
allocated as the first State Forests. 


84. The reclamation of sand dunes was continued on a small 
scale at Gaza. The experiment started last year to test the 
possibilities of arresting inland sand drift over the Beersheba- 
Asluj road by the planting and protection of desert vegetation is 
being continued with some success. 


85. Seeds of 15 exotic species of timber and ornamental plants 
were obtained for trial from abroad by purchase or exchange. 


86. Forest Revenues totalled £P.2,736, mainly derived from 
felling fees collected from the owners of trees on private land. 
The estimated value of forest produce extracted from Forest 
Reserves by right-holders for their domestic needs was £P.1,260 
and the value of forest produce extracted from Reserves under 
48607 K 


278 
trade licences for sale was £P.523. The estimated value of 
produce sold from privately-owned plantations and woods was 
£P.26,593- he Boe 

9,914 forest licences were issued by District Officers including 
1,504 to right-holders. 

42,214 animals were licensed to graze in Forest Reserves. 
Of these 41,544 belonged to right-holders. Estimating the value 
of grazing at 100 mils per head per annum the value of forest 
grazing was £P.4,22I1. 

1,303 persons were convicted for forest contraventions. 

87. 9,000 wild olive suckers were extracted from forest 
Teserves at Government expense and planted at Government 
Horticultural Stations for budding and issue to cultivators. 

50,000 carob plants were issued from Government nurseries 
to the public, and for planting in Forest Reserves. 

15,955 wild carob trees were budded in forest reserves with 
Cyprus and local bud-wood. 

mports of forest produce including manufactures amounted 
in value to £P.945,803 and exports to £P.29,247. 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS AND GEOLOGY. 


The total expenditure by the Public Works Department during 
the year was approximately £P.1,070,000, compared with 
£P.1,008,000 in 1936. With the exception of a number of new 
roads constructed on grounds of public security, which account 
for this heavy expenditure, the volume of works executed by the 
department in 1937 was appreciably smaller than in previous 
years. Various public orks of magnitude, including several 
buildings which it was anticipated would be put in hand during 
the year, have been postponed for the time being. 


2. Recurrent and maintenance services were carried out satis- 
factorily. The most important of the maintenance services was 
the upkeep of roads, the total mileage of which has increased 
considerably during the last few years. Sections of main roads 
situated within municipal areas of towns were maintained, as 
in the past, from funds piece jointly by Government and the 
Municipalities concerned. 


3. The execution of public works proceeded normally through- 
out the country during the year and there were practically no 
delays or special difficulties on account of disturbances. It has 
been necessary, however, as a measure of precaution, to provide 
special protection on a number of works. 


4. The construction of the General Post Office, Jerusalem, 
which was begun in 1934, was continued and will be completed 
early in 1938. The police married quarters in course of erection 
last year were completed and occupied. 


= & ; a —o es 
=, 


279 

5. Work on the construction of town schools which had been 
delayed last year was continued. The erection of three town 
schools at Jaffa, the construction of which was interrupted 
during 1936 owing to the disturbances, was resumed. 

The erection of a Girls’ Central School at Jerusalem was com- 
pleted and the building was occupied. Sites were acquired for 
the erection of further schools in Haifa and in Jerusalem and 
also for the erection of a modified type of school in the smaller 
towns. 

The construction of police stations and police married quarters 
at Tel-Aviv and Haifa was put in hand at the beginning of the 
bor and the buildings will be completed and occupied early in 
1938. 

Ten staff quarters were constructed and completed at the 
Lydda Airport during the year and the construction of a terminal 
building has been commenced. 

Designs for ancillary buildings, such as a power house, 
entrance gate house, and temporary buildings for use as offices, 
etc., were prepared and these works will be put in hand shortly. 
A design was also prepared for a combined hangar and terminal 
building for the Haifa Airport. 


6. Progress was made during the year on the design and 
details of various projects such as the Central Government 
Offices, Jerusalem, the Ramle Hospital and the Fever Hospital, 
North Jaffa, and the Hospital to be erected at Amman in Trans- 
Jordan. Work on the Government Hospital in Haifa is still in 
progress. 


7. The following buildings which were commenced in the 
previous year were completed during 1937:—a farm labour 
camp near Acre for juvenile delinquents, a rural automatic 
exchange building at Bethlehem, and an engine room for marine 
wireless at the Broadcasting Station, Ramallah. A building was 
also constructed at Tiberias to house the Government launch 
and a weighbridge was erected at the Rosh Pinna police post. 


8. In connection with the formation of a special police divi- 
sion to control the Northern Frontier nine permanent huts were 
erected along the new Northern Frontier road for use as police 
posts, and were occupied by the police. The construction of 
two more huts is now proceeding. 

Apart from new buildings, a number of additions, improve- 
ments, structural alterations and special repairs to Government 
offices, police buildings, schools, renee law courts, and 
agricultural and horticultural stations were undertaken. 


g. Considerable work has been carried out during the year 
on the construction of new roads on grounds of public security. 
The by-pass road from the Affula—Nazareth road to the 


48607 K2 


280 


Nazareth—Haifa road and the Affula—Shutta section of the 
Affula—Beisan road, which were commenced last year, were 
completed. 

The continuation of the Jaffa—Haifa road northward to 
Hadera over a length of 264 kilometres, begun in the previous 
year, was completed, together with further sections of about 
28 kilometres between Benyamina and Haifa. The completion 
of this most important connection between Jaffa and Haifa, the 
need for which was keenly felt over a period of several years, 
caused considerable satisfaction in the country. The road was 
officially opened on 30th September, 1937, and is already one 
of the most heavily used roads in Palestine. 


Io. A new road was also aligned and constructed, purely on 
grounds of public security, along the Northern Frontier between 
Palestine and Syria from Ras en Naqura to a point north of 
Lake Huleh on the Rosh Pinna—Metulla road. 


11. The following roads which were commenced prior to 1937 
were completed during the year : — 


Jenin—Megiddo—Haifa road. 

Rehovoth—Gaaz road. 

Tulkarm—Nathanya road. 

Road leading from Lydda and Jaffa to the Lydda Airport. 

Road from Haifa—Acre road to Haifa Airport. 

Southern Approach to Jaffa Port. 

Road from Hadera Station towards Pardess Hanna 
Settlement. 

Road from Benyamina Settlement to Railway Station. 


Work was also commenced on the construction, at a total cost 
of ap roximately £P.10,000, of a road from Ra‘anana, on the 
Hertsliya—Qalqiliya road, towards Miske. This road passes 
through an intensively cultivated area mostly planted with 
citrus trees. 


12. Considerable progress was made in the construction of a 
new bridge on the road from Tel-Aviv to Petah Tiqva. The 
Tel-Aviv—Petah Tiqva road is the road carrying the heaviest 
traffic in Palestine and the new bridge forms part of a scheme 
for the widening of this road with a view to reducing traffic 
congestion. 

The erection of a new bridge over the Jordan near Jericho in 
substitution of the present Allenby bridge was well in hand 
towards the end of the year. The existing bridge will be moved 
to Jisr Damiya, further north on the Jordan, where it will con- 
siderably improve communications between Nablus and Trans- 
Jordan. 


281 


Preparations were made towards the end of the year to com- 
mence a number of improvements to village roads. These 
services are designed to provide a measure of relief to distressed 
areas. 


13. The construction of a filtration and sedimentation plant 
at Ras el Ain, the source of the Jerusalem water supply, was 
completed during the year. 


14. Satisfactory progress was made during the year on the 
Jerusalem Drainage Scheme, which is financed by advances 
from surplus balances in anticipation of the £P.2,000,000 loan 
and is being carried out by the Municipality of Jerusalem under 
the control of the Public Works Department. 


15. Proposals for the carrying out of the detailed drainage 
scheme for the town of Haifa are under consideration by 
Government. 


Improvements to village water supplies, from the sum of 
4&P.45,000 provided under the proposed £P.2,000,000 loan and 
additional funds allocated for the same purpose which were 
practically at a standstill in the previous year owing to the dis- 
turbances, were continued. At the end of the year over 200 
schemes were completed; these included 15 schemes commenced 
prior to and 30 schemes executed during 1937. In addition, 
nine schemes were in progress at the end of the year. 


A project was prepared by the department for improvements 
to be carried out for the water supply scheme of the town of 
Acre. 


16. Under the Steam Boilers Ordinance 50 boilers and two 
prime movers were examined and licensed. 


17. The District Engineers, as Inspectors under the Machinery 
(Fencing) Ordinance, examined a number of factories in which 
mechanical plant is installed. 


18. Several applications for oil storage installations for which 
licences are issued under the Petroleum Regulations (Trades 
and Industries (Regulation) Ordinance) were dealt with. 


19. During the year compensation claimed under the Work- 
men’s Compensation Ordinance for accidents to labourers 
employed directly by the Public Works Department was paid in 
67 cases, including three fatal accidents. 


20. The Road Board considered a number of questions during 
the year, including the programme of road construction for the 
1937-8 financial year, the construction of feeder roads to the 
Railway and maintenance. of roads built by private bodies. 

48607 K 3 


282 


21. The following are detailed reports of drilling operations 
carried out by Government drilling plants: — 


Rig No. 1.—The bore hole at Bir el Sakaty 13 km. north of Beersheba, 
started at the end of 1936, reached a depth of 1,040 feet. The strata 
passed through were mainly gravels, bituminous marls, and Turonian- 
Cenomanian hard limestones. The bore was stopped in dolomitic lime- 
stone without finding any water. The rig is to be moved to a site about 
2 km. east of Beersheba. 

Rig No. 2.—The bore hole at Faluja, Gaza Sub-District, was carried 
down to 276 feet, passing through marl, chalk, and calcareous sand- 
stone. The bore gives 10 M® of water per hour with no draw-down 
and a chlorine of 41 parts per 100,000. 

The Rig was then moved to Battouf, Nazareth Sub-District, where a 
depth of 413 feet was reached, the formation encountered being clay 
and gravel. A very small quantity of highly saline water (420 parts of 
chlorine per 100,000) was encountered at a depth of 400 feet. This hole 
has been temporarily discontinued. 


Rig No. 3.—The first bore at Yabed had to be abandoned at 123 feet 
owing to technical difficulties. A site was chosen close by and this 
second hole is now down to 250 feet. Progress has been slow owing to 
the hard strata. 


Rig No. 4.—The bore at Sejera was stopped after reaching a depth of 
750 feet without finding water. The strata passed through were basalt, 
gravel and clay, and dolomitic limestone. 

The Rig was moved to Auja Foka in the Jordan Valley, where a 
depth of 601 feet was reached in bituminous limestone and flints without 
finding water. 

The Rig has been moved to a site 3 kilometres south of Jericho. 


Geology. 


22. Geological mapping of the Haifa, Safad, Zichron Ya’aqov, 
Tulkarm, and Tel-Aviv Sheets of the contoured 1:100,000 maps 
issued by the Survey Department has now been practically com- 
pleted. A good deal of geological mapping has also been done 
on other sheets, viz., Beisan, Nablus, Jerusalem, Hebron, and 
Bethlehem. The Gaza Sheet has been completed by the 
geologists of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, Ltd., except for 
the shore line, which has to be revised by separating the 
Mousterian red sand from the younger and older sandstone 
series. A contoured geological map of Palestine on a scale ot 
1:250,000 has been prepared and it is hoped that this will be 
published in conjunction with the hydrological survey reports. 
Geological mapping has also been started on the newly-issued 
1:50,000 map of Central Judea. 


23. A report on the Geology, Hydrology, Minerals, and Build- 
ing Stones has been prepared for the Trans-Jordan Government 
and it is hoped that this will be published by the Trans-Jordan 
Government, together with a map on a scale of 1:1,000,000 
giving the geology of Kerak and Amman districts. This map 
is a reduction from 1:250,000 geological maps of Kerak and 
Amman which are nearly completed. 


283 


24. Of the five trial borings carried out by the Consulting 
Engineers in connection with the Haifa Water Supply Scheme 
bore No. I at Jelameh was drilled to 120 metres depth. The 
yield of water is 331 M3 per hour, having eight parts of chlorine 

r 100,000 with a draw-down of 23 metres. Bore No. 2 at 

ufta Adi has reached a depth of 320-70 metres without finding 
water and is being deepened to 400 metres in the oe of pene- 
trating the bituminous limestone. Bore No. 3 at Wadi Fellah 
reached a depth of 121-20 metres, giving about 325 M3 of 
water per hour, having 17 parts of chlorine per 100,000 and 
with no draw-down. Bore No. 4 at Wadi Maliq reached a depth 
of 86-50 metres and, under a bailing test, yielded 13 M3 of 
water per hour with 18 parts of chlorine per 100,000. Bore 
No. 5 at Jelameh reached a depth of 120 metres, giving about 
170 M3 of water per hour having 11 parts of chlorine per 
100,000 and with a draw-down of 25-5 metres. 


25. Hydrological Maps.—A salinity map to a scale of 
1:250,000 was prepared covering an area from the shore line 
to the foothills. A rainfall map of Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
to a scale of we ees was made from data supplied by the 
Meteorological ce. 


26. Quarries.—The number of quarry licences are as 
follows : — 


Stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) eee tee 152 
Sand (including zifzif and clay) ... ae nee oe 125 
Gypsum te ane ron 2 


27. Legislation is under consideration by Government with a 
view to regulating the mining of oil. 


Haifa Harbour Development. 


28. The construction of the oil dock was completed in August. 
A few minor works, which await the arrival of the necessary 
material from England, remain to be carried out. 


_ 29. Good progress was made in the construction of the cargo 
jetty throughout the year. 


Shoreworks for the cargo jetty were started and old buildings’ 
on the site have been demolished and excavation for new 
permanent railways was put in hand. 


30. A new timber and corrugated sheeting tobacco shed, with 
aconcrete floor area of 390 square metres was constructed during 
the year and handed over to the Port Authorities in November. 
A second animal gangway was also constructed and handed 
over to the Port Authorities in‘the same month. 

48607 K 4 


284 


31. The construction of concrete firewalls around the ‘Iraq 
Petroleum Company oil tanks on the 20-acre reclaimed area 
and a reinforced concrete boundary wall enclosing the whole 
area was commenced in April and progressed well during the 
remaining part of the year. 


32. The expenditure on works carried out by the Harbour 
Development Works Department during the year was 
£P.I01,000. 


33. All works in connection with the Jaffa Port Improvement 
Scheme as originally sanctioned were completed according to 
plan and were handed over to the port authorities. 


Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate. 


34. The development of the Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed 
Area) Estate continued. 

The year’s work was devoted to the completion of van 
rather than to the inauguration of new, development. n 
view of the fact that further development must take place at 
the western end of the Estate, the layout of which is dependent 
on the future extension of the Harbour, no additional area 
could be developed. The area under development for com- 
mercial and general purposes was approximately 130 dunums. 
Out of this area 68 sites have been feed for the purposes set 
out in paragraph 20 of Chapter XXVI of the Report for last 
year. 


35. After prolonged negotiations a lease was concluded with 
the Eretz Israel (Palestine) Foundation Fund Keren Hayesod, 
Limited, of a site for a building to contain the offices of the 
Jewish Agency for Palestine. 


36. Thirty-eight certificates of completion were issued during 
the year, making, with those previously issued, a total of 58. 

e general standard of construction has improved since a 
whole time building inspector has been employed and it has 
been possible for all constructional work to be inspected regu- 
larly whilst in progress. 


37. The total amount collected in respect of rent and interest 
during the year was £P.35,644.182 mils, while £P.826 was 
outstanding on 31st December, 1937. In addition to rent, Land 
Registry fees, Stamp Duties and Water Charges amounting to 
4P.677.172 mils were paid by lessees, making, with the amount 
of £P.6,997.804 mils previously collected, a total of 
£P.7,674.976 mils which has accrued to Government out of 
the Estate in connection with these items. 

A number of the lessees formed the ‘‘ Harbour Estate Lessees’ 
Union ’’, with the object of negotiating jointly on behalf of 
the members with a view to obtaining relaxations or privileges 


285 


from the Government and Municipal Authorities in regard to 
building, town planning and public health regulations and the 
payment of rents and taxes. 


38. The most noticeable development during the year was 
the transformation of the north side of Kingsway from a few 
isolated and incomplete buildings to an established shopping 
and business centre. Many of the principal banks in Palestine 
have opened head offices or branches on the Government 
property. 

39. The ground floor of the new passenger railway station 
known as Haifa Central, at Plumer Square, was completed 
and was formally opened on 1st June. 


XXVII.—RAILWAYS. 
The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated 
Lines is divided as follows: — 


(a) In Palestine: — 


Standard Gauge 105 cm. Gauge 
(4 ft. 84 inches). (Hejaz Railway). 


Kilometres (excluding sidings). 

















Rafah—Haifa_... ah oe 229°5 _ 
Jaffa—Jerusalem va 03 87 _ 
Ras e] Ein—Petah Taye se 6-5 _ 
Sarafand Line... aes 4°5 _ 
Beit Nabala Line oe ee 5 _— 
Haifa—Samakh . —_ 88 
Haifa (junction at ‘Kilo 2)—Aere —_ 18 
Nablus—Tulkarm* — 38 
332°5 144 
(b) In Sinai: — 
E] Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafah 203 _ 
(c) In Trans-Jordan: — 
Nassib—Amman—Maant a _— 323 
Total length of system (exclusive 
of sidings) we 535'°5 467 











* The section of the Hejaz Railway from Affula, on the Haifa—Samakh 
line to E] Mas‘udiya near Nablus, a length of 60 kilometres, was closed in 
1932 as a measure of economy and owing to the lack of traffic, but the line 
has not yet been removed. 

¢ The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans- 
Jordan runs through Syria as part of the line from Haifa to Damascus and 
from Damascus to Trans-Jordan and is administered and operated by the 
Syrian Authorities. The Trans-Jordan line formerly continued southwards 
from Maan to Mudawara (113 kilometres beyond Maan) on the border of 
Trans-Jordan and the Hejaz, and thence to Medina; but this section of the 
line has not been reconditioned since the damage done during the War, and 
is not in use. 7 


286 


2. The lines operated by the Palestine Railways Adminstra- 
tion traverse three States—Egypt, Palestine and Trans-Jordan— 
and serve country of widely differing character—thus, the long 
stretch of dune sand desert in Sinai, one of the most difficult, as 
regards maintenance, with which any railway has to contend; 
the alluvial plains of Palestine, where the foundation consists 
of treacherous clays and black cotton soil; the mountainous 
country of the Judean Hills, through which Jerusalem, at 
2,468 feet above sea level, is approached by steep and narrow 
valleys; the valleys of the western slopes of the Jordan cleft, 
through which the line of the Hejaz Railway descends to 824 feet 
below sea-level; the rocky highlands and plateaux of Trans- 
Jordan, on the way to Amman and Maan; and the desolate 
sandy clay wastes through which the line runs along the western 
fringes of the desert of Arabia. 


3. The system which serves Palestine comprises three lines of 
separate and distinct origin: — 


(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line. 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder-line from the Port of Haifa to the 
main line of the Hejaz Railway, which was constructed princi- 
pay to carry pilgrim traffic from Damascus to Medina and 

ecca. Its origin was a ere of series gener line starting 
from Haifa, which an English company had built, but had not 
completed, under an Ottoman concession. The original conces- 
sionnaires were bought out by the Hejaz Railway Administration 
and the 105 centimetre gauge Hejaz Railway system was laid 
out of Haifa on the formation completed or partly completed 
by the English company. 


(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line was laid originally as a metre- 
gauge railway by a French company, also under an Ottomar 
concession. At the outbreak of the War it was taken over by 
the Turkish Army and converted to 105 centimetre-gauge to 

. serve as part of the projected extention southwards of the Hejaz 
Railway as a military track. Subsequently the line was con- 
verted by the British Army to standard E%. and incorporated 
in the line of that gauge built during the War from the Suez 
Canal to Palestine and referred to in (c) below. 


(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge 
system in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British 
Army in 1918 as the northern extension of the line which had 
followed the Army during the advance from Egypt. 


mes cheer, = ' oa 


287 


At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre- 
gauge lines come together and at Haifa, in order to use the 
space available for shuntin ng to the best advantage, it is necessary 


to make use of many du 


gauge tracks. 


4. A summary of the principal and statistical results com- 


pared with 1936 is given below: — 


Gross Revenue. 


1937. 
£P. 

(a) Palestine Railway ae 592,442 
() Sinai (El Kantara— 

Rafah) Railway... 120,436 
(c) Hejaz Railway ... 25 88,390 
(@) Petah Tiqva Railway ... 4,335 

Notes. 


1936. 1937. 
£P. £P. 
635,630 609,022 


176,406 116,330 
100,575 122,924 
5415 840 


Working Expenses, 


1936. 
£P. 
606,664 


120,134 
110,466 
840 


(a) Working Expenses of the Palestine Railway include Interest and 
Sinking Fund Charges and the Annual Contribution to Palestine Rail- 


way Renewals Fund. 


(6) The Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway pays rental charges for 
the use of Palestine Railway engines and rolling stock. The Working 
Expenses include Contribution to the Special (Renewals) Fund. 


(c) The Working Expenses of the Petah Tiqva Railway Line represent 


a flat annual charge for maintenance. 


Year ended 31st December, 


1937. 
Passengers carried (excinding Season 
Tickets) i No. 1,945,000 
Freight Handled sae be «.. Tons 1,102,194 
Trains run No. 32,613 
Engine Mileage * (including “Sentinel 
Cammell Cars) Miles 1,930,105 
Total Staff as at 31st December .. No. 4,510 
Total Salaries and Wages__... we £P. 396,987 
1937. 
Passenger Traffic. £P. 
Palestine Railway das 153,736 
Sinai (El Kantara-. Rafah) Railway was 72,148 
Hejaz Railway aes 32,473 
Petah Tiqva Railway .. _ 
£P.258,357 
Goods Traffic. 
Palestine Railway F sn 359,536 
Sinai (El Kantara- Rafa) Railway aes 45,012 
Hejaz Railway .. pte 48,493 
4463 


Petah Tiqva Railway .. 


£P.458,104 


1936. 


2,394,000 
1,009,457 
31,752 


1,918,149 
5,286 
396,408 


1936. 
£P. 

201,944 
79,525 
36,996 


318,465 


386,955 
94,221 
57,213 

4,773 


543,162 


288 
The principal commodities carried during the year were :— 
Commodity. Tons. 


1. Barley... Sep ae Ses es 18,643 
2. Wheat... oe Ba sae eas 34,439 
3. Maize... od lt acy ss 15,365 
4. Other cereals... Za ois an 14,162 
5. Tibben ... fo FS Res ea 12,681 
6. Oil cakes ox ee mate ee 2,962 
7. Flour <a mes oes BS wee 21,937 
8. Rice a a8 ao ne con 16,331 
g. Sugar... ie wie oe ese 16,560 
ro. Groceries and Provisions oH tee 38,821 
tr. Sand aes aie a, bas ais 16,241 
12, Stone... noe aie Yi sas 17,894 
13. Lime wee ee ss ee wis 6,160 
14. Cement ... as oe ive ae 126,494 
15. Asphalt ... ae 3 Be wee 12,328 
16. Other building materials a on 86,274 
17. Wooden planks for boxes ave wh 26,764 
18. Manure ... wet sc es sie 20,129 
Ig. Oranges ... pi oe ate th 279,587 
20. Grape-fruit whe nae eas a 17,559 
21. Lemons eee ace oa oe 952 
22. Melons ... os aes Sie ae 13,810 
23. Grapes... ea Dee, ee 308 
24. Kerosene and fuel oils ... th) aot 90,523 
25. Coal ois a en re, os 45,645 
26. Petrol... a het oy wise 12,262 
27. Firewood fh Bat aoe ans 2,459 
28. Soap oe ao _ aa he I,O0L 
2g. Salt ee ste 2%, ne oes 11,204 
30. Potash ... ne Pe 2S Bas 28,708 
31. Bromine ae ae aa “se 1,382 
32. Chlorine ... aa BAe obs as 254 
33. Caustic soda wes ora aes nas 333 
34. Nitrate of soda ... £2 a ne 79 
35. Magnesium chloride... Bie ae 430 
36. Sulphur ... asi a aes sale 568 
37. Mineral water ... fen see “38 162 
38. Empties ... tos ase on eas 4,926 
39. Machinery re at oat wee 2,362 
40. Miscellaneous... oe aS one 83,495 


Total pe vee 1,102,194 


289 
The principal increases and decreases in goods traffic in 1937 
as compared with 1936 were as follows: — 











Commodity. Increases. 
Tons. 
Wheat... avs a mee ase oes 8,690 
Maize one soe tes one ae 7,262 
Other cereals... ves at ey ose 4,735 
Rice ve8 oa aoe 3,741 
Other building materials La ae ay 11,227 
Wooden planks for boxes ... oes ate 7,284 
Manure ww a 34 oe 3,992 
Oranges on a tee ae Se 161,257 
Melons Bas wed eae ras $55 4,766 
Coal ... oe Ae ce Teta 1 cade 14,653 
Salt... res ase ee ast oa 2,364 
Potash isis or aa da bas 11,028 
Others... San Os S35 see fee 511 
241,510 

Commodity. Decreases. 
Tons. 
Barley... sae Bf ee 308 Bele 4,437 
Oil Cakes... e's ois on ae 1,807 
Flour ... mee ee ae és a 8,021 
Sugar : aah os aie 1,780 
Groceries and Provisions ea) ae m8 29,736 
Stone ... ae Bes ay ao nee 42,651 
Lime ... eee a0 fe oes a8 5,303 
Cement nae sa eee peasens ate 7,634 
Grape-fruit ... we ar eee 4,103 
Kerosene and fuel oils os a aaN 1,944 
Petrol 5 rr es me ai 4,504 
Mineral Water | as was red Ke 1,335 
Empties 333 Ace a Sus ee 1,251 
Miscellaneous... ee Ra ae oa 30,913 
Others... Lee es es ies or 3,294 
148,779 





XXVIII.—CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES. 


An Ordinance amending Section 60 of the Co-operative 
Societies Ordinance, 1933, dealing with insurance business was 
enacted in May, 1937. The amending Ordinance exempts 
societies carrying on insurance business of a non-profit making 
nature from the obligations imposed on insurance companies 
aouiing registration and deposits. This measure has been 

ed to encourage mutual insurance of livestock and agricul- 
produce generally. 


“2. The revision of other Sections of the Co-operative Societies 

Ordinance, 1933, envisaged in paragraph 2, page 306, of the 
annual report for 1936 was deferred until the enactment of the 
new Banking Law, which contains provisions affecting Co-opera: 
tive Societies. 


290 
3. The amendments of the Companies Law dealing with the 
conversion of Co-operative Societies into Limited Liability Com- 
pue were enacted in May, 1937, and by the end of the year 
our societies took advantage of the conversion facilities and 
submitted conversion schemes for approval. One scheme was 
finally approved, the others are still under consideration. 


Arab Movement. 


4. Sixty new credit and thrift societies were formed in Arab 
villages, bringing up the total number of Arab village societies 
to 12I. 

5. The older Arab societies enlarged their membership by 
66 per cent. and increased their own funds by 60 per cent. during 
the period under review. 


6. The following figures illustrate the position of Arab credit 
and thrift societies at the end of 1937 as compared with the 
period ending December, 1936. 

End of 1936. End of 1937. 


Number of societies ... eae et 60 120 
Number of members orn BS 3,078 5,121 
£P. £P. 
Own funds ... aoe tes ant 6,331 10,117 
Borrowed funds bee Eee ss 49,629 62,278 
Loans issued ... wes a aa 55,662 71,790 


7. The village credit and thrift societies obtained all their 
borrowings from Barclays Bank in the form of short term loans. 
Repayments of loans by members continued to be satisfactory 
on the whole and the majority of societies were able to meet their 
liabilities to the Bank in due time. Several societies, however, 
experienced some difficulties in collecting loans granted to their 
members, owing to the unsettled conditions prevailing in the 
country and as a result of their inability to dispose of their citrus 
and olive crops. The cases of these societies are receiving 
careful consideration and it is hoped that their borrowings from 
the Bank will be repaid in due course. 


8. Some of the older village credit and thrift societies have 
arranged to start small and regular saving accounts for their 
members. For this purpose they have distributed among their 
members 2,000 saving boxes suitably inscribed with passages 
from the Koran in praise of thrift. It is hoped that this action 
will augment the resources of the societies. 


g. Arrangements have been completed for the formation of 
two olive oil pressing societies in the Samaria District. These 
societies will receive long term loans from the funds allocated 
by Government for developments in the hilly districts of 
Palestine and will commence operations in the 1938 olive season. 


291 
ro. No new Arab societies were registered in the towns and 
of the old societies seven were ordered into liquidation. An 
application for the registration of a citrus marketing society 
composed of owners of large groves in Jaffa was submitted 
during December and is under consideration. 


Jewish Movement. 


rz. A new Audit Union for housing societies was formed at the 
end of the year, bringing the total number of Audit Unions to 
six. The total number of affiliated societies rose to 402, as 
compared with 322 at the end of 1936 and 257 at the end of 
1935. An additional Audit Union is about to be formed by the 
Jewish Farmers Federation. 

12. The number of new societies registered during the year 
amounted to 151, as compared with 129 during 1936 and 164 
during 1935. The number of societies liquidated and declared 
defunct amounted to 47 in 1937, as compared with 47 during 
1936 and 22 during 1935. 

13. The following table shows the development of Jewish 
societies during 1937 as compared with the previous two years. 


Defunct and 


Registered. Liquidated. Converted 








1935.| 1936.| 1937. 1935.) 1936.| 1937.| 1935.| 1936.| 1937- 
1 i} 








Irrigation Societies Ir 7 1] —| —] —| 1 I 
General Agricultural 
and Marketing 
Societies swe 
Agricultural Settle- 
ments... ext 
Co-partnerships of 
Labour ... sso 35 14 II im} — 8 5 
Housing Societies... 33 4 3 8] — 4} — 
Credit and Thrift 
Societies (Urban 


26 2 3 _ I 6 I 


sF PS) = >) 5 3 





and Rural) _ _ 2 3] =, I r 
Consumers’ Societies _— I a (ee es es 
Miscellaneous 

Societies _— i) a ee 
Total 2I 21 36 I 26 18 























14. The above figures show that 64 societies out of the total 
of 151 societies registered during 1937 are societies for agricul- 
tural services, i.e., Irrigation, Marketing and Settlements. This 
high proportion of over 42 per cent. is mainly the result of the 
formation of new citrus marketing societies in the younger 
citrus areas and of the establishment of new settlements on lands 
acquired by the Jewish National Institutions in recent years. 


oiaizes y GOOTE 


292 


15. The Jewish citrus marketing societies, which now control 
over 50 per cent. of the total citrus exports, have made some 
progress towards unification of their activities. Arrangements 
for the joint disposal of culls in the local markets and for regu- 
lating shipments of grapefruit to foreign markets came into 
eae early in the 1937 season. The negotiations for joint 

ipping and marketing of oranges and for the joint purchase 
of packing materials are now proceeding on lines of an amalga- 
mation of eight of the leading societies. For this purpose a 
central society is to be registered. In the meantime, primary 
societies have delayed entering into any independent contracts 
for the coming season. 


16. Co-partnerships of Labour represent over 20 per cent. of 
the total number of societies formed during the year. This high 
proportion may be attributed to the economic depression, which 
usually drives the individual artisan or labourer to collaboration 
with his fellows. 


17. The majority of the 33 housing societies registered during 
1937 have as their object the erection and maintenance of 
co-operative apartment houses. Only a few societies were formed 
for the development of new suburbs. 


18. The credit societies have had to work under a considerable 
strain throughout the year, owing to a continual drain on their 
resources both by the withdrawal of deposits and increased 
demands for loans. The position of credit societies at the end 
of 1937 is reflected in the following table: — 








Liabilities. Assets. 
£P. £P. 

Share Capital ... bes 392,592 Cash = 129,923 
Reserve Fund ... aa 244,969 Balances “With Financial 
Other Reserves .. ot 202,999 Institutions ... + 676,550 
Debentures oe 88,538 Advances to members... 2,577,187 
Balance for other Finan- Bills discounted... se 745,824 

cial Institutions Bt 84,442 Overdues sis os 93.413 
Current and Deposit Investments... 133,906 

Accounts en 1,677,517 Premises and Fixtures. 160,816 
Other Deposits 1,149,041 Other Accounts sss 303,763 
Advances from other 

sources ah sss 703,000 
Other Accounts .. 278,284 

4,821,382 4,821,382 








1g. The increase in the number of societies liquidated was due 
to increased activity on the part of the Department which thus 
resulted in the liquidation of inactive and moribund societies. 
In.most cases the liquidating societies were in a position to meet 
their liabilities in full. 





293 


In addition to the 36 societies ‘ordered into liquidation during 
1937, 14 societies which went into liquidation in previous years, 
completed their liquidation and were struck off the Register. 


General. 


20. The following table shows the position of the co-operative 
movement at the end of 1937 as compared with the periods 
ending 1936 and 1935. 

Total number of functioning societies— 








1937. 1936. 1935. 
Jewish ot fs be 868 767 688 
Arab ... ad wae one 128 75 74 
German wie ae ane 5 5 5 
Others... Bes Bits Aes 2 2 2 
Total... es 1,003 849 769 
Total societies in liquidation— 
1937. 1936. 1935. 
Jewish ... see or a eee 98 78 57 
Arab oes ee ae ies nae 14 9 9 
Total... oe 112 87 66 
Total societies struck off the em 
Jewish ... oe 118 89 64 
Arab see he a2 nye aes 4 2 I 
Total... cert 122 gI 65 
Classification of functioning societies— 
I. Credit and Thrift Societies— 
(a) Urban ... : ote os 55 50 44 
(b) Rural ... on on oe 182 126 126 
Il. Agricultural Societies— 
(a) Settlement... aoe 187 166 158 
(b) General Agricultural . a3 102 75 66 
(c) Irrigation aS fe ase 64 58 5° 
(d@) Cattle Insurance sa se 3 3 3 


III. Diverse Societies— 
(a) Industrial Producers and Ser- 





vice Societies ¥ 161 159 141 

(6) Garden cities and Communal 
housing societies ... ne 177 152 126 
(c) Consumers’ Societies ... ae 55 48 37 
(d) Mutual Insurance Societies ... 4 2 2 
(e) Audit Unions ... ae ay 6 5 5 
(f) Miscellaneous ... aot Pen 7 5 Ir 
1,003 849 769 





21. In order to give effect to the recommendations in para- 
graph 189 of Chapter IX of the Royal Commission’s Report in 
Tegard to the development of co-operative societies, Jewish 
societies are visited as frequently as possible by the Registrar of 


204 

Co-operative Societies and by his Jewish Inspector. Particular 
attention is being paid to societies engaged in agricultural enter- 
prises such as marketing, purchasing of supplies, collective culti- 
vation, processing of agricultural products, etc. These types of 
societies have increased considerably in recent years. ey are 
in daily contact with their members and their committees face 
numerous problems in the course of their activities. It is the 
aim of the Department of Co-operative Societies to provide these 
societies with the necessary advice and guidance and to obviate 
litigation. 


22. The work of the office of the Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies in Jewish societies is greatly facilitated by the activi- 
ties of the six Audit Unions to which nearly 50 per cent. of all 
Jewish societies are affiliated. The Unions employ a trained 
staff of supervisors, inspectors and auditors and the closest co- 
operation is maintained between them and the Government 
Department. 

The Government Department is sreendy called upon to 
support the suggestions made by the Audit Unions and thus 
enhance their authority. 


23. The inspection of unaffiliated Jewish societies is carried 
out by a chartered accountant and auditor, who was appointed 
_ in April, 1937, for this purpose, in anticipation of the recom- 
mendation of the Royal Commission. As soon as any signs of 
unorthodox practice become apparent in an unaffiliated society, 
an inspection is carried out by this officer himself or by some 
qualified person appointed under his supervision and every 
endeavour is made to rectify any errors or omissions. 


24. The inception of measures to give effect to the recom- 
mendation of the Royal Commission in regard to the develo 
ment of Arab Co-operative Societies presents considerable diff 
culties under the unsettled conditions which at present prevail 
in the country. 

Each Arab society is inspected at least four times annually, 
but in general the problems confronting these societies are of a 
simpler character than those of the Jewish societies. 


25. The formation of social improvement societies in Arab 
villages had to be postponed indefinitely. In the present state 
of affairs villagers are not receptive of ideas for social reforms 
sponsored by Government. 

As against this, there has been a large demand for credit and 
thrift societies and 60 new societies were formed in Arab villages 
in the latter part of 1937. The older societies were strengthened, 
their membership was enlarged and their ‘‘ own funds ”’ in- 
creased. The more progressive among them started a campaign 
for thrift among their members. 


295 


26. In the urban areas an attempt was made to form a co- 
operative society of porters in the Jaffa harbour. The experi- 
ment failed, partly owing to the strength of existing vested 
interests and partly because the general economic depression 
resulted in a substantial reduction in the tonnage handled in the 
harbour. A society in which very small earnings had to become 
still smaller as a result of equal distribution among a large num- 
ber of persons, offered little inducement to the porters to join 
and the scheme had to be abandoned. 

No other attempts to promote activities of a co-operative 
nature amongst the Arab urban population were made during 
the year, since, owing to the prevailing political unrest, the time 
was not considered to be opportune and any such endeavour 
was almost certainly doomed to failure. 


XXIX.—CIVIL AVIATION. 


The construction of the airport at Lydda is proceeding satis- 
factorily. A hangar of 150 feet span by 140 feet in depth was 
brought into use on the 1st April, 1937, and some of the quarters 
necessary for the staff were first occupied in December. In 
June the wireless receiving instruments were installed in a 
temporary building at the airport, whence the associated 
transmitters installed in the wireless station at Ramallah are 
remotely controlled. Unfortunately the whole of this apparatus 
at Lydda was wilfully destroyed by fire on 16th October. Full 
communication was, however, restored on the following day 
with instruments kindly lent, and flown up from Egypt, by the 
Royal Air Force. New permanent equipment to replace the 
apparatus destroyed will be installed as soon as possible. Work 
on the construction of the terminal building is progressing satis- 
Pony and this should be ready for occupation in the autumn 
of 1938. 

The provision of a hangar and terminal offices at Haifa is 
under consideration by Government. 

A Meteorological Service is being organised and will devote 
special attention to the needs of aviation. ; 

When the Lydda Airport is fully equipped it is probable that 
it will be possible to travel by air from Palestine to London in 
a single day during the summer months. 


2. The regular air services operating in, to and through 
Palestine are as follows :— 


Imperial Airways, Ltd. 

Two services a week in each direction between 
Southampton and Singapore by flying boat. 

Two services a week in each direction between Southamp- 
ton and Karachi by flying boat and thence by land machine 
to Calcutta. 


296 


One service a week in each direction between Alexandria 
and Basra connecting at Alexandria with a flying boat 
service to Southampton. 

The flying boat services call at Tiberias and the land 
machines at Lydda. The above is a temporary arrange- 
ment pending delivery to Imperial Airways of new land- 
planes under construction. | When these machines are 
received, the services posing through Palestine will be three 
in each direction by flying boat and two in each direction 
by land-planes from England via France, Malta, the North 
African Coast, Alexandria, Lydda to Calcutta. 


Messrs. K. L. M. 

Three services a week in each direction between Amster- 
dam and the Dutch East Indies. These services call at 
Lydda. 


Lot. 

Maintain a service between Lydda and Warsaw three 
times a week in each direction in summer and once a week 
in each direction in winter. 


Ala Littoria. 


This company at present operate a service by seaplanes 
thrice weekly in each direction between Haifa and Italy. 


Misr Airlines. 

A daily service is maintained in each direction between 
Egypt, Lydda and Haifa and in addition a service is run 
twice weekly in each direction between Cairo and Baghdad 
touching at Lydda. A service between Cairo and Cyprus 
has in the past been run in summer only. 


Messrs. Palestine Airways, Limited. 
Palestine Airways, Limited, an English pea we Tegis- 


tered in Palestine, inaugurated a local air service between 
Lydda and Haifa on the 16th August, 1937. The service 
was operated twice weekly until the 13th December, and 
once weekly thereafter. The company also carry out 


charter flights. 


297 


TRANS-JORDAN 
INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, Etc. 


1. Trans-Jordan is bounded on the west by Palestine, on the 
north by Syria and the Jebel Druze, on the north-east by ‘Iraq, 
and on the east and south by Saudi Arabia. It has a desert 
frontier of about goo kilometres. In length the country is some 
380 kilometres from north to south and in breadth from east 
to west is 150 kilometres at its narrowest and 330 kilometres 
at its broadest. It has an area of some 90,000 square kilometres. 


Area and Climate. 


2. Of the total area some 4,600 square kilometres (4,600,000 
dunums) are cultivable. The cultivable land is a strip of terri- 
tory, broad in the north and narrowing towards the south, 
having an average width of 4o kilometres, and is bounded, 
approximately, by the Jordan and the Dead Sea in the west, 
the Syrian frontier in the north, the Hejaz Railway in the east, 
and in the south by parallel 30° N. This cultivable area 
comprises :— 

(1) The deep valley (the Ghor), in which the River 
Jordan and the Dead Sea lie, having an area of 550 square 
kilometres, 300,000 dunums of which are cultivable. 


(2) The range of hills, running the length of the country 
from north to south and rising in the south to heights of 
5,000 feet, having an area of 6,700 square kilometres, of 
which 2,000,000 dunums are cultivable. 


(3) The strip of territory between the hills and the Hejaz 
Railway, a plateau varying in height from 1,500 to 3,000 
feet, having an area of some 5,250 square kilometres, of 
which 2,300,000 dunums are cultivable. This cultivable 

lateau gradually merges eastwards into the desert which 
foe elevation until, in the Wadi Sirhan, just beyond the 
eastern frontier, the height is only 1,000 feet above sea level. 


The Jordan Valley and the western hills are well watered by 
springs and streams, but the upland plateau depends for its 
water supply on rain-water cisterns. 


To the south of parallel 30° N., between Ma‘an and Aqaba, 
there is a sudden fall of 2,000 feet to an area known as the 
Hasma, 5,000 square kilometres in extent, which contains small 
parce of cultivation. Beyond this area the land continues to 
all, through very rough country, to the Gulf of Aqaba. 


298 

3. The desert area comprises some 72,000 square kilometres. 
There are oases at Azraq and Jafar which lie respectively 80 
and 45 kilometres east of the railway line, but apart from these 
there are very few water points other than rain-pools. The 
gtazing is sufficient, after a year of good rain, to support the 
camels, sheep and goats of the nomads who spend their time 
between the highlands to the west in summer and the Wadi 
Sirhan and the Ghor in winter. 

4. The climate on the whole is very pleasant. In simmer 
the shade temperature seldom reaches 100° F. and the nights 
are always cool. In winter it is cold in the uplands and the 
rain, which is often insufficient for the agricultural needs of the 
country, only falls from November to March. Between the 
rainy days the sky is bright, and in the sun and out of the 
wind it is warm. The winter climate in the Ghor is mild and 
that of Aqaba is most attractive although in both places it is 
hot and oppressive in summer. 


The High Commissioner. 
5. General Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., 
C.I.E., D.S.O., was High Commissioner for Palestine and: 
Trans-Jordan throughout the year. 


Changes in Personnel, 1937. 


6. Mr. A. S. Kirkbride, O.B.E., M.C., Assistant British Resi- 
dent was appointed District Commissioner of the Galilee and 
Acre District in Palestine. 

Ahmed Effendi Touqan, who was seconded from the Palestine 
Government to take up the duties of Director of Education was 
recalled to Palestine in October, 1937. 

Samir Bey Rifai, who held the post of Secretary to the Chief 
Minister was appointed Director of Education. 


Public Security. 


7. The number of cases of the principal crimes are given in 

Chapter VIII of this Report but no attempts to cause any 
litical disturbance were made. until after the issue of the 
oyal Commission’s Report on the 7th July. 

n the earlier months of the year, however, as well as later, 
there was evidence that steps were being taken to prepare the 
ground for an outbreak of disturbances in Trans-Jordan in the 
event of further trouble occurring in Palestine. 

There was no strong reaction in Trans-Jordan to the issue 
of the Report of the Royal Commission; with the exception of 
the few who are not prepared to acquiesce in anything short 
of complete independence, the population, whilst strongly sym- 
pathetic towards the Arabs in Palestine, remained mainly con- 
cerned in its own domestic affairs and anxious that these should 
not be disturbed by any deterioration in public security. 


299 
A half-hearted strike was initiated in Amman towards the 


end of July, but those who had been instrumental in arranging 
it were taken to task and the strike quickly collapsed. 


During July and September an unsuccessful attempt was made 
to puncture the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company pipe-line and three 
locally-made bombs exploded harmlessly in Irbid. 


8. By October some half-dozen Trans-Jordanians had col- 
lected in Damascus and, being supplied with funds from else- 
where than Trans-Jordan, were busily engaged in preparing 
to create disorders in that country and in helping to arrange 
the passage of arms through Trans-Jordan into Palestine. 


During the same month the telephone lines were cut on five 
occasions and an attempt was made to puncture the ‘Iraq 
Petroleum Company pipe-line. Certain alterations were made in 
the disposition of the Trans-Jordan garrison; part of the Arab 
Legion Reserve was called up, and the Reserve was made fully 
mobile by the acquisition of six additional motor trucks. In 
November a few shots were fired at some of the Police posts 
in the Northern District: a number of arrests were made and 
ultimately 14 persons were placed in forced residence in places 
in the south of the territory and a number of the remainder 
were required to produce bonds for their good behaviour. 


During November, also, the telephone lines in the Kerak 
District were cut in two places and, in December there were four 
acts of sabotage none of which resulted in damage to life or 
property. 


g. Following on the construction of the Police post at Nejl, 
which was built at one of the springs which was put in order 
with the relief funds provided in 1936, an Administrative Officer 
(Mudir) was posted to the Sub-District of Shobek so that a 
closer touch might be established with the people. Work is 
now progressing well on the erection of a Police post at Wadi 
Musa, near Petra. 


1o. To assist in preventing arms traffic over the Trans-Jordan- 
Palestine frontier His Highness the Amir issued an order, which 
came into force in April, prohibiting the possession in the 
Jordan Valley of any but licensed arms and ammunition. 

The Explosives Law was passed by the Legislative Council 
and at the end of the year it was awaiting the Amir’s assent. 
It provides: — 

(1) that with the exception of retail purchases from a 
licensed dealer no Paes shall import, transport, possess, 
purchase, sell or otherwise deal in any explosive substance 
(including detonators, percussion caps and bombs) except 
under a licence to do so; 


300 


(2) that no person other than a licensed dealer shall 
purchase or otherwise obtain any explosive substance 
except from a licensed dealer and unless he has obtained 
from the licensing authority a permit to do so; 

(3) that two months from the coming into force of the 
law all explosives in the possession of any person must be 
declared, when they will either be licensed or taken over 
by the Government at the market price; 

(4) that amongst the other penalties any person using 
any explosive substance with the intention of endangering 
life or of causing destruction of property shall be punished 
with hard labour for a term not exceeding 15 years. 


1x. Although the Government have been obliged to watch 
the situation very carefully, both the Government and the 

ple have been able to carry on their normal business 
unimpeded by any breakdown of public security. 


Constitution and Legislature. 


12. The Constitution of the Amirate of Trans-Jordan is 
embodied in the Organic Law of 1928. His Highness the Amir 
Abdullah Ibn Hussein, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., the second son of 
His late Majesty King Hussein (formerly King of the Hejaz) 
is the Amir of Trans-Jordan and exercises authority through an 
Executive Council composed of the Chief Minister, appointed 
by the Amir, who presides, and other members, not exceeding 
five in number, appointed by the Amir on the recommendation 
of the Chief Minister, either from among the principal officers 
of the Administration or the elected representatives of the people. 

The Mandatory responsibilities of His Majesty’s Government 
are discharged by means of the Agreement of 1928 between His 
Majesty the King and His Highness the Amir, as amended by 
the Agreement of 1934. (See pages 238 and 239 of the Report 
for 1934.) 

The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by a British 
Resident acting under the direction of the High Commissioner 
for Trans-Jordan (who is also the High Commissioner for 
Palestine). The British Resident lives at Amman and is assisted 
by two British officials and a small clerical staff. 


13. Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Council with 
His Highness the Amir. The Legislative Council consists of: — 
(a) sixteen representatives elected in accordance with the 
Electoral Law, which has regard to the proper representa- 
tion of minorities; and : 
_ (b)_the Chief Minister and other members of the Execu- 
tive Council not being elected representatives. 





301 


The Electoral Law provides that the sixteen elected members 
shall comprise nine Moslem Arabs, three Christian Arabs, two 
Circassians, and two nomad Beduin. 

Normally the Council has one annual session which lasts for 
three months from the rst November. The duration of the 
Council is three years, but His Highness the Amir has power 
to prorogue or dissolve it in accordance with the law. 

e election of members is conducted by primary and 
secondary elections. Every male Trans-Jordanian, not being a 
Beduin, who has attained the age of 18 is entitled to vote at 
the primary elections, and any person may be elected as a. 
secondary elector provided he is on the register of primary 
electors for his particular district. 


14. In December the Legislative Council passed a Law to 
amend the Organic Law. The most important provisions of 
this Law, which at the end of the year was awaiting the formal 
assent of His Highness the Amir, are as follow:— 


I) Article 41 of the Organic Law is repealed and the 
following substituted therefor: — 


‘* 4. His Highness the Amir-in-Council shall have power when 
the Legislative Council is not sitting to enact such Ordinances as 
may be necessary on any subject. These Ordinances which shall 
not contravene the terms of the Organic Law shall have the force 
of law and ‘shall be submitted to the Legislative Council at the 
beginning of its next session. Provided, however, that Ordinances 
passed for the purpose of securing the fulfilment of the treaty 
obligations of His Highness the Amir shall not be so. submitted. 

“Tf the Legislative Council shall not pass at its said session 
any such Ordinance so submitted, the same shall, unless His 
Highness-in-Council shall decide to withdraw the same, again 
be submitted at the beginning of the subsequent session. In the 
event of an Ordinance being so withdrawn, or if at such subsequent 
session the Legislative Council shall again not pass the same, His 
Highness the Amir-in-Council shall forthwith notify the cessation 
thereof and from the date of such notification such Ordinance 
shall cease to be in force. 

‘* In the event of the Legislative Council proposing at any session 
amendments to an Ordinance and of His Highness the Amir-in- 
Council agreeing to such amendments, the Ordinance as amended 
shall have the force of law. 

‘‘In the event of the Legislative Council refusing to pass any 
Law placed before it with a view to securing the fulfilment of the 
treaty obligations of His Highness the Amir, His Highness-in- 
Council shall have the power to enact the necessary legislation in 
the form of an Ordinance which shall not be submitted to the 
Legislative Council. 

** Ordinances shall take effect in the same way as Laws as 
provided in Article 38 hereof.”’ 


(2) The following sentence has been added to the end of 
Article 48 (1) of the Principal Law:— 
‘Matters regarding personal status are those matters which in 


the case of Moslems are assigned to the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
Moslem Courts.’’ 


302 


(3) (4) The last paragraph of Article 50 of the Principal 
Law is repealed. 

(b) Articles 52, 53, and 54 of the Principal Law are 
repealed and the following Articles substituted therefor: — 

“* 52. Religious Community Councils shall be the Councils of such 
non-Moslem Religious Communities as are or shall be recognized by 
the Government as being established in Trans-Jordan.’’ 

“* 53. Religious Community Councils shall be composed in the 
manner provided in special Laws regulating the same. Such Laws 
shall define their jurisdiction whether exclusive or otherwise 
regarding such matters of personal status as may be assigned to 
them by the said Laws, and regarding waqfs constituted for the 
exclusive benefit of the community concerned. Matters of personal 
status are matters which in the case of Moslems are assigned to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the Moslem Courts.’’ 

‘54. Such Laws shall also determine the procedure to be 
followed and the fees to be levied by the Religious Community 
Councils.’” 


15. The third and final Ordinary Session of the third Legisla- 
tive Council terminated at the end of January, 1937, but was 
summoned by His Highness the Amir to meet again in Extra- 
ordinary Session in the month of March to consider the Annual 
Budget Law which was passed without amendment. The oppor- 
tunity was taken to lay the Royal Family Law before the 
Council; this Law was also passed, and came into force on the 
Ist August, 1937. 

The elections for the fourth Legislative Council were keenly 
contested. The first session of the new Council was opened by 
His Highness the Amir on the 1st November. 

Other important Laws passed during 1937 by the third and 
fourth Legislative Councils are related: to in ober parts of this 
Report. i 


Administrative Affairs. 


16. The country is divided into the Desert Area and four 
Districts, namely: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, and Ma‘an, with head- 
quarters respectively at Irbid, Amman, Kerak, and Ma‘an. 

Ajlun, the ancient Gilead, is bounded on the north by the 
River Yarmuk and on the south by the Wadi Zerka, and is 
divided into the sub-districts of Ajlun, Irbid, Jerash, Deir Abu 
Said, and Melka. 


Belga, the ancient Ammon, lies between the Wadi Zerka and 
the Wadi Mojib (the Arnon), and is divided into the sub- 
districts of Amman, Salt, and Madeba. 

Kerak, the ancient Moab, lies to the south of the Belqa and 
includes the sub-district of Tafileh. 

Ma‘an is the most southerly of the four districts, and includes 
ne villages of Shobek (Montreal) and Aqaba and the ruins of 

etra. 


303 

District Administrative Officers have no magisterial powers 
except under the Tribal Courts Law of 1936, but it is on their 
recommendation that the Collective Punishment Law and the 
Prevention of Crime Law would be brought into operation. 

The duties of District Administrative Officers, which have 
been largely increased by the responsibility for tax collection 
and the examination and distribution of tax remissions which 
now rests on them, have been further added to by the provisions 
of the Protection of Crops and Plants Law, 1935, which requires 
them, on receipt of a complaint of damage done, to proceed to 
the spot and sentence the persons responsible to pay compensa- 
tion and possibly also a fine. This law has been so widely used 
that in 1937 a new Protection of Crops and Plants Law was 
enacted, one of the provisions of which is that the powers of a 
Mutessarrif appertain to a deputy appointed by a Mutessarrif, 
Qaimmaqam or Mudir Nahia with the consent of the Chief 
Minister. 

District Administrative Officers administer their districts with 
the help of an Administrative Council which sits under their 
presidency and is composed, in addition to the President, of 
two official and four non-official members, the latter being 
selected by a committee presided over by the Administrative 
Officer an conipered of two Government officials, the President 
and Members of the Municipal Council, the Heads of religious 
communities and the Mukhtars. When the male Christian 
population of the area exceeds 500 souls, one of the selected 
members must be a Christian, and when the number exceeds 
I,000, two members must be Christians. 


17. During the examination of the Report for 1936 the Perma- 
nent Mandates Commission asked to be informed of the origin 
of the 215 Arabs, who were shown in paragraph 16, page 316, of 
the Report for 1936 as members of the Government, who were 
born outside Trans- Jordan. 
The numbers of those who do not come from Palestine, Syria, 
Egypt or ‘Iraq were as follows: — 
13 Tripolitanians, 
8 Hejazis, 
12 Turks, 

and the remaining 182 were distributed as follows: — 
48 Syrians, 
95 Palestinians, 
32 Lebanese, 
7 Egyptians. 

The British Staff of the Government is as follows: — 


The Judicial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, drafts all laws and regulations, and 
supervises their translation into English; advises the Gov- 
ernment in legal matters; advises the Minister of Justice; 


304 
is a member of the Senior Judicial Council which is con- 
cerned in the appointment and discipline of officials of the 
Judicial Department, and is a member of the Diwan Khas 
which decides questions regarding the interpretation of laws 
or regulations. 

The Financial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, prepares the annual Estimates of 
Revenue and Expenditure, advises the Government on 
matters of revenue collection and expenditure, ensures com- 
pliance with the Financial Regulations, and is in close touch 
with the Treasurer. 

The Officer Commanding the Arab Legion, who is in 
executive command of the Arab Legion and is a member 
of the Tribal Court of Appeal. 

The Second in Command of the Arab Legion, who is in 
charge of the Desert Area wherein he has the powers of a 
Mutessarrif under the Tribal Courts Law, 1936, and the 
powers in regard to nomads granted to the Officer Com- 
manding the Arab Legion under the Beduin Control Law, 


1936. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of Administra- 
tion and Training. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of motor 
transport. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of musketry. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion, who is assistant to the 
Officer Commanding ‘the Desert Area and in charge of the 
security of the pipe-line of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion, who is Traffic Inspector 
and Registrar of Vehicles. 

The Director of Lands, who is in charge of Land 
Registry, Survey, Land Settlement and Partition and State 
Domains. 

The Assistant Director of Lands. 

The Director of Customs, Trade and Industry, who is also 
President of the Tenders Board. 

The Chief Curator of Antiquities, on whose advice the 
Director acts in all matters requiring expert technical 
knowledge. 

The Chief Audit Examiner, who audits the accounts of 
the Covammen’ the Municipalities and the Agricultural 
Bank. 

The Chief Forest Ranger, who is responsible for the con- 
servation of forests. 

The Bacteriologist, who acts as Director of Health in the 
latter’s absence. 

The Medical Officer in charge of the recently established 
desert mobile unit. 


305 

In addition to the foregoing British Officers, there are the 
Director of Development, two English Drillers, and a British 
Survey Officer of the Land Department, who are pad for from 
a ge made by the Colonial Development Fund. 

n addition there is the British Resident, who is responsible 
to the High Commissioner that the terms of the Mandate and 
the Agreement of the 2oth of February, 1928, between His 
Britannic Majesty and His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan 
are carried out. He is assisted by two British Officers and a 
small clerical staff. 


18. It was stated in the Report for 1936 (see Puspaee 17, 

ge 318) that judicial powers were to be given to Municipal 
Councils for the first time in the new Municipal Law then in 
draft form. It has, however, on further consideration been 
found desirgble to omit this proposed provision, and offences 
under the Manicipal Law will continue to be dealt with by the 
Magistrate. Village Councils have no judicial powers but have 
considerable executive duties in marking out the land in villages 
where it is held in Masha’a tenure, in dividing among individual 
taxpayers the tax assessed as payable by the whole village, and 
in assisting in the distribution amongst the different persons who 
own a block of land, according to the degree of loss suffered 
by each, of any remission of taxation which may have been 
granted in respect of that block on account of crop failure. 


1g. Trans-Jordan has maintained satisfactory relations with 
her neighbours and in the desert peone security has been 
exemplary. It has now become the habit of village owners of 
sheep and goats to send their animals into the desert to graze 
when the incidence of rainfall has been such as to make the 
desert grazing better than that in the village lands. 


Tribal Affairs. 


20. The Tribal Courts Law which was enacted in 1924 set up 
mixed Courts of officials and tribal sheikhs to deal, in first 
instance and on appeal, with the following matters:— 


(a) Cases of aggression and differences in regard to mov- 
able property and matters of ‘‘ blood ’’ and questions of 
compensation and guarantees relating thereto, arising 
between nomadic tribes or their members or between groups 
of members of nomadic tribes and groups of members of 
non-nomadic tribes. 

(b) Cases of ‘‘ honour ’’ between nomadic tribes or their 
members. 

(c) Cases of horse partnerships provided that, if the 
agreement of partnership between the parties was in a 
pa document, the case should be decided by the Civil 

urts. 


306 


(d) Cases of compensation for blood when the defendant 
is a member of a nomadic tribe or a person who ordinarily 
follows the customs of nomadic tribes. 


21. This Law was never effectively operated and in 1929 the 
Beduin Control Law was enacted. This set up a Beduin Con- 
trol Board, with powers to hear actions within the jurisdiction 
of the Tribal Courts and to withdraw and deal with any action 
pending in a Tribal Court, and also powers— 

(1) to determine the places in which nomads shall camp, 
and 

(2) to investigate any raids or other breaches of the peace 
in which nomads were concerned whether occurring before 
or after passing of the Law and wherever the same might 
have taken place. 


22. In 1931, the desert areas of Trans-Jordan were placed 
under the effective administrative control of an officer of the 
Arab Legion, and by the Tribal Offences (Settlement) Law, 
1933, the Beduin Control Board, of which this officer was a 
member, delegated to him the authority granted to the Board 
under (1) and (2) above, with powers of punishment not exceed- 
ing three months’ imprisonment or £P.5 fine. ‘ 

e President of the Beduin Control Board was His Highness 
the Amir Shaker, a man of outstanding personality and great 
knowledge of tribal law and custom. 


23. The Beduin Control Board did a great deal of useful work 
and the Amir Shaker’s reputation was such that many cases in 
which he had no jurisdiction were brought to him for settlement. 
On his death in December, 1934, it proved impossible adequately 
to replace him, and a new set of Tribal Laws was drawn up and 
enacted in February, 1936, in the form of— 

The Tribal Courts Law, 1936. 
The Tribal Court of Appeal Law, 1936. 
The Beduin Control Law, 1936. 


24. The first of these three Laws constituted a Tribal Court in 
each of the four administrative districts and in the desert area 
as well. A Tribal Court is composed of one or three judges 
selected by the parties to the case from a panel of Sheikhs 
drawn up by the Administrative Officer in charge of the District 
(the Mutessarrif) and approved by His Highness the Amir. 

Tribal Courts have jurisdiction: — 

(a) in all cases of whatever nature between members of 
the nomadic tribes with the exception of :— 
(1) cases relating to the ownership and possession of 
immovable property ; 
(2) cases which, in the opinion of the Mutessarrif, 
should be referred to the Civil Courts; 


307 


(0) in all cases of compensation for blood, honour, and 
horse partnerships, except where the agreement has been 
reduced to writing, in circumstances where the Mutessarrif 
is of opinion that the parties by ancient custom follow tribal 
procedure, if such cases occur between members of nomadic 
and non-nomadic tribesor between members of non-nomadic 


tribes. 


25. The judgment of the Court must be sent to the Mutessarrif 
who may order its execution by the Arab Legion or refer the 
matter back to the Court for further examination or appeal to 
the Tribal Court of Appel or, in a criminal case, order the 
guilty party to be punished with a fine not exceeding £P.20 or 
imprisonment for a year. In cases where the value of the sub- 
ject matter is more than £P.50, or the sentence is imprisonment 
for more than three months or a fine of £P.10, the parties have 
the right to appeal to the Tribal Court of Appeal. 


It is believed that under this system, whereby the case is tried 
and decided by a Court of Sheikhs, the truth is readily arrived 
at and justice is done in a manner which could never be achieved 
by a Court of which a Government official is a member, the 
reason being that tribal life is so free and open and so lacking 
in privacy that everybody, except the Government official, knows 
everybody else’s concerns, and parties to a case will not usually 
even try to hide the truth from a Sheikh, because they realise 
that he already knows too much about them. 


26. The jurisdiction of the Court is now more strictly limited 
than before in dealing with cases of compensation for blood, 
honour and horse partnerships, and this is important as it would 
be improper, for example, to allow a townsman who had killed 
a man to appear before a Tribal Court and have the matter 
settled by the payment of blood money. 


27. The Beduin Control Law allows the officer of the Arab 
Legion in charge of the Desert Area to control the movements 
of the nomads and to deal summarily with cases of raiding, 
whether they occur in Trans-Jordan or elsewhere, and to arrest 
and impound the movable property of nomads suspected of 
preparing for a raid. 


28. The work of these Tribal Courts during the year 1937 is 
illustrated by the following figures: — 


Ajlun Belqa Kerak Ma‘an Desert 


Court. Court. Court. Court. Court. 
Cases Tried ... ae 51 48 49 74 205 
Cases Finished sive 19 24 27 60 205 
To Appeal... oe 10 2 2 _ _ 
Carried Forward ... 22 22 20 14 _ 


Of the 14 cases before the Appeal Court 12 were completed and two 
were carried forward. 


308 


The Courts are acceptable to the people and the year’s work 
is regarded as satisfactory. 


Economic Affairs. 


29. Happily the rainfall of the winter of 1936-7 proved 
adequate and well distributed and the yield throughout the 
country proved above the average. In places, however, and 
particularly in the Tafileh sub-district the peels had suffered 
so badly from the drought of 1056 that only a portion of their 
land was sown; some elaitional elp was given to them by the 
provision of a further £P.1,000 for relief work. No other relief 
work has proved necessary in 1937, and only £P.250 has had 
to be provided in loans to assist cultivators who were unable to 
offer adequate security to satisfy the requirements of the 
Agricultural Bank. 

Remissions on account of crop failure have been less than was 
expected to be necessary and it is satisfactory that in November 
again the rains of 1937 have been adequate. 


30. Although the new Agricultural Bank Law has not yet 
been prepared for submission to the Legislative Council the very 
important task has been completed of simplifying the procedure 
of application for and issue of loans so that they are now issued 
very much more expeditiously. 

31. It is explained in the Chapter of this Report relating to 
Customs, Excise and Trade that trade between Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan which was considerably reduced during 1936 
revived in 1937 and the better conditions generally are reflected 
in the Customs Revenue which has risen from £P.104,434 in 
1936 to £P.118,405 in 1937. 

32. The statistics taken in 1936 showed that the sum payable 
by Palestine to Trans-Jordan for that year on account of the 
duty paid in Palestine on foreign goods re-exported for consump- 
tion in Trans-Jordan had fallen from the £P.25,000 paid in 
1935 to £P.17,000, and it became necessary to frame the Esti- 
mates for 1937-8 on the basis of this lesser figure. Statistics for 
1937, however, indicate that the figure has risen again. 

33. It is satisfactory to record that the attempt of the past 
years to put Trans-Jordan raisins on the European market has 
at last met with success and it is hoped that the 70 tons so 
disposed of will be largely increased next year. 


34. On the 2nd March the garage owners in Amman called 
a strike in protest against the high cost of petrol. Private cars 
were not interfered with and no disorder of any kind occurred. 
The strike was called off two days later after a meeting between 
representatives of the Shell and Vacuum Oil Companies and 
the car owners, as a result of which the price of petrol was 
reduced to 370 mils the four-gallon tin or 355 mils for four 
gallons in bulk. 


ll 
1 
I 


309 


Efforts were made, without success, to associate this strike 
with a refusal of the Government to authorize the formation of 
a motor car drivers’ union the application for which was put 
forward by persons who had no connexion with the motor 
transport industry. 


Agriculture, Forests and Lands. 


_ 35. The Director of the Department of Agriculture and Forests 
is responsible for the care of all forests owned or controlled by 
the Government except those which have been registered in the 
name of the Government during settlement, and he is assisted 
in this task by 14 Forest Rangers and Guards. The area of 
forest land to which the Government has acquired a clear title 
during settlement already amounts to 66,000 dunums and is 
rapidly increasing as settlement proceeds. These latter forests 
are under the care and management of the Director of Lands, 
and His Highness the Amir has agreed to the logical arrange- 
ment that as from the rst April, 1938, the whole of the forests 
owned or controlled by the Government shall pass to the 
administration of the Director of Lands, in anticipation of the 
formation of a sub-Department of Forests, which will be placed 
in the charge of an expert Forest Officer. 


36. The havoc wrought by soil erosion is only too evident and 
it is with the greatest difficulty that those who work on or have 
to do with the land can be brought to appreciate the urgency 
of taking all possible anti-erosion measures. Where settlement 
has been completed the people are so keen to take advantage 
of every metre of the land that is now really theirs, that they 
are actually ploughing up the anti-erosion banks which have 
been there for many years. Wind-breaks are quite unknown 
to them and as it is impossible to set aside land for these during 
partition and settlement the Department of Lands is changing its 
policy of laying no claim to isolated coppice and will in future 
claim them so that they at least may afford some partial shelter. 
Consideration is being given to the best manner of controlling 
the goats which do so much to facilitate soil erosion and an 
attempt will be made to arrange for rational grazing. 


37. The a ee of Land Settlement is satisfactory and has 
been facilitated by the low values of land. The Departmental 
organization is now working smoothly, and it is hoped to 
expand its output so as to take advantage of the low land 
= and to check encroachment into Government-controlled 
forest areas. 

The Department of Lands has completed a very satisfacto 
year’s work, although its output has been slowed down by diffi- 
culties encountered in the settlement of forest areas interspersed 
with small plots of cultivation, in villages where the land is in 
communal ownership. 

48607 L 


310 


Official Language. 


38. Under the terms of Article 15 of the Organic Law, Arabic 
is the official language of Trans-Jordan. 


Miscellaneous. 

39. The Chairman, the Vice-Chairman and one member of 
the Palestine Royal Commission paid a short visit to Trans- 
Jordan in January but did not have any formal sittings while 
there. 

40. His Highness the Amir left Trans-Jordan on the 24th 
April to be present at the Coronation of His Majesty King 
George VI. Until his return on the 13th June his eldest son, 
the Amir Talal, acted as Regent. 

41. On his return from England His Highness paid a visit 
to Turkey, and was the guest of the President of the Turkish 
Republic at Ankara for a few days. The visit was entirely 
informal, and no negotiations or discussions of an official 
character took place. 

42. In May, Monsieur Michel, representing the Mandatory 
Power in Syria, who had come to Trans-Jordan to arrange for 
the repatriation of the Druze who had taken up their habitation 
in Trans-Jordan, left with a party of 250, amongst whom was 
included Sultan Pasha el Atrash who, in accordance with an 
undertaking given at the time when he entered Trans-Jordan, 
had not come north of Kerak during the years he resided in 
that territory. 

‘Holy Days. 

43. The following is a list of the days which are recognized as 

holy days:— 


GENERAL. 

Wadfet ‘idel Fitr ... ak 30 Ramadan. 
‘Id el Fitr (3 days) ... fae 1-3 Shawwal. 
Wadfet ‘id el Adha ... ee g Dhil Hijja. 
‘Id el Adha (4 days) .. ae 10-13 Dhil Hijja. 
El Miraj el Sherif... 27 Rajab. 
New Year’s Day (Hijira) 1 Moharram. 
Mawlad en Nebi ; 12 Rabi el Awwal. 
Anniversary of Arab Revolt | 9 Sha‘ban. 
Independence Day ... Be 25 May. 

For CHRISTIANS. 
New Year’s Day. Ascension Day. 
Epiphany. Whit Monday. 
Good Friday. Christmas Day. 
Easter Monday. Boxing Day. 


Christians are also granted the day before and the first day 
of ‘Id el Fitr and the day before and the first day of ‘Id el Adha: 


311 


WEEKLY Day oF REST. 


Friday is the official day of rest for all officials of whatever 
creed. Christian officials are permitted to leave their work to 
attend their places of worship on Sundays, and on Feast Days 
not recognized as holidays. 


1.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION, 


The Administration of Trans-Jordan is autonomous in its 
nature as will be seen from paragraph 12 e¢ seq of the intro- 
ductory section of this Report. 


2. There are Municipal Councils at Irbid, Jerash, Ajlun, 
Amman, Es Salt, Madeba, Kerak, Tafileh, and Ma‘an. 

The Councils are wholly elected except in Amman, where the 
President is appointed by the Chief Minister. They operate in 
accordance with laws which will be replaced by the new 
Municipal Law which was sore by the Legislative Council 
in December, 1937, and will come into force on the 1st April, 
1938. In this new Law provision is made that, although there 
shall be in each Council a majority of elected members, a 
number of the members of each Municipal Council shall be 
nominated. The reason for this provision is that the majority 
of citizens likely to stand for election have neither technical 
knowledge nor adequate experience in municipal administration ; 
the nominated members will generally be the Medical Officer, 
the Engineer and the Veterinary Officer. The President also 
is to be nominated, since it is considered that a person thus 
chosen, being independent of the electorate, will be able to 
act more energetically in the fulfilment of his duties. 

Following the example of the Electoral Law for the Legis- 
lative Council, provision is made that the number of seats for 
elected members shall be allotted between Moslems, Christians 
and Circassian Moslems in proportion to the male adult popu- 
lation for each community. 

As regards Finance, the principle of a general municipal rate 
has been accepted and has been embodied in the Law in the 
form of a Land and Building Tax; this tax will replace 
the 20 per cent. share of the House and Land Tax Law 
which is at present payable to Municipalities, the Municipal 
Watchman rate and the Scavenging rate, whilst a number of 
small taxes hitherto imposed, the return from which was incon- 
siderable, will no longer be collected. The Land and Building 
Tax, which is to be imposed on real property at a rate fixed 
by the Executive Council, not exceeding 5 per cent. of the 
rental value of the property, is the only municipal impost falling 
upon property owners under this law, apart from the imposts 
which by their nature concern only the individuals directly 
affected thereby. 


48607 L2 





312 


During the year a separate Law was enacted Lpioviding for 
the imposition of an education rate, not to exceed 3 per cent., 
on the rental value of real property in such municipal areas as 
may be selected by the Executive Council. 


11.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


The control of travel to and from Trans-Jordan is the duty of 
a special section of the Arab Legion. The following table indi- 
cates the work of this section for the years 1936 and 1937:— 


1936. 1937- 
New Passports issued 8 as a ae 790 715 
Emergency Visas issued ... oe “se ae 326 597 
Ordinary Visas issued... cee 3 pee 94 117 
Return Visas issued a ae ce Me 47 93 
Foreign Passports registered... ae ws 2,040 2,668 
Endorsements | on oe wes , ae 199 251 
Passport Contraventions passed to Courts ... 560 968 
Trans-Jordan Passports renewed eS os 424 434 
Temporary Passports issued to ‘Iraq Petroleum 
Company ... a oe ae ae ante 300 250 


2. The stricter control of immigration now exercised by the 
Palestine administration has deprived a considerable number of 
Trans-Jordanians of a good source of livelihood. At the end 
of the ploughing season or after the harvest or in years of 
drought men who were unable to find work in Trans-Jordan 
found ample labour in Palestine. 

The labour market is now closed to them in Palestine in view 
of the enforcement of rigid immigration control measures by the 
Palestine Government. 


111.—LANDS. 


General. 


1. Mr. H. A. M. Davis was appointed Inspector in the Depart- 
ment of Lands and Surveys on secondment from the Palestine 
Government. 


2. The expenditure of the Department of Lands and Surveys 
since the amalgamation of the Departments of Survey, Land 
Registry and State Domain in 1929 is shown below: — 





£P. £P. 
1929 ste aes one 10,937 1934 oe art ae 15,718 
1930 ae een 13,464 1935 a oe. oes 16,331 
1931 beh E Ses 14,402 1936 se su Ts 20,600 
1932 on aa ay 14,164 1937 (estimated) oa 22,915 
1933 an act ant 14,744 


Land Settlement. 


3. The Land Settlement Law enacted in 1933 has now been 
applied to 95 villages covering an area of 1,395,000 dunums. 


313 
The areas partitioned and settled annually are as follow: — 
Masha‘a Mafrus 





Land. Land. Total 

Dunums. Dunums. Dunums. 

1933 (August to December) ... dee 17,540 18,363 35,903 
1934 ae 2s aoe he se 155,070 39.139 194,209 
1935 eee re see sae ote 268,954 31,006 299,960 
1936 * ae a a oy 269,809 48,352 318,161 
1937 aon See ie Be oe 291,225 61,237 352,462 
Total ss 1,002,598 198,097 1,200,695 





In 1937 the cost of settlement and survey amounted to 42 mils 
per dunum, as compared with 45 mils in 1936. 


4. The following data have been compiled from records of 
work completed in 1937:— 


From 
Masha‘a = Mafruz Total. commencement 
Land. Land. of Settlement. 
Villages settled oe 38 3 41 84 
Claims recorded aah 4,595 4,836 9,431 33,453 
No. of Appeals oo 226 13 239 798 
Appeals allowed ores 67 3 7° 254 


There are no appeals outstanding. 


The attendance of.the Land Settlement Court in public at each 
village minimises frivolous claims and facilitates their amicable 
settlement. During the year, the Court visited 35 villages, and 
the sittings occupied a total of 81 days. 


5. Agrant from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.30,000, 
to be spread over six years, for the acceleration of land partition 
and settlement was approved in January, 1936, and the expan- 
sion of the Department was completed during the latter part of 
that year. The staff are not yet finally trained, but it is expected 
that the full effect of the expansion will be apparent in 1938 and 
that the output of land settlement in that year will reach 400,000 
dunums. 


6. A consolidating Law was passed to re-enact, with minor 
amendments, the provisions of the Land Settlement (Laws, 
1933-6, together with certain new provisions which are referred 
to in paragraphs 7, 8, 15 and 20 of this Chapter of the Report. 


The Land Settlement Law provides for the settlement of all 
questions or differences in regard to any estate in land, or title 
thereto, or interest therein or any rights connected therewith. 
Such rights and interests are recorded in the Schedule of Rights 
and subsequently transferred to the Land Registers. 

48607 L3 


314 
The system of registration is based on the Torrens system, 


and adequate provision is made for the accurate recording of 
subsequent transactions and mutations, including : — 


(a) The creation of new parcels, whether by aggregation 
or subdivision. 

b) Succession. 

(2) Exchange. 

(d) Partition. 


The cadastral map, the essential complement to the Land 
Register, is also kept up to date as mutations are recorded in 
the Land Register. 


Provision is made for inscriptions in the Land Register to 
record rights which are more in the nature of an interest, e.g. 
contract of lease, contract of plantation, mortgage and attach- 
ment. These inscriptions are entered on the reverse side of the 
loose-leaf page of the Land Register and full reference is made 
to the authoritative documents concerning the right or interest. 


7. The Ottoman Land Code is obscure in regard to the rights 
attached to ‘‘ Metruke ’’ land which is set aside for public use, 
such as grazing grounds, threshing floors, watering places, etc., 
while no provision exists in the Ottoman legislation for the regis- 
tration Ae ““ Metruke ’’ land. The experience of three years of 
land settlement clearly indicated that the people would welcome 
some reform and the following provision was added to the Land 
Settlement Law:— 


‘Land used for general purposes that falls within the 
category of ‘‘ Metruke ’’ shall be registered in the name of 
the Government on behalf of those who have interest 
therein.”’ 


This procedure allows the administrative authorities to settle 
any dispute or encroachment in respect of public land and 
thus frivolous actions in the Court, often due to village intrigue, 
are avoided. 


The various categories of public land so registered are shown 
below :— 


Categories. Dunums. 
Grazing grounds ... Ae ey ash cate a8 + 7,890 
Threshing floors ... oe aes ace nay mee 104 
Springs and watering pools... aon aes ae Aes 97 
Cemeteries ... aoe et oe 18 
Village school gardens... oi wae ods ae ea 58 
Land assigned for upkeep of mosque or church ... 23 104 


8. The Land Settlement Law provides that after the certifica- 
tion of the Schedule of Rights by the Land Settlement Court no 
objection thereto may be heard by any Court. A further pro- 
vision has been added to allow a person who has sustained loss 


315 
by fraud to obtain compensation subject to the claim being sub- 


mitted within one year from the date of certification of the 
Schedule of Rights. 


g. Evidence of the importance attached to settlement and land 
registration is indicated by the record of transactions in para- . 

ph 18 below. The peasant landowner who has suffered 
insecurity of title for so many years now realises the importance 
of a clear title and no case of unregistered disposition has yet 


come to notice in “ settled ’’ villages. 


ro. The people are rapidly learning the value of survey and 
demarcation resulting from settlement, and in order to avoid 
expensive litigation they are encouraged to apply for the inspec- 
tion of their properties in cases of encroachment. Inspection is 
carried out by the survey staff of the Land Registry on payment 
of a small fee; during the year 45 cases were referred to the 
Land Reeiety and of these only eight eventually were taken 
to Court. he sales of cadastral plans to landowners have 
increased by I5 per cent. as compared with 1936. 


11. In “settled ’’ villages the advantage of security of tenure 
is already being exploited. This is especially evident in the more 
stony areas where a serious effort is being made by many of 
the landowners to improve their property by removal of the 
bigger stones from their lands. 


12. As the land registers are indexed on a territorial basis, an 
auxiliary loose-leaf register which records the total property 
of each landowner is also maintained. 


The following data have been compiled from these registers of 
proprietors. The figures are recorded to illustrate relative hold- 
ings and although land prices are at present stable the values 
shown are of course liable to fluctuate: — 


Number. Per cent. 


Holdings of value exceeding {P.250 ht a 534 5 
Holdings of value between {P.200-250__... on 483 5 
Holdings of value between {P.100-200__... hie 941 9 
Holdings of value between {P.50-100 eS ve 2,314 22 
Holdings of value under {P.50 ae a0 +. 6,160 59 


The size of an average holding is 55 dunums, corresponding 
approximately to a value of £P.80. 


A record of the land-owning population is compiled by the 
Settlement Officers during the preparation of the Schedule of 
Rights in the village. A comparison between the results obtained 
and the register of proprietors indicates that, on an average, two 
members of each family appear as landowners. The average 
family holding is therefore 110 dunums. 


48607 L4 


316 


13. The number of owners becoming landless, as recorded in 
the registers of proprietors since the completion of land settle- 
ment is shown below : — 

Number having 


Villages settled Number of sold total 
during landowners. property. Per cent. 
1934 ... ey Ass vs 2,769 61 2 
1935... get ee $052,227 38 2 
1936... ean i s+ 3,859 47 I 


14. Satisfactory progress has been made in securing land for 
State Forest Reserves during settlement operations. During the 
Phin a further 23,370 dunums of forest were recorded as State 

omain, making a total of 66,370 dunums since the inception 
of land settlement. 


Land Settlement Fees. 


15. The fees payable on the registration of rights recorded 
during settlement have been raised on an average by 50 per 
cent: At the commencement of settlement it was considered 
expedient to fix a low rate until the peasant landowner had 
realised the benefits of clear title and the resulting facility in 
registration of any subsequent transactions. It is now evident 
that in view of the general confidence in the value of settlement 
and land registration the larger fee will have no derogatory 
effect. 


16. Registration and court fees arising out of settlement from 
the commencement of operations in 1933 to the end of December, 
1937, are as follows: —Payable £P.18,205; Collected £P.4,105; 
Outstanding £P.14,100. 

Registration fees are only collected as and when owners apply 
for certificates of registration or when they desire to effect 
further transactions in the Land Registry. The large outstand- 
ing amount of fees is mainly in respect of the villages more 
recently completed. 

The following is a comparative statement of the fees and 
collections thereof, to date, in respect of Schedule of Rights and 
of Partition passed to the Land Registry in each successive 
year:— 





Villages 

settled Payable Collected 
during £P. £P. Per cent 
1933 203 44 
1934 1,023 27 
1935 894 21 
1936 oe 398 16 
1937 ie ae 6,793 1,093 16 


It will be seen from the above figures that the lands in settled 
villages are being registered at a rate of approximately 10 per 
cent. annually, so that it may be expected that in general the 


317 
lands of any village will be entirely recorded in the land registers 


within a period of about Io years after settlement of the lands 
of that village. 


Land Registry. 


17. Transactions passing through the Land Registry num- 
bered 9,499 and a sum of £P.6,296 was collected in fees, as com- 
pared with 8,090 and £P.4,881, respectively, in the previous 
year. 


18. The following is a comparative statement of Land Registry 
transactions in the Ajlun District where land settlement is in 
progress :— 

Number Fees {P. 


1934 ie ane fee es tak se 2,146 1,349 
1935 oe ors bot at eae os 2,583 1,817 
1936 3a 22: os ae oe ee 4543 2,255 
1937 ise on ‘ wis ee . 6,651 4,809 


1g. A duplicate register of rights recorded during settlement 
and in all subsequent transactions is maintained at a central 
registry at Amman as a precaution against loss by fire or other- 
wise of the registers in the districts. The total number of 
properties entered in the new registers is 5,269 and the number 
of mutations and annotations recorded is 4,964. 


20. The Land Settlement Law provides that no sale is valid in 
““ settled ’’ villages unless the transaction is carried out in the 
Land Registry and any person who is a party to such transaction 
is liable to a fine not exceeding £P.5. Every facility is provided 
to assist the peasant landowner in drawing up documents of sale, 
lease, etc., in order that he may avoid the fees of advocates or 
petition writers. 

Land Tax. 


21. The Land Tax Law has been introduced throughout the 
country (454 villages), with the exception of 38 villages, where 
the variation between the amount of the old and new tax is 
small enough to allow postponement until the arrival of land 
settlement. The lands of these 38 villages are held in undivided 
ownership (Masha‘a) and the method of distribution of the tax 
amongst individuals will not be affected by the new Law, 
so that postponement is not harmful to the owners concerned. 

The Land Tax Law limits the increase in taxation to 
£P.10,000. The gross assessment of the tax amounts to 
£P.88,187. The gross assessment of the taxes it has replaced 
amounts to £P.78,641; a resulting increase of £P.9,546. 

22. All properties are revalued for assessment of land tax 
during settlement operations. The loose-leaf register of proprie- 
tors referred to in paragraph 12 above also shows the tax assess- 
ment on each landowner, and ensures an expeditious and 
economical compilation of the annual tax Collection Lists in 


318 


respect of each settled village. The tax Collection Lists modi- 
fied by the calculation of remissions on account of failure or 
partial failure of crops are compiled at the central archives at 
Amman. In “‘ settled ’’ villages the remissions in 1937 amounted 
to £P.703 affecting 1,124 taxpayers as compared with £P.7,083 
and 4,958 taxpayers in 1936. 

The following data in regard to Land Tax have been compiled 
from the record of taxpayers in villages where land settlement 
has been completed : — 


Number. Per cent. 
Owners paying under fP.1 ... ad 6,613 63 
Owners paying £P.1-2 eee 388 2,144 20 
Owners paying £P.2-3 ee ae 704 7 
Owners paying £P.3-4 ie vee 437 4 
Owners paying over {P.4_... one 534 6 


State Forests and State Domain. 


23. The following data have been compiled from the records 
of State Forests which have been secured to Government during 
settlement operations: — 





Number. Area. 

Reserves over 1,000 dunums ... AED Be 3 4,943 
Reserves 500-1,000 dunums __... ME vs 20 13,310 
Reserves 100-500 dunums ee ah oe 154 35324 
Reserves under 100 dunums ... ace vs 363 12,793 
Total ni oon a Beh ss 540 66,370 





This figure of 66,370 dunums represents 6 per cent. of the 
total area settled to date. Excluding the plains, which comprise 
an area of 660,000 dunums devoted to cereal cultivation and un- 
suitable for afforestation, the percentage of forest is 14 per cent. 


24. All State forests to which a clear title has been obtained 
have been clearly demarcated, and seven forest rangers, trained 
in survey, have been stationed therein to prevent encroachment 
and the felling of trees. The number of prosecutions during the 
year was 55, as compared with 41 in 1936. The total area of 
these forests was increased by 23,370 dunums during 1937. 


25. The irrigable lands in the north of the Jordan Valley, 
covering an area of 57,000 dunums, have been finally sold to the 
cultivators who had, prior to 1931, claimed ownership. In 
1932 these lands were partitioned amongst the cultivators, who 
agreed to a purchase price of 340 mils per dunum payable in 10 
annual instalments, but the conditions of the disposal included 
strict adherence to the partition and the prohibition of any con- 
tract with third parties as regards partnership, lease, or mort- 
gage. In subsequent years it was apparent that the cultivators 
intended to speculate; illegal contracts of sale were being con- 
cluded with outside speculators and in some cases the partition 


319 

was not adhered to. The first instalment, which was due in 
‘1933, was not accepted by the Government and the disposal was 
cancelled in 1935. The result of these protracted negotiations 
was that the cultivators were obliged to develop their properties, 
and in 1937 it was decided again to give effect to the earlier 
decision regarding the disposal of the lands in question. The 
Land Tax collected on these properties amounts to £P.1,962 
which is £P.690 more than the average annual revenue from 
tithe prior to 1932. 

26. Five leases have been concluded covering an area of 
14,000 dunums for development in the low ground between the 
Jordan Plain and the River Jordan. In order to safeguard 
against speculation the lands are leased at an annual rent of 
50 mils per dunum to allow for development by pumping water 
trom the River Jordan. The lessee has the right of purchase at 
50 mils per dunum within the period of the lease as soon as 
75 per cent. of the area is cultivated by irrigation. 


27. An area of 39,000 dunums at the south end of the Dead 
Sea was leased to the Palestine Potash Company for a period 
of 71 years at a nominal rent of £P.5 per annum. The land is 
required for evaporation purposes and auxiliary works in con- 
nexion with the Dead Sea Concession. 


28. During the year various holdings of State Domain, mostly 
uncultivated, comprising a total area of 8,323 dunums, were 
sold to encourage cultivation and facilitate building. Since the 
completion of survey the proceeds of the sale of State Domain 
are £P.28,352: the average annual rent from the properties 
sold was £P.1,464. As a result of disposal, the present owners 
have improved the methods of cultivation, and in many instances 
the revenue from land tax exceeds the tithe and rental tithe 
collected prior to disposal. 


Survey. 


29. Ten students completed their training during the year and 
were appointed to classified posts. On an average 24 surveyors 
were engaged on cadastral survey, six on land settlement and 
three in the Land Registries. 

The cadastral survey is carried out on the scale 1:2,500, 
and 364 cadastral plans were completed during the year, details 
of which are as follows: — 


Average 
Number Number Area of Marks 
) of Parcel Erected. 
Blocks. Parcels, Dunums. , 
Masha‘a Land... oes 282 4,327 44 9,076 
Mafruz Land see sis 14 3,362 18 10,889 





Total cos els 356 7,689 62 19,965 





320 


In ‘‘ mafruz ’’ villages the work of settlement and survey is 
carried out simultaneously. This procedure allows settlement 
officers to. delegate the recording of undisputed claims to the 
survey party, expedites the work, and in addition enables the 
surveyor to acquire experience in land settlement. Index maps 
on a scale I:10,000 are made of each village by reduction from 
the 1:2,500 cadastral maps. These are primarily for use in the 
Land Registry but are also on sale to the public. 


30. A contour survey on a scale of 1:10,000 with a vertical 
interval of one metre has been commenced in the Rift Valley. 
This survey will cover all potentially irrigable land on the east 
side of the River Jordan and south-east of the Dead Sea. The 
control of the contouring will be provided by a line of precise 
levels carried from the First Order levels of the Survey of 
Palestine. 

In connexion with the contour survey a number of First 
Order triangulation points are being established on the eastern 
escarpment of the Tordeti Valley by extending the Palestine 
First Order network. These triangulation points will be used 
primarily to control the map sheets of the contour survey, but 
they will also be available as a base to extend the First Order 
triangulation of Trans-Jordan eastwards. 

31. During the year two sheets of the 1:250,000 scale map 
were published and have had a ready sale to the public. The 
sheets are printed in nine colours and cover the country from 
the River Yarmuk on the northern frontier to Shobek in the 
south, while the eastern boundary is the meridian 36° 31’ E. 
The western boundary extends to the meridian of 35° 19’ E. 
and thus includes the eastern part of Palestine. 


32. Receipts from the sale of maps amounted to £P.71. 


1V.—NATIONALITY. — 


Article 1 of the Trane Jone Nationality Law provided that 
all Ottoman subjects habitually resident in Trans-Jordan on 
the 6th August, 1924, were to be deemed to have acquired 
Trans-Jordan nationality. The term ‘‘ habitually resident in 
Trans-Jordan ’’ was deemed to include any person who had his 
usual place of residence in Trans-Jordan for the period of 
12 months preceding the 6th day of August, 1924. 

2. Provision existed in the law permitting persons who had 
acquired Trans-Jordan nationality under Article 1 of the Law 
to opt for other nationality before the 6th day of August, 1926, 
but, in fact, no use was made of this permission. 

3. Naturalization is granted at the discretion of the Chief 
Minister to applicants who fulfil the following conditions :— 

(a) two years’ residence in Trans-Jordan immediately 
prior to the application for naturalization ; 


- 321 
{3 that the applicant is of food character; 


c) that the applicant intends to reside in Trans- Jordan ; 
(d) that the applicant knows the Arabic language. 


In special circumstances the Chief Minister may, with the 
apEtoval of His Highness the Amir, dispense with the condition 
of two years’ previous residence. 

The figures for the issue of Nationality and Naturalization 
Certificates during the last three years are as follow: — 


1935- 1936. 1937. 


Nationality Certificates applied for ... see 792 675 661 
Nationality Certificates issued ... es we 578 537 588 
Naturalization Certificates issued... te go 117 42 


Three applications for Trans-Jordan nationality by naturaliza- 
tion were refused in 1936. Two of the applicants were Syrian 
and the third a Palestinian, and the ground of refusal in each 
case was that the length of residence was less than the minimum 
prescribed by Article 7 (a) of the Nationality Law. 


V.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Civil Courts. 

1. The Civil Courts consist of Courts of First Instance and 
Magistrates Courts. The present organization of the Courts 
largely follows the Turkish model, which was inherited from the 
former Ottoman system. The organization of the Ottoman 
Courts was based upon a Court of First Instance, which had 
jurisdiction to try all criminal matters where the maximum 

unishment which could be awarded exceeded one year and the 
fine -90, and all civil cases the value of which exceeded 

-50. 

Criminal cases in which the maximum punishment which 
could be awarded was less than one year and the maximum 
fine less than £T.90, and civil cases where the value of the 
subject matter of the action was less than £1.50, were triable 
by Courts known as Magistrates’ Courts or Courts of the Justice 
of the Peace. 

Courts of First Instance were established in towns of any 
importance or size in the Ottoman Empire. Magistrates’ Courts 
were established in towns possessing Courts of First Instance 
and also in other smaller towns. 

Appeal from Magistrates’ Courts lay to Courts of First 
Instance, and appeal from Courts of First Instance lay to 
regional Courts of Appeal. In certain cases appeal lay from 
regional Courts of Appeal to the Court of Cassation in Con- 
stantinople. In addition to appeal, this Court had a jurisdiction 
by way of cassation from Courts below. These Courts were 
known generally as Civil Courts to distinguish them from the 
Sharia and other Religious Courts. 


322 


2. The principal modifications of this system in Trans-Jordan 
consist in the substitution of one Central Court of Appeal for 
the regional Courts of Appeal, and the transfer from Courts of 
First Instance to the Court of Appeal of the duty of hearing 
appeals from the Magistrates’ Courts. Appeal by way of cassa- 
tion has been abolished. The modifications of the Ottoman 
system are therefore little more than simplifications of a system 
which was suitable for a territory of the vast size of the former 
Ottoman Empire, but too complicated for a small country like 
Trans-Jordan. 


Sharia Courts. 


3. Sharia Courts were those Courts which had exclusive 
junsdiction to deal with personal-status cases of Moslems. This 
jurisdiction was and still is in Trans-Jordan exercised in accord- 
ance with the provisions of the Ottoman Law of Procedure of 
the Moslem Religious Courts of the 25th of October, 1333 A.H. 
By personal status is meant matters concerning the personal 
and domestic relations of the parties, such as marriage, divorce, 
alimony, maintenance, guardianship, legitimization and adop- 
tion of minors, interdiction, succession, wills and legacies. These 
Courts also have jurisdiction in cases of ‘‘ Diya’’ (blood 
money), this being a cash payment to the relatives of any person 
killed or injured as the result of the wrongful act of any other 
person: it is additional to any penalty imposed by the Civil 
Courts under the terms of the criminal Law. “ Diya” is a 

art of Mohammedan Law and as such is administered by the 
Charis Courts. The Sharia Courts also had jurisdiction to deal 
with cases of waqf, established by and belonging to Moslems. 
A wagaf is a pious foundation instituted by the founder, in most 
cases, from pious and religious motives. 


Religious Community Council Courts. 


4. In addition to the Sharia Courts, there were certain Courts 
known as the Courts of the Religious Community Councils 
which exercised in respect of the various non-Moslem religious 
communities dwelling within the Ottoman Empire much the 
same jurisdiction as that exercised by the Sharia Courts. Each 
separate community had its own Council, which had power to 
set up a Court with jurisdiction to hear personal-status cases 
arising between members of the particular religious community 
concerned. The principal religious communities in Trans-Jordan 
are the Greek Orthodox community, the Greek Catholic com- 
munity, the Armenian community, and the Latin community. 
The jurisdiction of the Courts of these communities is now set 
out in the Non-Moslem Religious Community Councils Law, 


1933- 


323 


Courts at present established in Trans-Jordan. 


5. Civil Courts.—The Courts at present established in Trans- 
Jordan are as follows: — 


(zr) A Court of Appeal at Amman having jurisdiction to 
hear appeals from all lower Courts in Trane lardan: 


(2) Courts of First Instance having jurisdiction in 
criminal matters where the maximum punishment which can 
be awarded is imprisonment for more than three years or 
a fine, and in civil matters where the value of the subject 
matter of the action exceeds £P.50. 

These Courts are established in Amman, Irbid and 
Kerak. Members of Courts of First Instance proceed to 
places where Magistrates’ Courts only are in existence in 
order, when necessary, to constitute Courts of First 
Instance in those places, thereby saving litigants and others 
concerned the trouble and expenses of coming to the head- 
quarters of a Court of First Instance. 


(3) Magistrates’ Courts having jurisdiction in criminal 
cases where the maximum punishment which can be 
awarded is imprisonment up to three years or a fine, and 
in civil cases where the value of the subject matter of the 
action is not more than £P.50, although if the parties agree 
in writing, the Court has jurisdiction up to any amount. 

Magistrates’ Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, 
Kerak, Es Salt, Jerash, Ajlun, Madeba, Tafileh, and Ma‘an. 


Sharia Courts.—Sharia Courts having jurisdiction to hear per- 
sonal-status cases of Moslems, cases relating to waqfs (pious 
foundations) and ‘‘ Diya ’’ (blood money) are established in 
Amman, Kerak, Irbid, Es Salt, Ajlun, Tafileh, Jerash and 
Ma‘an. 


Tribal Courts —Tribal Courts are at present established in 
Amman, Irbid, Kerak, Ma‘an, and the Desert Area. 


Religious Community Council Courts.—Religious Community 
Council Courts are established in the following places: — 


Place. Community. 
Amman ... asks a Greek Orthodox and Greek 
Catholic. 
El-Husn ... al ee Greek Orthodox and Greek 
Catholic. 
Es Salt ... a Greek Orthodox. 


Special Courts.—The only Special Court at present working 
in Trans-Jordan is the Land Settlement Court, which is a travel- 
ling Court and is set up in districts which are declared to be land 
settlement areas under the terms of the Land Settlement Law, 


1933- 


324 
Nature of the Law in Force in Trans-Jordan. 


6. Article 58 of the Organic Law provides that Ottoman Laws 
promulgated before the 1st November, 1914, and laws promul- 
gated after that date and declared by public notice to be in force 
in Trans-Jordan, shall remain in force until repealed or 
amended. Thus Ottoman Law is the base of that of Trans- 
Jordan, though amending legislation, as well as the spirit which 
has been infused into the working of the Administration and of 
the Courts, has effected very considerable changes. 


The Ottoman system itself has developed from several entirely 
different sources. 


Of these the principal is the Moslem Law, which in the early 
days of the Turkish State was practically the only law, and 
which at the present time suffices for the needs of the less 
advanced Arab States. This law had its origin in the precepts 
of the Koran as applied by the Prophet Mohammed himself, 
and was later developed into a formal legal system by Moslem 
jurists. In course of time this law was very considerably altered 
on many topics, and on some was entirely superseded. Little 
alteration, however, was made in the law governing the personal 
status of Moslems, and that concerning pious foundations (waqf), 
and in Trans-Jordan it is the Moslem law which governs these 
topics. 


As the Ottoman Empire extended and relations with other 
countries increased, the Moslem system was found in some cases 
to be insufficient to meet modern conditions, and in others to be 
somewhat inaccessible, and in consequence it was decided to 
follow the lead of France who, after the Revolution, had codified 
the more important topics of her law. 


The most famous of the French codes is the ‘‘ Code Civil ’’, 
but as the Moslem Law dealt very fully with the matters contained 
in that Code, it was decided to codity the Moslem Law on such 
topics, rather than adopt a foreign code. A Committee of 
Moslem jurists was therefore appointed, and a Civil Code, known 
as the ‘‘ Mejelle ’’, was the result of their labours. This codifies 
the Moslem Law dealing with the principal contracts such as 
sale, hire (including employment), pledge, guarantee, gift, etc. 
It also covers civil injuries, the law of evidence, and certain 
parts of the law of procedure. 


On other topics, however, it was thought necessary to draw on 
foreign sources. The Moslem Criminal Law is primitive, the 
Law of Procedure both Civil and Criminal is fragmentary, whilst 
Commercial Law hardly exists. In consequence the French 
Codes on these matters were translated, and passed with little 
change into the Ottoman system. 


325 

In addition the Turks found it necessary to pass laws to suit 
their own local requirements. This is ape the case in the 
sphere of administration, the Ottoman Wilayet Administrative 
Law being a typical example. 

It has been mentioned above that matters concerning the per- 
sonal status of Moslems were governed by Moslem Law. As 
this Law was unsuitable for Christians, Christian communities 
were allowed to establish their own Courts, and to deal with such 
matters affecting members of their communities in accordance 
with the religious law of the community. 

The foregoing is an outline of the system which by the terms 
of the Organic Law became, or rather remained, the law of 
Trans-Jordan. In addition, that Law, promulgated in 1928, 
declared valid all legislative acts of the constituted authority in 
Trans-Jordan during the previous ten years; and of course the 
legislative authority constituted by the Organic Law was com- 
petent, within the limits of that law, to effect such changes as it 
thought proper. 

The basic change in the Ottoman system was effected by the 
Organic Law itsell, which, following British principles, intro- 
duced liberal ideas, which were somewhat foreign to the Otto- 
man system. In addition whole topics of the Ottoman Law were 
superseded by legislation based on British models. The fact 
that important laws are approved by the Mandatory Power, that 
a British Adviser is responsible for drafting all new legislation, 
and that he advises the Government generally on legal matters, 
naturally tends to favour the introduction of British legislation 
and methods. 

The adapting of a system intended for the big Ottoman Empire 
to a small country, combined with the grafting of entirely foreign 
ideas into the system has many inconveniences, and these have 
mainly been felt in the sphere of procedure. For these purposes 
considerable local alterations have been made to the Codes of 
Civil and Criminal Procedure, with the result that these codes 
have become quite out of date, and the law of procedure uncer- 
tain. It is hoped that it will be possible to introduce new codes 
within the next two years. 


The Diwan Khas for the Interpretation of Laws and 
Regulations. . 


7. The Diwan Khas is a body established under the terms of 
an addendum to the Organic Law, dated the 4th March, 1930. 
The object of the creation of this body was to provide a means 
whereby any points of doubt or difficulty to administrative 
authorities, which have not been the subject of any final decision 
by the Courts, may be made the subject of investigation, the 
decision taken by the Diwan Khas being considered to have 
the force of law. 


326 


The Diwan is convoked by the Chief Minister at the request 
of the Head of any Department. It is composed of two senior 
officials of the Ministry of Justice. The Diwan is presided over 
by the Minister of Justice. 

No interpretation of the Diwan Khas of any of the provisions 
of the Organic Law is operative until confirmed by the Amir. 


Ministry of Justice, 


8. The general control and supervision of the Civil Courts 
is vested in the Ministry of Justice, presided over by a Minister 
who is a member of the Executive Council and ex-officto 
member of the Legislative Council. This Ministry has no control 
over the other Courts mentioned in paragraph 5, but its Execu- 
tion Department is responsible for the execution of their judg- 
ments, with the exception of those of the Tribal Courts. 

The present Minister of Justice, Ibrahim Pasha Hashem, 
C.B.E., is also Chief Minister and Supreme Judge of the Sharia 
Courts. Attached to the Minister of Justice is a British Judicial 
Adviser who is responsible for the drafting of all new laws and 
regulations. As legal draftsman he attends meetings of the 
Executive and Legislative Councils and gives his advice on legal 
points at meetings of the former. In addition he is a member 
of the Diwan Khas for the interpretation of laws and regula- 
tions, and also of the Senior Judicial Council established for 
the appointment, transfer and removal of judicial officials, sub- 
ject to the confirmation of His Highness the Amir. Moreover 
he joins with the Minister in conducting the routine work of 
the Ministry and examines petitions containing complaints with 
regard to specific cases, or in which the Amir is asked to exer- 
cise his prerogative of pardon. The majority of new laws 
originate in departments other than the Ministry of Justice, 
and are sent to the Judicial Adviser for drafting. 

9. Full statistics showing the activities of the Courts and the 
fines, fees and costs received by them are shown below. The 
figures for criminal cases continue to be satisfactory, in spite 
of an increase of 30 new Court of First Instance cases, the 
total of such cases being 621 as opposed to 591 in 1936. New 
criminal cases in the Magistrates’ Courts decreased by 1,279. 
New Civil cases in the Courts of First Instance decreased by 
30, and in the Magistrates’ Courts by 1,236. Revenue from all 
sources fell by over £P.800, the fall being chiefly in the revenue 
from criminal cases. In spite of a good harvest, fees on execu- 
tion tended to fall rather than to rise as was expected. 

ro. During the year a complete reorganisation of the Judicial 
Department has been begun and reforms have been introduced 
into the antiquated Turkish system of keeping registers, which 
should release clerks for more useful duties. Attention is also 
being paid to the question of recruitment of staff, with the 
view of taking advantage of the spread of education. 


327 

11. Particular attention has been paid to the speeding-up of 
the hearing of cases, with the result that there is now very little 
avoidable delay. The new post of Court Inspector has not yet 
been filled and the Court of Appeal has remained without a 
President throughout the year, the former President having died 
at the end of 1936. It is expected that these two appointments 
will shortly be filled, and in the meantime the duties of Court 
Inspector are being performed by the Judicial Adviser. 


12. The practice was adopted in 1937 of giving all Laws a 
serial number. The law relating to Road Transport, Land 
Settlement, and the Protection of Plants and Crops was 
amended and codified. Other new Laws of importance were : — 


The Dangerous Drugs Law, which repealed former legis- 
lation on the matter and brought the law of Trans-Jordan 
into conformity with the latest International Conventions; 

The Arab Legion (Reserve) Law, which constituted a 
reserve for the Arab Legion and provided for its dis- 
cipline; 

The Law for Censorship of Cinematograph Films, 

The Royal Family Law, which gave His Highness the 
Amir certain powers over members of the Royal Family; 
and 

The Civil Service Pension (Addendum) Law, which made 
certain alterations in the Ottoman Law on the subject. 


13. Owing to the system of convicting in absentia which still 
prevails, ‘it sometimes happens that a mere child, who legally 
cannot be sent to prison, is in fact sentenced, and the sentence 
becomes final. Such matters are set right by the issue of a 
pardon. Apart from such formal pardons, three pardons were 
issued by His Highness the Amir during the year, one being on 
account of the ill-health of the prisoner. Although the prison 
system is satisfactory for normal cases, hospital facilities do not 
exist for:the segregation and treatment of chronic cases, and 
thus it may be desirable to release a prisoner in the interests of 
the other prisoners, although he himself may be undeserving 
of sympathy, or from the point of view of his own health may 
be actually better off in the prison. 


14. No execution took place during the year. A vigorous 
control is kept on persons awaiting trial, and such delays as 
occur are generally due to the difficulty which is often ex- 
perienced in the serving of witnesses and in securing their 
attendance. 


15. Fifteen companies and partnerships were registered at 
the Ministry of Justice. This increase of 12 over the figures 
for 1936 does not indicate an increase of commercial activity, 
but is due to a stricter enforcement of the Law requiring 
registration. 


328 


















































£99 zEz'z| ozo Liz S6L Lgr 
00S o£ Sis Sr oS€ Z 
gz9 olt oS1 oI 06g 11 
S1g 6Sz org Li 019 gt 
oSZ 6S ooo 1€ ozy bE 
ogt off 096 91 09g vr 
06+ 162 Sgs Sz $99 og 
6bg glos| Str gs Sz ooF 
vo GSLs 0z6 gt $76 6b 
SoS roz'1] $Z1 vbr ogo Lor 
orl 66z'E| oS€ sLs olz €bz 
GSb z£1 _ _ _ _ 
‘mw | ‘ay | ‘sw | ‘af | ‘stW | ‘at 
‘woynsaxy 
uO Saag 
yoy | Se anmer 
“1019 “pousussy 








Te30L, 


eqeby 9 ue,ey 
: qemeL 


unity yeqef 
ee “yes sq 


Teq0L 


qeloyy 
PIqiT 
se es uewuy 
—PoduIquiod 31N0D §,9;214S13e Wl 
pue souejsuy ysMq jo ymoD 
Teaddy jo z1n0p 


‘yanon fo muon 





“LE61 ‘SLUNOD TIAID 40 ZANAARY 


329 


CourT OF APPEAL. 
Particulars of Appeal entered in the four years 1934, 1935, 1936, and 1937 








Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
Total. 
From Courts From From Courts From 
of First Magistrates’ of First Magistrates’ 
Instance. Courts. Instance. Courts. 
653 217 934 1,848 
726 184 885 1,825 
719 189 797 1,724 
773 147 896 1,859 














Tora NuMBER oF ACTIONS IN CiviIL CouRTS, INCLUDING COURT OF APPEAL. 


Pending at New Pending at 
Year. beginning actions Actions end of 
of year. entered. decided. year. 
1934 © 1,555 26,585 26,947 1,193 
1935 1,193 25,802 25,995 1,000 
1936 1,000 25,420 25,326 1,094 


1937 1,094 26,244 26,460 878 


+6L 
+6L 
Loo‘r 
gzo'r 






































“LE6I pun g€6r ‘SE6r ‘FEST savak anof ay; ur padajua sasvD fo savjnayang 


“HONVISN] ISuly AO SLUNOD 





bg gz €zz 6z1 6b cy Ler gee 6b oor se LE6r 
L6 ze 6zz obr €¢ of gor Igz oF Ihr “ o€61 
CSr se S6z goz €¢ ve L£g¢ 6LE Ib Ler aot SEG 
€Sr 6z o6€ g9z Lg SE €gr off zs 101 ‘PEGI 
“1010 L, 1801 | “1070.L “20tD | “140L 1489 
“OUND ‘qousuessy ‘pousmssD “40a X 
“ypaay “pigay “uD 





biatized ty GOORTe 
Cc 


331 















































16S‘Ez | bhg‘or | LoLizx | vEg'€z | Ezr‘zr | xr1GS‘11 | oL6‘zz | Lro‘11r | ESS‘1r | LEL*¥z | ooo'f1 | LELIr 
LiL £91 vss g96 L£1€ 1$9 +66 6£+ ss¢ gL got zsy 
SoS glz Lez 639 LLE zie 106 ozs LLE gzl rob Sze 
ogt'r gto zl S6z‘1 19S vel gbr'r Zep gil oSh'r 6S+ $66 
LS9't ged 616 bgz't z99 zog 669'1 go £62 QII'r bz z6v 
zZv6'r $06 glo'r €Ll't gt6 S€g gg9'r ofg Sg gro'z L60'r 186 
Log'z Zre'r SES‘r b1E'€ 12l‘r €6S'1 6g0‘E 60€'1 ogl't v61'E eLe'r 1zL't 
seLiz zgl €S6'1 SSbiz 662 9S9'r gIg‘'z ggo'r ofZ‘1 Sgee Lov'r gg‘r 
bgS‘S £€6'z 1f9‘z 16g'S Sve obh'z Sigh zog’z €10'z €ze's chee 1gg‘t 
toz‘9 960'E gore $g6'S L6z‘E g39'z g10‘9 Lez‘ r€L‘z €EL‘9 10L‘€ zfo'k 
— — 
“PHOL pousmssy) °1808D | 1910L wusuersd) “130tD | “1M |[vusues4d) “1008D | “THIOL |tousmessd) “14029 
*LE6I “gf6r “SE6I bE6r 











“LEG pun o€6r ‘SE6I ‘KE6I Savak anof ays ut poasqus sasva fo savjnosavg 


‘SLUNOD ,SHLVALSIOVW 








a7 TeI0L, 
Sn ULAR 
ue,eA 
* eqapeyy 
+ ysesef 
unify jeqef 
wes sq 
yeroy 
PIqzT 
ueuUWy 











ey, 
fo oo 





332 


CiviL ACTIONS, 1937. 








Pending nee Cases Pending 
1/1/37. Entered Decided. | 31/12/37- 
Appeals from Courts of First [ 
Instance . 20 43 58 5 
Appeals from Magistrates 
Courts... 30 773 744 59 
Total 50 816 802 64 
Courts of First Instance— 
Amman a) 55 100 126 29 
Irbid 5 45 46 4 
Kerak 19 28 37 10 
Total 79 173 209 43 
Magistrates’ Courts— 
Amman en 164 3,168 3,193 139 
Irbid 37 2,631 2,613 55 
Kerak gI 1,953 1,971 73 
Ra Salt) ics 16 1,535 1,515 36 
Jebel Ajlun 13 1,038 1,025 26 
Jerash 15 919 927 7 
Madeba ae Fi 46 722 719 49 
Ma‘an and Aqaba 9 227 231 5 
Tafileh : II 554 553 12 
Total 402 12,747 12,747 402 














Digitize 





1b) Google 
Cc 





333 


CRIMINAL CASES, 1937. 





Appeals from Courts of First 

Instance ... on ons 

Appeals from Magistrates’ 
Total ... 


Courts of First Instance :— 

Irbid 

Kerak 

Total ... 

Magistrates’ Courts :— 

Irbid 

Kerak 

EsSalt ... 

Jebel Ajloun 

Madeba 

Tafileh 

Ma’an 


Total ... 




















Pending |New Cases| Cases Pending 
1.2.37. Entered. | Decided. | 31.12.37. 

16 147 149 14 

78 896 943 31 

94 1,043 1,092 45 

19 387 382 24 

22 178 198 2 

Ir 56 66 I 

52 621 646 27 

109 3,096 3,059 146 

125 2,933 3,004 54 

37 782 792 27 

25 1,312 1,319 18 

44 904 926 22 

11 738 744 5 

45 638 664 19 

8 163 166 5 

13 278 290 bg 

417 10,844 10,964 297 











CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION MADE BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTORS 








Cases pending at beginning 
of year. 


New Cases Received. 


Year. 














Cases pending at end of 


Particulars of cases Decided. 





Cases sent 
for trial. 


Cases Filed. 








Mis- 


demeanours. 





Disclosed. 
Abandoned, 


No offence 
Accused 











































































































gS | 96 |rxb‘S] 6€z | oS | roz | 16 | Lobb] LrE |SEE'P| Ebr | Sg | 12S") ghE | SSb'b) grb | zor | LEE‘S| goz | Hee | ** TeIOL 
— |+ 6£ og |Z — | 1 |r | t9 |g9 — |zr |vrr | 66 |€Z — 1/19 6L Gz jz  yayel 
— | €or | — | € — |zr {Sgr |— |$2 — |9 €€r1 |— |sZ — jor |ssr |}— |/€ Ue BW 
+ — |g61 | 1z |g 9 — |loz | €b |lzez | € — jolz | zs !€oz | 2 — |$6r | zr | z€ unjly 
or v Sgz | 2 by iL ir |19z | €9 |691 | ¢ 6 g1€ | of |gr | zr -} 9 ofz | oz | 6z ysesof 
or I ofz |— | 6z | z | z €1€ | — |Ssz | €z I gez | — jrbz | 6r | z $6z | — | ob | *** eqepew 
Lor | zz |ZLZ | 19 | Sz | 9b | 9 $1S¢| gg |zog | Zz | 6 bzS | zz |€gS | gz1 | 61 | gol | Zor | be | YWessq” 
6€ | or |6%9 | — | g9z} Zr | or [LEZ | 1 rS€‘1| 6r | Zr |€r1g | — |zeSt1] LE | 6 €6S | 1 Sg jc piqay 
to [ L €bg | 06 | oz | € z 699 | gf |Z€z | or | € Sbg | Sz1 jozz | 18 | 9 log | €v | ZE | ct HeIey 
zr | be |Lez‘z] — | zor | 06 | gz logt'1] — |x1S€'1l oF | gz j glo] — |1b€'r! bor | HH | SSi‘z) — | zi | ueuWY 
| 
z} wl of al of zl el of al of 2] gl of &l of 2] &l of &l 9 
wig QE IGE] OF [SE] BSE IGE | OF SE] be SeISE] OF |SE | SHISEISE| OF SF 
Se VERIEN(E2(E8 (2 [Ee /E (Seles le (Sele | Seles |f (Se |e" | SE lee 
3 8 gS | oy B fox ® fog 33. joy RB fae ® joy ¥ S| og Bae ® jog gz log 
? 3 sa 13 bg : 3 Say : 3 3 Tals 2 3 = Sas 
a 3/2 2 12 | s/s 2 2 | s]8 2 (2 | s]8 | co: 
= 8 = = 
“PAOMAO LT POtss0D fo pasodsiq sasva ‘sasv) Man “panm4so.y 1ySn0sg 














eg 


*LE61 ‘SNOILNOAXY—AOLNIASOUg OrTang 


335 


Tota, REVENUE oF Crvit CouRTS FOR THE Four YEARS 1934, 1935, 
1936 and 1937. 











Criminal. Civil. 

Notary 
Year. Fees Fees Pai Total. 

Fines. Costs. on on 68: 

Actions. | Execution. 

£P. |Mils.| £P. |Mils.) £P. |Mils.) £P. |[Mils.) £P. |Mils.) £P. [Mi 
1934... [2,463 | 251 |1,673 | 921 |3,354| 950| 668] 455 |1,031 | 835 |9,192 | 412 
1935... [2,052 | 064 |1,408 | §25 [3,522 | 250 |1,303 | 410|1,142 | 025 [9,428 | 274 
1936... |1,862 | 383 |1,372 | 936 |3,435 | 345| 713] 450] 952] 445 |8,336| 559 
1937... |1,438| 918} 674] 445 |3,765|.090| 588|049| 975| 465 |7,441 | 967 

















Vi.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


The posts, telegraphs and telephones and the roads of Trans- 
Jordan are in public ownership and are administered by the 
Trans-Jordan Government. 

The town water supplies are administered, in all cases, by 
the municipal councils concerned. 

The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 


2. Articles 67 and 68 of the Organic Law provide that all 
rights in, or in relation to, any public lands and in all mines 
and minerals shall vest in and may be exercised by His Highness 
the Amir in trust for the Trans-Jordan Government. 

Grants or leases for the exploitation of the mineral resources 
of Trans-Jordan are made under a Mining Law of 1926, the 
terms of which follow generally those of the Palestine Mining 
Ordinance, 1925. 


3. Article XVII of the Agreement between His Majesty the 
King and His Highness the Amir provides that His Highness 
shall be guided by the advice of His Britannic Majesty in all 
matters concerning the granting of concessions, the exploitation 
of natural resources, the construction and operation of railways 
and the raising of loans. 


4. There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime 
or in the Customs laws of the Trans-Jordan Government. 
Certain exemptions from State and Municipal taxation and 
tithes which were enjoyed by certain foreign charitable, religious 
and educational institutions under the Ottoman regime are main- 
tained, but no new privileges of this type have been granted. 

Moreover, Trans-Jordanians are liable to the same taxation, 
State or Municipal, as are foreign nationals. 


336 


Vil._FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious obser- 
vance throughout Trans-Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows: — 


“ Article 10.—Islam shall be the religion of the State and there 
shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete freedom of 
belief and freedom to practise forms of worship in accordance with 
their customs unless detrimental to public safety or order or contrary 
to morals.’’ 


‘‘ Article 14.—The various communities shall have the right to 
establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their members 
in their own language provided that they conform to the general 
Tequirements prescribed by law.’ 


3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law, three of the 
16 elected representatives are Christians. The Law relating to 
the election of members of the Administrative Councils provides 
that the Heads of religious communities shall be members of 
the selection committees, and that where the Christian male 
population is 500 souls there shall be one, and where it is 1,000 
there shall be two, Christians in the Council. The new Muni- 
cipal Law which was recently passed by the Legislative Council 
provides that the elected members of Municipal Councils are 
to be composed of Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems 
in proportion to the number of males over 20 years of age in 
these communities. If this would not give the minorities repre- 
sentation, they will be given representation if their numbers are 
Io per cent. or more of the whole. 


4. Personal-status cases of non-Moslem religious communities 
are within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious Com- 
munity Councils according to the provisions of the non-Moslem 
Religious Community Councils Law, 1933. A new draft 
of this Law, which takes account of the changes made in the 
Organic Law, was under consideration in the Legislative Council 
at the end of the year. 


5. Community and private schools may be opened only after 
obtaining a licence from the Department of Education. Before 
a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy the 
Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be used, 
and to submit details of the qualifications of the teachers to 
be appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After a 
school has been licensed and opened, the Department of 
Education has the right of inspection. Of recent years there 
have been no difficulties in regard to licensing or inspection, 
though this latter right is seldom exercised. 


337 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the 
Government services and hold some of the highest posts. 


7. During its Thirty-Second Session the Permanent Mandates 
Commission asked for information in regard to the approximate 
strength of each type of Mission. The numbers of foreign 
adults in these missions are as follows: — 

Anglican 20. 
American Churches 8. 


Latins 38, including 32 in the Italian hospitals at Amman 
and Kerak. 


VilI.— MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1. The Arab Legion Duties and Responsibilities —The Arab 
Legion is the Police Force of dee Joran: It is responsible to 
the Government of Trans-Jordan for public security and the 
Maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, 
immigration and passport control, and the licensing of vehicles. 


2. Strength and composition.—The Arab Legion consists of 
40 officers (seven of whom are British, thirty-three Trans- 
Jordanians), three cadet officers, and 1,018 non-commissioned 
officers and men, who are disposed as follows: — 





Cadet Other 

Officers. Officers. Ranks. 

Mounted ... oe eas Ses ae 22 3 378 
Dismounted es ee aie oes 12 — 348 
Desert Police ... wee es ae 3 — 106 
Prison Staff ae eat i oe 2 — 98 
Clerical Staff BG wae ame sof _ _ 23 

Paid for by the ‘Iraq Petroleum 

Company sith a ae a I — 65 
40 3 1,018 





The Arab Legion Reserve, which was formed in 1936, is com- 
posed of 115 men of whom 60 are Desert Police; they are paid 
a monthly retaining fee of £P.1 and draw £P.5 for the month 
during which they are called up for training annually. 


Provision was made at the end of 1937 to increase the Arab 
Legion by 50 mounted men and to increase the Reserve by 50 
dismounted men. 


3- Organization and Command.—Trans-Jordan is divided into 
five Districts, namely: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, Ma‘an and the 
Desert Area. These divisions are used for administrative and 
police purposes. 


336 


Vil.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious obser- 
vance throughout Trans-Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows: — 


“ Article 10.—Islam shall be the religion of the State and there 
shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete freedom of 
belief and freedom to practise forms of worship in accordance with 
their custome unless detrimental to public safety or order or contrary 
0 mo! 


‘ Article 14.—The various communities shall have the right to 
establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their members 
in their own language provided that they conform to the general 
requirements prescribed by law.’’ 


3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law, three of the 
16 elected representatives are Christians. The Law relating to 
the election of members of the Administrative Councils provides 
that the Heads of religious communities shall be members of 
the selection committees, and that where the Christian male 
population is 500 souls there shall be one, and where it is 1,000 
there shall be two, Christians in the Council. The new Muni- 
cipal Law which was recently passed by the Legislative Council 
provides that the elected members of Municipal Councils are 
to be composed of Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems 
in proportion to the number of males over 20 years of age in 
these communities. If this would not give the minorities repre- 
sentation, they will be given representation if their numbers are 
Io per cent. or more of the whole. 


4. Personal-status cases of non-Moslem religious communities 
are within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious Com- 
munity Councils according to the provisions of the non-Moslem 
Religious Community Councils Law, 1933. A new draft 
of this Law, which takes account of the changes made in the 
Organic Law, was under consideration in the Legislative Council 
at the end of the year. 


5. Community and private schools may be opened only after 
obtaining a licence from the Department of Education. Before 
a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy the 
Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be used, 
and to submit details of the qualifications of the teachers to 
be appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After a 
school has been licensed and opened, the Department of 
Education has the right of inspection. Of recent years there 
have been no difficulties in regard to licensing or inspection, 
though this latter right is seldom exercised. 


337 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the 
Government services and hold some of the highest posts. 


7. During its Thirty-Second Session the Permanent Mandates 
Commission asked for information in regard to the approximate 
strength of each type of Mission. The numbers of foreign 
adults in these missions are as follows :— 

Anglican 20. 
American Churches 8. 


Latins 38, including 32 in the Italian hospitals at Amman 
and Kerak. 


Vill.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1. The Arab Legion Duties and Responsibilities—The Arab 
Legion is the Police Force of peng Jomen. It is responsible to 
the Government of Trans-Jordan for public security and the - 
maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, 
immigration and passport control, and the licensing of vehicles. 


2. Strength and composition.—The Arab Legion consists of 
0 officers (seven of whom are British, thirty-three Trans- 
jedaniansy: three cadet officers, and 1,018 non-commissioned 
officers and men, who are disposed as follows: — 





Cadet Other 

Officers. Officers. Ranks. 

Mounted ... a2 aa ae Ee 22 3 378 
Dismounted am a ae ae 12 — 348 
Desert Police... ss ae —p 3 _ 106 
Prison Staff oor oa ee sie 2 _ 98 
Clerical Staff ms ao nee Sie _— _— 23 

Paid for by the ‘Iraq Petroleum 

Company aa ee oe te I _ 65 
40 3 1,018 





The Arab Legion Reserve, which was formed in 1936, is com- 
posed of 115 men of whom 60 are Desert Police; they are paid 
a monthly retaining fee of £P.1 and draw £P.5 for the month 
during which they are called up for training annually. 


Provision was made at the end of 1937 to increase the Arab 
Legion by 50 mounted men and to increase the Reserve by 50 
dismounted men. 


3. Organization and Command.—Trans-Jordan is divided into 
five Districts, namely: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, Ma‘an and the 
Desert Area. These divisions are used for administrative and 
police purposes. 


336 


Vil.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious obser- 
vance throughout Trans-Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows: — 


“ Article 10.—Islam shall be the religion of the State and there 
shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete freedom of 
belief and freedom to practise forms of worship in accordance with 
their customs unless detrimental to public safety or order or contrary 
to morals.’’ 

“* Article 14.—The various communities shall have the right to 
establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their members 
in their own language provided that they conform to the general 
requirements prescribed by law.’’ 


3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law, three of the 
16 elected representatives are Christians. The Law relating to 
the election of members of the Administrative Councils provides 
that the Heads of religious communities shall be members of 
the selection committees, and that where the Christian male 
population is 500 souls there shall be one, and where it is 1,000 
there shall be two, Christians in the Council. The new Muni- 
cipal Law which was recently passed by the Legislative Council 
provides that the elected members of Municipal Councils are 
to be composed of Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems 
in proportion to the number of males over 20 years of age in 
these communities. If this would not give the minorities repre- 
sentation, they will be given representation if their numbers are 
Io per cent. or more of the whole. 


4. Personal-status cases of non-Moslem religious communities 
are within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious Com- 
munity Councils according to the provisions of the non-Moslem 
Religious Community Councils Law, 1933. A new draft 
of this Law, which takes account of the changes made in the 
Organic Law, was under consideration in the Legislative Council 
at the end of the year. 


5. Community and private schools may be opened only after 
obtaining a licence from the Department of Education. Before 
a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy the 
Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be used, 
and to submit details of the qualifications of the teachers to 
be appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After a 
school has been licensed and opened, the Department of 
Education has the right of inspection. Of recent years there 
have been no difficulties in regard to licensing or inspection, 
though this latter right is seldom exercised. 


337 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the 
Government services and hold some of the highest posts. 


7. During its Thirty-Second Session the Permanent Mandates 
Commission asked for information in regard to the approximate 
strength of each type of Mission. The numbers of foreign 
adults in these missions are as follows : — 

Anglican 20. 
American Churches 8. 


Latins 38, including 32 in the Italian hospitals at Amman 
and Kerak. 


Vill.—_MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1. The Arab Legion Duties and Responsibilities—The Arab 
Legion is the Police Force of Trans-Jordan. It is responsible to 
the Government of Trans-Jordan for public security and the 
maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, 
immigration and passport control, and the licensing of vehicles. 


2. Strength and composition.—The Arab Legion consists of 
0 officers (seven of whom are British, thirty-three Trans- 
Terdaniara)) three cadet officers, and 1,018 non-commissioned 
officers and men, who are disposed as follows: — 





Cadet Other 

Officers. Officers. Ranks. 

Mounted ... nes oe oo a9 22 3 378 
Dismounted ane es es ae 12 _ 348 
Desert Police... ie she oe 3 — 106 
Prison Staff Aa is oS ate 2 _ 98 
Clerical Staff ee a ae Bed _ _ 23 

Paid for by the ‘Iraq Petroleum 

Company : se a a I _ 65 
40 3 1,018 





The Arab Legion Reserve, which was formed in 1936, is com- 
posed of 115 men of whom 60 are Desert Police; they are paid 
a monthly retaining fee of £P.1 and draw £P.5 for the month 
during which they are called up for training annually. 


Provision was made at the end of 1937 to increase the Arab 
Legion by 50 mounted men and to increase the Reserve by 50 
dismounted men. 


3. Organization and Command.—Trans-Jordan is divided into 
five Districts, namely: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, Ma‘an and the 
Desert Area. These divisions are used for administrative and 
police purposes. 


338 


The Arab Legion is organized as follows, in accordance with 
these Administrative Districts: — 


In Amman, the capital of Trans-Jordan. 


Arab Legion Headquarters. 

Amman City Police. 

Arab Legion Depot for recruiting and training pw : 
Arab Legion Motor Transport Garage and Repair Work- 


shops: 
The Central Jail. 
Ajlun District. 
Headquarters and 17 Police Stations. 
Belqa District. 
Headquarters and 18 Police Stations. 
Kerak District. 
Headquarters and ro Police Stations. 
Ma‘an District. 
Headquarters and 9 Police Stations. 
Desert Area. 
Headquarters and 10 Police Stations. 
Ey Police Stations are in telephonic communication with 
their District Headquarters. 


Wireless.—The Arab Legion operates eleven wireless stations, 
of which ten are fixed and one is a mobile set mounted in a 
Ford tender. 

During 1937 new wireless personnel were for the first time 
trained by Arab Legion staff and not as hitherto by the Royal 
Air Force. 


Motor Transport.—The Arab Legion possesses 23 motor 
vehicles, distributed as follows:— 


Vehicles. 
Desert Area 3 ids ee ee ae ee sa SIZ 
Amman Police .. oo + foe ss en oes 4 
District Cars... enn ae on es ose ahd 6 


Total ... ene sit wea if wee 23) 


Each of the four Districts: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, and Ma‘an 
possesses one district car, the remaining two vehicles of this 
type being maintained in reserve. 


The vehicles are repaired in the Arab Legion workshops, in 
Amman. All vehicles are of Ford make and mechanics are sent 
for training to the Ford Motor Works, Alexandria, Egypt. 


339 


4. Courses of Instruction—Members of the Legion attended 
the following courses of instruction during the year: — 


Number of 
Subject. Place. persons 
attending. 
Motor Mechanics ... ... Ford Company, 7 Men. 
Alexandria. 
Lathe Operating... «Jaffa. 1 Man. 
Car Painting ae ... Iraq Petroleum Company. 1 Man. 
Car Maintenance .. ... Arab Legion Depot. 12_N.C.Os. of 
Desert Patrol. 
Wireless Operators ... Arab Legion 4 Men. 
Headquarters. 


Advanced Technical Course Royal Air Force, Amman. 1 W/T Sgt. 
in Wireless Maintenance. 


First Aid... oe ... Royal Air Force, Amman. 1 Officer and 10 
Men. 

Law and its application ... Arab Legion Depot. 71 Men. 

Equitation Instruction ... Arab Legion Depot. 2 Men. 


The promotion of non-commissioned officers is based on the 
result of an annual examination. 


5. Motor Licensing Department.—The Force is responsible for 
the testing and licensing of all motor drivers and vehicles; the 
following table of licences issued in certain years indicates the 
progressive increase in the number of vehicles: — 


Year Motor Pedal 
Licensed. Cars. Buses. Lorries. Cycles. Cycles. Totals. 
1926 ws. 110 4 16 5 _ 135 
1934... 269 19 109 7 = 464 
1935 «-- 274 34 169 7 = 484 
1937 ++. 300 38 133 14 120 605 


6. Criminal Investigation Department.—The statistics of 
ordinary crime showed an increase over those of the previous 
years. 


The following is a list of the principal crimes reported in each 
of the last four years : — 


Nature of Crime. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 
Murder ue es 47 19 29 21 
Wounding wie ae 444 346 308 260 
Abduction... eve 45 43 29 55 
Theft ... nee as 1,646 715 882 942 
Car Accident a 118 III 112 Ior 
Smuggling pte: he 37 7 13 20 


Drunkenness ... ee 7o 60 55 77 


340 


During the years 1936 and 1937 the following enquiries as to 
criminal antecedents were made : — 


1936. 1937- 

Enquiries from Courts regarding: Verifications 
and Antecedents ee 1,436 1,630 
Enquiries traced... be Rs ae ie 605 627 
Enquiries not traced en : 6 ie 831 1,003 


The following numbers of nase prints were taken of 
suspects : — 
1936. 1937- 
431 399 


7. Prisons.—Nine prisons exist in Trans-Jordan. 

Any prisoner sentenced to more than three months’ imprison- 
ment is transferred to the Central Jail, Amman. The average 
population of the Central Jail throughout 1937 was 268 
prisoners. 

Further extension of prison industries was carried out during 
the year. The following men, who had no skilled trade when 
they entered prison, were instructed in the trades shown 
below : — 


Stone quarrying . ie ae mee Ss 30 
Stone cutting and trimming Pe oa oa aia 35 
Masons (building) ... . “ae eas tee = 12 
Carpenters es dee vane ans oes dons ms 7 
Blacksmiths... is Bec che Le ai 6 
Laundry and ironing . oe tes tea at es 24 
Carpet making : ie ae a a ae 25 
Mattress making 3 at a is Let 5 
Gardening and | Poultry rearing yh one Ae a 14 
Painting dee fe Sts ant 6 
Cooks . ood no fs as 10 
Telephone exchange operators ioe Eee Ary gna 7 
Plasterers si a ee a oe 14 
Concrete workers... wis si i ag P53 10 


8. Relief Work.—During the year the Arab Legion Relief 
Committee has been active; articles of clothing, bedding and 
food have been issued to destitutes, a number of prisoners on 
release from jai] have been given food and assisted to reach 
their homes and others have been helped to obtain employment. 
Several persons have been assisted to receive hospital treatment, 
and three destitute foreigners were repatriated to their own 
countries. 


g. There has been no disturbance of public security during 
the year under review. The Desert Area, which constitutes 
about four-fifths of the area of Trans-Jordan, and is sparsely 
populated by nomads, has been quiet. 

There have been no incidents on the frontiers, and relations 
with the frontier officials of the Saudi Arab Government con- 
tinued to be amicable. 


341 


1X.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 
AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the Name of Trans-Jordan. 
(i) ComMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Country. 
Syria and 

Lebanon. 
Palestine 


Palestine 


Syria and the 
Jebel Druze. 


'T 

Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Saudi Arabia 


Great Britain 
Palestine 


Palestine 


48607 


Title of Instrument. 
Customs Agreement 


Transit Agreement 


Agreement 


Hadda Agreement ane ‘ 

Provisional Agreement in regard 
to the Transmission of Judicial 
Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Agreement for the taking of 
Evidence on Commission for 
the purposes of any Commer- 
cial or Civil matter. 


Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the con- 
veyance of corpses from 
Palestine for burial in Trans- 
Jordan and from  Trans- 
Jordan for burial in Palestine. 

Agreement as to the circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement concerning the settle- 
ment of disputes between 
Beduins of Trans-Jordan and 
Beduins of Syria and the 
Jebel Druze as well as between 
Beduins and non-Beduins of 
the same States. 

Treaty of Friendship ... 

Agreement establishing tele- 
graphic communication. 

Agreement for the reciprocal 
grant of gratis visas. 

Treaty of Friendship and Bon 
Voisinage. 

Supplementary Agreement 


Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to regulate the ser- 
vice of judicial documents 
between Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Date and place of Signature. 
10.5.1923 Amman. 


26.9.1928 Jerusalem. 
Amended 18.12.1928. 
Amended 27.12.1928. 
Amended 23.7.1934. 


20.2.1928 Jerusalem. 

Ratified 31.10.1929, Amman, 
2.11.1925 Bahra Camp. 
15.2.1928 Amman. 


25.2.1929 Jerusalem. 
6.3.1929 Amman. 


6.3.1929 Amman. 


1.10.1929 


14.10.1929 Jerusalem. 


2.2.1930 Amman. 
29.12.1929 Beirut. 


26.3.1931 Amman. 
Effect from rst April, 1930. 


20.8.1932 Jerusalem. 
5-9-1932 Beirut. 
27.7.1933 at Jerusalem. 
Ratified 23.12.1933 at Cairo. 
2.6.1934 Jerusalem. 
Ratified at Ablin on 22.6.1935. 
9.7-1934 Jerusalem ; and 
23.7.1934 Amman. 
Amended 1.9.1935. 
23.11.1934 Amman and Jerusalem. 


342 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. 


Declaration recognising the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of 
Navigable Waterways of International Con- 
cern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- 
national Concern. 

International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copy- 
right Convention signed at Berlin on 
13.11.1908, 

International Opium Convention and subse- 
quent relative papers. 

International Convention relating to the 
Simplification of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Railways, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocols of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electrical Power and Protocols of 
Signature. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

International Agreement as to Contagious 
Diseases of Animals. 

International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 

International Sanitary Convention 


International Convention relative to Motor 
Traffic. 

Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial 
Navigation. 

International Convention relating to Inter- 
national Exhibitions. 

International Convention for the Unification of 
Certain Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 

International Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Conditions of the Wounded and Sick 
in Armies in the Fields. 


Date of Date of 

Signature. Accession. 

20.4.192I, 9.10.1922 
Barcelona. (Ratification). 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 

20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona, 

20.4.1921, 28.13.1924. 
Barcelona. 

13.11.1908, 21.3.1924. 
Berlin. 

20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Berne. 

23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 
The Hague. 

3-11.1923, 27.11.1924 
Geneva. (effective date). 

9.12.1923, 27.11.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

24.9.1923, 8.5.1926. 
Geneva. 

12.9.1923, 23.5.1927. 
Geneva. 

25.1.1924, 13.7.1927. 
Paris. 

25.9.1926, 18.6.1927. 
Geneva. 

19.2.1925, 25.9.1928 
Geneva. (effective date). 

21.6.1926, 9.10.1928. 
Paris. 

24.4.1926, 24.10.1929. 
Paris. 

13.10.1919. I1.7.1922. 

22.11.1928, 17.12.1930. 
Paris. 

25.8.1924, 2.6.1931 
Brussels. (effective date). 

27.7.1929, 23.6.1931 
Geneva. (Ratification), 


(effective date). 


343 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—continued. 


Title of Instrument. 


International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the White Slave Traffic. 

Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 
relating to International Carriage Py Air. 

Universal Postal Convention wee 


International Convention for Mutual Protec- 
tion against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for the Sanitary 
Control of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 

2.6.1928, I,10.1931. 
Rome. 

30.9.1921, 2.11.1931. 

31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 

18.5.1904,  6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 

45-1910,  6.5.1932 

Paris. (effective date). 

12.10.1929, 14.4.1932. 
Warsaw. 

20.3.1934, 1.1.1935. 
Cairo. 

25-7.1934, 3-5-1935. 
Athens. 

12.4.1933, —_-1.9.1935. 
The Hague. 

9.12.1932, 24.5.1935. 
Madrid. 


For position as regards International Labour Conventions see Labour 


Chapter (page 348). 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan 


Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United Bingdom and: 
Albania 22.7.1926 oes ose 
Austria 3.12.1873/26.6.1901 ... 
Belgium ue 29.10.I90I  . oie 
Belgian Congo _ 5-3-1907/3.3.1911 
Ruanda-Urundi 





Monaco 


porn 


28.6.1928/2.7.1928 
22.2.1892 % 
26.1.1897 Ae ike 
27.10.1888/2. 12. 1929 
3.10.1904/17.4.1930 ... 


IL.11.1924, Erotocol 4 6. 1926 


31.3.1873 

18.11.1925 

30.5.1924 

24.9.1910 oo 
4-7-1885/30.5.1914 
7.12.1874 Je nee 
3-12.1873/26.6. 1901 oes 
2.5.1932 = 
16.7.1924 

18.5.1926 

17.12.1891 

27.11.1930 

26.9.1898 

19.4.1905 = on 
26.6.1873/18.2. 1907 nan 
25.8.1906 ms Ss 
26.1.1904 

II,1.1932 : = 
17.10.1892/20.1.1932 








Date of 
A pplication. 


11.7.1927. 
18.3.1932. 
1.4.1932. 
1.4.1932. 
1.4.1932. 
3-3-1932. 
18.3.1932. 
5.12.1930. 
12.12.1931. 
15.7.1927. 
29.3.1932. 
10.3.1927. 
25.11.1926, 
22.4.1932. 
30.3.1932. 
24.2.1932. 
30.6.1932. 
2.5.1932. 
7.6.1926 
11.6.1927. 


ie } 5-7-1931. 


5-4-1932. 
6.4.1932. 
20.9.1932. 
4.6.1932. 
2.3.1932 
12.3.1934. 
23.6.1934 
M2 


344 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan—continued. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
Atplication. 
Roumania ... Oe vee 9/21.3.1893... eek ves 3-3-1932. 
Salvador an sets wee 236.1881 es ase ++ 18.10.1932. 
Siam an ace vee 4.3-IQII as see 7-4.1932. 
Spain wie nae ve 4-6.1878/19.2. 1889 es ses 23.3.1932. 
Switzerland ... vee 26,11,1880/29.6. 1904 se 95.1932. 
United States of America vee 22,.12,193I a6 vee 24.6.1935. 
Yugoslavia... 23.11.1900/6.12. 1900 30.8.1932. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing list the Trans-Jordan 
Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


Argentine. Italy. Tunis. 
Ecuador. , Liberia. Uruguay. 
France. Paraguay. 

*Germany. San Marino. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition 
between Trans-Jordan and Germany on a basis of reciprocity. The arrange- 
ment came into force on 28th February, 1933. 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 


Jordan. 
Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
Application. 

Lithuania ... Agreement respecting Commercial 24.4.1923. 
Relations, 6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 

Latvia .. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 

Poland ... «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 

Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 _ 6.6.1925. 

Finland ... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 

Austria ... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.1926. 
22.5.1924, London. 

Germany + Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926. 
2.12.1924, London. 

Greece ... .». Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3.1927. 
16.7.1926. 

Hungary... .». Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 26.7.1927. 
23.7.1926, London. 

Austria ... +» Notes on Trade Marks ae re abet 

Yugoslavia «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.1928. 
12.5.1927. 

Spain... «+. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.1928. 
31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 
31.5.1928. 

Bulgaria ... Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
12.11.1925. 

Lithuania .». Notes Modifying the Agreement of 10.12.1929. 
6.5.1922. 

Japan ... «+. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation 1.6.1930. 


and Supplementary Convention of 
30.7.1925. 


345 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 
Jordan—continued. 


Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
Application. 
Egypt ... .». Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.1930, 21.8.1930. 
Cairo. Prolongation until 16.2.1934 
by Notes of 16/19.2.1933. 


Spain... -.» Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.1931. 
Companies, 27.6.1924, Madrid. 

Panama ... +. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.9.1932. 
25.9.1928. 

Poland ... ... Agreement regarding Trade and Com- 24.7.1935- 


merce, 27.2.35, London. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Date of 
Country. Title of Instrument, Application. 
France ... +» Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 21.3.1923. 


mercial Matters, 2.2.1922. 

Belgium ... -. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 13.3.1925. 
mercial Matters, 21.6.1922. 

Czechoslovakia ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com-  17.2.1927. 
mercial Matters, 11.11.1924, London. 

Greece ... ... Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 21.6.1929. 


of Origin, 21.6.1929. 9.7.1929 
(effective). 
Germany +». Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 25.11.1929. 


mercial Matters, 20.3.1928. 

Netherlands’ ... Extension to Overseas Territories of the 1.12.1929 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, (applicable to 
1.12.1929. British subjects 

only). 

Spain... ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 23.2.1931. 
mercial Matters, 27.6.1929. 

Italy oe, «.. Notes respecting documents of Identity 13.4.1931. 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.1931. 

Poland ... .. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 17.10.1932. 
mercial Matters, 26.8.1931. 

Estonia ... «.. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 11.11.1932 
mercial Matters, 22.12.1931. (effective). 

Portugal «.. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 30.4.1933. 
mercial Matters, 9.7.1931. 

Denmark +». Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 25.7.1934. 
mercial matters, 29.11.1932. 

Netherlands  ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 22.9.1934. 
mercial Matters, 31.5.1932. 

Belgium ... .«. Supplementary Convention to Facilitate 27.6.1935. 
the Conduct of Legal Proceedings, 
4.11.1932. 

Finland ... ++. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 4.6.1935. 
mercial Matters, 11.8.1933. 

Czechoslovakia .... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 5.1.1937. 
mercial Matters (Supplementary), 
15.1.1935. 

Lithuania + Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 29.6.1937. 
mercial Matters, 24.4.1934. 

Hungary +». Legal Proceedings in Civil aud Com- 25.6.1937. 
mercial Matters, 7.5.1936. 


48607 M3 


346 
X.—ANTIQUITIES. 
Inspections. 

I. One additional Antiquity guard has been appointed, bring- 
ing the number up to five, who are stationed at Shobek, 
Tafileh, Kerak, Madeba and Jerash. The inspectorate staff also 
comprises an Assistant Inspector and a Sub-Inspector at 
Amman, and a Sub-Inspector at Jerash; and by these means 
the greater part of the country is regularly patrolled. Inter- 
ference with antiquity sites continues to be infrequent; only one 
notable case of damage occurred during the year, namely, the 
unauthorized dismantling of a Bronze Age wall at Irbid. 


Recent Discoveries. 


2. The American School of Oriental Research, in conjunction 
with the Department of Antiquities, has excavated the Nabataean 
Temple, at Khirbet Tanur in the Tafileh Sub-District, mentioned 
in the Report for 1936. The work has brought to light many 
fine pieces of Nabataean sculpture, dating fom at least the 
year 7 B.C. to early in the second century A.D. The earlier 
date is given in an inscription mentioning the building of the 
temple in the second year of King Aretas and his wife Khaldu. 
The discovery of these objects will throw much light on both 
the plastic art and the religious life of the Nabataeans. 

A series of important prehistoric sites has been located at 
Wdi Dhobai, in the desert some 80 kilometres south-east of 
Amman; and a collection of surface flints has been made. The 
culture links up with the Tahunian of Palestine, but also has 
many individual characteristics, and has aroused considerable 
interest ames pre-historians. The sites are now being examined 
and excavated. 

Archaeological Survey. 


3. In continuation of his work in Southern Trans-Jordan, 
which was described in Volume XV, 1934-5, of the Annual of 
the American School of Oriental Research, Dr. Glueck has begun 
his survey of the northern districts of the country and has 
already examined many hitherto unrecorded sites. 

Mr. T. P. O’Brien has proposed to make a survey of all the 
prehistoric sites in Trane fon lan, and is expected to commence 
operations in the near future. 

These two surveys, when completed, will provide a record of 
all sites of every period of the country’s ancient history, and will 
be of the greatest archaeological value. 


Excavations. 

4. Petra.—The British School of Archaeology in Egypt, under 
the direction of Dr. Margaret Murray, conducted a_ short 
campaign at this site during the spring of 1937, and obtained 
some interesting results from the excavations of small private 


347 


dwellings. Hitherto the attention of excavators has been con- 
fined to the greater monuments and the High Places; but a real 
knowledge of ancient peoples is best obtained from their houses 
and rubbish heaps, and for this reason Dr. Murray’s investiga- 
tions were particularly valuable. 


Tell El-Ghassul.—Financial difficulties have delayed the con- 
tinuation of the work which was done in the spring of 1936 by 
the Pontifical Biblical Institute, Jerusalem. The Institute hopes 
to resume operations early in 1938. 


Mount Nebo.—The Franciscan Biblical Institute, Jerusalem, 
under the direction of the Rev. Sylvester Saller, has done a 
further season’s work at Siagha, during which a great part of 
the monastery complex attached to the church there has been 
revealed 

Ma‘in.—The Ecole Biblique, Jerusalem, under the direction 
of Pére Savignac, has excavated a recently discovered mosaic 
pavement which contains illustrations of churches in some of the 
ancient towns of Palestine and Trans-Jordan. After complete 
recording, the pavement was re-buried. 

Khirbet Tanur.—The clearance of this site by Dr. Glueck and 

is associates has been completed. 

Amman.—The Italian Archaeological Expedition which car- 
ried out excavations at the Acropolis in 1932 has resumed work, 
under the direction of Dr. Bartoccini. 

Wadi Dhobat.—A permit has been granted to Mr. Waechter, 
on behalf of the British School of Archaeology, Jerusalem, to 
excavate the prehistoric sites here, and he has begun operations. 


Conservation. 


5. The Trans-Jordan Government have been able to increase 
somewhat the funds made available for this purpose, and the 
work undertaken this year has included the preservation of the 
mosaics in the Cosmos and Damianus Church and the partial 
restoration of the north tetrapylon at Jerash, and also the 
strengthening of the Nymphaeum at Amman. 


Tourists. 


6. Fees collected from tourists visiting Petra totalled £P.409 
as compared with £P.648 in 1936 and £P.818 in 1935. The 
number of foreign visitors to Jerash was 766, as compared with 
947 in 1936 and 1,355 in 1935. The decrease in the number of 
tourists is due to the continued unsettled conditions in Palestine 
since the spring of 1936. 

General. 

7. The card index, with map references and photographs of 
all sites in the country, which was opened in 1936, is complete 
so far as present recorded sites are concerned, and will be 

48607 M4 


348 


amplified by the information which will become available from 
Dr. Glueck’'s further survey in the north of Trans-Jordan. A 
map showing all recorded sites in the country is in course of 
preparation, based upon two new maps issued by the Depart- 
ment of Lands on the scale, 1: 250,000. 


The Amman Museum.—A special exhibition was held in the 
summer of 1937 of the recently discovered sculpture from 
Khirbet Tannur. The Museum itself is not large enough to 
accommodate a permanent representative collection; and a series 
of special exhibitions of this kind is the best available means of 
keeping the people in touch with the archaeological developments 
of the country. 


X1.—LABOUR. 


With the exception of the Convention concerning Forced or 
Compulsory Labour the International Conventions have not 
been formally declared to be applicable to Trans-Jordan and the 
necessary legislation to enforce in Trans-Jordan the provisions 
of such Conventions has not been enacted, except legislation 
relating to forced or compulsory labour which enables the Trans- 
Jordan Government to give full effect to the terms of the Con- 
vention dealing with those matters. At the same time care has 
been taken to ensure that local legislation is in no way con- 
tradictory or repugnant to the terms of the International Labour 
Conventions and, where necessary, the existing laws have been 
amended accordingly. 


It has been deemed advisable to follow this policy because 
Trans-Jordan is in the main a primitive pastoral and agricul- 
tural country where society is still conducted on patriarchal 
lines. Industries are practically non-existent and it is improb- 
able that conditions will permit industrial development in the 
future. The need for the greater part of the provisions of the 
Labour Conventions has not yet arisen, and the purpose of 
many would be beyond the comprehension of the local legis- 
lature and, moreover, even if it were possible to secure the 
enactment of the legislation necessary to give full effect to the 
Conventions, the machinery for its execution could not at the 
moment, for practical reasons, be brought into being. 

In the circumstances, it is preferable to ensure generally that 
local legislation is not repugnant to the terms of the Conventions 
and to adopt from time to time those provisions of the Conven- 
tions the application of which is rendered desirable by the 
development of Trans-Jordan. 


2. Certain undertakings have been given by the factory 
owners in regard to the employment of children. These under- 
takings conform to the draft Conventions and recommendations 
adopted by the International Labour Conference. 


349 


X11.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS, AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 


1. The existing laws provide that:— 

(a) The import of State or military weapons or revolvers 
of which the barrels are more than 15 cm. in length, or of 
ammunition for the same is prohibited except with the 
permission of the Government. 

(b) Firearms may not be carried without permission 
within towns in which there resides a Government repre- 
sentative. 

(c) The sale of arms and ammunition within a town is 
only permitted under licence and in a specially appointed 
place. 

(d) The transport of arms for export is prohibited. 

(e) Except with a licence the possession of arms or 
ammunition in the Jordan Valley is prohibited. 

(f) With the exception of retail urchase from a licensed 
dealer, as provided in detail in the Law, no person shall 
import, transport, possess, purchase, sell or otherwise deal 
in any explosive substance (including detonators, percus- 
sion caps and bombs) except under a licence to do so. 
Purchase of explosives from a licensed dealer may only 
be effected by persons having a licence to do so. 


2. Before 1933, certain persons in Amman were licensed to 
deal in arms and ammunition and these people were required 
to keep registers of receipts and issue. But in December, 1933, 
a closer control was taken and the Chief Minister ordered that 
no licences were to be granted to any person to import arms. 


3. During 1937, dealers were licensed to import a total of 
1g shot-guns. Arms and ammunition are not manufactured in 
Trans-Jordan and it was only during the recent disturbances 
in Palestine that licences were given to manufacture blasting 
powder under Government supervision and control. Only a 
very small number of arms has been seized in course of importa- 
tion from -Trans-Jordan into Palestine, and there has been no 
concrete evidence of any considerable traffic in arms in or 
through the country. 

Drugs. 

4. The Dangerous Drugs Law which was passed by the Legis- 
lative Council in December, 1936, came into force on the Ist 
January, 1937, and gives effect in Trans-Jordan to the Inter- 
national Convention for Limiting the Manufacture and Regu- 
lating the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs. This Law makes 

rsons guilty of an offence under the law liable to imprisonment 
fo a period not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding 
£P.500, or both such penalties. 


350 


5. The seizures of dangerous drugs and the penalties imposed 
in 1937 were as follows:— 





Amount. 
Kilo. Gms.Centgs. Origin. Penalty. 
Hashish... - 750 — Syria. 1 Week imprisonment. 
£P.2 Fine. 

I 100 - Syria. x Month imprisonment 
and 400 mils Fine and 
deportation. 

oa we 4 45 - Syria. 3 Months, 
2 Months. 
BS Ses - I — Syria. 1 Month. 
- 2 5 FoundinTrans- £P.5 Fine. 
Jordan. 
- I 20 ae £P.5 Fine. 
a $08 - I 25 on £P.5 Fine. 
Cocaine... - - 54 ee Pending Trial. 
6. The snipers under licence granted during 1937 in respect 
of narcotic drugs were: — 
Grammes. 
Cocaine in the form of Salts and preparations... at 93 
Morphine in the form of Salts and preparations ao 7 
Medicinal Opium as es oe ee c 20 
Opium in the form of preparation ... ye ees pee 45 
Codein in the form of Salts ... es ae one Sea 140 
Cannabis Indica in the form of preparation oe ne 22 


Liquors. 
7. There are three distilleries in Trans-Jordan which manu- 
factured the following quantities of liquors during the year 
1937:—cognac 10,708 litres, araq 26,264 litres and wine 5,624 


litres. 
X1tl.— EDUCATION. 


General. 

1. The Department of Education is responsible for two main 

branches of work:— 
(a) the direction, supervision and inspection of all 
Government schools; 
(b) the supervision and inspection of non-Government 
schools. 
Headquarters Staff. 

2. During the year an additional Inspector was appointed 
and the Inspector of School Gardens, who was formerly attached 
to the Department of Agriculture and Forests, was transferred 
to the Department of Education. The headquarters staff now 
comprises a Director, a Senior Inspector, two Inspectors and 
an Inspector of School Gardens. e clerical staft consists of 
a Chief Clerk, an Accountant, a Storekeeper and a Clerk. 

3. The teaching staff of the Department has been increased 
and the total number of teachers in all Government schools, 
including Headmasters and Headmistresses, is now 163 com- 
pared with 154 during the previous year. 


351 


This increase of staff is designed to provide additional masters 
in existing schools where the proportion of pupils to teachers 
is much too great. 

The distribution of Government schools and the teachers 
and pupils thereof are shown in the table at the end of this 
section. 


4. During the year one new Government elementary village 
school has bes opened, in the sub-district of Jebel Ajlun. The 
total number of Gaverment schools is now 70. In addition, 
one boys’ elementary school has been opened in Amman at the 
charge of the Municipal Education Fund. 

The total number of pupils attending school in the first term 
of the school year 1937-8 was 7,408, compared with 6,515 in 
the previous school year. The number includes admission to 
the classes newly opened and maintained from the Municipal 
Education Funds. 

At the thirty-second Session of the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission information was requested in regard to the number of 
children refused admission to Government schools. 

The following table gives the number of applications for 
admission to all classes of Government schools in September, 
1937, and the number which it was possible to accept: — 


Towns. Villages.* Total. 

Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. 

Applied ... eri a 1,917 681 2,520 26 4,437 707 
Accepted sae aie 737 400 1,177 23 1,914 423 
Refused or Deferred ... 1,180 281 1,343 3 2,523 284 


* The figures for villages apply only to those villages where schools exist. 


Of the numbers deferred, in towns, 183 boys and 56 girls 
have been taken into the new classes opened, in January, 1938, 
by means of funds provided by the new Municipal Education 
Rate; the net figures of refusals are therefore 997 boys and 225 
girls. But, in spite of the fact that all possible efforts were made 
to ensure that an accurate registration should be made of all 
children of school age, it is believed that the foregoing figures 
are not entirely accurate, since parents who have several times 
applied unsuccessfully for the admission of their children desist 
from renewing their applications. 

Amongst those rejected are a considerable number of pupils 
who after one or two years’ education in a small community 
school have exhausted its resources. 


Municipal Education Rate. 

5. Under a Law enacted in the form of an Addendum to 
Article 15 of the Ottoman Elementary Education Law of 1329 
(1914) and promulgated in May, 1937, an education rate, 
known as the Minicipel Education Rate, was introduced. This 
rate is leviable on real property within Municipal areas, and is 
collectable from the occupier of the property. Power to put the 


352 


Law into a al in any Municipal Area and to fix the per- 
centage of the Rate, within the specified maximum of 3 per cent. 
of the rental value, is vested in the Executive Council. 

The revenue derived from this Rate forms, in each Municipal 
area, a special fund, known as ‘‘ the Municipal Education 
Fund ”’ which is administered by a committee presided over in 
the Capital by the Director of Education, and in the Districts 
and sub-Districts by the Mutessarrif or Kaimmakam. The 
Director of Education has the power to control the work of the 
District and sub-District Committees. 

In August, 1937, the Municipal Education Rate was enforced 
in the Municipal Area of Amman, and in November, 1937, in 
that of Es Salt. In both cases the Rate has been levied at 2 per 
cent. The annual assessment of the Rate amounted to £P.1,204 
in Amman and £P.100 in Es Salt. 

With these additional provisions for Municipal education, it 
has been possible to open the following classes: — 

In Amman: 
3 Lower Elementary Classes for Boys. 
I Mixed Preparatory Class. 
I Mixed Kindergarten Class. 
In Es Salt: 
I Preparatory Class for Boys. 

Three masters and three mistresses were appointed in Amman 

and one master in Es Salt. 


Elementary Education. 
6. The Elementary course extends over a period of seven 
years in town schools and four years in village schools. 
Mixed Kindergarten classes are attached to the girls’ school in 
Amman only. The former method of keeping one independent 
Kindergarten school in Amman proved unsatisfactory. 


Town Schools. 

During the year there were twenty elementary town schools 
(including Municipal schools) with a roll of 4,100 pupils. Of 
these, nine schools were for girls with a total of 1,508 girls. 

e The following table shows the number of schools by 
istricts : — 


Liwa. Boys. Girls. Total. 
Belgqa oe eae one ars wee 5 4 9 
Ajlun 3 2 5 
Kerak 2 2 4 
Ma’an I I 2 
Total Ir 9 20 


Village Schools. 
Forty-three village schools, with a roll of 3,005 pupils, were 
maintained during the year. Of these, one is for girls and has 
39 pupils. 


353 


The following table shows the number of village schools 
by Districts : — 


Liwa. Qada. Number of 
Schools. 
Belga_... a res Amman sth ees ee 6 
Ajlun_... Se eee Irbid_... ta we eos 20 
Jerash ... sie id as 2 
Jebel-Ajlun 5 
Kerak... A ae Kerak ... as des ae 5 
Tafileh ae Me Pe 2 
Ma’an ... $8 ore Ma’an ... a 3 
Total oo e's en ee te Ae 43 


Of these, all execpt one in the sub-District of Irbid, are for 
boys. ° 
Secondary Education. 


7. The complete Secondary Course extends over a period of 
four. years, the elementary and secondary stages being 
continuous. 

The fourth secondary class concludes with the Trans-Jordan 
matriculation examination which follows to some extent the lines 
of the Palestine matriculation. 

There is only one Government boys’ school in Trans-Jordan 
which provides a complete secondary course of four years; there 
are three others which give two years. Education in these 
schools is free of charge. 

Thee is no Government school providing secondary education 
for girls. 

The total number of students attending the secondary schools 
in the first term of 1937-8 was 208 compared with 153 in the 
previous year. 

Twenty students sat for the Trans-Jordan Matriculation 
Examination held in July, 1937, and eighteen passed. 


Desert Schools. 


8. The Desert Schools started in the year 1935-6 are still only 
two in number. One is permanently stationed at Al Jafr in the 
Ma‘an District, where here is a suitable building, while the 
second school was open for some months this year at Muaqqar 
in the District of Amman. Subsequently, however, as a result 
of the migration of tribes, the attendance fell considerably, and 
it was decided to move the school to Mudauwara (also Ma‘an 
District) for the remainder of the school year. 

During the first term of the present scholastic year there were 
seventeen pupils in the school at Al Jafr and twenty-three in that 
at Muaqqar. At Mudauwara, where the latter school has now 
re-opened, there are fourteen pupils. 

Desert schools follow a special curriculum designed to suit the 
needs of the Beduin. 


354 
Technical Education. 

g. The only school that provides technical education in Trans- 
jordan is the Government Arts and Crafts School in Amman. 

anual instruction is given in all town schools. 

_At the Arts and Crafts School board and lodging are pro- 
vided for students from outside Amman; students living in 
Amman itself are accepted as day students. No fees are charged 
for board or tuition. 

The school is open to selected boys from the fourth elementary 
class or above. The average age of pupils ranges from 14 to 17. 
The courses for both theoretical and practical training cover a 
period of four years for blacksmith and carpentry trades and 
three years for cane work and upholstery. 

During the first term of the year roe there were 55 students 
of whom 45 were boarders. 


Scholarships. 
10.—(a) The following scholars are being maintained by the 
Department in 1937-8:— 


No. of 

Scholars. Institutions which Scholars ave attending. 
2 Government Arab College, Jerusalem. 
4 Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarem. 
2 Women’s Training College, Jerusalem. 
I English Girls’ College, Jerusalem. 


(b) The British Council awarded a scholarship of £P.300 
to enable a member of the teaching staff in the Department to 
take one year’s course in a university in England. The Depart- 
ment found it advisable to select one of the Inspectors for this 
course, and he was sent to the University College, Exeter, to 
take a course in English and in methods of teaching that 
language. 

Non-Government Schools. 

11. The table appended hereto gives particulars of the non- 

Government schools. 


Secondary Education in Non-Government Schools. 

12. The Boys’ School instituted in Amman by the Anglican 
Bishop in Jerusalem opened its first secondary class this year. 
Its new building has been completed and a boarding section 
has been established therein. 

In the Girls’ School of the Church Missionary Society in 
Amman a first secondary class has also been added during the 
year, and this school thus becomes the first school which 
provides secondary education for girls. 

General. 

13. The Department of Public Health continued to co-operate 
in the medical inspection of all schools, and that of Public Works 
in all matters concerning school buildings. The District 
Administrative Officers also continued their co-operation in the 
construction and maintenance of school buildings in villages. 


355 








*S[OOYDS ,S[II3 0} Poysez4e Sosse[D Us}IeSIOpUNryy opnyour soin3y ayy } 
*s[ooyos a8eITIA pue AreUsIA[a U9aMJaq UOEIYIsse]O 943 Ul apeU yUsUIysN[pe Ue 0} aNp SI asveiDep OUT, ¢ 





















































£91 vz 6€1 SE gz €6g + | gor o1g | g6S‘9 | ZeS‘1 | 199°S of ae% tg [eOL 
Z I 9 _ Z 6 +4 95S ZI €P _ ss I “** JOOYIS szyeID pue spy ‘F 
z _— z _ z gz — | oF _ ob _— ob z oe "7 sjooyos pasaq “€ 
€s ¢ gv I zs bgl + | Soot 6L1 | gzg‘z | 6€ 996'z er “+ sfooyss a8erTtA (9) 
ve 8 gz ve _ $61 + | goS‘1 oSz | gSz‘r | goS‘r — 6 s[IlIg—sfooyos umoyt(q) 
es 8 Sb _ €s €zr — | z6S‘z €6z | 66z'z _ z6S‘Z Ir sA0gJ—SOOYIS UMOT » (2) 
— sjooyos Arequauiayq “Zz 
$1 z ZI _ tr ss + | goz gl zEr _ goz + te sjooyos Arepuosass *1 
“sunt | ‘sucay "sui | ‘sway 
-st4yD | -soW 400k -s14yQ | -sop 
“p40. "uous, “ua, “7040, “spat. “sho, 
10101, 7) NW snot 1P10L 1449) f= 4 0042s 
: 01g: o *sjooy9. 
uorsyay gennkiey Moret IN saquunyy 1004S 
asvasquy 
*S4ayIoaL “sqMapnis 














*g£61-LE61 ‘SIOOHOG LNAWNUAAOS NI SUBHOVAL GNV SINAGNIS AO NOIINAIUILsSIG 

























































€ z Lz 

$1 g gSr 76 ver 

+ € $6 _ _ S6 

4 I _ gz gz 

z _— Sr gt _ 1g 

+ + Sz gz €z of 

g z Sg “Ss gz _ Sg 

8 ¢ 1€z Sgr gy 6z1 zor 

8 € Ley gzb 61 og £9€ 
oo Z oSg LLL €Z gz $z9 
. gz 199‘I LS‘1 FI lig beg 
“" 9 z69'r LE LSg't 961 g6'r 

ssumystay | ‘stuapsoyr 
‘1010 ‘sig | ‘shog 
“Mordyay 
*s4ayovey “syuapnis 














Teq0oL 
z R s[ooyds 9010.4 JoIjUOLy "ZI 
+ sjooyos A3a100g Areuolsstpy yoinyD “II 
I ae ‘+ Jooyds UeTUaULIY ‘Or 
1 a +++ Jooyas reqeg °6 
I oy “** Jooyas WelrEzeqqes *g 
I ou “* wopresrepury qeiy “2 
I ae Se Jooyss uvorsguy °9 
€ sr "t+ gjooydg ueotIeury *S 
€1 Mk S[ooyss d1]OYZeD HIe1N *b 
$1 gee sfooyoss xopoyqUO yeoI4) “€ 
gr ae nee *-sfooqag Une °Z 
Sy ne ae aa ae sqe}ynyy “I 
*s400YIS 
fo *$J0049S 
A4aqQUnn 





*g£61-LE61 ‘SIOOHOS LNAWNUAZAOD-NON NI SYAHOVAL ANV STldNg dO NOILNaIUIsIg 





357 


XIV.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 
Personnel. 


1. The establishment of the Department of Health was 
increased during the year by one Medical Officer, three Anti- 
Malaria Sanitary Sub-Inspectors, one Medical Attendant, one 
Ambulance Driver for the Desert Mobile Medical Unit and one 
Beduin Sanitary Sub-Inspector. 


Finance. 


2. The following is the estimated revenue and expenditure 
for the Department for the financial year 1937-8, compared 
with that for the year 1936-7 :— 








1937-38. 1936-37. 
£P. £P. 
(1) Revenue ate a ee 580 580 
(2) Expenditure— 

Personal Emoluments ... 10,816 9,805 

Other Charges... Los 4,993 5,671 
Extraordinary ... aie 250 _ 

Total ee: wee 16,059 15,476 








In addition Government pays half of the total budget for the 
Desert Mobile Medical Unit (i.e., £P.1,293) and the other half 
is paid by the Palestine Government. 


The expenditure on the Department of Health has risen from 
£LP.11,292 in 1931-2 to £P.17,352 in 1937-8, and in this latter 
year amounts to 4-2 per cent. of the whole expenditure (with 
the exception of self-balancing items) of the Government. 


Vital Statistics. 


No census of the population of Trans-Jordan has yet been 
pea The total population of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, is roughly estimated at 
from 300,000 to 325,000. 

The number of births notified during the year under review 
was 11,496 (38-3 per thousand inhabitants) compared with 
12,234 (40 per thousand) in 1936. The number of deaths in 
1937 was 6, fs (21-1 per thousand); the number notified in 
1936 was 6,652 (22 per thousand). 

The infantile mortality rate (below one year of age) was 203 
per thousand live births, compared with 201 for 1936, 211 for 
1935 and 242 for 1934. 


358 
The following table shows the birth-rates and death-rates 
for the last 10 years:— 
Number of Births | Number of Deaths Total Increase 


Year. registered. registered. of Births 
over Deaths. 
1928 ... A 8,400 (27-4) 5,009 (16-3) 3,391 
1929 ... oe 9,845 (322) 6,573 (21°5) 3,272 
1930 ... eit 10,340 (33:8) 6,661 (21-7) 3,679 
1931 ... + 10,697 (35-0) 5,684 (18-4) 5,049 
1932... aes 10,871 (35°5) 6,152 (20-0) 4,719 
1933 .- +++ 10,900 (36-3) 7354 (24°5) 3,546 
1934... +» ~~: 10,742 (3578) 7,925 (26-4) 2,817 
1935 «- aint 11,284 (37°6) 6,832 (22-7) 4,452 
1936 ... ape 12,234 (40:0) 6,652 (22:0) 5,582 
1937 «+ ss -11,496 (38° 3) 6,342 (21°1) 56154 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious and 
communicable diseases, reported during the year was 6,508, 
compared with 7,329 cases notified in 1936. No serious 
epidemics occurred during the year. 

The total number of cases of Pulmonary and non-Pulmonary 
tuberculosis notified to the Department of Health during the 
year under review was 624 with 33 deaths, compared with 595 
cases and 40 deaths notified in 1936. 

The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Beduin 
tribes was started in April after the organization of the Desert 
Mobile Medical Unit. It is too early yet to judge what benefit 
will be derived from the operations or the Unit. Cod liver oil 
and other tonics were supped to all the Desert Patrol outposts 
to lessen the chances of their contracting the disease. 

The following list shows the cases of and deaths from 
infectious and communicable diseases in 1937 compared with 


1936:— 

















1937. 1936. 
Disease. 
Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 

Anthrax was 5 _ 7 I 
Chicken Pox 7o —_— 64 _ 

Diphtheria 16 3 10 I 
Dysentery 219 —_— 303 4 
Erysipelas 29 37 3 
Influenza a ae 648 20 1,365 46 
Measles 4 td oe 538 | 70 1,102 133 


German Measles odie seer 'th = 1 








1937 1936: 
Disease. 
Cases Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 

Mumps oes 130 _ 112 _ 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis as 12 8 29 10 
Pneumonia ... oes 156 30 171 48 
Puerperal Fever... oes 10 I 9 2 
Relapsing Fever... Sed 9 _ 6 I 
Typhoid see ae Boe 165 , 102 10 
Para-Typhoid wee abe 43 2 26 I 
Typhus ae ons as 14 I 35 5 
Whooping Cough ... 350 6 96 2 
Acute polyarticular Fs Rheuma- I 

tism Bet 45 I 45 I 
Malta Fever . ove be _ _ _ 
Encephalitis Lethargica ois I I I iT 
Malaria i ae 2,791 4 2,791 7 
Schistosomiasis 4s _ _— 2 _ 
Leishmaniasis eee Af 12 _ 6 _ 
Leprosy i fet) Ae _ _ I _ 
Tetanus ae 2 I I - 
Pulmonary and Non-Pui- 

monary Tuberculosis... 624 33 595 40 
Venereal Diseases... age 600 8 4ir 3 
Hydrophobia se ee 3 3 I I 
Bilharzia “38 268 B26 5 _— _— _ 
Scurvy on me ice 10 — _— _— 














5. The Department continued to maintain eight-bedded 
epidemic posts at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma‘an, and the 
four-bedded posts at Jerash, Tafileh, and Aqaba. The mobile 
epidemic unit of 40 beds was also maintained. 

During the year I10,223 articles or bundles and 1,880 houses 
have been disinfected, compared with 101,986 and 798 respec- 
tively in 1936. 


Vaccination against Small-Pox. 


6. The total number of vaccinations against Small-Pox, 
carried out by the Department in 1937 was 22,350, compared 
with 23,945 in 1936. 


Malaria and Anti-Malaria Measures. 


7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 
2,791 cases, with four deaths, compared with 2,791 cases and 
17 deaths reported in 1936 and 5,435 cases and 8 deaths 
reported in 1935. 


The main sources of infection are the Jordan Valley, Azraq, 
Seil el Hasa, and certain villages with streams of water. 


360 


At the Government clinics, out of a total of 50,748 new cases 
treated during the year 3 per cent. (1,547 cases) were malaria, 
compared with 4 per cent. in 1936; at voluntary clinics, out 
of a total of 17,398 new cases 7-1 per cent. (1,244 cases) were 
malaria compared with 7-8 per cent. in 1936. 

The above figures indicate that the percentage of malaria is 
much higher amongst voluntary clinic patients. This can only 
be explained by the assumption that diagnosis at non-Govern- 
ment clinics is based more on clinical and less on microscopic 
examination than at Government clinics, and that consequently 
cases of unknown fevers are diagnosed as malaria. 


During the year the Department used on the free treatment 
of malaria 19,650 tablets of Plasmochin, 18,850 tablets of 
Atebrin, 16,000 tablets of Malarine and 31 kilogrammes of 
Quinine Salts. 

The Medical Officers of Health examined 9,861 children with 
the object of determining the spleen rate. Of this number 1,030 
were found with enlarged spleen giving a rate of 10-4 per cent. 
compared with ro per cent. for the year 1936. 

The children examined were from different parts of the 
country including bad malarial regions, such as the Jordan 
Valley. 

Routine anti-malaria measures were continued all over the 
country on the same lines as in previous years. 

In the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force camps at Zerka and Jisr 
el Mejamie, anti-malaria work has been carried out in co-opera- 
tion with the Health Authorities of that Force with satisfactory 
results. 

Anti-rabic Measures. 

8. Three persons in Irbid district who were badly bitten by 
a rabid hyena developed hydrophobia and died in spite of the 
fact that they began a course of anti-rabic treatment the day 
after they were bitten. 

Twenty-three persons, bitten by animals suspected to be 
suffering from rabies, were treated at the Department of Health 
Centres with the prophylactic anti-rabic vaccine treatment. 


Government Hospitals. F 
g. The Department maintained the 20-bed hospital at Amman, 
the 12-bed hospital at Irbid, and the six-bed hospital at the 
Central Prison, Amman. 
The number of admissions to, and deaths in, Government 
hospitals, compared with the figures for 1936, are as follows: — 
Total admissions. Total deaths. 
1937. 1936. 1937. 1936. 
933 954 5r 46 


361 


Voluntary Hospitals. 


to. A new building at Es Salt for a 30-bedded hospital for 
the Church Missionary Society has almost been completed. 
The outpatients department will remain in the old hospital 
building. 

The admissions to voluntary hospitals during the last two 
years were as follows:— 





Number of Deaths in 
Admissions. Hospitals. 











The Church Missionary Society 





Hospital, Es Salt at 480 473 
The English Hospital, Amman ... 125 80 
The Italian Hospital... ae 754 782 
The Italian Hospital, Kerak ... 469 334 





Total ... aan os 1,828 1,669 











Government Clinics. 


11. The number of attendances at the Public Health Depart- 
ment Clinics during the year showed a considerable increase, 
being 220,452 as compared with 192,958 in 1936. 


New cases at these clinics for 1937 were 50,748, classified as 
per mala 1,547, eye diseases 12,913, other diseases 
30,288. 


Voluntary Clinics. 


12. The number of attendances at voluntary clinics was 
30,641, compared with 25,117 for 1936. 


The distribution was as follows:— 


Total Number of 
Attendances. 
The Church Missionary Society Hospital Clinic, Es Salt... 4,606 
The English Hospital Clinic, Amman __.... tee hae 3,153 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Amman oe oe oe 15,129 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Kerak tue a a 6,668 
The Palestine Electric Corporation Clinic, Jisr Mejamie... 1,085 





Total... hte side 30,641 





362 


Licensing of Medical Practitioners, Dentists, Pharmacists and 
Midwives. 
13. During the year licences were issued to three Medical 
Practitioners, one Pharmacist and four Midwives. 
The number and distribution of private medical practitioners, 
cones pharmacists and midwives at the end of 1937 was as 
OLLOWS : — 





Medical Pharma- Mid- 
Practitioners Dentists. cists. wives. 
Amman ... 9 3 4 3 
Es Salt 2 I I 2 
Ajlun I _ _ _ 
Kerak 3 r _ I 
Irbid 2 _— —_ I 
Ma‘an % _ — _ I 
Madeba ... oes “0H = _ _ I 
Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion, Jisr Mejamie . I _ _ pare 
‘Iraq Petroleum Company, 
Mafrak, H-5, and H-4 I _ _ —_ 
Zerka oes ed aay = _ _ 2° 
Total om 19 5 5 Ir 





Government Laboratory. 
14. The number of specimens examined during the year was 
5,181, including 595 seriological tests against the typhoid group 
and 763 against syphilis. 


School Medical Service. 

15. The Medical Officers of Health carried out the medical 
examination of 7,095 school children, compared with 7,008 in 
1936. Of this number 1,994, or 28 per cent., were found to be 
suffering from trachoma, compared with 21-9 per cent. in 1936, 
and 243, or 3-4 per cent., were found with enlarged spleen, 
compared with 5 per cent. in 1936. 

The number of children vaccinated or revaccinated against 
small pox was 1,564, compared with 1,345 in 1936. 

The total number of attendances at the school ophthalmic 
clinics was 353,460, compared with 308,090 attendances in 1936. 


Maternity and Infant Welfare. 

16. Five qualified midwives, one for each of the municipalities 
of Irbid, Zerka, Ma‘an, Kerak, and Madeba were appointed by 
the Government during the year. They were trained at the 
Palestine Government midwifery centre. The municipalities of 
‘Amman and Es Salt already employ one midwife each. 


There are Infant Welfare Centres at Amman and Zerka. 


363 
The number of new cases registered during the year was 129, 
compared with 96 cases in 19 & and the number of attendances 
was 8,767, compared with 7,860 in 1936. 
The number of visits to the homes of children by the nurse 
was 2,465, compared with 2,360 visits in 1936. 


Medical Treatment of Civilians at Zerka Camp. 


17. A small Child Welfare Clinic, run in the schoolroom for 
the families of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, was expanded 
by the Medical Officer in charge of the Force to include civilians 
and in 1936 a disused building was turned into a Clinic and Child 
Welfare Centre and a nurse fully qualified in midwifery and 
Child Welfare Work was employed. 

During the year 1937 over 3,000 civilians from Zerka and the 
surrounding country were treated. 

The nurse visited more than 150 civilian families during the 
year. This very useful work has been done at no charge to 
the Department of Health. 


Medico-Legal Examinations. 


18. Practically all medico-legal examinations are carried out 
by the Medical Officers of Health. The number of examinations 
made during the year was 4,152, compared with 3,934 in 1936 
and 3,274 in 1935. Of this number 96 were post-mortem 
examinations, compared with 97 in 1936 and 95 in 1935. 


The Desert Mobile Medical Unit. 


1g. The early months of the year were spent in the collection 
and arrangement of medical stores. In addition, while waiting 
for work upon the travelling dispensary to be completed, two 
tours of inspection were made in the northern desert. These 
preliminaries were not completed until May and on the 15th of 
that month the unit commenced work at Towageee 

Clinics were established at Zizia, Rum, Abu Al-Atham, Negil, 
Al Jafr, Sahab, Azraq and Mudauwara. 

The total number of attendances was 10,661, new cases 6,491, 
tuberculosis (all types) 149, malaria 175, other diseases, 1,946. 

After the rain in October attendances in clinics fell consider- 
ably as the Beduin immediately scattered from the wells round 
which they congregated in the dry summer months. The figures 
given therefore apply mainly to the months May to September. 


Ophthalmic Clinic Service. 

20. The Department of Health continued as in the previous 
years to give free treatment for all ophthalmic cases. The 
campaign against these diseases has been extensive and effective. 
Thousands of cases are treated annually at Public Health 
Department clinics and school ophthalmic clinics, besides the 
distribution of eye drops in villages and Beduin camps. The 


364 


number of new cases of eye diseases examined and treated at 
Public Hcalth Department clinics (exclusive of school clinics) 
was 12,913, compared with 9,652 in 1936 and 11,471 in 1935. 
The number at voluntary clinics was 2,379, compared with 
1,780 new cases for 1936 and 1,667 for 1935. 

The attendances at school ophthalmic clinics numbered 
353,460, compared with 308,090 in 1936 and 307,204 in 1935. 

21. The Department continued in charge of all medical and 
public health services pertaining to the Arab Legion including 
the Desert Patrol. The general health of the force has been on 
the whole quite good. All the men have been vaccinated against 
small-pox and inoculated against typhoid. 

22. The Prison Medical Service has also been under the 
charge of the Health Department. The general health has been 
good, all prisoners have been vaccinated against small-pox 
and inoculated against typhoid. 


Railway Medical Service. 


23. The Trans-Jordan section of the Hejaz Railway remained 
as in previous years under the care of the Department of Health. 


Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments. 


24. The Department of Health carried out the control and 
licensing of all unhealthy trades and public establishments. 

The total number of licences issued or renewed during the 
year was 1,282 within municipal areas and 938 outside 
municipal areas as compared with 1,240 and 881 respectively 
for 1936. 

Water Supplies. 

25. A reserve engine and pump for the Kerak water supply 
were installed, and a scheme for Ein El-Souk (Jerash town) 
water supply has been completed. 

Ajlun Municipality completed a small scheme for the supply 
of water. Minor improvements to water supplies have also been 
carried out at other places. Proposals are under consideration 
for a water supply scheme for Es Salt. 

A scheme for the supply of water to Mahis village (Es Salt 
district) is also under preparation. 

Pumped water supplies have in past years been brought from 
a distance to the Municipal areas of Irbid, Kerak and Madeba, 
and in Amman an efficient distribution system has been 
arranged. Certain improvements have been carried out, and 
others are projected in Jerash and Es Salt. In 1936 some 
£P1,500 was _ spent on relief work in improving the water supply 
in the Ma‘an district, and a considerable amount will be spent 
in 1938 in the direction of improving drinking water supplies in 
the course of the hydrographic surveys, for which a grant of 
4P30,000 has been made. 


365 


Municipal Sanitation. 


26. The Municipal sanitary services continued to be adminis- 
tered by the district medical officers. In spite of limited 
municipal funds, these services were carried out satisfactorily. 

There are 13 municipal sanitary Sub-Inspectors, who are 

aid by municipalities but work directly under the Public 

ealth Department. 

The Municipal Advisory Board, consisting of one represen- 
tative from each of the Departments of Health, Public Works, 
General Administration and Finance, continued its work on the 
same lines as in previous years in giving advice on municipal 
budgets and different matters relating to municipal functions. 


Quarantine Service. 

27. The Quarantine Station at Ma‘an was opened during the 
pilgrimage season. The pilgrims, who proceeded to the Hejaz 
from Trans-Jordan by the southern land routes, numbered 190; 
the number returning was 418. 

All pilgrims, before their departure to the Hejaz, are 
jecanael against small-pox and cholera by the Medical Officers 
of Health. Twenty-four pilgrims travelled to the Hejaz via 
Palestine-Suez, to whom the Department issued special Laissez- 
Passer booklets and return railway tickets after the vaccination 
for cholera and small-pox was completed. 


XV.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 
Revenue and Expenditure—1924-25 to 1936-37. 

1. The following statement sets out the annual totals of 
revenue (including all grants from His Majesty’s Government) 
and expenditure (including that covered by specific grants) from 
the rst April, 1924, the date of institution of financial control, 
to the 31st March, 1937:— 


Financial Year. Revenue. Expenditure. 

£P. £P. 

Surplus balance at 31st March, 1924 23,958 _— 
1924-25... oes fe a8 280,673 274,868 
1925-26... ar f4 1s 282,459 274,573 
1926-27... met ne exe 302,520 274,920 
1927-28... aid ae ie 282,073 318,260 
1928-29... aaa soe a 307,555 318,950 
1929-30... ae ane as 316,147 338,461 
1930-31... see See oe 367,516 350,532 
1931-32... is 5 ses 338,046 344,983 
1932-33... 35 oes a 354,888 340,883 
1933-34 --. oe oo oe 381,412 374,769 
1934-35... oe tee oe 377,517 369,395 
1935-36... Ea Ae oe 395,630 381,300 
1936-37... ee as aa 418,650 435,040 
Surplus balance at 31st March, 1937 32,111 


Summaries of revenue and expenditure under Heads during 
the last four years (with notes explaining the principal varia- 
tions) are given in the following tables : — 


366 


2. SUMMARY OF REVENUE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1933-4 


TO 1936-7 (a). 


Head of Revenue. 1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 
Customs and Excise ... +++ 103,530(b) 98,627 104,567 —133,884(b) 
Licences and Taxes ... +++ IOI,611(c) 113,057(¢) 140,637(c) 89,121(c) 
Court Fees and Office receipts 30,220 32,812 37,026(2) 36,462 
Posts and Telegraph Dept. .... 12,622 12,982 13,798 15,222(e) 
Revenue from Government 

Property ... oe we 2,072 3,198 7.184(f) 1,659 
Interest sas oe ae 609 1,523 827 382 
Miscellancous ... ea 8,906 11,935 7,198 9.435 
Sale of State Domains 03 1,037 2,124 2,610 1,975 





Total Local Revenue {£P.261,507 276,258 313,847 288,140 





Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 65,000 60,000 42,000(g) 55,000 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 

Frontier Force oe + 30,899 31,959 31,611 31,534 
Grants from the Colonial 

Development Fund s 24,006 9,300 8,172 12,904 


Grant-in-Aid of Trans- Jordan 
for the Repayment of its 
Share of the Ottoman Public 





Debt.. Orn _ —_ —_ 31,072(h) 
Total Grants ... £P.119,905, 101,259 81,783 130,510 © 
Total Revenue... £P.381,412 377,517. 395,630 += 418,650 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
page 173 of the Annual Report for 1931, those for the financial years 
1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on page 329 of the Annual Report for 1935. 

(b) The improvement in the revenues of the Department of Customs and 
Excise in 1933-34 was due to the revision of the Customs Agreement with 
Palestine whereby, with effect from the 1st October, 1932, Trans-Jordan 
was allowed to retain duties on all imports arriving in transit via Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan’s share of the import duties collected in Palestine was 
reduced to {P.17,000 per annum. This share was increased by {£P.8,000 
to {P.25,000 in 1936-37 on the basis of statistics taken of foreign goods 
re-exported from Palestine to Trans-Jordan during the last six months 
of the financial year 1935-36. Another cause of the improvement in 
1936-37 was increased trade with neighbouring States. 

(c) The sharp fluctuation in revenue from Licences and Taxes during 
the four years under review corresponds with the yield of the harvests 
and, inversely, with the amount of the tax remissions granted. 

(d) The improvement in revenue from Fees of Court or Office in 1935-36 
reflects to a large extent the improved economic conditions resulting from 
satisfactory harvests. 

(e) The steady increase in the revenue of the Posts and Telegraph 
Department is a result of the continually increasing use made by members 
of the public of the various branches of the service. 

(f) Includes not only the rent paid by the tenants of State Lands but 
also the taxes assessed on such lands which in previous years were credited 
to Head II, Licences and Taxes. The drop in Revenue in 1936-37 mainly 
resulted from the bad agricultural season. 

(g) The Grant-in-Aid of the Trans-Jordan Administration in 1935-36, 
which had been approved by His Majesty’s Government at the figure of 
£P.60,o00 was short issued by the sum of £P.18,0o00 in consideration of 
the improvement in the situation of the Administration in that year. 

(k) Represents the grant made by His Majesty’s Government towards 
payment of the first two of the 20 half-yearly payments constituting 
Trans-Jordan’s share of the Ottoman Public Debt. 


367 


3. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1933-4 





TO 1936-7 (a). 
Head of Expenditure. 1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37 
£P. £P £P. £P. 
Ordinary. 
Civil List... 14,560 14,534 15,329 15,706 
Public Debt and Loan 
Charges ... ge 1,775 1,340 1,148 241 
Legislature ... $5 3,733 1,986 (b) 3,699 3,722 
Pensions and Gratuities ae 7154 9,479 11,064 (c) 11,941(c) 
Chief Minister and Interior 3,944 3,753 3,899 4,132 
District Administration ... 10,001 10,035 9,667 9,786 
Ministry of Justice ves 16,238 15,827 16,047 15,497 
Sharia Courts aie mea 3,877 3,869 3,901 3,815 
Ministry of Finance 11,420 11,032 11,256 11,138 
Customs,Trade and Industry 7,831 7,543 7,569 8,232 
Public Health Department 12,118 12,762 13,763 15,212 
Education Department ... 23,028 23,324 24,207 23,373 
Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary Department... 5,861 7151 7.411 8,506 
Antiquities Department ... 2,642 2,500 2,558 2,389 
Public Works Department 4,544 4,584 4,637 4,691 
Public Works, Recurrent... 17,977 18,918 23,308 (d) 20,285 
Posts and Telegraphs Dept. 12,657 13,903 13,661 16,004 
Lands Department 12,668 13,509 15,617 (c) 15,723 
Police and Prisons Depart- 
ment :— 
(a) Police ate we 99,639 99,721 101,998 108,394 (f) 
(b) Prisons... 11,930 11,549 11,004 10,707 
(c) Supplementary Re- 
serve Force... _ _ _ 4,603(f) 
Miscellaneous eh sae 8,528 9,560 9,682 8,729 
British Resident... ws. 6,616 (g)  — — — 
Audit Department ... eae 3,385 3,253 3,672 3,878 
Tribal Court of Appeal... 1,091 766 181 760 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 28,720 27,527 28,531 29,876 
Total Ordinary 
Expenditure £P331,917 328,425 343,809 357,430 





(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
pages 174 and 175 of the Annual Report for 1931; those for the financial 
years 1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on pages 330 and 331 of the Annual 
Report for 1935. 

(b) The decrease in expenditure on the Legislature in 1934-35 was 
principally due to a seven months’ hiatus that preceded the election of 
the Legislative Council, during which no commitments were incurred in 
respect of the salaries of members. 

(c) The gradual increase in expenditure on Pensions and Gratuities 
arises from increased commitments under the Pensions Laws in force. 

(d) The increase in expenditure on Public Works Recurrent during 
1935-36 was mainly due to the heavy cost of repairs of damage to roads 
caused by floods during the months of February and March, 1935. 

(e) The increase in expenditure on the Lands Department was due to 
expansion of the services in connexion with land settlement. 

(f) The increase in expenditure on Police was mainly due to the enlist- 
ment of a Reserve Force of 115 men and to increased activities of the 
Department during the Palestine disturbances. 

(g) The cost of the British Resident and his establishment was charged 
to Imperial funds with effect from 1st April, 1934. 


Head of Expenditure. 


Extraordinary. 


Public Works Department 
Ministry of Finance : 
Posts and Telegraph Dept. 
Public Health Department 
Police and Prisons Dept. ... 


Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary Department... 

His Highness the Amir 

Relief Measures... 

Schemes financed by the 
Colonial Development 
Fund . 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 
Write-off of Public moneys 


Expenses, Syria - Trans - 
Jordan Pounaery. Com- 
mission 


Trans-Jordan’s Stare of the 
Ottoman Public Debt ... 


Total Extraordinary 
Expenditure 


368 














Total Expenditure £P.374,769 


1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37 
£P. £&. £P. £P. 
9,590 567 19,796 (h) 16,072 (A) 

236 1987 453 
1,692 4432 6,906 (3)  — 
357 252 225 _ 
2,934 = 2,571 1,254 
214 289 = = 
_ 2,957) 9 — = 
= 14,824 (R) 150 19,145 (A) 
23,822 4,844 4.311 8,409 
2,179 2,818 3,079 1,658 
863 
965 
= = = 31,072 (i) 
£P.42,852 40,970 37,491 77,610 
369,395 381,300 435,040 





(h) The 1935-36 figure includes £P.8,500 and the 1936-37 figure £P.4,495 
chargeable to the Colonial Development Fund. 


(i) Includes an abnormal item of {P.6,131 being Trans-Jordan’s share 
of the Haifa-Bagdad telephone circuit. 


(j) Represents an allotment to the Amir to meet the expenses of His 
Highness’s visit to the United Kingdom, and of the marriage of His 


Highness the Amir Talal. 


(k) Relief Measures on a large scale were necessitated in 1934-35 and in 
1936-37 by the distress caused by crop failure in those two years. 


(l) This sum was met by a grant made by His Majesty’s Government. 
See also note (k) of the Summary of Revenue. 


369 


Public Debt. 


4. At the 31st December, 1937 the Public Debt of Trans- 
Jordan was as follows:— 


(#) Balance of the Earthquake Relief Loan of £P.20,000 £P. 


obtained from His Majesty’s Government in 1927-28... 2,467 
(i#) Agricultural Loan obtained from His Majesty s Govern- 
Ment On 30.3.37 «+ seg se 1,500 
(##%) Trans-Jordan’s share of the Ottoman Public Debt : — 
Twenty half yearly payments 


of £15,506 6s. 9d. each 
payable on the 31st May 
and the 30th November of 
each year, the first of such % s& a. 





payments being due on the 
31st May, 1936... +. 310,086 15 oO 
Less: The first four pay- 
ments already made ws» 62,025 7 0 
Balance at the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1937 ... ee --- £248,061 8 0 
On conversion to Palestine £P. mils. 
Currency ... see aes 248,061°400 or say 248,061 
Total ... aoe ee 7s Beet £P.262,028 





Note.—The payments mentioned in (17) are being met as and when they 
fall due by means of grants made by His Majesty’s Government. 


5. COMPARATIVE FIGURES OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FOR 
1936-7 AND 1937-8. 
Forecast at 


Actual, Estimates, 31.12.37 
1936-37. 1937-38. for 1937-38. 


A.—REVENUE. 

Local... oe see eee ee 288,140 331,923 347,770 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans- Jordan a 55,000 63,000 58,000 
Grant-in-Aid of Trang Jordan: Frontier 

Force . ” 31,534 34,040 34,040 
Grants from the Colonial Development 

Fund . ae 12,904 16,895 16,895 
Grant- in-Aid ea Trans-Jordan Ot: 

man Public Debt) ... i 2 31,072 32,000 32,000 
Grant-in-Aid of Jeane) oer (Hydro. 

graphic Survey) ae _— 13,000 13,000 





Total ... «+. £P.418,650 490,858 501,705 











370 
Forecast af 
Actual, Estimates, 31.12.37 
1936-37. 1937-38. for 1937-38. 




















£P. £P. £P. 
B.—EXPENDITURE, 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Ordinary 327,554 349,901 346,460 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, Ordinary 29,876 31,419 31,419 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Extra- 
ordinary 36,471 74,545 66,100 
Trans- Jordan Frontier. Force, “Extra. 
ordinary es 2 1,658 2,621 2,621 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants : 8,409 12,395 12,395 
Expenditure from Grants (Ottoman 
Public Debt) .. 31,072 32,000 32,000 
Expenditure from Grants ‘Hydro. 
graphic Survey) eee ae — 13,000 13,000 
Total ... «+s £P.435,040 515,881 503,995 
C—EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, 
AGRICULTURE, PuBLic HEALTH, 
Pusiic Works, RELIEF MEAs- 
URES, DEVELOPMENT AND HypDRo- 
GRAPHIC SURVEY. 
Education, Ordinary ... “oa was 23,373 26,443 25,000 
Education, Extraordinary... sae _— 400 400 
Agriculture, Ordinary ahs 25 8,506 10,696 9,600 
Public Health, Ordinary ee ee 15,212 18,445 17,850 
Public Health, Extraordinary ats, _ 250 500 
Public Works, Ordinary ao fee 4,691 5.372 5,100 
Public Works, Recurrent oes on 20,285 23,411 23,400 
Public Works, eee ar! is 16,072 38,135 29,250 
Relief Measures % Bee aes 19,145 1,000 1,000 
Hydrographic Survey .. _— 13,000 13,000 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants— 
(a) Improvement of Water Supplies 475, 475 475 
(6) Sinking Artesian bores in the 
Desert ... 162 531 531 
(c) Seed Propagation re 1,430 1,020 1,020 
(d) Land Settlement, Acceleration “of 3,716 5,000 5,000 
(e) Agricultural Experimental Station 2,626 3,789 3,789 
(f) Development _... eee nee _ 1,580 1,580 





Note.—Expenditure on Public Works Extraordinary in the years 1936-37 


and 1937-1938 includes £P.4,495 and £P.4,500 respectively chargeable to 
the Colonial Development Fund. 


Comments on the Principal Variations in Revenue. 


6.—(1) Local Revenue for 1937-8 is expected to exceed the 
1936-7 figure by £P.59,630. The following table shows how this 
expected increase is made up:— 


371 


Actual, Forecast, 


Head of Revenue. 1936-37: 1937-38. Increase. Decrease. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
1.—Customs and Excise vee 133,884 120,000 _ 13,884 
2.—Licences and Taxes See 89,121 145,325 56,204 —_ 
3.—Fees of Court or Office ... 36,462 41,840 5,378 _ 
4—Posts and Telegraph 
Department ae 15,222 16,370 1,148 _ 
5.—Revenue from Govern- 
ment Prope: ai 1,659 5,500 3,841 _— 
6.—Interest ... <n és 382 1,055 673 _ 
7-—Miscellaneous one ox 9,435 13,370 3,935 _ 
8.—Sale of State Domains ... 1,975 4,310 2,335 _— 





£P.288,140 347,770 73,514(4) 13,884(d) 
Net Increase ae 59,630 —_ _— 59,630 





£P.347,779 347,770 73,514 73.514 





(a) The improvement in revenue shown against Heads 2 to 8 is princi- 
pally the outcome of :— 


(i) Exceptionally good harvests in 1937-38 resulting in a higher 
percentage of collections from current assessments and from the arrears 
of taxes, and in better receipts from other sources. 


(ii) Acute economic depression in 1936-37 due to exceptionally bad 
harvests which necessitated the remission of {P.53,694 of that year’s 
assessments of the principal taxes. 


(b) The apparent deterioration in the receipts from Customs and Excise 
is due to the fact that receipts in 1936-37 were inflated as a result of 
an increase of {P.8,000 approved in respect of Trans-Jordan’s share in the 
import duties of Palestine which was based on the statistics taken of 
foreign goods re-exported from Palestine to Trans-Jordan during the last 
six months of the financial year 1935-36. 


(#) The forecast of grants from the Colonial Development 
Fund for 1937-8 is £P.3,991 greater than the total of such grants 
received in 1936-7. Expenditure from these grants is self 
balancing with revenue. 


(ii) A special grant of £P.30,000 has been made by His 
Majesty’s Government to Trans-Jordan to meet the expenses of 
an Hydrographic Survey of the country. The forecast of receipts 
from this grant during 1937-8 was determined by the estimated 
cost of work expected to be completed in connexion with the 
scheme in question by the end of March, 1938. See also the 
last item in the Comparative Statement of Expenditure at 


paragraph 5 B. 


Comments on Principal Variations in Expenditure. 


7.—(1) The forecast of ordinary expenditure of the Trans- 
Jordan Administration shows an increase of £P.18,g06 over 
the actual ordinary expenditure of 1936-7. This is made up as 
follows: — 


372 
Actual, Forecast, 























Head of Expenditure. Oe 193738. Increase. Decrease. 
1.—Civil List aes se 15,706 s 130 ae em 
2.—Public Debt and Loan Charges 241 940 (6 _ 
3-—Legislature ... see 3,722 3,760 3 —_— 
4.—Pensions and Gratuities oa 11,941 12,800 859(c) — 
5-—Chief Minister and Interior... 4,132 4,750 618(d) _— 
6.—District Administration ae 9,786 10,260 474 _ 
7-—Ministry of Justice ... es 15,497 17,050 1,553(e) — 
8.—Sharia Courts.. sus tee 3,815 3,900 85 — 

9.—Ministry of Finance . 11,138 12,100 962(f) _— 
10.—Customs, Trade and Industry 8,232 11,000 2,768(g) —_ 
11.—Public Health Department .. 15,212 15,300 88 _— 
11a.—Desert Medical Mobile Unit _— 2,550 2,550(h) —_— 
12.—Education ate 23,373 25,000 1,627(s) —_— 
13.—Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary ... 7 8,506 9,600 1,094(7) — 
14.—Antiquities Department nod 2,389 2,700 3I1 —_— 
15.—Public Works Department ... 4,691 5,100 409(k) —_— 
15A.—Public Works Recurrent ... 20,285 23,400 = 3, 115(l) —_— 
16.—Posts and Telegraph Peper 
ment.. see 16,094 16,100 6 _ 
17.—Lands Department a oe 15,723 17,900 2,177(m) _— 
18.—Police and Prisons Depts —_ 

(a) Police... + 108,394 111,500 3,106() _— 

(0) Prisons ... os 10,707 11,500 793(0) —_— 

(c) SUEE ay “Reserve 4,603 _— _— 4,603(p) 

19.—Miscellaneous .. ate aes 8,729 9,200 471 _— 
20.—Audit Department avs wad 3,878 4,050 172 _ 
21.—Tribal Court of Appeal Rica 760 870 110 _— 
£P.327,554 346,460 24,085 5179 

Net Increase ... Lie 18,906 — —_ 18,906 

Total om £P.346,460 346,460 24,085 24,085 














(a) Is mainly due to the temporary increases of {P.394 and {P.215 
approved during 1936-37 in the respective allotments of His Highness the 
Amir Abdulla and His Highness the Amir Talal. 

(6) Results from the provision made for the payment of interest charges 
on a loan of {P.11,500 obtained from His Majesty’s Government on the 
3oth March, 1937, for the Agricultural Bank of Trans-Jordan. These 
charges are balanced by a corresponding entry on the receipts side. 

(c) Is due to increased commitments under the Pensions Laws in force. 

(d) Is mainly due to increased expenditure on intelligence. 

(e), (f). (gi (i) (i), (R), (m) and (0) These increases are largely due to 
expansion in the relevant services, and also to the fact that economies 
were effected in 1936-37. 

(h) The Desert Medical Mobile Unit was formed towards the end of 
1936-37 and the expenditure thereon is shared equally by the Govern- 
ments of Palestine and Trans-Jordan. The latter's share of the cost in 
1936-37 was brought to account under Head XI, Public Health Depart- 
ment. Half of the commitment forecast for 1937-38 is reimbursable by 
Palestine and an equivalent sum is provided in the revenue forecast under 
Head III, Fees of Court or Office. 

() Is mainly due to increased expenditure on Rents and on Road 
Maintenance. 

(n) Provides for increasing the strength of the Arab Legion by 50 
mounted Non-Commissioned Officers and men. 

(p) The expenditure incurred in 1936-37 was of a temporary nature, 
having been occasioned by disturbances in Palestine. 


373 


(32) The following is a statement of the forecast of the extra- 
ordinary expenditure of the Trans-Jordan Government for the 
financial year 1937-8 as compared with the Actuals of 
1936-7 :— 

Actual, Forecast, 
1936-37. 1937-38. Increase. Decrease. 
Head of Expenditure. £P. £P. LP. £P. 
23. Public Works Extraordinary ... 16,072 29,250 13,178 _ 
24. Policeand Prisons Extraordinary 1,254 17,340 16,086 _ 


25. Public Health Extraordinary .. — 500 500 —_ 
26. Ministry of Finance Extra- 

ordinary oP _ 10,690 10,690 _ 
27. Antiquities Extraordinary ase _ 820 820 _ 
28. Education Extraordinary te = 400 400 _— 
29. His Highness The Amir, 

Extraordinary te aes _ 2,000 2,000 - 
33- Relief Measures ... 19,145 1,000 — 18,145 
34. Posts and Telegraph “Extra- 

ordinary a _ 4,100 4,100 _ 





36.471 66,100 = 47,774 18,145 








Note.—Expenditure on Public Works Extraordinary in the years 1936-37 
and 1937-38 includes £P.4,495 and {£P.4,500 respectively chargeable to the 
Colonial Development Fund. 


(11) The forecast of extraordinary expenditure for 1937-8 
includes provision for the following exceptional items: — 


£P. 
1. The acquisition of a reserve of vehicles, spare parts, arms and 

ammunition, equipment, etc., for the Arab Legion ... + 8,950 

2. Stores and garages for the above... 500 
3. Cost of the decennial reassessment of the gross value of ‘taxable 

lands and buildings within the Municipal Area of Amman ... 1,000 

4. Writing-off of irrecoverable Seed Loans... we. 8,075 

5. Writing-off of Earthquake Relief Loans... 1,000 
6. Expenses of the visit of His Highness the Amir Abdulla to attend 

the Coronation of His Majesty King George VI. ... ss. 2,000 

Total tee is Se aS oe ae we £P.21,525 


8. FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE TRANS-JORDAN GOVERNMENT AT 
THE 31ST MARCH, 1937. 


Liabilities. Assets. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 

Deposits re ss 11,935.594 Advances ann w+ 14,750.996 
Remittances ... eae 256.831 Imprests ae vs -1,025.938 
Loans ... + 13,966.754 Loans ... +. IT,500.000 
Excess of Assets over Joint Colonial. Fund _14,000.000 

Liabilities (Surpius Cash and Bank 
Balance)... see 32,110,745 Balances... «+. 16,992.990 
£P.58,269.924 £P.58,269.924 


Revenue Collection. 


g. The collection of current taxation from the rst January to 
the 31st December, 1937, amounted to £P.129,163. The col- 
lections during previous calendar years were as follows: — 

48607 N 


374 


1931 ... Pes ths ae Ae Lae we vs 99,961 
1932 ... oes aes Se ia ore ite +++ 101,073 
1933... a3 or ae oe se a «84,611 
1934... eos eh 4.3 ans a bes «-. 89,872 
1935 --- an as ae ay: aa os ves 121,985 
1936 ... a3 ae i sie 288 ae «81,352 


Current taxation remitted on account of crop failure during 
recent years latterly in accordance with the revised system des- 
cribed on page 379 of the Annual Report for 1936, was as 
follows : — 


£P. 
1931... iis ah a nf es we ss 12,468 
1932... on 23e =. Hs “se wet... 8,397 
1933 «- nee aes Ie Ae ae oe s+ 14,726 
1934... at oe oes te ane see ss 19,155 
1935... det a hi at ist ste «+ 13,776 
1936... nee a ae Beat be Ba s+ 53,581 
1937... ves ey on ... (Recommended) 7,961 


Arrears of Taxes. 


Io. Collections of arrears of taxes from the 1st January to the 
3Ist December, 1937, amounted to £P.4,947. Corresponding 
collections during previous calendar years were as follows :— 


£P. 
193I de de e ein “i aii ss 3,841 
1932... eed of one ue the ae ses 54230 
1933. “g sae os ae = oe ses 4,021 
1934... ans oie “Se as ate ae ss 35757 
1935 one tis aie ee eee a5 sah +++ 9,671 
1936... as Zeb Aen Sa 2 nie ay 125730 


The amounts of arrears authorized or recommended to be 
written off in accordance with the procedure outlined on 
page 337 of the Annual Report for 1935 were as follows: — 


Years of Assessment. £P. 
1924-5 tO 1930-1... a: Bs bis ona - 63,428 
1931-2 oh cee a af ang tee . 7,789 
1932-3 Sn a ay, a6 Z a «+. 13,560 
1933-4 re an a 33 dee ae sss 14,227 
1934-5 ay ee cee wee “de aay a. 8,865 
1935-6 ae ae we 23 as ets se 35341 


Revenue Reform. 

11. The terms of the House and Land Tax Law, 1926, were 
applied during the year in the Municipal Area of Irbid. 

Arrangements were made for the decennial re-assessment of 
the gross value of taxable lands and buildings within the Muni- 
cipal Area of Amman, in accordance with paragraph 25 of the 
same Law. It is hoped that the operation, ehichsbae just been 
started, will be completed before the 31st March, 1938. 


Trade, Public Finance and Population. 


12. A Statistical Table relating to Trade, Public Finance, and 
Population, is appended. 


of61 read repudyesd 943 0} 101d 


pouad ay} 107 a[quirear you ore 89191303 aIqeNoy (9) 












































*1£61 Ut o00‘oof yo uoHLY[ndod pouinsse uv uO paseq ol” samNZy | ueyxe} Uaaq JOA SY SNsuad ON (DP) s 
*yuaMUIDAOD s,Aysaley stp Aq szues8 Woy afqeded st 190‘ghz"gF YOY JO ‘gzo'zgz"qF 199q 29NT a 
1 
_ -- -- _ i se — — _ _— gg6‘o1S | ogz‘bSo'r) ooS'Sze Lor 
} jf o— -- _— — — oL€‘gzz | Sof'SE6 — gf6r 
L€-of61 | Lto'ib | z1z‘S1 | goS'g €Le‘€z obr'ggz | o1S‘of1 | Lo6‘f1 LE-9f61 —_ _ o000'1z£ gof61 
of-SE6r | rbL‘Ze | 6g6'Er | r1b'L Loz‘bz Lrg'€1€ | €glrg gig’ of-S€61 - _— ooS'S1€ ote Se6r 
C£-$£61 | oLo'z€ | bro‘€r | 6EbL bzE‘Ez gSz‘glz | o$z‘ror | glg‘of ce--€61 | — oe 0001 1€ bor 
bE-€£61 | zir‘z€ | gri‘zr | Slo'g gzocez LoS'19z | So6‘61r | bgr‘of +€-€f61 - — o000‘go€ €€61 
| 
~ €€-z£61 | g6S'z€ | og6'11 | 6Lt'S ggt'zz 6bl‘€fz | 6E1‘1o1 | coo‘or €€-zl6r — ; — 00S ‘bof ‘ z€61 
is ‘dF ‘dF ‘at ‘at ‘dF ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at 
“409 sysoyy | ‘yywaH | ‘aanjj~na “Moy er pees *saaupap py 
rowuvusd | 2HMd | IM “Map ~vonpz yous pe -4900904 oer 
uny} uON 
49440 *spaodxg | syaoduy (v) 
moat “400K b daed a 
uo yuads sjunowp anuansy | ‘Sa24n0g jouaajxy \[PIUDUIT wos MOK, MOEN D, 
mol anuanay -yyndog 
‘souputy INQng (q) ‘appar 














See 


‘saajouojty aavnbs 000'06 Ajojnusxoadgv : soajouojiy eavnbs ur ves 


‘Nvauo[-SNVUL 


48607 


ody Google 


Digit 


376 


XV1I.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 
Customs. 
Imports. 

1. The total value of commercial imports cleared for home 
consumption during the year was £P.934,211 as compared with 
4P.794,956 during 1936. 

Direct importations by parties enjoying exemption from cus- 
toms duties, which are not included above, were as follows:— 


Concessionaries. £P. 
(1) ‘Iraq Petroleum Company: 


(2) From Palestine te ae we 32,113 

(bo) From ‘Iraq ... ise eg shes oe eee 4,803 

(2) Palestine Electric Corporation ... Bes oa aes 4,191 
(3) Privileged Persons ... ae8 aes ee a 67.547 
(4) Items on Free List oe, ee AS an vee: IT,421 
Total aes Sei oo nee nee £P.120,075 


Principal Imports.—The recorded values of the principal com- 
modities imported from all countries for home consumption are 
shown in Table ‘‘ A ’’. 


Specie.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 
imported during the year under review with comparative figures 
for the previous two years was :— 








ie "3° rg 

Gold Con eee ae im 
Silver Coin (Abyssinian) ... wee 41530 4,847 — 
Other metal coins ... eae oat — — a 
Currency Notes ite aes a _ 4,000 600 
£P.4,530 8,847 600 








EXPORTS AND RE-Exports. 

2. The value of known commercial exports and re-exports, 
excluding goods passing through Trans-Jordan in transit, and 
specie, were: —exports £P-510,968, re-exports £P.14,860. 

These were made up as follows:— 

Exports. Re-Exports. 
£P. &P. 








Exports to Palestine oe nae eis 404,107 12,239 
Exports to Syria 106,861 2,173 
Exports to ‘Iraq_... oes 2 _ 28 
Exports to Nejd_... Se oes dfs _ 420 

Total we Cos £P.510,968 14,860 





Specie.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 
exported during the year under review was £P.182,550 com- 
pmising silver coin £P.27,000, other metal coins £P.700, currency 
notes £P.154,850. 


377 


PRINCIPAL. ARTICLES EXPORTED. 


3._ The recorded value and quantities of the principal com- 
modities exported from Trans-Jordan during the year 1937 were 
as follows:— 


Quantity. Value. 
Item. Nos. £P. 
Sheep... ae: at nee a8 12,064 11,24 
Goats... Be tee a aby 6,988 5.452 
Cattle... she vee as ue 844 3,781 

Kilogrammes. 

Samneh ... S35 ts ae ous 159,393 19,570 
Fresh Vegetables aa ua vs 2,412,308 12,775 
Kersenneh Peas eee en + 1,873,366 12,752 
Fresh Fruit soe We ae By 889,047 10,212 
Raisins... i ea von uel 495,377 7,015 
Wheat... aa a a5 es 26,475,425 274,656 
Barley... Be ars ren «8,296,771 40,317 
Dum... a's ee ae ss 2,437,410 11,800 
Dyed Goods... wes id aos 614,568 31,558 
Wool oe ne bet atees a 177,452 9,871 
Men’s Wear __... or sa res 17,571 3,660 
Head Gear (Keffiyeh) ... fe aoe 37,906 5,765 


4. Suitable climatic conditions produced good cereal crops 
throughout Trans-Jordan in 1937. Fhe demand for cereals in the: 
adjacent countries was constant and good prices ruled in these 
places. 

Farmers increased their animal stocks and as a result there 
was an appreciable increase in the export of samneh and wool. 

The continued cheap prices of Japanese goods induced certain 
merchants to enlarge the dyeing industry. A good range of 
colours is obtainable, and these are most popular with pur- 
chasers from the desert. 


TRANSIT TRADE. 


5. The value of goods removed through Trans-Jordan in 
transit during the year under review and the three previous 
years were as follows: — 


1937. 1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
(a) From ‘Iraq to Palestine ... 390,321 243,123 407,262 35,950 
From Paes sine to ‘Iraq... 313,465 193,886 280,728 _— 
() From Nejd to Syria 
From Syria to Nejd —.., ¢- Not known. 
(c) Via Air routes by Imperial 
Airways, K.L.M. and } No official landings. 
Misr Airwork Bes 
(@) Via ‘Iraq Petroleum Com- 
pany’s Pipeline, ‘Iraq to 


Palestine :— 
1937. 1936. 
Tons of Crude Oil... 2,024,115 1,922,498 
Value ... aes £P.1,619,292 1,537,998 (Arbitrary value 


at 16 shillings 
per ton of crude 
oil.) 


48607 N3 


378 

No transit due is levied on transit trade passing through 
Trans-Jordan. 

The principal goods carried by road in transit through Trans- 
Jordan are: From ‘Iraq to Palestine, Carpets, Lambskins, 
Casings, Gums (for Europe and America); Poultry, Ghee, Fish, 
Eggs, Dates (for Palestine). From Palestine to ‘Iraq, cased 
goods of foreign manufacture including hardware, wearing 
apparel, medicines. 

The Baghdad firm of Haim Nathaniel operated a bi-weekly 
goods service between Jerusalem-Haifa and Baghdad and vice 
versa during the year. Mails were also carried by this firm. 

Rest houses have been provided for use of travellers at Mafrak 
and at the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company’s desert stations H. 5 
and H. 4. 


Customs REVENUE. 


6. Receipts from customs for 1937, as compared with the 
three previous years were as follows: — 


1937 1936. 1935. 1934. 
x £P. £P. £P. £P. 
118,405 104,434 95,132 86,406 


In addition thereto the following amounts were collected on 
behalf of the undermentioned Departments : — 


1937- 1936. 1935- 1934. 

WP 8 £P. £P. £P. £P. 

Municipalities ... aah ss 7,695 7179 7,289 5.411 

Veterinary ... te ee aa 721 569 292 288 

Passport ... Ae ae aie 401 212 136 156 
CONTRABAND. 


7. The number of offences against the customs law adjudi- 
cated during the year under review was 227 as compared with 
258 in 1936 and 179 in 1935. 

The receipts from penalties imposed, and the sale of confis- 
cated goods, amounted to £P.268 and £P.19 respectively. 


FoREIGN TRADE. 

8. The main trade channels and the distribution of trade 
during 1937 together with comparative figures for the four 
preceding years are given in Table “‘ B’’. 

Trade between Palestine and Trans-Jordan which was con- 
siderably reduced during 1936 revived in 1937. Road transport 
employed in exporting grain to Palestine quoted cheap return 
rates for merchandise. 

Palestinian beer made an appearance in Amman markets but 
Jost ground to Dutch beer. 


379 

The present situation in Palestine is not conducive to close 
business associations between Palestine local industry in general 
and the merchants of Trans-Jordan. Consequently the greater 
portion of the purchases made by Trans-Jordan relate to 
foreign goods duty-paid in Palestine. The imports of such 
goods during 1937 are valued at £P.200,685, and the value of 
goods of Palestine produce or manufacture imported amounted 
to £P.60,390. 

The transactions under the Trans-Jordan-Syria Customs 
Agreement were : — 


1937- 1936. 1935. 1934. 

£P. {P. £P. £P. 
Imports from Syria san ses 197,152 176,826 93,368 93,052 
Exports to Syria ... ex + 106,861 29,781 21,487 9,220 


The Franc and Syrian Pound remained devalued throughout 
1937 and Syria still continues to find a ready market in Trans- 
Jordan for its local manufactures. Although the value of 
imports in 1937 is almost the same as in 1936 the quantity of 
goods imported is greater. 

The value of Trans-Jordan trade with Nejd is very difficult 
to assess, but it is larger than the statistical figures indicate. 
Wheat, barley, coffee, spices, cotton and artificial silk piece 
goods and benzine are the principal exports to Nejd. 

It is proposed to open a customs post at Ma‘an in the very 
near future. 

The value of imports from ‘Iraq during the year amounted 
to £P.7,141. 

Proposals are at present under consideration for the construc- 
tion of a road from Haifa to Baghdad. The construction of 
such a road will attract transport and trade. 

The value of goods entering was {a in transit through 
Palestine and Syria during 1937 was £P.266,439 and £P.202,491 
as compared ‘with £P.236,008 and £P.199,013 respectively 
during the prévious year. 


BALANCE OF TRADE. 

It is not possible to assess the balance of trade with any 
degree of certainty. The number of the customs posts in the 
central and southern areas is insufficient to enable any reliable 
statistical data to be obtained but it is known that cereals from 
these areas are freely exported to Nejd and to Palestine. 


TARIFF CHANGES. 
g. No tariff changes were made during 1937. ; 
The Import Tariff Schedule is based on the League of Nations 
standardized nomenclature and consists of 305 items. 
The tariff, generally speaking, remains on a I2 per cent. 
ad valorem basis but there are a few items at specific rates. 
48607 Ne 


380 
Exports continue to be free of duty or dues. 
An examination fee of one half per cent. on the c.i.f. value 
of goods imported continues to be chargeable in addition to the 


customs duties on goods which are not free of duty or otherwise 
exempted therefrom. 


Excise. 
Liquor. 


10. The receipts from excise duties on spirits and wine manu- 
factured in the country during the year under review, as com- 
pared with the two previous years, were: — 














1937. 1936. 1935. 
&. g&. i 
Cognac 190 195 201 
Araq see ae 757 739 737 
Wine ... ae oes 56 72 69 
Methylated spirit nee ee 17 19 _ 
Alcohol ae aie ai I 3 - 
Total ... PG 1,021 1,048 1,007 











The rates of excise duty remained unchanged, being :— 


ent’ ob 56 mils per litre. 
Wine Se ... Io mils per litre bulk, provided that the wine does not 


contain more than 25 per cent. of alcohol. 
Methylated spirit ... 10 mils per litre. 
Pure spirit ++. 50 mils per litre. 


The output of the three distilleries in Trans-Jordan during the 
last four years is shown in Table ‘‘C ”’ 

The receipts in respect of liquor licences were as follow, com- 
pared with the previous three years: — 


1937. 1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
374 309 253 313 


Table ‘‘ D”’ to this chapter contains particulars of the quan- 
tities of liquors, wine and spirit dapaned into Trans-Jordan 
during the year, with comparative figures for the three pre- 


ceding years. 
Tosacco. 

The excise Sates on tobacco continue to be as follows: — 
Cigarettes oe ace be ate +. 300 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco... ... 250 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco where ‘the retail price for 

40 grammes does not exceed ro mils ++. , 120 mils per kilogramme 


The revenue from the above excise duties, and the quan- 
tities of tobacco so taxed, are shown in Table ‘‘ E ’’ with the 
corresponding figures for the last three years. 


381 


The revenue from licences to sell and manufacture tobacco 
was as follows: — 


1937- 1936. 1935+ 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. fp. 
627 609 588 568 


Tombac locally grown and hisheh tobacco continued to be 
exempt from excise duties during the year. 

Table ‘‘ F ’’ gives comparative figures for the past four years 
of foreign leaf tobacco imported into Trans-Jordan. 

Table ‘‘G’’ contains a comparative statement of revenue 
from import duty on foreign-manufactured tobacco imported 
into Trans-Jordan during the last four years. 

The tobacco and tombac crop cultivation in Trans-Jordan 
during 1937 was as follows :— 


Area cultivated. Estimated production. 


Dunums. Kilogrammes. 
Tobacco oe Kets wee 1,658 89,460 
Tombac ion ae ees 177 7,060 
SALT. 


The excise duty on salt was abolished in 1929. The salt 
deposits of Trans-Jordan are at Azraq. There are no statistical 
data indicating quantities extracted for use. 


EXCISE OFFENCES. 


11. The number of excise cases dealt with during 1937 was 
crear with 112 in 1936, 147 in 1935 and 135 in 1934. 
ey were as follows:— 


; 1937- 1936. 1935. 1934. 
Unlicensed sale of tobacco... et 30 65 65 72 














Unlicensed sale of alcohol 8 Ir 4 6 
Unlicensed sale of matches... 60 36 47 42 
Undeclared cultivation of tobacco _ - 21 8 
Unlicensed manufacture of alcohol _ — 10 7 
Total 98 112 147 135 
ExcIsE REVENUE. 
1937- 1936. —- 1935-1934. 
: £P. &. gp. £P. 
Liquors. 
Excise on liquors... Ms ae 1,003 1,026 1,009 1,068 
Licence Fees ... ee ae ee 374 309 253 313 
Tobacco. 
Excise on Tobacco ... aes «13,008 =12,576 9,963 11,064 
Licence Fees ... See ae oon 627 609 588 569 
Methylated spirit ... a a 17 19 _ _ 
Alcohol aaa ne ba: wae I 3 _— _ 
Total ... Sos ies + 15,030 14,542 11,813. 13,014 














48607 N5 


382 


Table ‘' H ’”’ shows Excise Revenue for 1937, as compared 
with totals for the three previous years. 


Customs and Excise Revenue. 


A graph illustrating the trend of customs and excise revenue 
during the past thirteen years (1925-1937) is annexed as 
Table “J ’’. 

Trade and Industry. 


12. Trans-Jordan being an agricultural country a sufficient 
and timely rainfall and a healthy condition of cereal crops are 
the important factors which are necessary for a prosperous 
economic condition. These happy conditions were present in 
1937, and the benefits resulting therefrom are reflected in the 
very satisfactory value of the known exports, viz., £P.510,968, 
as compared with £P.228,376 in 1936. 


GRAINS. 

The SPR EOIN production in, and export from, Trans- 
Jomen uring 1937—with comparative figures for 1936—were 
as follows: — 

1937. 1936. 
Production. Exports. Production. Exports. 
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
Wheat sed 113,000 26,475 40,000 12,000 
Barley trie 53,000 8,296 16,000 1,400 | 
Lentils an 5,000 1,207 3,000 600 
Kersenneh_... 7,000 1,873 4,000 650 
Durra a II,000 2,437 — 427 
GRAPES. 


The crops in Faheis and Ajlun were good but the vines in 
Es Salt did not give the yield expected. The greater part of the 
crop was exported to Palestine. 


SAMNEH. 


As a result of the increase by farmers of their stocks of sheep 
and goats 159 tons of samneh were exported to Palestine and 
Syria. 

RaIsINsS. 

Four hundred and ninety-five tons of raisins were exported 

during 1937 as compared with 294 tons during the previous 
ear. 

v The packing of raisins made steady progress and some 70 tons 

of Gilead Eleme raisins (produce of Trans-Jordan) in 12}-kilo. 

boxes were successfully introduced on to the continental markets 

during October, November and December. The market reports 

were very favourable and the consignments realised good prices. 


Woot. 


The quantity of wool exported during 1937 showed a con- 
siderable increase, being ae 552 kilogrammes as compared with 
67,750 kilogrammes in 1936. 


383 
The good prices prevailing for wool in continental markets 
induced the Fellaheen to sell as much as possible to the mer- 
chants who act as buyers and purchasing agents. The major 
exports were to Syria. 
en wool prices are low the fellaheen keep a fair proportion 
of the raw wool for the making of rugs, sacks and domestic 
requirements. 


CONFECTIONERY, 


The fall in the Franc made it impossible for the Remtha 
factory to continue its export to Syria. 


Mave-up CLOTHING. 


The number of workers in men’s tailoring increased during 
the year and the quality of the output is improving. 


DyeinG INDUSTRY. 


In order to provide a range of colours designed to meet the 
tastes of the fellaheen a few enterprising merchants opened new 
dyeing establishments, and were thus able to market large 
quantities of cheap material. The output during 1937 was con- 
siderable, and dyed goods valued at £P.16,000 were exported 
during the year. 

CURRENCY. 


The high cost of living is in part due to the fact that, although 
the Palestine pound is divided into 1,000 mils, the lowest spend- 
ing unit is in reality the 5-mil piece. This evil has remained from 
the time when Egyptian money was legal tender before the 
Palestine currency was introduced, and in fact the 1o-mil piece 
and the 5-mil piece are still referred to by the Egyptian words 
girsh and tarifa for 10 milliémes and 5 milliémes respectively. 


TABLE A. 
PRINCIPAL IMPoRTS. 
Values. Values. 
1937. 1936. 1937. 1936. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Cotton Piece-goods 62,893 94,926 Samneh ... ++ 22,738 13,700 
Cotton White Headgear... s+ 13,401 13,857 
Shirting + 18,555 14,359 Confectionery ... 17,328 11,554 
Cotton Figured ... 12,693 12,937 Boots and Shoes... 19,612 10,467 
Cotton Calico... 9,576 9,579 Tea eat see 10,145 9,956 
Artificial Silk Flour... s+ 16,789 8,410 
Piece-goods ... 97,891 73,045 Olive Oil... see 11,223 8,172 
Benzine ... --» 35,665 46,881 Woollen  Piece- 
Sugar... sss 47.277 45,597 goods ... es 6,447 7,971 
Kerosene +» 24,820 21,700 Articles made of 
Coffee... .-. 18,459 16,640 Iron... a 9,768 7,047 
Animals ... +» 23,256 16,277. Wares made of 
Articles made of Paper ... we 8,873 6,216 
Wool ... «19,965 15,647 Soap ae se 10,408 5,144 
Timber... sss 13,090 14,904 Rice ae sss 40,377 41,637 


Clothing ... ++ 29,335 13,999 


384. 
TABLE B. 
Main CHANNELS AND VALUES OF IMPORTS AND Exports. 
Imports. 
1937- 1936. 1935. 1934.  1933- 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
1. In Transit through Palestine 266,439 236,608 200,119 212,415 217,412 
In Transit through Syria ... 202,491 199,013 82,611 30,745 9,903 
‘In Transit via Post Office... 5,015 4,945 (Statistics not kept.) 
2. Imports from ‘Iraq... 7141 9,508 (Statistics not kept.) 
Imports from Nejd 14,898 11,115 71550 2,730 6,825 
3. Trade Agreements :— 
Palestine— 
1. Foreign goods duty paid 
in Palestine subse- 
quently consumed in 





Trans- Jordan ... ++. 200,683 121,453 (Statistics not kept.) 
2. Palestine locally manu- 
factured goods ++» 60,390 36,088 (Statistics not kept.) 
Syria— 


1. Foreign goods re-ex- 
ported to Trans-Jordan 20,299 22,863 12,320 13,627 12,718 
2. Syrian locally manu- 


factured goods «++ 156,853 153,963 81,048 79,425 68,532 
Exports. 

4. Exports from Trans-Jordan:— 

To Palestine 2 «404,107 198,215 (Statistics not kept.) 

Re-exported to Palestine 12,239 - 2,678 (Statistics not kept.) 

To Syria ... a ... 106,861 29,781 21,487 9,220 8,731 

Re-exported to Syria Bie 2.175 564 (Statistics not kept.) 

To ‘Iraq ... woo 380 (Statistics not kept.) 

Re-exported to ‘Iraq evs 28 _ (Statistics not kept.) 

To Nejd ... as (Statistics not kept.) 

Re. eepartea to Nejd aes 420 1,873 (Statistics not kept.) 

TABLE C. 
QuantTiTIES OF Liguors MANUFACTURED BY DISTILLERIES. 
Methylated 
Cognac. Araq. Wine. Spirit. Alcohol. 
Year. Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. 
1937 +. rey 10,708 26,264 5,624 1,729 36 
1936 ... ieee 11,071 25,594 7,216 1,940 76 
1935 wwe ats 10,763 24,672 6,975 _— _ 
1934 on 10,352 28,350 6,755 — — 
TABLE D. 


QUANTITIES OF Liquors, WINE AND SPIRITS IMPORTED FOR CONSUMPTION 
in TRANS-JORDAN. 


1934. 1935. 1936. 1937- 
Beer, large bottles «. Nos. 53.718 36,461 47,824 28,503 
Beer, small bottles «. Nos. 8,045 612 6,308 9,189 
Beer, in barrels ... ... Litres _ —_— 26,336 20,085 
Araq, Gin, Cognac, Whisky, 

Liqueurs... ... Litres 2,938 2,921 3,651 5,622 
Champagne a .. Litres 77 62 59 55 
Rum, Vermouth ... ... Litres 357 261 1,418 390 
Wine ne eae ... Litres 5,376 2,020 3.441 1,945 
Pure Alcohol ae ... Litres 57 35 898 free 1,035 

19 duty. 
Methylated Spirit ... Litres 4,609 4,860 2,401 3,690 


Customs Import Duties £P. 1,721 1,469 1,657 1,460 


385 














































6gg'1 gbl'S1 €zz‘z z6g‘g 1$6'9 oli '€z oz1‘gg9‘ok “* Pe6r 
169‘ z60'hr LEo'z gri'g tfz'g zgl‘oz ooz‘bzg‘Lz “ S€6r 
LSL‘€ II€‘1€ boz'z 9S0'6 Posh 6bg‘Iz oSb'Egg'gz “* o€61r 
60S'b Ego‘'ge gbf'z Sgt'6 160'9 gof‘oz gtz‘obligz s+ LE6r 
ey! “sauumvasopty ‘at “SaUMEDATOILST 3 “sauempaSopryy 
“Amq “mnhem “Aimq 1y518.M ON 

sauevadopry “aueuadopry “auuevaSopry “409 X 





aad sym oz Aynp astoxy aad sprue oSe Aynp asioxy 
*099090} nd *099090} nD 


—_———— 


aad sjsu O0€ Ainp asioxz 


“saqaawstg 





“SHIMOLIV. AM AIVG AOA GANSS] GNV GAANLOVANNV]L SALLAAVSID GNV ODDVEOL ‘NO GALOATIOD Sara ANV ‘dO SHILILNVO! 
a a 


: ‘a ATaVL 


ody Google 


Digit 


386 


TABLE F. 


QuanTITIES OF ForEIGN Topacco Lear IssuED FROM BOND AND AmouxT 
oF Dutizs CoLLEcTED THEREON. 


Rate of Duty: 300 mils per Kilo. 


Tobacco leaf Import duty 
Year. issued. collected. 
Kilos. £P. 
1937 7,412 2,223 
1936 7,265 2,179 
1935 7,566 2,269 
1934 8,272 2,481 
TABLE G. 


Import Duty COLLECTED ON ALL KINDS OF IMPORTED ToBacco 
AND ToMBac. 


Cigarettes 
Foreign and 
Year. Leaf. Tobacco. Tombac. Total. 
1937 2,223 1,044 4.17. 744 
1936 2,180 1,285 2,732 6,197 
1935 2,270 1,211 1,566 5,047 
1934 2,481 1,141 1,606 5,230 
TABLE H. 
ExcisE REVENUE. 

Year. Tobacco. Liquor. Total. 

1937 13,00 1,02 14,02 

1936 12,576 1,048 13,624 

1935 9,962 1,009 10,971 


1934 11,064. 1,067 12,131 


387 


bzs'zl ezs've vOl'es s6e'zs srs'st zec'sd Scr'90 siz'z9 = Son'ze §=O¢r'es = Sce'001 ~eso'sLt ger'eci ‘dt 















Sz6L 9z6L 4261 8Z6L 6261 os6l le6L se6t «+= «SB6L vS6L Se6L 9e6L LO6L YVBA 





‘LE6L—SZ6L WOU SUVSA €L ONIYNG GSNIVLEO SNNSASY SSIOXa ONV SWOLSND 
aly, TTAVL 


388 


XVIL—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


Financial. 

I. The revenue for the financial year 1936-7 was as follows :— 
Sale of Postage Stamps... aes eee oes ae th 
Commission on Money Orders... oes oes 309 
Telephones (Rentals and Calls) ... ase See 8,966 
Telegrams ... au oie wes oe ase 1,222 
Parcels aes aes aes Ses aes Bo 1,163 
Miscellaneous ae _ eee Ree mee 164 

15,222 

Charges for services rendered to Government 

Departments not included in above figures :— 
Inland Telephones and Telegrams to Civil List ... 450 
Police Post Telephones, the rentals of which are 
calculated on a kilometric basis Sie as 700 
Inland Postage on Correspondence for Govern- 
ment Departments a eo ade oa 2,200 
Commission on the sale of Revenue Stamps ... 300 
———_ __ 3,650 
Total oes For) aoe ae a £P.18,872 
Expenditure for the year was:— 
Ppp. 
Ordinary Expenditure... wee oes 3h 16,094 
diture incurred by other Departments on 
behalf of the Posts, Telegraphs and Tele- 
phones :— 
Rents of Buildings ae ose soe cae 676 
Furniture and other minor works __... eee 42 
Printing and Stationery ne se ne 300 
— 1,018 
Total aes oe oy ee a £P.17,112 


No extraordinary works were carried out during the year. 


Posts. 


2. With the exception of a few interruptions during the wet 
weather the mail service was carried on with regularity. In 
the north of the country motor transport was replaced b' 
animal transport during January and February. In the sou 
during November the mail bags to and from Ma‘an were twice 
carried by Royal Air Force aircraft and once by an official’s 
private aircraft. 

Fifty-eight enquiries were received for lost items of regis- 
tered correspondence, and 18 for ordinary items. Investigations 
revealed that of the registered items 31 were delivered to the 
addresses and 19 were lost: the remaining 8 cases are still being 
enquired into. Of the ordinary items 8 proved to have been 
delivered and 10 could not be traced. The lost registered items 


389 


were in a bag of registered correspondence which was stolen at 
Damascus. Claims for compensation were received in respect of 
18 items, and the Inspector-General of the Postal Adminis- 
tration of the Levant States under French Mandate authorized 
Repeat of compensation at the rate of £P.2 per item. 

e number of items dealt with in the Returned Letter Office 
amounted to 4,085, of which 29 items were registered; 724 items 
were returned to offices of origin in foreign countries; 660 were 
delivered to senders or addressees in Trans-Jordan; 2,170 
printed papers were destroyed and 520 letters were kept until 
claimed. 

The appended table of statistics for the years 1936 and 1937 
shows gress in the Inland Postal Services, especially the 
Inland Boney Order Services. The decline in the Foreign Parcel 
Post Service and in the Money Order Service is attributed to a 
return to more normal conditions following an abnormal increase 
in 1936 on account of the Palestine disturbances. 


TRAFFIC STATISTICS, 1937. 


Approximate 
Increase or 
Ordinary Mails :— 1936. 1937. Decrease. 
Correspondence (Letters, Postcards, Per cent. 
printed papers, etc.) ... + 498,281 500,905 1 Increase 
Parcels, inland eee one 3,979 4.375 10 ns 
Parcels, foreign, despatched ave 503 318 37 Decrease 
Parcels, foreign, received . Kee 3,063 2,778 9 a 
Telegrams, inland aah ae te 5,955 °* 6,411 8 Increase 
Telegrams, foreign, despatched 0G 4,270 3,640 15 Decrease 
Telegrams, foreign, received ae 4,301 3,759 13 = 
Telephone subscribers, number ate 577 643 11 Increase 
Telephone trunk calls, inland Rit 85,761 91,559 7 a 
Telephone trunk calls, foreign, out- 
going.. eae 12,520 14,671 17 as 
Telephone trunk calls, foreign, in- 
coming a ss 10,104 12,227 ar + 
Telephone call offices. wae 47 52 II a 
Telephone trunk lines, kilometres ... 1,500 1,500 — 
Money orders, inland, number we 2,141 2,677. ° 25 Increase 
Money orders, inland. Value {P. 34,673 46,960 35 Oe 
Money orders, foreign, issued, number 1,143 987 14 Decrease 
Money orders, foreign, issued. Value {P. 4,453 4.293 4 Ff 
Money orders, foreign, paid, number 482 260 46 Pe 
Money orders, foreign, paid. Value {P. 2,916 1,935 34 
Postal orders, inland, number me 13,661 14,160 4 Increase 
Postal orders, inland. Value £P. 10,615 10,802 2 , 
Postal orders, imperial, issued, number 2,159 2,158 _ 
Postal orders, imperial, issued. Value {P. 1,355 1,483 9 Increase 
Postal orders, imperial, paid, number 274 225 18 Decrease 
Postal orders, imperial, paid. Value £P. 173 153 12 cA 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid, number 5,374 5,130 5 ss 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid. Value £P. 4,742 4,473 6 fe 
Air Mail :-— 


Number of items ... sae wee 4,831 6,546 35 Increase 
Weight in kilogrammes_... eae 63 82 30 ‘ 


390 


Telegraphs. 


3. The decrease in the foreign telegraph service is due to a 
return to normal conditions after an abnormal increase in 1936 
arising out of the Palestine disturbances. 


Telephones. 


4. The use of the telephone service continued to show pro- 
gress during the year. The section of the Haifa-Baghdad line 
falling within Trans-Jordan, which was previously administered 
by the Palestine Postal Administration, was taken over by the 
Trans-Jordan Department early in 1937; the revenue from 
charges and calls made over the circuit from Palestine, Egypt, 
Syria, Lebanon and Iraq amounted during the year to £P.952, 
and the cost of maintenance was £P.277. 


Engineering. 


5. The ordinary work of maintaining the telephone and tele- 
graph routes was regularly performed. Cables were laid at 
Amman and Irbid for distribution to subscribers’ lines, the 
Wadi Es Seer Police Post telephone line was renewed and con- 
nected directly with Amman, and various other works of 
improvement were carried out. 


Stores were ordered during the summer for new lines between 
Tafileh and Ma‘an and between Irbid and Um Qeis. Owing, 
however, to delay in the delivery of these stores and the onset 
of winter the construction of the lines has been postponed. 


General. 


6. During the year 27 cases of damage to telephone and tele- 
graph routes were reported: action was taken against the persons 
or villages concerned. 


Funds for the building of a new General Post Office at Amman 
were provided in part in the current year’s estimates and a 
suitable site has been chosen, and its expropriation initiated. 


In the meantime additional accommodation, necessitated by 
the expansion of the service, has been provided by the lease 
of an annex to the present General Post Office. 


At Irbid and Jerash the Post Offices were transferred to new 
buildings of more suitable size and position. 


The total number of officers on the classified establishment at 
the end of 1937 was 54. The unclassified employees comprised 
30 linemen, 12 postmen, 3 apprentices and 2 orderlies. 


391 
XVIII.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND VETERINARY. 


Agriculture. 


1. The early rains were very good and after a period of 
anxiety in March and April there was a satisfactory precipitation 
in the middle of April, resulting in an excellent harvest. The 
yield of winter and summer crops was above the average, though 
in parts of the country the previous bad year had left people so 
ill-equipped that areas considerably less than normal were sown; 
olives and vines gave good yields, except in the Es Salt district 
where the old vines continued to be so bad that the vineyards 
concerned had to be re-assessed for Land Tax on the basis of 
wheat-producing land. Some 8,o00 dunums were cultivated with 
winter and 32,000 with summer vegetables. 


Particulars of the area sown with tobacco and tombac and 
of the estimated produce therefrom are given in paragraph 10 
of the section of this Report dealing with Customs, Excise and 
Trade. In addition 6,130 dunums were sown with hisheh 
tobacco giving a yield of 456,100 kilos. 

Apart from minor visitations of field-mice and ‘‘ worm ”’ 
which were dealt with in the usual way no serious pests or plant 
diseases appeared. 


The early rains of November have also been satisfactory and 
promise a good harvest for 1938. 


The year under review was the last year covered by the 
grant from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.1,200 for 
each of three years for the propagation of good seed throughout 
the country. The success of this scheme, which requires that 
the farmer shall return to Government 13 times the seed issued 
to him, was prejudiced in 1936 by the very bad climatic con- 
ditions and the resulting harvest failure. th 1937 it proved a 
great success as regards wheat but there is still much to be done 
in regard to barley and legumes, because it has proved very 
difficult to obtain even samples of the local barley (which is the 
best) as the different varieties become mixed on the threshing 
floor and because reliable legumes could not be purchased. It 
is hoped to remedy the P sesaatt in this respect, with the help 
of the new Agricultural eriment and Demonstration Station 
at Jubeiha. 


The constructional work at this Station, the area of which 
is some 600 dunums, has been completed, the site has been 
fenced in, and the winter crops have been sown. A great deal of 
preparatory work has also been undertaken in the planning, 
clearing and draining of the area. Six hundred fruit trees and 
a considerable number of forest trees were planted in the rainy 
season of 1936-7 and preparations have been made to put in 
the olives and the remaining forest trees, and to complete the 


392 ° 
wind breaks, early in 1938. The poultry houses have not yet 
been stocked because Palestine, in‘view of her own needs, will 
not be able to meet the requirements of Trans-Jordan before 
May, 1938. 
he 28 school gardens, the average area of which is 10 
dunums, have been transferred, together with the Agricultural 
Assistant in charge of them, to the Department of Education and. 
it is expected that this arrangement will be an advantage from 
the point of view of administration. These gardens are on the 
whole very good and the children who care for them undoubtedly 
benefit by the training. 
In addition to the Experiment Station at Jubeiha the Depart- 
ment maintains the following :— 


(a) Horticultural Station at Ruseifa, near Amman, where 
all kinds of fruit trees suitable to the altitude of the plateau 
are grown and grafted for distribution. 

(0) Horticultural Station at Bagoora in the northern 
Jordan Valley, at present confined to citrus trees, date 
palms and vegetables. From this station an issue was made 
this year of 4,500 various grafted citrus trees to people in 
the Jordan Valley, who have only in recent years turned 
from grazing and raiding to agriculture; the Department of 
Agriculture undertook, without charge, the planting of these 
trees, and their supervision till they were octablished; it is 
satisfactory that the failures have only totalled about 2 per 
cent. 

(c) At Jerash, in the Ajlun hills, there is a smaller Horti- 
cultural Station which is confined to the growing of olives 
and carobs for distribution. 

(d) At Mejdal, also in the Ajlun hills, 80 dunums were 
acquired and fenced two years ago as a carob demonstration 
station. Adverse weather conditions have militated against 
the progress of this station and it has hitherto only proved 
possible to establish some goo carob seedlings. In a nearby 
farm, however, a large number of carobs are being raised 
in pots: they will be transplanted in the demonstration 
station in due course. 


Forests. 


2. To meet the growing demand for forest trees, seedlings are 
now raised in each of the stations at Bagoora, Ruseifa and 
Jerash, and a new forest nursery has been established at Wadi 
Zahar, with a view to supplying the area in the north-west where 
settlement is proceeding. 

The Department remains in charge of all the forest areas which 
have not yet been subjected to settlement, and has fenced and 
is re-afforesting three areas comprising 6,374 dunums at Mejdal 
and Wadi Warran in the Ajlun hills and Khanasra near the 
Hejaz railway line in the north-east of Trans-Jordan. 


393 


Small plantations have also been made successfully at the 
foot and alone the top of the citadel hill in Amman. 

In each of the enclosures at Mejdal, Wadi Warran and 
Khanasra a one-roomed house has been built to accommodate 
the guard who has been stationed there. 

e number of forest guards has been increased by two and 
the number of prosecutions for forest offences in 1937 has been 
343 as compared with 436 in 1936 and 389 in 1935. 


Veterinary. 


3. The excellent grazing has resulted in a certain recovery 
from the animal losses of 1936 but the almost entire lack of 
rain in December necessitated the migration of a large number 
of animals from the village areas into the desert area in the 
eastern part of Trans-Jordan where the rains had been more 
abundant and where there is now no lack of public security. 

There was no serious outbreak of disease the more serious 
being as follows :— 


Disease. Cases. Deaths. 
Smallpox in goats ee Side eae 1,528 157 
Foot and Mouth Disease ... ae Fry 3,343 I 
Hemorrhagic Septicaemia on on 8,513 281 
Pyroplasmus in goats... Ne airs 1,158 _- 


A large number of camels, sheep and goats continues to enter 
the country from Saudi Arabia; some of these are for local 
consumption but many pass in transit to Palestine and Egypt. 


XIX.—PUBLIC WORKS. 
Relief. 


As a result of satisfactory rains and a consequently good har- 
vest it was necessary to spend only £P.1,000 on relief works. 
This sum was devoted to further improvements to the Wadi 
Hasa—Laban road in the south and to the water supplies at 
Ain Dana, Bir Harir and Ain El Zerqa in the Tafileh area. 

In the absence of relief funds no further progress was made 
on the roads connecting Kerak and Madeba across the Wadi 
Majib or on the road connecting Ajlun with Deir Abu Said and 
the Jordan Bridge at Sheikh Hussein. It is hoped, however, to 
make provision for the latter in the Estimates for the financial 
year 1938-9, as its early opening is most desirable to facilitate 
the movement of the Land Settlement parties which have begun 
operations in that area. 

Roads. 

2. Work on the asphalting of the main Jerusalem road from 
Amman via Es Salt to the Allenby Bridge which is being carried 
out with the asistance of a grant from the Colonial Development 
Fund is progressing satisfactorily and will, it is expected, be 
finished by the end of March, 1939. 


394 


The consolidation of the road from Jisr Mejamie to El Husn 
via Irbid, which was soled and metalled to a depth of 5cm. only 
when it was rebuilt, is proceeding slowly but satisfactorily. 

Considerable work was carried out in strengthening and im- 
proving the bridge which spans the Wadi Shoeib, and a double 
cantilever reinforced concrete bridge over the Wadi Jeria, in 
replacement of that which was destroyed by floods in October, 
1935, was completed. This new bridge has a central span of 
I3 metres: an unusual feature in its construction was the use 
of earthfill instead of timber framework for the pouring of the 
concrete for the superstructure. 


Buildings. 


3. Regular maintenance work has been carried out in 
73 Government owned and rented buildings. 

Several buildings have been constructed in connexion with 
the new Agricultural Experimental Station. 

The Headquarters building for the Department of Lands, 
which was begun this year, is half complete. 

Work was begun on the Customs Department Bonded Ware- 
house at Amman Station, the building programme in the Arab 
Legion lines at Amman proceeded according to plan, the Arab 
Legion stable at Irbid was enlarged and reconstructed. and the 
Fort at Wadi Musa, of which the estimated cost is £P.2,600 was 
nearly completed. 


Water Supplies. 


4. In addition to the works connected with water supplies 
which have been referred to elsewhere in this Chapter and in 
the Chapter on Public Health, the following works have been 
carried out during the year:— 

(a) Engines, pumps and storage tanks were erected at 
the deep bores sunk at Teneib and Katraneh, east of the 
Railway. 

(b) The bore in the Desert at Black Rock proved imprac- 
ticable and was abandoned. 

(c) The 575-feet bore at Jubaya el Adwan between 
Amman and Madeba, of which the yield had fallen off, was 
deepened, but no great improvement in the supply resulted. 

(d) An additional bore in the Jordan Valley has been 
Serer showing a good supply of water at a depth of 

0 feet. 
? (e) A well is being sunk in the school garden at Suweilih. 

(f) Improvements have been made in two village springs, 
and advice given for the improvement of two others. 

(g) Three thousand cubic metres of silt have been exca- 
vated from the cistern at Zizia. 


395 


Other Works. 


5. The Department is responsible for the works and buildings 

of the Freie onan Frontier Force at Zerka and Ma‘an and also 

undertakes all hirings of offices and other accommodation for 

ie Government, and arranges for the provision of furniture 
erein. 


XX.—DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT. 


1. A Department of Development was initiated in May, 1937, 
under the charge of a British Director. The Department is 
maintained by a grant from the Colonial Development Fund. 


2. Preliminary studies and investigations were begun, but 
before a modus operandi could be established the circumstances 
of the Department were substantially changed by the provision 
by His Majesty’s Government of a grant of £P.15,000 for the 
purpose of a Hydrographic Survey of the country which, 
together with a contour survey of the Jordan Valley being 
executed by the Department of Pande and Surveys, will enable 
the practical possibilities of irrigation development in Trans- 
Jordan to be assessed. This work, owing its origin to the 
Report of the Royal Commission, and coming as a matter 
of urgency upon a Department of which the merest nucleus 
was already in existence, dominated the activities of the Depart- 
ment throughout the rest of the year. 


Hydrographic Survey. 


3. The Hydrographic Survey is expected to occupy a period 
of approximately a year and will comprise a quantitative investi- 
gation of the surface and sub-surface water resources of the 
country, followed by an examination of the use to which they 
might be put for irrigation development. 


The last quarter of the year was occupied in planning the 
methods and scope of the survey in detail, and in the collec- 
tion of the necessary staff and equipment. 


Irrigation Control Schemes. 


4. At the same time the normal activities of the embryo 
Department have, as far as possible, been pursued. It is 
intended to plan and execute in the coming year the first of a 
series of minor schemes of irrigation control on one of the 
streams which debouch into the irrigable upper benches of the 
Jordan Valley. Some preliminary investigations have been 
carried out; and arrangements have been made to complete 
the necessary detailed preparatory and design work early in the 
new year. 


396 


(rrigation Law. 

5. At the present time the use of water for irrigation is gov- 
erned by the Ottoman Law, to which no amendments or addi- 
tions have been made. New legislation providing for the control 
of water is being prepared. 


XX1I.—CIVIL AVIATION. 


I. The air services maintained by the Imperial Airways and 
the Royal Dutch Line between Europe and the Far East pass 
over Trans-Jordan territory but only make emergency landings 
in that country. 


2. No Customs aerodromes exist in Trans-Jordan but per- 
mission is occasionally given for commercial machines to end 
on Royal Air Force aerodromes, and in such instances special 
anenecnene are made in the matters of Customs and Passport 
control. 


3. The need for a special department to administer civil 
aviation in Trans-Jordan has not arisen. 


397 


APPENDIX I (i). 


Tue PaLesTINE ELECTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED. 
(Incorporated in Palestine.) 


Fourteenth Annual Report and Balance Sheet, 31st December, 1936. 
Report of Directors for the year ended 31st December, 1936. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounts 
for the year ended 31st December, 1936. 


Notwithstanding the abnormal conditions which prevailed in Palestine 
last year, a satisfactory service has been maintained throughout the 
operating area of the Corporation. 


The disturbances caused the Directors much anxiety, but. they are 
fortunately able to report that the property of the Corporation suffered no 
appreciable damage; some delay in development work and a comparatively 
small amount of additional expenditure inevitably resulted from the 
disturbed state of the country. 


65,495,957 units of electrical energy were sold in 1936, compared with 
50,362,193 units in 1935, representing an increase of 30 per cent. The 
total number of consumers connected by 31st December last was 66,537 
compared with 53,246 at the end of 1935, an increase of 25 per cent. 


The gross revenue has increased from {P. 488,443 in 1935 to {P. 582,765 
in 1936, an increase of 19 per cent. Since the reductions in tariffs to 
consumers referred to in the Directors’ last Report, further considerable 
reductions have been made operating partly from 1st January and partly 
from 1st June, 1937- 


The following figures show the development of the Corporation's business 
during the past five years :— 


Units used 
No. of Units at Units Gross 
Year. Consumers Generated Corporation's Sold. Revenue. 
Connected. (in kWh). Works. (in kWh.) (in £.P.) 
(in RWh.). 
1932 «++ = 15,113 16,629,054 499,714 11,590,350 145,512 


1933 oe 21,934 29,120,155 756,719 20,136,839 221,128 
1934 0 ww 35.397 47,485,776 888,072 34,385,515 363,900 
1935 0+ 53.246 71,885,097 3,151,352 50,362,193 488,443 
1936 we 66,537 90,423,846 5,427,326 65,495,957 582,765 


Work on the extension of the Haifa Steam Turbine Power House and 
on the new 66,000-volt transmission line from the Jordan Power House to 
Tel-Aviv was continued. Since the close of the Financial Year, work has 
commenced on the new Reading Steam Turbine Power House near Tel-Aviv. 


Ninety-six transformers with a total capacity of 13,995 kVA. were 
put into commission in consumers’ premises during 1936, bringing the 
total up to 657 transformers with a capacity of 59,910 kVA. The trans- 
mission and distribution network of the Corporation was increased during 
the year by 194 km., making a total on the 31st December, 1936, of 
993 km. of High Tension Transmission Lines and Cables and 959 km. of 
Low Tension Distribution Lines. 


398 


The special expenditure incurred owing to the disturbed conditions 
amounted to {P. 17,078. This item has been charged to the Share Premium 
Account. : 











£P. 
The profit for the year 1936, after making aoe 
provision for Depreciation, was ... 242,208 
Deducting the Appropriation made during the year of: 
(a) Preference Shares Sinking Fund ane ++. 12,000 
(b) Dividend on Preference Shares . 27,000 
(c) Interim Dividend of 2} per cent. free of ‘United 
Kingdom Income Tax on Ordinary, and “A” 
Ordinary Shares des eos es wee 43,440 
82,440 
159,768 
and adding the balance brought forward from the 
previous year és 26,353 
there is an available balance of ... ree as A 186,121 
out of which the Directors recommend :— 
(1) The transfer to Reserve for Income Tax and 
contingencies . aa) ois 25,000 
(2) The transfer | to General "Reserve eis 50,000 
(3) The payment of a final Dividend of 5 per 
cent. free of United Kingdom Income Tax on 
Ordinary and ‘‘ A’’ Ordinary Shares absorbing ... 86,881 
161,881 
Leaving a balance to be carried forward of ra £P. 24,240 


In order to provide for the Capital outlay which is now being incurred 
by the Corporation, and which it may be found necessary to incur in the 
future, it is intended to make such Issue of additional Share Capital at 
such date and of such amounts and classes as the Directors may consider 
desirable, and for this purpose to increase forthwith the nominal Share 
Capital of the Corporation from {2,500,000 to £4,000,000. 

The Corporation has recently been granted an Official Quotation with 
respect to its Shares, and this calls for certain minor amendments in the 
Articles of Association so as to comply with the requirements of the Share 
and Loan Department of the London Stock Exchange. 

An Extraordinary General Meeting of the Corporation will be held 
immediately after the holding of the Annual General Meeting for the 
purpose of considering, and, if thought fit, passing the necessary Special 
Resolutions to give effect to the above proposals. 

It is with deep regret that the Directors have to record the death on 
31st January, 1937, of M. Henri Franck, a member of the Board since 
1925. 

In accordance with the Articles of Association, The Rt. Hon. Lord 
Melchett and Mr. Edward S. Baron retire by rotation and, being eligible, 
offer themsclves for re-election. 

The Auditors of the Corporation, Messrs. Russell & Co., retire and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, 
SaMUvEL, Chairman. 
Pinuas RuTENBERG, Managing Director. 


23rd June, 1937. 


399 





SoL'zgS ‘a? SoL'zgS ‘at 


goz‘ofz ea a ose yooys sourleg 
0} parties jyoid you Sureq ‘aoueleg “ 
666'S Aueduiog Arerpisqng Aq pay jueu 
-}S2AU] UO UOHEIDeIdaq IOF UOTSIACIg ‘ 
S6b'g 





oo0'S bite ahr * (pazeooyye 
324 jou) ssigusdndo) JOy dAIasay 
pue siaHI0\\ 40} pung uoyenuueiadng ‘* 
S6v'E g9f61 0} 
seahojdurgy Jo} puny uorenuuesedng “ 
000'z1 puny 
Suruls sareys aoualajaig ajqeursapay 





098 





gog’gt 
o00‘gt " sasnox] Jemog 
AIAY-[9. pue = senaqiy, 
“eplepy Jo sasuadxo 03 pasreyp 
gol se1038 0} sedreyo eyueuzredaq 
OOr “py ‘szusuIZsaAu] UepsIOf 0} 
Palepuar saoraras 10} ad1eyD 
g99‘6E — ssaT 





ooS'€ ate $aa,J ,S10}0911G 
zwESthr os ‘oj ‘Burjaaesy ‘seaq JIpny 
‘sasreyQ ese] ‘e0WQ UopucT 
- pue 200 PeoH 7 sasuedxq [erouas) 
gf9'1z os ayo 
uOopuoyT pur ad1YO pref] : SeLreTes 
1g0'r sa ae eee oe _ sUI09U] Arpung : sasuad 
oob'S site ase tse ses of pred -Xxq e0YQ uopuocT puke ssyO pro “ 
__Jserequ 490 _Peatsoaz ysalazU] JO ssaoxy £oz‘Sze 
SSL‘ILE a AIAY-]9L goo'bzr ** ase osnoH] Jamog AIAY-[3L 
6zS‘boz Re oe5 pee “+ SBLIOQIT, pue eyrezy $6S‘ooz *** : ‘s+ sasnoyy 
:emoouy Arpung JamMog eyleH pue Sel et 
ue sasiwia. siaumnsu 0} suooouU OF 
saione Jo Reitas “ABI Seas jo noes 4g Surpnpour) oinzrpuedxgq esnozy Jomog eo 
‘ay Ee) ‘ay ‘a¥ af) 
7 op PO IY sso” ue 391d [e19ues) 
Peer ae oe 














g 











vEz'€61 “GF vEz‘€61 “aF 
ESE‘gz “*  yaayg soured 0} polireo sourreg “* 
1gg‘991 
ooo'ok  *** eee ote sorouesuty 
-U0D pue XB] sMODUT 1Oj aAIBSAY OL, 
ooo‘oS *** ae aAlasoy [eIIUay OL 


Igg'9f  sareys Areurpio ,, V ,, pue sazeys 
AxeutpiQ uo xe], suooUy jo saIp 
-yuao rad ¢ yo SE61 IO} pusprarg yeuryz 

:S€6r ‘1aquia 

-o0q 4sI€ ye se aourleg JUNODDy 
bEz‘€6r s+ g€61 ‘Arenuel sr 3 premsoy 3y3n01q yyoIg Ag sso pue jyoig jo suoyeudoiddy oy 
‘aF 19 at ‘at 4d 
a ae 

*g€61 ‘1oquisoeq ysI ey} popua read oy} I0y yUNODDW uoHeIIdoiddy ssoTyT pue }yOIg 
*(euyseteg ul pazyerodioouy) 


GALINIT ‘NOILVAOdNOD IMLIATY ANILSAIVG AHL, 


le 


1b) Goog 
fo) 


Digitiz 


“scopy ‘smumpumo2y pessyeeyD “OD 9 TTESSEAY +£06x ‘ounf pate ‘esreny 

skuedwoy ogy jo s¥ 0q3 4q umoys se pue sn 0} moALd suopeTEsdxe og} pue one a. JO 380q 943 0) Bupps0908 
eae a sAueduio, 04} JO 04838 OG} JO MOFA 3001100 PUB ONT) B MOYs 07 SE Os ‘dn UMEIp Aysodoad 8} 300qS coUeTeg SAOgE 0G) ‘Doyuyd ano uy * @ARy OM ory suOPeUEldxe 

PUB GoReEI0;UF OT) [Te PouTEsqo GARY PUT 'q7I0; 30s OAOGE SE ‘QL6I ‘soquIEI0 ySIE 0} POJEP “pyT ‘VoHeI0dI05 BOOTY OUNsETEd O43 Jo JoONS SoUTTEM O4y porPNE ovey OM 

‘SUACIORZUVHS ZHL OL LuoaTy sxOLIGAY 

spuvqunozy fasyoly ‘NYMaIEZA “[ °40;008q SusFouvyy ‘OMNGNELNY SVHNIG ‘“wOMAEYD ‘TENNYS—ssopessc] fo psvog syt fo frey2q “uO 

“sO IusIouw py ‘OMAGKALNY SVHNIG ‘wPMsIEYD “IEAMYS “syUNOOOY eAogE O43 Uy pazeJOdJOON; U9eq you seq GOYA Of6x 30; yyoud & smoygs Aueduro> Arerpisqns eq 
“626x ‘goueUpp3g sopueduso) oy} Jo Lor “20S 03 jUENEMNd ‘ANVEMOD AUVIGISENS OL SY INENZLVIS 


















































—— —_—_—— “Boys TF = 1 “dF 0 
Obg’oo'e “aF Ovgtool'e -gF 
1e1'ggr 
orr'ol 
Lootzse i 9D s snsodeq pun puszy ws pus syueg go YFP) Orty AxeUypsO ., V », PUe 
bSg'es as (e000 99s) Aseappi9 Uo * ya 7 fzyjo PUPA wpey0y 
perp spuspiasq fo memsvg sof rag 49 oootle *** sareqs somesojorg 
o00'e (exu00 008) puny susyuis ‘dF sapemmeany efqeareopey "3000 red fy 2 
ssumys sousefosq sqrusrpey sof jo sD —? g£6r 305 spoopparg ¢ 
£16'SS 19S‘9Sz 
es : = 
re ss Hebe ide Meghe ) eaee oq 
Stee at oo eer tae Yertaae 
6611 at w pray ayan03q sourreg nl i 
eeeiesr —s junooay $807 pun 
$er'de £6x'6gr 
fof‘ofx gfgize v1) ssoueed 31P32) 
zey'er ‘+ syysodoq ,sreumsu0} 
tdrirr dSgies Bee tse Pred 9q 03 spuepraid parepod 
sre'zg sa au zEofoor a aa an ‘a s103;per) Arpuns 
Poypuse se ‘ajay. PL po wfsoH "wopso[ 7 puny Ho #94015 i seouvrog npesd pun ssonpes 
sero uoRepaidap 062'¥9 vs gopsssouo) wepsof oy 
Seo{ “3900 3e “Kususyou py woI~NasHOD puD sdoysyso, ~ of one ‘Way GouEproco8 Uy peassfac] S7HN SWOT] 
& tzotr “* wopepardep S59] ‘3800 38 2p ‘sensu rho | PSe'oe 
Tf o0h'9 BO wez3p 196'rSr TTL MOMMITESM] asay-1L mi fo wosgosooad9qT sof snsasay 
span Jo ‘wopuoT fo ssve7 f6g‘tre “085509 
ek6'sr ‘Aay-121 pur efsvE us pu 1D uepsol yssm souvpsczr us woszosso4dec 40f P0478 
966'r66's 000'be +" pune Susyuss seavys sousssfosd nqwusepey 
000'6 hov‘o9 sed SrouaTusgiog | pee xv smo] sof 9as359y 
greece et funooay wnsmisd 2404S 
r9r's oootosr taka ibe Aber ase see +0 pasasoy [029495 
zes'ze9 Srg‘LeE'e ——. 
e00'009 ci ae wpee Sup205 1F JO soualo 
. “Fld SAWeMUM) o[qeuTeepey “U0 30d fF Coo'oog 
200'o0g Yous Buys IF Jo soreqs AreupplO «. V Pedy | 
Se9'Lt6 gee IS 1F JO soregs Areuppug Sr9'ZE 
series “ woqssaou03 — ponssy 
uy | sosuodxo Texouad uy 
“sss 000'00S'E 
orev 
Sor'65 000'00r o00'00r 
C'S66'x 000'009 eq JO 
oouaro 
aod FF o00'009 
00008 e' 000'00g 
1 000'000'r > 000‘000'T 
) —: pospoyyny 
muon unpaol — rendeg sas 
‘a? "a? ‘eLaey ‘ay ‘dIe ‘saurnevry 


*Qf61 ‘10quiod9g 3Arf ay2 3B BE J9AqS SOUTILEL 


402 


APPENDIX I (ii). 


JerusALeM ELEcTRIC AND PuBLic SERVICE CORPORATION LIMITED. 
REPORT OF THE DrREcToRs. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
31st March, 1937. 
£P. £P. 


The profit for the year, including the balance 
(£P.2, 832.013) brought forward from the Previous 
year is ... 63,114.426 
out of which the. following payments and ‘appro- 
priations have been made :— 


Provision for Income Tax ... ae +++ 12,000.000 
Transfer to General Reserve ... ie ++ §,000.000 
Capital Amortisation Fund ... id ves 5.476.924 
Plant Renewal Account vy . 15,400.000 
Dividend on 225,000 Preference Shares for 
year to 31st March 1937, less tax ... vee 12,009.375 
———_ 49,886.299 
leaving a balance of ... acy! le : £P.13,228.127 
which the Directors propose to deal with as S Gliows? = 
In payment of a Dividend on 200,000 
Ordinary Shares, of 6 per cent. less tax, 
amounting to oo jes oe oa oe 9,000.000 
leaving to be carried forward to next year’s 
Account ... ae ir et at ae ee £P.4,228.127 


The business of the Company has continued to show expansion which has 
necessitated the installation of further plant to deal with the growing 
load. 

An offer of 50,000 Ordinary Shares of {P.1 each at 26s 6d. per share was 
made to Shareholders on the 4th March, 1937; these shares were duly issued 
and a sum of ros. per share paid on application. The balance of 16s. 6d. 
per share due since the close of the financial year has now been received. 

The Directors record with great regret the death of their colleague Sir 
Archibald B. Boyd-Carpenter, M.P. which took place on the 27th May, 
last. Sir Archibald joined the Board at the inception of the Company and 
rendered valuable services, particularly during his periodic visits to 
Jerusalem. 

In accordance with the Articles of Association Sir John H. B. Noble, 
Bart., retires, but being eligible offers himself for re-election. 

The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., Jerusalem, retire and offer themselves 
for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 
r D. C. Brook, 
rath July, 1937. London Secretary. 


403 


“spuvpunozy pssaysvyD “OD @ TIESSQYy 


rglSLo'tog-gF 


SSE"90S‘06 
zge‘ors's 


962-99S'0r 
6ef-erS'966 
VSSS20'x1 
ssrests 





ozt-Egs‘Egh a 
geeres‘06 
260°6S0'E6E 


geb-brr't9 a7 





Er-zgz‘og 
frorzeg‘e 
o00'$z9'L 
£10°2$¢'or 
i Ge 6 ‘IK “dF 
I9f-096'S9 “dF 
t9F-09¢'6q 
i ee Bd 
at 


“LE6r ‘Ain pu Suajesnsof 


‘hueduio) 243 Jo syoog 943 Aq uMoYs se pure sn Tears suoNeUEidxe oq} pue UO!eUTIO;UT INO JO 459q. 
943 03 Buyproooe siege sAuedui0y 243 Jo 03e35 aq} Jo MOTA yO0LI0D pue ony) & 3IqQITxXe 0} se os dn UMEXp Apsodoid ose yUNODDY sso] PUE 3YyO1g PUE yee4S soULTeEg Yons ULTUTdO 
ano Ul ‘pormbaz oaeg om suopeuejdxe pue uorjemuosuy og} [Te pouTe}qo Ae pte 47I0; 305 GAOE SE JUMODDY sso] pUE yYoIg pue yoaqS souReg 943 poyrpne saey oA 
“QULIMNT] ‘NOLLVEOdNOD AOIAMES OMEN ANY OMMLOATY MATVENUEL 40 SHAGNAW BHI OL SUOLIGNY BHI 40 1uOsZy 


296°SLo'C09'aF 
ézr-ger'tr 
000°008'0f 
MNOTHIANVY 000°000'o£ 





sswopena axavene AVITUM 000'000'S 


gor-Zg6‘or 
00'000'Se 
hg grg'6E 
Fun us pun sesyuvg 3 ysey | ggé1hz't 

“Oo qsug poe a9myseaT 
rend: 2: 000'000'0S + 





000'000'Sz 


i puny wonpsyuomy ——_ 
ih, Aitids “Geos | shag ocenemtee one te etre he Gon OoEE 
‘gouvape uy syuoued pure (oAresoy ss9z) s407q2q7 Aupung 
‘ae ‘iz ahd Susyouspun wo ps x9 punowmy 000'000'00z 

is 000°000'Sze 
wens oes grmmo soap “sue 
Uy pue ‘sofemew 043 4q poypzoo se ‘puny wo sesojg | —————— 
ceoeen ene ee ee renee poepasdop (000:000'009'a} 
ssa "909 ye “7p ‘oennusng ‘sqy24 so;0W ‘soo, | ————— 
000'000'S 
” seat 043 Supmp suonippy 000°000'00E 
Saresoy SuTEW S64) ‘JUNODDY 3Se] Jog 000°000'Szz. 


a “a7 ‘s1ojo}q ‘suey “AzoupYDe PuE zURT, 
‘s2urpring ‘spue-] Zupnyouy ‘3800 ye ‘aanppusdz7 onde 
Peles eal ae evoke ‘orssemu0 Jo 109 
‘SLassy TW ‘dF “STW 
(-Buyg 17 stenbo 1-47) 
“4861 ‘HOUVW It LV SV LHXHS HONVIVE 


getrri'tg “a7 


der-gzz‘€r 
umop 34%no3q souveg “* $LE-600'z1 
000°009'ST 
a e6'9L¥'S 

‘g@ExE 04 seat 30 pusplard AzeuypIg : pnpeq 000'000'S 

srr se ae “se “gumooow yee wosy soured 4g coeragolEt 
SUR “d. 


HQF-09L'S9 "aF 


Erbegr‘og 
opioo8 

dang 4; 166°L26" 
mdjoooy Aspung pus Supesody) vo snjdang 4g bet ‘a 





deen 6@ arene et 


‘at 


“* guno2y ssoT puy qos 
“1 gunosay jomaury purr 


seas Suumnp pappy 
s“yunosoy 4se] 19d 
—! maussey yos2usy 
puny uor~sioMYy jodvD 
ee 
igs ‘Oyo ‘seBreyo ponssce ‘ssoptpesy Aupuns 
“ped strom 00S‘o'g} sareys Areurpi9 ‘00'S 
@Aoge UO [E> [eUy jo ooueape uy pred syunowy 


syrar 00S‘o'gF ‘qoeo I'qF Jo sareys Areupp3g 000'oS 
+} pred Aly goes rg7 Jo sorry ‘AreutpiQ 000'00z 
we ee ee Stored ding yoes tay Jo 
SeIeYS sousiejorg eAMEmMUND “yu00 Jad £ ooo'Szz 
— panssy 


qoeo I'qF Jo sareys poyeutmouepuy o00'SZ 
“+ ydee rg¥ Jo soreyg Areurpsg o00'00f 
Tian tetera) Guess fanesee rene yoeo I'd} Jo 
SOIEYS souersorg OAefMUM "yU90 Jad £ OOO'Szz 
= TINY 
—: deg svys 
*suILrTEvry 


v7 os yooqS souryeg 0} souereg “* 
xey ssoy ‘reok JOf puospfaiq soucajorg 

yunoooy jeMousy jug “ 
{Ty PUNE UoRespiomy fendes “* 
oe Na SAISs0y eIOUeT 
‘+ xB] omoouy soy UoIs}AOIT OL 









‘“TMOP perueEs souveg “* 
wee bes, S001 ,IOJOGIFC, JOJ UoysjAcig “ 


a 


404 


APPENDIX I (iii). 
PaLestinE PotasH Lrmrrep. 
Report or Drrectors. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report together with the duly audited 
Balance Sheet of the Company dated 31st December, 1936, and the Profit 
and Loss Account for the year 1936. 

Profits were somewhat affected by the disturbances in Palestine during 
the year. Nevertheless, all orders accepted were satisfactorily executed. 

No provision has been made for amortisation and depreciation up to 31st 
December, 1936, but your Directors have decided as from 1st January, 1937, 
to provide annually for amortisation and depreciation. 

Your Directors are pleased to be able to report that a profit of 
£26,880 158. 5d. is shown on Profit and Loss Account which is more than 
sufficient to eliminate the adverse balance brought forward from previous 
years. After deducting the adverse balance brought forward from previous 
years and transferring to Concession Account {4,877 16s. 3d. in respect of 
legal expenses incurred in connection therewith which were previously 
charged to revenue, there is a Credit balance of £5,795 os. 1d. 

Hitherto goods in transit at the turn of the year were valued for the 
purpose of the Balance Sheet and Accounts at cost. It is your Directors’ 
view that goods sold and in transit to buyers should be valued at net sales 
prices and they have accordingly adopted this basis in the Accounts. 

In accordance with our normal practice forward sales of foreign currencies 
have been made against amounts receivable on the sale of products. All 
amounts outstanding under this head at the end of the year have now been 
received. 

In accordance with the arrangements mentioned in the Company’s 
Prospectus of February, 1935, The Anglo-Palestine Bank Limited provided 
in respect of the year 1936 the sum of {20,721 8s. 3d., which has been paid 
to Preference Shareholders in lieu of Preference dividend. 

The improvement in Potash prices noted in previous Reports has been 
maintained and there has been a considerable increase in the quantity and 
value of the Company’s products sold. 

The Company has continued to supply Potash to most of the important 
world markets, where it has found a ready sale. 

Bromine sales have increased in the year under review and prices have 
continued to be satisfactory. 

Improvements made in the Northern Refinery in the early part of the 
year have fulfilled expectations. Production has increased and the quality 
of the product improved. The anticipated reduction in manufacturing 
costs resulting from the improvements made has been realised. 

Work on the extension of the plant at the Southern End of the Dead Sea 
is proceeding satisfactorily. About 100,000 tons of crude potash salts 
(carnallite) collected in the pans during the period under review and will a 
used for production in 1937. 

Directorate.—In accordance with Article 108 of the Company's Articles 
of Association, Lord Lytton, Mr. Bernard Flexner, Abdel Rahman N. 
Bey el Taji and Mr. E. W. D. Tennant retire, and, being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election. 


Auditors.—Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co. retire, and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Lytton, Chairman. 
E. W. D. Tennant, Director. 


29th June, 1937. 


405 


sRuwyunooy paryeg 
Pima eee 
“hued eq} jo 
ony © ayaraze ov vv on dn 


*LE6r ‘sunt ase 
‘aopucy 


oq3 4q uMogs se pue ‘sn 07 waayd suopeuetdxe oq) puy ‘uopeU0FUy mo Jo 4s0q oyy Oy Fuppsocoe aryege sAuedus0y og) Jo o78y8 OT JO mops 001000 puE 
umerp dprodosd s} yooys course qons ‘uoruydo mo uy foyo20q3 3900fqns “tonepesdep 20 GoRespI0Ue 30} Opeur Vosq jou seq ‘worsAo1g =“permnbez eavy 


Om suoReTEdxe pus DOREMICSO; og} [Te PouTErqo CAT PIE ‘croge 4730; 308 Se ‘Qf6I ‘soquICDEG ysIE PEP “PIT “GeEIO SUPSeTEY JO YOOYS soURTE ot PoypHE cacy OM 
“SURGREWY AHI OL SUOLIGAY BHI dO LuOdTy 





© & §6r'09F 





st paseo 
SAS, bess we aed afewvsy 
“ gxadny 0} 


“9€6r ‘MHENAOAC 3816 GHANA UVAA 








B Mp pun syung gw ysvD “ 
 soupapy ws df PUD S409 1 Kapuns “ 

__ SH SES ON IE st heres - 
ee “203001 


“+ $€6x ‘soquss0eq ysrf ye sy 
= “: ude po ‘popseat09 Siva wonseunco uy sesuady 
£6617 "wopsspaaog Sa MepUN 
_ "SOX 2, 
Surpnpoy Fendt JO sons] qyyai DoRDouTOD UY sesMadr” “ 


suok on Zopnp amyypuedxg zequmMy | ppy 
$€6x ‘soqus0eq] 381! a4 sv 
‘shoamsg pur yuemdoposog 
WeTINES oq} WO HMzspuods: 2 yuenbesqns q3ya 
3097080} ‘1£61 ‘soquiqoeq 3s1f 07 dn om3spuedxo 
JO oouryeq pozwoorreun ogy Fuzoq ‘suno2y susudojsasq “ 


a gr Sse seed ogy Supp emypoods gy woquny | PPy 
9 Ox SEQEPE --- $61 ‘soqureceg 3818 38 sy 

—! BORSeI0 07 PoNgEnye 
sestedxe proqsoAo jo woxzz0dosd Suypnpouy “809 Ww 
(musmdenby Aspung puw sngeanddy ‘hasusyonyy ‘sevjq “ 


4x gLt*Le 
6x oS Hes 





oO © g6P'r 
+ gr 9S6'6r 


9 GES‘oS 





or er love = 
or Sx rer 
—e 





© Sartre 





bt ee 


3 


in regs 
€ 0fe6 


0 0 66% ———_— 


€ gt gré _ g£6x Supp poxoacoes juno! 
€ or cea) Pes ox podiays 0091 





onweaoy 07 pofeqo 83905 [v: 
6 € amt6 ites “+ $€6x ‘soquieced 381 
edre Surpnyou ‘ves ‘peed. emt, ne 
esn; Lig rou 
Phe melee po wolvoente eal Loy Sopeeeouey 


aeae ememanar sare 





“"" poyS suey 04 prssews poss ‘* 

oe _ smeauasa day pup savgey " 
woNpssunMaY §,s0R08C 

neneneg PUD wopuoy us anode 0 oL 


Pps 
AHL YOd LNNODOV SSOT GNV LIdOud 





6 6 6gs'gogF 





$626 





€ ox Lég'v 
or€ £16 
Z 














Oo zge' 
© © 006! 


© © OSt6¥E °° 


© o gfg'ér 








x 


‘Waaue TONVIVE 


3 


rr €96S2 
S $x ogg‘gz  * 


SMVANEL “CME 


OG: {' ‘MOLLAT 


sssoyuezen5 043 4q popraozd seruour 50 
yno Aaedwmioy oq; Aq pyed u20q sey ep 07 puaprAld 
SoUIIEJeIg O43 07 3UBeANND yUNOWE UyY— ALON 


DOTSS~OUOD 0} parleysueX, 


yunozo' 
do ‘HO Dayyjis $3ScD [I] | PPY 


“ou sreas snozaar 


St qeods souereg 1581 aed se aoueyey 


‘pms Sqeaaaped SaREiNAMS Shot a8 ost OS P'6vE 
qoee 17 Jo soxeq: 

<a} HQUU2=pey aayjzeINUIMND "3020 Jad Cote ‘6x 

— ¢2 pers pus ponssy 


dapemneany 9 
“preg ‘mqemtoepoti F nan suc fe 


-sajaig mQuareopay eapyinmind “3420 sed f s 
iPpendes OL 


406 


APPENDIX I (iv). 
STATEMENT OF THE HULEH CONCESSION ACCOUNT. 
As at the 31st December, 1937. 
As shown in the books of the Palestine Land Development Co. Ltd. 
£P.Mils. £P.Mils. 


Price of Concession ... i ++ 191,795.000 
Add—4 per cent. Interest froin the Ist October, 
1934, to the 1st October,. 1939 + 24,643.290 
——————__ 216, 438.290 


Payment to previous Concessionaires on account 

of Drainage Works ae d aa Sse 9,000.000 
Survey and Experts’ Tavestipation, Commission, 

Advocates’ Fees, Upkeep. Administration, In- 


terest, &c. ..: 34,341.169 

Technical Apparatus, Cars, “Sundry Equipment, 
&e. 1,363.336 
Buildings and participation in Road making . 2,793-844 
Total ... we oe eS £P.263,936.639 


Of the Purchase Price, the previous Concessionaires have now received 
£P.153,862.974 mils in cash, and the balance including interest thereon, is 
covered by promissory notes to the value of £P.62,575.316 mils, which 
mature during the years 1938-39. Certain of these promissory notes to the 
amount of {P.27,287.658 mils maturing on the 1st October, 1939, have been 
deposited with the Company as security until final settlement has been made 
with the previous Concessionaires in respect of the exact extent of the 
area acquired. 


Note.—A sum of £P.157,344-825 mils has been received by the Company 
from prospective participants in the development of the Concession. 


’ The Palestine Land Development Co., Ltd. 


We have examined the above Statement with the Books of the Palestine 
rand ae opaieat Co., Ltd., and certify the same to be in accordance 
erewi 


Russet, & Co., 
Jerusalem, 3rd February, 1938. Chartered Accountants. 


407 
APPENDIX I (v). 


LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 
Statement of Light Dues collected by the Administration Générale 


de Phares for the year 19, 


37+ 





2 Other Ports 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside Total. 
Palestine. 

£P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
January ... 2,004.903 659.243 1.679 2,705.825 
February 1,881.136 716.463 1,685 2,599.284 
March 2,593-943 719.214 0.539 3.313.696 
April 1,980.878 583.351 0.833 2,565.062 
May 2,223.339 624.624 3-396 2,851.359 
June 1,804.436 683.982 1.115 2,489.533 
July ae 1,420.317 512.409 1.583 1,934.309 
August ... 1,859.152 719.023 3-914 2,582.089 
September 2,241.608 827.958 7.972 3,077.538 
October ... 2,034.873 706.631 0.829 2,742.333 
November 1,979.685 787-535 2.495 2,769.715 
December 2,135-459 823.041 0.917 2,959.417 
Grand Total 24,199.729 38,363.474 26.957 32,590.160 


APPENDIX II 
HOLY DAYS. 





A complete list of the days which are recognised as holy days by the 
various communities in Palestine is set out hereunder. 


MosieM FESTIVALS 


New Year athe 

Yom ‘Ashura (date of Noah leaving the Ark, and of 
the death of Husein at Kerbela). 

Mawled al Nabi (Mohammed’s birthday) . 

Lailat al-Raghaib (night of Mohammed's con- 


1 Muharram. 
10 Muharram. 


12th Rabi’ al-Awal. 
Eve of first Friday in 


ception). Rajab. 
Lailat al-Mi‘raj (night of Mohammed’s miraculous 27th Rajab. 
journey) 


Lailat al-Baraat (‘‘ Night of Decrees,’’ when the 
guardian angels received from the Almighty 
tablets recording the fate of their charges in the 
coming year). 

Ramadhan. Ao we 

Lailat al-Qadr «" Night of Power,” ’ on which the 
requests of all worshippers are believed to be 
granted). 

‘Id al-Fitr (Shaker Bairam, 3 days) .. 

‘Id al-Adha (Qurban Bairam, 3 days) : 

Descent of Holy Banner (Sanjaq al-' Sherif) from 


15th Sha‘ban. 


1-30 Ramadhan, 
27th Ramadhan. 


1-3 Shawal. 
1o-12 Dhu al-Hijja. 
Friday before Orthodox 


Jerusalem to Nebi Musa. Good Friday. 
Return of Banner from Nebi Musa Orthodox Maundy 
Thursday. 


CHRISTIAN FESTIVALS. 
Orthodox Festivals. 


Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Epiphany or Thephania, Purification, 
Annunciation, Palm Sunday, Good Friday, Easter Day, St. George, 
Ascension, SS. Constantine and Helen, Whit-Sunday, SS. Peter and Paul, 
Transfiguration, Assumption, Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Exaltation 
of the Holy Cross; St. James, St. Nicholas. 


a 


408 


Koman Catholic and Western Churches. 
New Year’s Day, Epiphany, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension 
Day, Whit-Monday, Christmas Day. 
JewisH FEsTIVvALs. 


The Jewish festivals are divided into three categories :—(a) days of rest, 
(6) festivals on which work is permissible, (c) fasts. 


Date. Category (a). Category (b). Category (c). 
Tishri 1-2 Rosh ha-Shana _ _ 
(New Year). 
Tishriro  .... Yom Kippur _— — 
(Day of Atone- 
ment). 
Tishri 15 ist Day Tabernacles _ _ 
(Sukkoth). 
Tishri 16-12... _ and-7th Day _ 
Sukkoth. 
Tishri 22 8th Day Sukkoth _ _— 
(Simhat Torah). 
Kislev 25 to —_— Hanukka _- 
Tevet 2 (Maccabeans). 
Tevat 10 _— —_ ‘Asara be-Tevet 
(Siege of 
Jerusalem). 
Shevat 15 _ Tu be-Shavat (Tree _ 
New Year). 
Adar 13 — _ Ta‘anit Esther 
(Fast of Esther). 
Adar 14 _ Purim _ 
Adar 15 _ Purim (in Jerusalem _ 
only). 
Nisan 15 ist Day Passover _ 


Nisan 16-20 


2nd-6th Day 
Passover. 


Nisan 21 7th Day Passover — _ 
Iyar 18 _ Lag Baomer (Out- = 
door Day). 
Sivan 6 Shavu‘oth _— — 
(Pentecost). 


pales Shiv‘a ‘Asar be- 
Tammuz (Capitu- 
lation of Jerusa- 
lem). 
(Destruction of the 
Temple). 


Tammuz 17 


Ab9g 


APPENDIX III 
LIST OF CONCESSIONS. 


Concession. Holder of Concesston. 


Dead Sea aoe is ae 

Drainage of Lake Huleh and 
adjacent marshes. 

Tiberias Hot Baths 

Lighthouses 


Electricity 


El Hammeh Mineral Springs ... 

Auja Irrigation 

Transit of Mineral Oils 
Palestine. 


‘through 


(48607—49) Wt. 3807402431475 


Palestine Potash Company. 
Palestine Land Development Company. 


Leased by Hamei Tiberia Co., Ltd. 

Administration Générale de Phares de 
Palestine. 

Palestine Electric Corporation and Jeru- 
salem Electric and Public Service Corpora- 
tion. 

Suleiman Bey Nassif. 

Auja Irrigation Company. 

‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 


5/38 P.St. G.3778 


Issued by the Colonial Office 


4 REPORT 


\ by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


‘ PALESTINE AND 
TRANS -JORDAN 


for the year 1938 


rere Te 


(For Reports for 1936 and 1937 see Non-Parliamentary 
Publications, Colonial No. 129, 1937, and Colonial 
No. 146, 1938, Price 6s. 6d. each) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses: 
York House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 120 George Street, Edinburgh 2; 
26 York Street, Manchester 15 1 St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff; 
80 Chichester Street, Belfast ; 
or through any bookseller 


1939 
Price 75. od. net 


Colonial No. 166 


oigtzea y GOORle 





oe eae 
GTA p ii 
193¢ 
CONTENTS 
Page 
Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission ae v 
Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its rele 
* fourth Session ats i wes ‘ xi 
Note regarding arrangement of the Report ee es wee Xd 
PALESTINE. 
Introductory ... eet see wae ee aoe 85 onl 
I. Jewish National Home ne eee Ss se we «59 
II. Autonomous Administration es ‘eg we wees, 503: 
Ill. Jewish Agency ase is tae ae we 65 
IV. Immigration and Emigration or Ses ea wie £67. 
Vv. Land Regime... ee a6 es fe ae fo 76) 
VI. Nationality... wee as see se oes wow 4288 
VII. Judicial System res Bee ses sie ie ves OE 
VIII. Economic Equality ... is A ae oes se 103 
IX. Holy Places ... wae scone wet mae a a. 106 
X. Freedom of Conscience... oi ee er + 108 
XI. Military Clauses oe 109 
XII. International ‘Agreements, Conventions. and ‘Treaties 118 
XIII. Antiquities... es oe toe oe dee Vente 125 
XIV. Official Languages ... ss a tes ee ve 128 
XV. Holy Days Sev sae Se es ave see wee 129 
XVI. Trans-Jordan O55 i Ms we eee see 129 
. XVII. Labour . 129 ° 
" XVIII. Trade in and’ Manwacture of ‘Drage, Aymne and 
Liquors eA 138 
XIX. Education a tee Bee eee ms a sox. 142 
XX. Public Health a aie aa ee ons ve 164 
XXI. Public Finance Fon he et ea see wee 82" 
XXII. Demographic Statistics ... a wee ese wee 225 7 
XXIII. Customs, Excise and Trade hse an “itis sine 23 Fi 
- XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones rr ah ws 269 
- XXV. Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries ne nes vs 270 
“~ XXVI. Public Works and Geology... 0. sss 290 
» XXVII. Railways ni oes ete ae Fi see 207 
;XXVIII. Co-operative Societies hs en one Mee see 302 
_ XXIX. Civil Aviation re ou ase ae ie ses 305 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


Introductory 


I. Autonomous Administration 
II. Immigration and Emigration 
III. Lands 
IV. Nationality 
V. Judicial System 
VI. Economic Equality 
VII. Freedom of Conscience 
VIII. Military Clauses : . 
IX. International Agreements, Conventions and Treaties... 
X. Antiquities 


XII. Trade in and Manufacture of Armes. Droge and 
Liquors x 


XIII. Education 

XIV. Public Health ... 
XV. Public Finance a 

XVI. Customs, Excise and Trade 

XVII. Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones 

XVIII. Agriculture, Forests and Veterinary 

XIX. Public Works ... ‘ 
XX. Department of Development 

XXI. Civil Aviation ... 


APPENDICES. 
Palestine. 
I. Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited 
(ii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Cor- 
poration Limited ‘ 
(lii) Palestine Potash Limited sae ose 
(iv) Palestine Land Development company: 
(Huleh Concessionaires) ae 
(v) Lighthouse Concession: dues collected in 
1938 aie se re 
II. Holy Days ane 
III. List of Concessions ... 


Map of Palestine. 


Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


I. Q@.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the establishment of the national home of the 
Jewish people ? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 
as will secure the development of self-governing institutions ? 

What are the effects of these measures? 

3. Q@.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions 


as will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the 
inhabitants of Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 


What are the effects of these measures ? 


II.—Autonomous Administration. 
Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


III.—Jewish Agency. 


I. Q.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency 
been officially recognized? 


_ 2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administra- 
tion in the past year 
If so, in what form and in what connection? 


3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social and other matters? 


4. Q.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


5. Q.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of 
all Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the 
Jewish National Home? 


15774 A3 


vi 


_ IV.—Immigration and Emigration. 
I. Q.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 
2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the 
rights and position of other sections of the population? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with 
he Jeneh Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews 
e land (give figures) ? 
4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures ? 


Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, 
profession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 


Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Regime. 
I. Q.—How have State lands been defined and delimited ? 
2. Q.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited ? 
3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration 
of real property ? 
VI.—Nationality. 
I. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality Law? 


.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as 
to facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judicial System. 


I. Q.—When did the new judicial organisation begin to 
operate ? 


2. Q.—What special features does it contain with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee 
of their rights as laid down in Article 9? 


3. Q.—What special measures have been taken to assure 
respect for the personal status of the various peoples and com- 
munities and for their religious interests ? 


4. Q.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs 
been assured ? 


5. Q.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate? 


vii 
VIII.—Economic Equality. 


1. Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the 
Gevelooment of the country in respect of public ownership or 
control of any of the natural resources of the country or of the 
public works, services, and utilities? 


2. Q.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country 
—and if so, under what circumstances? 


3. Q.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names 
and nationalities of the concession holders. 


4. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings 
and the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such 
reports and balance sheets are not available, give all information 
relating to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the 
uses made of profits. 


5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality 
as regards : — 
(a) Concessions ? 
(b) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to 
prospecting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 
6. Q. What regulations has the Mandatory Power made 


for the application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of transit 
under equitable conditions ’’ ? 


7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? 


If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q.—What measures have been taken for the assumption 
by the Mandatory of responsibility in connection with 
the Holy Places and religious buildings or sites, including the 
tesponsibility of preserving existing rights and of securing free 
access to the Holy Places, religious buildings and sites, and the 
free exercise of worship? 


_ 2. Q.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the 
immunities of which are guaranteed ? ; : 


15774 A4 


X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


. Q.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom 
or conscience and teligion ? 

2. Q.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free 
exercise of any form of worship in the interest of the mainten- 
ance of public order and morals? 

What are the effects of such restrictions? 

3. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights 
of communities to maintain their own schools for the education 
of their own members ? 

What educational requirements of a general nature are im- 
posed by the Administration ? 

What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of 
such supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all 
faiths or nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the 
maintenance of public order and good government? 


XI.—Military Clauses. 
: a Q.—What is the form of military organization and train- 
ing 
Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
stiatwen with the defence of the territory? 
What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each? 
Racial and religious composition of these two forces? 
.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 


3- 
Palestine to contribute to the cost of maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 


If so, to what extent? 
4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its rights to use the 


roads, railways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of 
armed forces and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 


If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged? 


XII.—International Conventions. 
I. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration? 


2. Q.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the gue of Nations in the struggle against 
disease, including diseases of plants and animals? 


ix 
XIIT.— Antiquities. 
Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities accord- 


ing to the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


XIV.— Official Languages. 


I. Q.—Have the three official languages been used simul- 
taneously and on an equal footing in legislative and administra- 
tive documents and in the Courts? 


If not, what languages are used? 


2. Q.—To what observations does the application of this 
system give rise? 


XV.—Holy Days. 


Q.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities? 


XVI.—Trans-Jordan. 


.—Has the SerrIODy lying beyond the Jordan been finally 
delimted and organized ? 


Q.—In what way does the political and administrative 
seine established in this territory differ from the regulations 
laid down for Palestine? 


XVII.—Labour. 


I. Q.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accord- 
ance with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the considera- 
tion of conventions or recommendations of International Labour 
Conferences? 


2. Q.—Are these conventions or recommendations being 
carried into effect? 


3. Oat other regulations are in force in regard to 
labour? 


4. Q.—What powers has the Administration for controlling 
labour contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both 
on the part of employer and employed, and what powers does 
it possess to prevent any abuses in this respect? 


5. Q.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 
of such legislation? 


x 


XVIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or 
the control of the importation, of the production, and the con- 
sumption of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX .—Education. 


I. Q.—What is the general system of elementary education 
(organization and statistics) ? 


Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it 
free? 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken for higher education; 
for example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 


3. Q.—In what language is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


XX.—Public Health. 


I. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health 
and sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases? 


2. Q.—What is the régime for medical assistance ? 


3. Q.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution 
and what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XXI.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of 
the territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature 
and the assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statistics. 


Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, 
emigration, and immigration. 


xi 


Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations 
of the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Thirty-fourth 


Minutes. 
Page 59. 


Page 59. 
Page 63. 


Page 63. 


Page 64. 


Page 64. 


Page 65. 


Page 65. 


Page 65. 


Page 65. 


Page 66. 


Page 30. 


Page 68. 


Page 70. 


Page 71. 


Page 71. 


Session, 8th to 23rd June, 1938. 


Explanation regarding the increase in the export of 
undressed hides and skins. 
(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 234) 
Table showing re-exports during 1938. 
(Chapter XXIII, paragraph 28) .. 5 
Information regarding Arab unemployment statistics. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 4) é 
Information regarding progress made with the. labour 
legislation. 
(Chapter XVII, paragraph 26) ae 
Information regarding the enforcement of legislation 
enacted before the Mandate and which might be 
inconsistent with it. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 11) 
Information regarding the position arising from the 
extension of the privilege of electing to be tried before 
a British Magistrate or before a British majority in the 
District and Supreme Courts. 
(Chapter VII, paragraph 12) 
Table of Holy Days showing corresponding Christian dates. 
(Appendix II to this Report) 5 
Information regarding the practical effects ‘of the Sale of 
Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 1935. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 5) 
Information regarding the appearance of ‘codeine as an 
appreciable import into Palestine during 1936. 
(Chapter XVIII, paragraph 9) 
Information regarding contraventions under the Merchan- 
dise Marks Ordinance of 1929. 
(Chapter XIII, paragraph 37) 
Information regarding the training of Arab girls for the 
teaching profession. 
(Chapter XIX, paragraph 17) 


POINTS RELATING TO TRANS-JORDAN. 


Statistical table relating to trade, public finance and 
population. 
(Chapter XV in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 12) 
Information regarding previous nationality of persons who 
acquired Trans-Jordan nationality. 
(Chapter IV, in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 4) ... 
Information regarding a discrepancy between the quantities 
of certain liquors manufactured by distillers in 1936 
and 1937. 
(Chapter XII in Trans-Jordan Section, paragraph 6) ... 
Information regarding the nationality of personnel of the 
Department of Health. 
(Chapter XIV, paragraph 1)... 
Information regarding the efficacy of the ‘Desert "Mobile 
Health Unit. 
(Chapter XIV, paragraph 19) 


Page 


250 
256 


131 


138 


96 


96 


420 


139 


14 


268 


150 


387 


332 


361 


369 


375 


xii 


NOTE. 


At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the 
Sections of this Report might be arranged in the order of sub- 
jects adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, 
that is, in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the 
Palestine Mandate, namely: — 


I. Jewish National Home. 
II. Autonomous Administration. 
III. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
XII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 
2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on Trans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and 
placed at the end of the Report. 

An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 
and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, 
Railways, Co-operative Societies, and Civil Aviation are also 
included in the Palestine portion of the Report. The Section 
relating to Development has been included under Chapter V, 
Land Regime. 


There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


REPORT BY HIS MAJESTY’S GOVERNMENT IN THE 

UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN 

IRELAND TO THE COUNCIL OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 
ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN FOR THE YEAR 1938, 


PALESTINE 
INTRODUCTORY. 


POSITION, ETC. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia 
between eee 30° N. and 33° N., Longitude 34° 30’ E. and 
35° 30° E. 

On the North it is bounded by the French Mandated Terri- 
tories of Syria and the Lebanon, on the East by Syria and 
Trans-Jordan, on the South-west by the Egyptian province of 
Sinai, on the South-east by the Gulf of ‘Aqaba and on the West 
by the Mediterranean. The frontier with Syria was laid down 
by the Anglo-French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, 
and its delimitation was ratified in 1923. Briefly stated, the 
boundaries are as follows: — 

North.—From Ras en Naqura on the Mediterranean 
eastwards to a point west of Qadas, thence in a northerly 
direction to Metulla, thence east to a point west of Banias. 

East.—From Banias in a southerly direction east of Lake 
Hula to Jisr Banat Ya’pub, thence along a line east of the 
Jordan and the Lake of Tiberias and on to El] Hamme 
station on the Samakh—Deraa railway line, thence along 
the centre of the river Yarmuq to its confluence with the 
qos thence along the centres of the Jordan, the Dead 

a and the Wadi ‘Araba to a point on the Gulf of ‘Aqaba 
two miles west of the town of ‘Aqaba, thence along the 
shore of the Gulf of ‘Aqaba to Ras Jaba. 

South.—From Ras Jaba in a generally north-westerly 
direction to the junction of the Neki—‘Aqaba and Gaza— 
‘Aqaba Roads, thence to a point west-north-west of ‘Ain 
Maghara and thence to a point on the Mediterranean coast 
north-west of Rafa. 

West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


AREA AND CLIMATE. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north is 
about 160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less 
than 70 miles, the total area being approximately 10,000 square 
miles inclusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead 
Sea, Lake Tiberias and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore 
comparable with Wales or Belgium. 


2 


3. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring 
deserts of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate 
zones, is characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not exces- 
sively hot summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical 
rainfalls accompanied by high, cold winds; frost is rare. But 
the typical climate is varied by the diverse topography of the 
country. In the south and south-west there are wide expanses 
of sand dunes and desert. The remainder of the country falls 
naturally into three longitudinal strips—the maritime plain, the 
mountainous regions (or central highlands), and the Jordan 
valley. Each of these strips, which are more closely described 
below, is climatically distinct. 


The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the 
heat of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by 
the westerly winds from the Mediterranean. In the central 
highlands there is a greater range of temperature both daily and 
seasonal, and the maximum temperature is a few degrees lower 
than in the coastal plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in 
Jerusalem and Hebron, and the winter storms are accompanied 
by penetrating winds which necessitate the use of clothing suit- 
able for a cold English climate. 


The Jordan valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 

The maritime plain and the central highlands are both healthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity, is relaxing in 
its effects, while the other, through sudden changes of tempera- 
ture, predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 


4. The following records are typical of the three climatic 
zones : — 


Maritime Central Jordan 
Plain, Highlands, Valley, 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberias. 
Mean temperature ... Summer 77°F. 70°F, 83°F. 
Winter 60°F, 52°F. 62°F, 
Mean daily maximum tem- Summer —_ 83°F. 95°F. 
perature Winter = 60°F, 72°F, 
Mean daily minimum Summer _ 60°F. TUF. 
Winter _— 44°F. 54°F. 
Absolute maximum tempera- Summer 104°F, 102°F, 14°F. 
ture. 
Absolute minimum tempera- Winter 35°F. 21°F, 34°F. 
ture, 
Relative humidity Summer 69 55 51 
per cent. per cent. per cent. 
Winter 70 68 64 
per cent. per cent. per cent, 


3 


5. Rainfall is of vital importance in Palestine and any reduc- 
tion in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agricul- 
ture and water conservation generally. The mean volume of 
annual rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east 
of England. 

There are two well-marked periods of precipitation. The 
“former rain ’’ in October and November is not usually large; 
during December, January and February, the rainfall steadily 
increases; in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended 
in April. The characteristic winds are the moist west and south- 
west of winter and the ary north and north-west of summer. 
Desert heat is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the 
south or east generally in April and May and occasionally in 
September and October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the south this 
plain has an average width of about 20 miles, but it gradually 
narrows to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the 
hills approach to within a few hundred yards of the sea. Beyond 
Carmel the plain widens again, but in this area it is marshy 
and ralliriad, 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the Plain of Esdraelon. To the north of 
that plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the 
Syrian frontier and rising at Jebel Jermak to a height of 
3,034 ft. above sea-level; to the south are the mountains of 
Samaria and Judea, which in places reach heights little less 
than those of Galilee. Most of this second strip of country 
is desolate and stony, but at irregular intervals there occur 
stretches of fertile land capable of deep tillage. 


The Plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture 
than that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile 
and is especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan valley, 
a natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the 
extreme north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 
fo A below that level at the Dead Sea, about 100 miles to 

e south. 


7. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, situated in the midst 
of the hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, with 
its modern harbour, in the north at the entrance to the plain 
of Esdraelon; Jaffa, a second port which lics some 4o miles 
west-north-west of Jerusalem; Tel Aviv, which is contiguous 
to Jaffa; and Nablus, the ancient Sichem, in the hills of 


4 
Samaria. Jerusalem has a majority of Jewish inhabitants; in 
Haifa the Arab and Jewish elements are approximately equal 
in numbers; Tel Aviv is an entirely Jewish township of 150,000 
inhabitants. In Jaffa a large majority of the people are Arabs, 
and in Nablus, apart from a small community of Samaritans, 
all the people are Arabs. 


Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem; 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee; and Safad, 
a remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north 
of Palestine. 


THE HIGH COMMISSIONER. 


8. Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., C.LE., 
D.S.O., High Commissioner for Palestine and Trans-Jordan, 
retired on pounds of health in March, 1938, and was succeeded 
by Sir arold Alfred MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., 
formerly Governor and Commander-in-Chief, Tanganyika 
Territory. 


CHANGES IN PERSONNEL, 1938. 


From Palestine. 


g. During the year the following left Palestine on retire- 
ment: — 


Mr. M. T. Dawe, O.B.E., Director of Agriculture and 
Fisheries. 

ae ae W. Stead, C.B.E., Director of Customs, Excise and 

trade. 

Mr. F. Pudsey, Director of Public Works. 

Col. F. J. Salmon, C.M.G., M.C., Commissioner for Lands 
and Surveys. 

Miss M. Nixon, M.B.E., Infant Welfare Inspector. 

Mr. C. E. de B. Biden, Auditor. 

Mr. G. MacLaren, O.B.E., District Commissioner. 

Mr. R. Hedley, Assistant Director of Public Works. 

Mr. P. Noble, District Engineer, Public Works Department. 

Mr. H. W. Simpson, Commercial Manager, Palestine 
Railways. 


Mr. S. Fry, Director of Programmes, Palestine Broadcasting 
Service, Mr. A. Kemp, Chief Telephone Superintendent, ai 
ment of Posts and toleera pha; and Mr. S. A. Cudmore, Gov- 
ernment Statistician, reverted to their substantive posts in the 
British Broadcasting Corporation, British Post Office and 
Canadian Bureau of Statistics respectively, on the expiration of 
their periods of secondment to Palestine. 


5 


To Palestine. 
The following were the principal appointments made during 
the year:— 

Mr. M. Bailey, O.B.E., Assistant District Commissioner, 
was appointed District Commissioner, Haifa and Samaria 
District. 

Mr. G. Walsh, C.B.E., was appointed Economic Adviser 
to the High Commissioner. 

Captain C. Wilson Brown, O.B.E., M.C., Director of 
Public Works, Sierra Leone, was appointed Director of 
Public Works. 

Mr. M. J. Flanagan, Auditor, Uganda, was appointed 
Auditor. 

Mr. R. W. B. Belt was appointed Director of Customs, 
Excise and Trade on secondment from the English 
Customs Service. 

Mr. R. W. Hamilton, Chief Inspector in the Department of 
Antiquities, was appointed Director of Antiquities. 

Mr. G. R. E. Foley, O.B.E., District Superintendent of 
Police, was appointed Deputy Inspector General of 
Police. 

Mr. L. A. W. Ort, Registrar of the High Court in Tan- 
ganyika Territory, was appointed Chief Registrar of the 

upreme Court. 

Mr. G. E. F. Wood, was seconded from the Canadian 
Government and appointed Government Statistician. 
Mr. C. B. McNair, Deputy Director of Programmes in the 
Palestine Broadcasting Service, was appointed Director 

of Programmes. 

Mr. C. E. V. Buxton, M.C., Colonial Administrative 
Service, was seconded from Kenya and appointed to 
administer the Gaza and Beersheba division of the 
Southern District with the powers and functions of a 
District Commissioner. 


The following, who were formerly administrative officers in 
the territories indicated against their names, were seconded to 
Palestine as Assistant District Commissioners : — 


Mr. C. B. Norman—Kenya. 

Mr. R. C. H. Greig—Tanganyika. 
Mr. K. C. Tours—Gold Coast. 

Mr. F. W. G. Blenkinsop—Nigeria. 
Mr. D. Headly—Malaya. 

Mr. E. R. Reeves—Nigeria. 

Mr. I. L. Phillips—Gold Coast. 
Mr. F. D. Corfield—Sudan. 

Mr. G. W. Bell—Sudan. 

Mr. A. E. S. Charles—Sudan. 


6 


PUBLIC SECURITY. 


to. During 1938 public security in Palestine, particularly 
during the seven months from June onwards, continued to cause 
the administration grave preoccupation. An intensified cam- 
paign of murder, intimidation and sabotage persisted on lines 
similar to those followed by Arab law breakers in 1937; and, as 
in 1937, there were isolated incidents of Jewish reprisals. The 
main difference between the course of events in 1938 and that in 
1937 lay in the gradual development during 1938 of Arab gang 
warfare on organized and to a certain extent co-ordinated lines. 
By the end of the year, as the result of the arrival in the autumn 
of large military reinforcements, this gang organization was first 
dislocated and finally reduced to comparative impotence in the 
field. But in the towns terrorism persisted and the roads were 
still largely unsafe for normal traffic. In fact, the events of 1938 
succeeded in seriously affecting the economic and social life of 
the country to an extent far greater than was the case in 1937. 


11. Summarized Narrative Account of the Events of the 
Year 1938. 


January, 1938. 

During the early part of the month the effect of the vigorous 
action taken in December, 1937, against armed gangs, 
especially in Galilee continued to be felt; but in the second half 
of the month the gangs resumed their activities, particularly in 
the Jenin-Tulkarm area where an important military action 
against them took place on the 31st. They suffered extensive 
casualties estimated at 30 killed and many more wounded. Two 
British soldiers were killed, and two wounded. 

During the month, particularly in the Jerusalem district where 
constant attacks involving four Jewish deaths were made on 
Jewish traffic along the Jerusalem—Jaffa road, sporadic acts of 
lawlessness persisted in the form of isolated murders, shooting 
at the police and military forces, and attacks on Jewish settle- 
ments. On the roth, Mr. J. L. Starkey, the well-known 
archaeologist, was murdered by a party of armed Arabs on the 
track leading from Beit Jibrin to Hebron. 


February, 1938. 


Although there was a decrease in attacks on Jewish transport 
near Jerusalem, the number of incidents of shooting by small 
armed parties increased, especially during the last two weeks. 
There was also an increase in the number of armed robberies in 
Arab villages by parties of marauders seeking food, money and 
lodging. 

Incidents of personal violence persisted. They were mainly 
directed against Arab villagers of whom two, one a blind man 
and the other a supernumerary constable, were murdered on the 


a 


/ 


11th by armed men at Attara village in the Ramallah sub- 
district. Three other incidents deserve mention. On the 16th, 
immediately after the execution at Acre of an Arab condemned 
to death by the Haifa Military Court, an unsuccessful attempt 
was made to shoot a British Assistant Superintendent of Police 
outside the gate of the prison. On the 18th, Squadron Leader 
Alderson, R.A.F., was shot dead, and an Englishwoman driving 
with him was wounded, when his car was ambushed on the 
Haifa—Tel Aviv road near Athlit. On the 28th, the Jewish 
headman of a settlement near Nazareth was shot dead by an 
Arab who was arrested next morning, having been tracked by 
the ania dogs from the scene of the murder to a neighbouring 
village. 

There were no major encounters between the military and 
police and the armed gangs, but acts of armed banditry, 
particularly in Galilee and northern Samaria, increased towards 
the end of the month. 


March, 1938. 


On the 3rd, there was a heavy engagement west of Jenin in 
which a military force, with aircraft co-operation, engaged and 
dispersed an armed band of between two and three hundred 
Arabs. One British officer was killed and an officer and two 
soldiers wounded. The losses among the band were thirty 
known to be killed and were estimated at twice that number. 
Sixteen prisoners were taken and a considerable quantity of 
arms, ammunition and bombs. 

Six days later contact was established by the army, assisted 
by aircraft, with another band in mountainous country in the 
north of Galilee. It was engaged throughout the day and was 
finally routed, its few remnants escaping over the frontier into the 
Lebanon where four men were captured by French forces. 
During the encounter one British soldier was killed and another 
slightly wounded. Sixteen of the band were killed and one 
captured, while it is believed that further casualties were 
inflicted. 

These two severe reverses, and the fact that the casualties 
inflicted on the bands included two prominent leaders, had the 
effect of breaking up the bands into small parties and there were 
no further major engagements during the month. 

There was, however, an increase in acts of terrorist violence 
throughout the country, including a series of murders of Arab 
villagers. A British soldier was fatally injured by the explosion 
of a bomb under a railway trolley in the Gaza sub-district, and a 
Palestinian army interpreter with his Arab chauffeur were 
captured by armed Arabs near Acre. Neither was ever heard of 
again. Of the Jewish casualties six, including three women and 
a boy, were murdered when the taxi in which they were 
travelling was ambushed on the Acre—Safad road. 


8 


On the 21st, a sheikh of the Haram el Sherif in Jerusalem was 
shot and seriously wounded in the Old City. 

Other terrorist activities during the month included a further 
increase in cases of armed robbery by small parties of Arab 
villagers; attacks on Jewish settlements, including Hanuta a 
new settlement near the northern frontier, when one settler was 
killed; four cases of sabotage of the Iraq Petroleum Company’s 

ipe line in the Plain of Esdraelon; a large number of shooting 
incidents at police and military posts and patrols; and an 
increase in attempts to interfere with railway and telephonic 
communications. 


April, 1938. 

Acts of terrorism increased in their various forms—murder, 
intimidation, sniping, robbery and sabotage. 

The murders of Arab villagers included four headmen 
(mukhtars) and the sheikh of the village of Meirun near Safad. 
Six Arab policemen were surprised by an armed band in 
Samaria and murdered in their billet. Two more Arab police- 
men were shot when a party including the mayor of Nablus and 
a British assistant superintendent of police (who was wounded) 
was ambushed near Nablus; and two others were killed by the 
explosion of a bomb found on a local train near Haifa. Two 
eg policemen were killed by the explosion of a second 

mb. 


On the 17th, a bomb was thrown into an Arab café in Haifa, 
killing one Arab and wounding ten others; and on the 21st two 
British soldiers were killed when a military patrol was shot at 
in the hills west of Jenin. 

The Jewish casualties included a settler, a labourer in Haifa 
and a supernumerary constable, and three civilians travelling in 
a taxi which was ambushed near the northern frontier. 

There was also an increase in shooting incidents against police 
and military patrols and Jewish settlements; in cases of armed 
robbery in Arab villages and the sabotage and attempted 
sabotage of communications and Government property. For 
the first time for many months damage was done to Jewish 
groves and forests. Finally, the oil pipe line was damaged on 
ten occasions. 

Throughout the month the movements of the bands were 
mainly in small parties and several operations were carried out 
by the military and police to circumvent them. On the night of 
the 16th, in the hills north of Tulkarm, an engagement of con- 
siderable magnitude was fought with a band which was attacked 
and lost 14 men, while four others and a quantity of arms and 
ammunition were captured. Three less important encounters 
with smaller gangs took place—on the Jenin-Nablus road (the 
6th April), near Arara in Samaria (the 8th April) and near 
Beisan (the 21st April), when further casualties were inflicted. 


9 


At the end of the month military searches of two villages in 
Samaria resulted in the seizure of a number of firearms, ammuni- 
tion, bombs and semi-military uniforms. Thirty-eight Arabs 
were arrested as a result of these searches. 


May, 1938. 

Early in the month there was in increase in the activities of 
armed gangs in Samaria and Galilee, and on the 14th there was 
a major military encounter with a band in the Galilee district in 
which a succession of armed parties were dispersed with losses 
estimated at 38 killed. A quantity of arms and ammunition 
was seized and several arrests made. One British soldier was 
killed and another wounded. On the 2oth, a military and police 
operation was carried out in Galilee and Samaria to occupy a 
number of selected villages in districts where lawlessness had 
been particularly rife. The objective, broadly, was to deny the 
areas in question to the gangs and to restore the control and 
authority of the Civil Government. It was carried out without 
incident and during the rest of the month there was only one 
major encounter when on the 26th the police engaged an armed 
band north of Petah Tikvah, killing six, wounding one and 
capturing a quantity of arms and ammunition. 

There was, however, no diminution of terrorist acts. Twenty- 
two Arab villagers were murdered including three mukhtars and 
three women; in two ambushes on the Hebron road three Arab 
police were shot dead and another wounded; and in Haifa an 
Arab, who was the last surviving Crown witness in a case in 
1935 when several Arabs were brought to trial following a bomb 
outrage in a Jewish settlement near Nazareth, was shot dead in 
the Arab market. Also in Haifa, an Arab detective sergeant 
and an Arab police sergeant were shot dead by unknown Arab . 
assailants. 

The Jewish casualties included a supernumerary constable in 
a Jewish settlement near the northern frontier which was 
attacked by an armed band, and a civilian in Tiberias who died 
as a result of bomb injuries. 

On the 22nd of the month a Jewish pedlar was killed by Arabs 
in the outskirts of Jerusalem. This murder was followed by a 
series of reprisals in Jerusalem and Haifa on the 24th and 25th 
in which four Arabs and a Russian nun were killed and 13 Arabs 
were wounded. As the result, certain Jews were arrested and 
sent to Acre detention camp. 

In other directions terrorist activities persisted unabated. 
There was a considerable increase in the number of incidents 
of shooting at police and military patrols and Jewsh settlements, 
and also of sabotaging Government property, communications 
and, notably, Jewish-owned crops and trees. The oil pipe line 
was damaged on seven occasions. 


Io 


June, 1938. 

The terrorist activities were almost a replica of the events of 
the two preceding months as regards acts of violence by Arabs 
against Arabs in the shape of village murders and armed 
robberies. There was also a marked increase in isolated murders 
of Jews, the majority being settlers in the Plain of Sharon and 
northern Galilee; in arson of Jewish crops and property; in 
attacks on Jewish settlements; and in shooting at police and 
military patrols. An Italian priest was killed by armed brigands 
in the Judaean foothills and a British soldier was killed and six 
others wounded by the explosion of a land mine on a country 
track in Samaria. On the 23rd and the two following days, on 
the Jaffa-Tel Aviv boundary, there were a series of incidents 
including bombing, shooting and stabbing in which two Arabs 
and two Jews were killed and 15 Arabs (including seven women) 
and seven Jews (including two women and a child) were 

" wounded. 

On the 23rd June, three Jewish youths were kidnapped by 
an Arab band from the old-established Jewish settlement of 
Givat Ada in the Plain of Sharon. Their fate has never been 
definitely ascertained. 

On the 24th the announcement of the confirmation, by the 
General Officer Commanding, of the sentence of death passed 
by the Military Court at Haifa on a Jewish youth led to a 
series of demonstrations before and after the execution both 
in beset and in Tel Aviv, where hostile Jewish crowds had 
to be dispersed by the police. 

During the same period there were a series of short-lived 
strikes in Arab towns in Samaria and Galilee in order to demon- 
strate Palestinian Arab sympathy with their compatriots in the 
Sanjak of Alexandretta. 

Acts of sabotage also increased in number. Considerable 
damage was done to railway and telegraph communications 
without, however, causing any general or lengthy breakdown 
in these public services; the norther frontier fence, ‘‘ Tegart’s 
Wall ’’ (see paragraph 18), was badly damaged on four 
occasions; there was an increase of land mine incidents par- 
ticularly on tracks in the newly re-occupied areas and in the 
Gaza district; and the oil pipe line was damaged 18 times. 
Steps to protect the pipe line resulted in two engagements with 
Arabs, of whom four were killed, three wounded and seven 
taken prisoners. 

No large armed bands were encountered by the army or the 
police despite constant patrolling. A certain number of 
casualties were, however, inflicted on small parties in minor 
encounters. On the 8th, military forces with aircraft assistance 
operated against villages in the southern Carmel hills and in the 
Jordan valley. The bands were dispersed with casualties and 
some arms and ammunition were captured. 


II 


July, 1938. 
The month of July produced a series of major outrages which 


caused death to 100 Arabs and 27 Jews, and injury to 206 Arabs 
and 64 Jews. 


The two worst incidents occurred in Haifa when bombs ex- 
ploded in the Arab fruit market in the centre of the town on the 
6th and the 25th of the month. The casualties were 74 Arabs 
killed and 129 wounded. On both occasions confusion followed 
the explosions and there ensued short periods of rioting and 
violence in which 10 Jews lost their lives and 27 were injured. 
Between these two outrages, also in Haifa on the roth July, a 
bomb thrown at a Jewish bus killed one Jew and wounded 15 
others; and in a street fracas on the 11th two Jews were killed 
and 14 Jews and one Arab were wounded. 


In Jerusalem there were three serious bombing incidents, two 
in the Old City when 13 Arabs were killed and 35 wounded and 
one outside the Jaffa Gate when five Arabs were killed and 25 
wounded. In addition, isolated attacks within the municipal 
area resulted in several Arabs and Jews being killed and many 
more wounded. 


In Jaffa and Tel Aviv on the 4th July one Arab was killed and 
four wounded on the boundary between the two towns; two days. 
later in Tel Aviv a bomb, thrown at or from a train as it was 
passing a level crossing, killed a Jewess and injured four Jews; 
and on the 23rd a bomb, which had been placed in an unattended 
motor car in a crowded Jewish street in Tel Aviv, exploded, 
injuring twenty-three Jews, seven of them seriously. 


Elsewhere in the country there was no diminution of acts of 
violence in the form of Arab village murders including two 
mukhtars; fatal attacks on Jewish settlers and Jewish super- 
numeries; shooting at an Arab taxi on the Haifa-Tel Aviv road 
when two Indian Moslems, visitors to Palestine, were killed and 
a third and the chauffeur were wounded; and the assassinations 
of an Arab police inspector in Tulkarm and a sheikh of the 
Haram el Sherif in Jerusalem. 


Apart from these murderous activities, small parties of armed 
men did considerable damage throughout the month by sabot- 
age, concentrating on telephone lines which suffered heavily; on 
the destruction of Jewish trees and crops; and on attempts to 
damage the railways as a result of one of which, on the 28th 
July, the Haifa-Kantara passenger train was badly derailed, 
the assistant engine driver being fatally injured. During the 
first half of the month, the frontier fence was cut and damaged 
three times. As the result of intense defensive patrolling, the 
oil pipe line was damaged only once during the month. 


12 


The succession of attacks, reprisalsand counter reprisalscaused 
widespread tension in both Arab and Jewish communities. In 
the Arab towns of Palestine, and also at Amman in Trans- 
Jordan, there were a series of strikes in protest against the 
bombing outrages in Haifa and Jerusalem in which the casual- 
ties had been preponderantly Arab. 

During the month. military reinforcements arrived from 
Egypt. They were stationed in Samaria and Galilee and their 
presence produced its effect in a diminution of disorder, par- 
ticularly in northern Galilee, during the last fortnight of the 
month. Military and police activities throughout the country 
concentrated on an intensification of patrolling both by day and 
by night; searches by large forces of extended areas in the 
Samaria and Ramallah districts; and the setting of ambushes 
in connection with the defence of the pipe line which resulted 
in the killing of 17 armed Arab saboteurs and the wounding 
of 10 to 15 more. It is believed that in addition to the above 
casualties, the Arab bands in their various sporadic encounters 
with the troops and police lost at least 50 killed and wounded. 

On the 21st July 53 houses in the village of Baga el Gharbiya 
were demolished following on a series of shooting incidents in 
the village in the last of which a company sergeant-major of a 
Scottish regiment was killed; and during the area search in 
Samaria, to which reference has already been made, a large 
number of Arabs were detained for identification and interro- 
gation. 


August, 1938. 

During the month sabotage persisted on an enhanced scale. 
The damage to the telephone and telegraph system throughout 
the country was assessed at more than £P.6,000, while six trains 
were derailed. There were also two cases of slight damage to 
the northern frontier fence and the pipe line was twice damaged 
in the Plain of Esdraelon. In addition, there was an intensi- 
fication of sniping attacks on road transport and on the 24th 
and the 25th of the month Jewish transport was heavily attacked 
at Ramleh on the Jerusalem-Tel Aviv road, two Jews being 
killed and five injured. On the 31st an Arab bus conveying 
passengers and mails from Tiberias to Jerusalem was held up 
near Nablus, four bags being stolen by an armed band. 

There was likewise no abatement of the attacks on Jewish life 
and property. During the month four Jews were killed and 13 
injured by the explosion of land mines on agricultural tracks 
in the Plain of Sharon; a Jewish lorry was ambushed on Mount 
Carmel, eight men being killed and two women wounded; and on 
the 28th a Jewish settlement near Haifa was attacked and two 
settlers were killed and one wounded. In the Mount Carmel 
incident the troops were quickly on the scene and engaged the 
ambushers, seven of whom were killed and many more wounded. 


; 13 

There were also two further cases of the kidnapping of Jews 
‘both on the Haifa-Tel Aviv road. Of the victims three returned 
eventually to their homes, but the fate of the remaining three 
was never ascertained. The kidnapping of Arabs by Arab 
terrorists also continued and during the month at least 50 
Arabs were forcibly abducted by the terrorists. The dead bodies 
of several were subsequently recovered. 


In addition to these outrages, three British subjects serving 
the Crown were murdered. nm the 6th Constable Willis, of the 
Palestine Police Force, was shot dead in an Arab bus between 
Nablus and Jenin; on the 13th Captain Howe, of the Royal 
Engineers, was murdered in a traffic hold up between Jerusalem 
and Bethlehem; and on the 24th Mr. Moffat, the acting Assistant 
District Commissioner in Jenin, was fatally wounded by an 
Arab assassin who penetrated to his office. In this case the 
murderer was almost immediately apprehended by troops and, 
in an ensuing attempt to escape, was shot dead. 


Apart from these incidents there were four serious hold-ups. 
On the roth, an armed gang succeeded in robbing the Nablus 
branch of Barclays bank of over £P.5,000; on the 16th, a post 
office employee in Nablus was robbed of a bag containing 
£P.2,000; on the 21st, the Qalqiliya post office was raided and 
£P.36 stolen; and on the 30th, again in Nablus, a bank mes- 
senger was waylaid and robbed of over £P.200. 


On the 19th, a general raid on Hebron town resulted in the 
urban police post, Barclays bank and the post office being 
attacked and extensively damaged. Early in the morning of 
the 25th, in Jaffa, a time bomb exploded in the crowded Arab 
vegetable market. This killed 24 Arabs and wounded 35, and 
immediately large and excited crowds of Arabs collected and 
attacked two local banks and a British grocery store. The 
attacks were repulsed by the police, but rioting of a sporadic 
nature perused for two days resulting in the imposition of a 
daylight curfew and in the death of two Arab rioters and the 
wounding of nine others. 


During the month military and police activities were inten- 
sively pursued. On the 18th, the sisal engaged and routed a 
large band in the neighbourhood of the Acre-Safad road and 
armed bands throughout the country suffered at least 131 
casualties in engagements with the troops and police. 


September, 1938. 

During this month the casualties among the British troops and 
police, Jews and Arabs (excluding bandits) reached the for- 
midable total of 188 killed and 156 wounded. In addition, 
Tebellious activities, probably encouraged by the crisis in 
Europe, were more widespread than in previous months. In 


16 


Three days later on the 6th, the police, troops and aircraft 
engaged another large band near Tarshiha in Galilee inflicting 
some fifty casualties; and on the 1oth, a gang which had attacked 
a Jewish settlement near Beisan was dispersed into Trans-Jordan 
with a loss of 11 killed, including a well-known local leader. 

On the 2oth, the army engaged and dispersed a gang near 
Tiberias, killing five; on the 21st another gang which had am- 
bushed a military convoy near Nablus was attacked and lost 
19 killed; on the 22nd, aircraft located and engaged a band 
north-west of Jerusalem and inflicted some Io casualties; and 
on the 2oth, near Megiddo a surprise attack by the troops resulted 
in the capture of the president and five members of a so-called 
“* court ’’. 

Meantime, however, terrorism continued without intermission 
throughout the country. The worst outrages were in Jaffa 
where between the 3rd and the 8th there were three Jewish and 
three Arab casualties including two Arab constables. Similar 
excesses, the victims of which were all Arabs, occurred in Acre, 
near Haifa, in Tulkarm, near Gaza, and in Jerusalem; and on 
the oth, the residence of the Assistant District Commissioner in 
Ramleh was broken into and robbed. Also his car was sniped 
as he was returning home. Simultaneously acts of sabotage 
and arson and the sniping of Jewish settlements persisted and in 
Haifa a large number of shops in the centre or the town were 
wilfully set on fire and damaged. In the Yebna district, south 
of Jaffa, considerable sabotage was done to both Arab and 

ewish orange groves. On the 13th, a cigarette factory near 

affa was destroyed by arson. Also on the 13th, a well-known 
Arab lawyer and municipal councillor of Jerusalem was mur- 
dered in the hills west of Ramallah whither he had been lured 
by an invitation from the gang leader of that area. 

Similar outrages continued throughout the second half of the 
month. In Jaffa there was a series of murders involving Arabs 
and Jews and including Arab and Jewish members of the Police 
force and a well-known Jewish mukhtar; and Jewish transport 
was also freely sniped in the outskirts of the town, involving 
several casualties among passengers. Twice, however, the 
troops were in time to intervene and two rioters were killed, 
four wounded and five captured. Near Jerusalem a Jewish 
engineer was shot dead in his office and on Lake Huleh in the 
north two Jewish constables were killed and six wounded by 
snipers shooting from across the Syrian border. In Haifa an 
Arab detective constable was murdered and the Arab kawass 
of the District Commissioner was shot and wounded and his 
nephew killed by unknown assassins. In Gaza, armed 
Arabs penetrated the Government hospital and killed a woman. 
In Nazareth an Arab was shot dead. In Hebron an Arab con- 
stable was killed. Ina Jerusalem suburb a Jewish milk vendor 
was attacked with an axe and fatally wounded, but of his two 
aggressors one was killed by the police and the other captured. 
On the 27th, the Jewish mayor of Tiberias was shot and fatally 


17 
wounded in the middle of the town in broad daylight, and on 
the 30th armed men attacked a bank at Hebron and decamped 
with about £P.500. A Jew was stoned to death in the Man- 
shiya quarter of Jaffa on the same day. 


November, 1938. 


As the result of the military search operations in Jaffa from 
31st October to 3rd November, there was an improvement in 
the towns, although there, as elsewhere in Palestine, there was 
a three days’ strike of all Arab shops following the issue of the 
military order restricting motor traffic on the roads except under 
permit (see Policy). 

Meantime, during the first nine days of the month the troops 
continued intensive search activities in the districts. They de- 
tained a large number of Arabs for investigation and captured 
a quantity of arms and ammunition. There were also some 
minor clashes between gangs and the army in the course of 
which 25 of the former were killed, including a well-known leader 
in the Samaria district, and four wounded. 

Isolated acts of violence persisted in Jaffa and its neighbour- 
hood; near Acre; in Haifa; near Lydda; and in Gaza; and 
attacks on Jewish transport continued. In Haifa, the Levan 
bonded warehouse was burnt down and the post office was 
raided, the robbery yielding over £P1,500. 

During the remainder of the month the troops maintained their 
pressure on the gangs by constant searches of areas and villages 
throughout the country. Further large quantities of arms and 
ammunition were captured; a considerable number of suspects 
were detained for identification and investigation; and, acting on 
information the supply of which began slowly to increase, the 
troops and the police organized a series of successful raids. In 
surprise encounters with bands over 100 casualties were in- 
flicted by Government forces, including the killing of three 
“wanted ’’ leaders. On the 13th, a combined force of soldiers 
and police carried out a search of Jericho. A total of 554 male 
inhabitants were checked, of which number 11 were deported to 
Trans-Jordan and 28 placed in detention under the Defence 
Regulations. In addition, two surprise searches were made in 
Jaffa on the 19th and the 2oth and on the 2st a strong military 
post was established in Beersheba. On the 25th and the 26th a 
wide military sweep was made in the hill country south and 
south-west of Jerusalem with the object of ridding the area 
of gangs who had been successfully concentrating on the sabotage 
of the Jerusalem-Lydda railway. Finally, a search operation 
was conducted by the troops in and around Nazareth on the 
14th, during which 4o persons were detained. This local 
““cleaning-up ’’ operation had a good effect and during the 
month the Galilee District was, on the whole, quiet. 

In spite of these activities, however, terrorism continued in 
the towns and sabotage throughout the country. Jaffa and the 
immediately surrounding country in particular was the scene of 


16 


Three days later on the 6th, the police, troops and aircraft 
engaged another large band near Tarshiha in Galilee inflicting 
some fifty casualties; and on the roth, a gang which had attacked 
a Jewish settlement near Beisan was dispersed into Trans-Jordan 
with a loss of 11 killed, including a well-known local leader. 

On the 2oth, the army engaged and dispersed a gang near 
Tiberias, killing five; on the 21st another gang which had am- 
bushed a military convoy near Nablus was attacked and lost 
1g killed; on the 22nd, aircraft located and engaged a band 
north-west of Jerusalem and inflicted some Io casualties; and 
on the 2gth, near Megiddo a surprise attack by the troops resulted 
in the capture of the president and five members of a so-called 
“court ’’. 

Meantime, however, terrorism continued without intermission 
throughout the country. The worst outrages were in Jaffa 
where between the 3rd and the 8th there were three Jewish and 
three Arab casualties including two Arab constables. Similar 
excesses, the victims of which were all Arabs, occurred in Acre, 
near Haifa, in Tulkarm, near Gaza, and in Jerusalem; and on 
the gth, the residence of the Assistant District Commissioner in 
Ramleh was broken into and robbed. Also his car was sniped 
as he was returning home. Simultaneously acts of sabotage 
and arson and the sniping of Jewish settlements persisted and in 
Haifa a large number of shops in the centre ae the town were 
wilfully set on fire and damaged. In the Yebna district, south 
of Jaffa, considerable sabotage was done to both Arab and 

- Jewish orange groves. On the 13th, a cigarette factory near 
affa was destroyed by arson. Also on the 13th, a well-known 
Arab lawyer and municipal councillor of Jerusalem was mur- 
dered in the hills west of Ramallah whither he had been lured 
by an invitation from the gang leader of that area. 

Similar outrages continued throughout the second half of the 
month. In Jaffa there was a series of murders involving Arabs 
and Jews and including Arab and Jewish members of the Police 
force and a well-known Jewish mukhtar; and Jewish transport 
was also freely sniped in the outskirts of the town, involving 
several casualties among passengers. Twice, however, the 
troops were in time to intervene and two rioters were killed, 
four wounded and five captured. Near Jerusalem a Jewish 
engineer was shot dead in his office and on Lake Huleh in the 
north two Jewish constables were killed and six wounded by 
snipers shooting from across the Syrian border. In Haifa an 
Arab detective constable was murdered and the Arab kawass 
of the District Commissioner was shot and wounded and his 
nephew killed by unknown assassins. In Gaza, armed 
Arabs penetrated the Government hospital and killed a woman. 
In Nazareth an Arab was shot dead. In Hebron an Arab con- 
stable was killed. Ina Jerusalem suburb a Jewish milk vendor 
was attacked with an axe and fatally wounded, but of his two 
ageressors one was killed by the police and the other captured. 
On the 27th, the Jewish mayor of Tiberias was shot and fatally 


17 
wounded in the middle of the town in broad daylight, and on 
the 30th armed men attacked a bank at Hebron and decamped 
with about £P.500. A Jew was stoned to death in the Man- 
shiya quarter of Jaffa on the same day. 


November, 1938. 


As the result of the military search operations in Jaffa from 
31st October to 3rd November, there was an improvement in 
the towns, although there, as elsewhere in Palestine, there was 
a three days’ strike of all Arab shops following the issue of the 
military order restricting motor traffic on the roads except under 
permit (see Policy). 

Meantime, during the first nine days of the month the troops 
continued intensive search activities in the districts. They de- 
tained a large number of Arabs for investigation and captured 
a quantity of arms and ammunition. There were also some 
minor clashes between gangs and the army in the course of 
which 25 of the former were killed, including a well-known leader 
in the Samaria district, and four wounded. 

Isolated acts of violence persisted in Jaffa and its neighbour- 
hood; near Acre; in Haifa; near Lydda; and in Gaza; and 
attacks on Jewish transport continued. In Haifa, the Levan 
bonded warehouse was burnt down and the post office was 
raided, the robbery yielding over £P1,500. 

During the remainder of the month the troops maintained their 
pressure on the gangs by constant searches of areas and villages 
throughout the country. Further large quantities of arms and 
ammunition were captured; a considerable number of suspects 
were detained for identification and investigation; and, acting on 
information the supply of which began slowly to increase, the 
troops and the police organized a series of successful raids. In 
surprise encounters with bands over 100 casualties were in- 
flicted by Government forces, including the killing of three 
“* wanted ’’ leaders. On the 13th, a combined force of soldiers 
and police carried out a search of Jericho. A total of 554 male 
inhabitants were checked, of which number 11 were deported to 
Trans-Jordan and 28 placed in detention under the Defence 
Regulations. In addition, two surprise searches were made in 
Jafta on the rgth and the 2oth and on the 2ist a strong military 
post was established in Beersheba. On the 25th and the 26th a 
wide military sweep was made in the hill country south and 
south-west of Jerusalem with the object of ridding the area 
of gangs who had been successfully concentrating on the sabotage 
of the Jerusalem-Lydda railway. Finally, a search operation 
was conducted by the troops in and around Nazareth on the 
14th, during which 4o persons were detained. This local 
‘* cleaning-up ”’ operation had a good effect and during the 
month the Galilee District was, on the whole, quiet. 

In spite of these activities, however, terrorism continued in 
the towns and sabotage throughout the country. Jaffa and the 
immediately surrounding country in particular was the scene of 


18 


repeated outrage. The causalties included Arabs and Jews, 
and on the 18th two prominent members of the Defence Party 
were murdered in Lydda. (See Arab Affairs, paragraph 43— 
Fakhri Eff. Nashashibi’s memorandum to the High Com- 
missioner.) In the rest of the country acts of violence continued 
to occur though less frequently than in the Jaffa sub-district, and 
outrages were reported from Haifa where between the 12th and 
the end of the month six Arab and fourteen Jewish casualties 
occurred; from Jerusalem where one of the victims was another 
adherent of the Nashashibi Defence Party; from Nablus, where 
on one occasion the law courts were raided by armed men and 
where another prominent member of the Defence Party was 
murdered in the market; and from near Tulkarm. 


December, 1938. 


During the month, the activities of the bands tended to decline 
but terrorism in towns and villages continued and road transport 
was still being attacked. At the end of the month it was clear 
that, although Government had definitely gained the upper 
hand in the field, the mainly police problem of terrorism in the 
towns was still a grave menace. 


The activities of the troops concentrated on wide searches 
throughout the month. In two cases so-called ‘‘ courts ’’ were 
captured; large hauls were made of arms and ammunition; and 
there was a relentless rounding up of undesirable characters in 
all parts of the country. It was estimated that over one-third 
of the villages in Palestine had been visited during 1938 and 
searched by the army and the police. 


Apart from these search operations, there were several major 
encounters with armed gangs on whom the troops inflicted heavy 
casualties. On the 1st of the month, near Hebron, the gangsters 
suffered 27 casualties; the following day, near Beisan, 15 Arabs 
of a gang, which had murdered three Jewish settlers, were 
killed and five captured; on the 18th, south of Hebron, 30 
bandits were killed and 15 captured and a considerable quantity 
of arms and ammunition was seized; finally, on the 19th, 10 
more were killed in an encounter near Tiberias. 


Meanwhile there was no cessation of acts of violence. Attacks 
on road transport persisted and produced several casualties; and, 
particularly in the towns, murders of and murderous attacks on 
individuals were frequent. In Haifa they were sporadic 
throughout the month and in Jerusalem during the period from 
the 23rd to the 31st there were six Jewish and one Arab casual- 
ties. There was also a series of attacks on the persons and 
property of the Nashashibi (Defence Party) family following 
an Arab gathering organized on the 18th by Fakhri Eff. Nash- 
ashibi south of Hebron in support of his memorandum to the 
High Commissioner (see Arab Affairs). 


19 

In Jerusalem two well-known sheikhs were shot and killed. 
One of them had previously survived three attempts on his life. 
Other outrages were reported from Beisan; from Bethlehem 
where a Jewish warder of the lunatic asylum was shot dead by 
armed raiders; from the Plain of Sharon and from Affule and 
Petah Tikvah where casualties occurred from attacks on road 
transport; from Nazareth where a Jewish doctor was wounded 
and an Arab notable who had been a member of the General 
Agricultural Council was shot dead; and from Jericho where a 
member of a well-known Arab family was murdered. 

On the 26th, Mr. Le Bouvier, the British area manager of 
the Ottoman bank, was kidnapped by armed Arabs on his way 
back from the Dead Sea to Jerusalem. He returned unharmed 
after two days in the custody of the gang. On the last day of 
the year a motor convoy escorting Sir Charles Tegart and 
officers of the army and the police was held up by ambush in the 
hilly ravines north of Ramallah on the Jerusalem-Nablus road. 
Mr. G. B. Sanderson, staff officer to the Inspector General of 
Police, was instantly killed when the convoy was fired upon, 
but the rest of the party succeeded in escaping unharmed. 


12. The following is a statistical statement of the number of 
cases of terrorist activities during the year:— 


Front- North- Naza- Nab-  Jeru- South- 


ter. ern reth. lus. salem. ern. Gaza. Totals. 
wcidents of violence. 
icks and sniping on 
slice and military ... 198 71 88 = 293 125 141 7° 986 
icks and sniping on 
tab public... ee 6 10 6 19 14 16 3 34 
aks and sniping on 
ewish public ... eee AQ 49 10 8 23 67 —_— 176 
ackson transport ... 33 57 24 21 80 118 2 335 
1ed robbery ... we 18 46 26 94 131 103 39 457 
ng on Jewish colonies 
ad Jewish quarters... 52 189 120 35 83 170 2 651 
ob throwing ... aM 7: 85 61 28 66 63 aI 331 
luctions ae a, 720: 32 18 64 62 16 215 
acks on Arab villages 
ad houses... we 16 10 21 56 29 21 9 162 
nage to Arab property 3 10 3 16 6 22 I 61 
nage to Jewish pro- 
erty ... eet we «59 146 47 46 44 125 28 415, 
otage to telephones... 54 84 94 12 135 165 67 720 
otage to railways and 
vads .., oan Gio 35 29 24 62 51 82 58 341 
tage to other Govern- 
qent property sae 35 10 19 38 40 40 28 210 
tage to I.P.C. pipe 
me... is oo 23 81 _— _— _— _ 104 
Assassinations and 
_ _ allempts. 
lice killed and wounded 5 10 _— 8 16 14 2 55 
blickilledand wounded 34 89- 28 72 74 70 8 375 





Totals... vs 504 950 670 981 977-1233. 341 5,708 





20 


13. The total casualties during 1938 resulting from terrorist 
and gang activities were: — 
Killed. — Wounded. 


(a) British. 
British police... ose aes aee ao 12 15 
Military oes ove on oe ee 63 200 
British civilians te on ae ste 2 I 
Total ons oes we 77 216 
(b) Jews. 
Jewish civilians ii Baty. kee 206 318 
Jewish police (regular) 7 aes wae 8 9 
Jewish police (supernumerary) ae ose 41 63 
Total Dear Yeates sas 255 390 
(c) Arabs. 
Arab civilians : a as 454 554 
Arab police (regular) 31 22 
Arab police (supernumerary and. ghaffirs) 18 22 
Total tee ae on 503 598 


(d) Armed Bands. 


No accurate figure can be given of the number of casualties suffered 
by members of armed bands, but a conservative estimate by the military 
authorities is that about 1,000 were killed by Government forces during 
1938, while about the same number were wounded. It is estimated 
that the actual casualties inflicted were considerably higher, because on 
practically all occasions every effort was made by Arab bands to remove 
and conceal casualties. 


14. Reference is made in the following section of this Report 
(Policy) to:— 


(a) The appointment of the Palestine Partition Commis- 
sion; its visit to Palestine; and the issue on the 9th Novem- 
ber of its Report and of the accompanying Statement by 
His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom. 


(b) The visit to Palestine in August of the Secretary of 
State for the Colonies. 


(c) The promulgation on the 18th October of Regulations 
made by the High Commissioner under Articles 6 and 10 
of the Palestine ( (Defence) Order-in-Council, 1937, by which 

wers were given to the General Officer Commanding the 
Br itish Troops in Palestine and Jeane Jorean to appoint, 
with the consent of the High Commissioner, military com- 
manders in various districts in the country who would 
assume all the powers and duties hitherto vested in the 
District Commissioners by the Defence Regulations. 


2r 


In addition, the fcllowing further measures were taken relating 
to public security: — 


(rz) On 1st September, a curfew from 6 p.m. to 4 a.m. 
was imposed on roads in the rural areas of the greater part 
of Palestine. 


(2) On 23rd November, a curfew from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. 
was imposed on all Palestine with the exception of municipal 
and built-up areas. 


(3) On 12th October, a system of voluntary identity 
cards for male persons over 16 years of age was instituted. 


(4) On 1st November, an Order was issued under the 
Emergency Regulations prohibiting any male person from 
travelling by motor car or by train in the rural areas in 
Palestine without a pass issued by a Military Commander. 


15. For the purpose of close co-operation between the Army 
and the Police, the police force was placed under the operational 
control of the General Officer Commanding on the 12th Sep- 
tember, 1938. 


16. The system was continued of employing supernumerary 
police to augment the regular police for safeguarding communi- 
cations and the better protection of Government and other 
property and the defence of Jewish settlements. In order to 
distinguish between this personnel and those employed at private 
expense for the protection of private undertakings, the former 
were described as temporary additional police and the title 
supernumerary police was reserved for those privately employed. 
The number of temporary additional police employed at the end 
of the year was:— 


(1) For protection of Jewish settlements s+ 1,268 (Jews) 
(2) For protection of Railways ... Bas ves 422 (Jews) 
(3) For other police dispositions ... ore ++» 1,628 (Jews) 


In addition to this personnel, a force of 240 temporary addi- 
tional police was employed to relieve troops so far as possible 
from static defence duties, and a further 50 ranks were employed 
on special security patrols. Both of these forces were under 
direct military supervision. 


The training of temporary additional police for Jewish settle- 
ment defence and railway protection was undertaken for the 
most part aban} the previous year, but during 1938 refresher 
courses were held. The training of the remaining temporary 
additional police was carried out by army instructors so far as 
weapon training was concerned, and otherwise by personnel of 
the regular police force. 


15774 B 


22 


The Jewish settlement temporary additional police was re- 
organized towards the end of the year with the following prin- 
cipal changes: — 

(i) The force was placed under the direct command of 
the Inspector General’ acting through a District Superin- 
tendent of Police (Auxiiariest : 

(ii) The force was divided into ten companies, each of 
which was commanded by a British Police Inspector; 

(iii) Reservist personnel were enrolled as special con- 
stables and were liable for immediate service. 


In addition to temporary additional police employed for 


Jewish suburb and settlement defence, there were also 5.652 | 


special constables enrolled for employment under arms. 
ese an average number of 1,278 performed duty daily. 
The numbers of supernumerary police employed for private 
purposes were:— 
Arabs ... aes ees 51 
Jews... one eos 739 


17. During 1938, 2,543 persons were detained for varying 
periods under Regulations made under the Palestine Defence 
Order in Council and the Prevention of Crime Ordinance, as 
follows:— 





Arabs ... ie wee 2,463 
Jews... SS te 80 
At the end of the year the numbers detained were: — 
Arabs ... age see 2,033 
Jews... Si Ne 36 
Total ... =... 2,069 





18. In order to assist in combating terrorism in Palestine, the 
Government had the assistance and advice of Sir Charles 
Tegart, K.C.I.E., C.S.I., M.V.O., from November, 1937, to 
June, 1938, and again from October, 1938, to the end of the year; 
and of Sir David Petrie, C.S.I., C.I.E., M.V.O., from 
November, 1937, to February, 1938. Both these distinguished 
officers had had long experience of police work and criminal 
investigation in India. One result of their mission was the re- 
organization and the reinforcement of the Criminal Investigation 
Department in Palestine (see Military Clauses). In addition, 
effect was given by Government to the following recommenda- 
tions made by Sir Charles Tegart:— 


(1) The construction of a barbed-wire entanglement from 
Bassa on the Acre-Ras en Naqura road eastwards ane the 
alignment of the northern frontier to Lake Huleh, and the 
establishment of subsidiary defence works, such as “‘ pill 
boxes ”’, etc., along its course; 


23 
(2) The prolongation of this fence, with the necessary 
defence works:— 
(a) from Roshpina to Tabgha on the Sea of Galilee, 


(6) from Samakh to the Trans-Jordan frontier on the 
River Yarmuk. 


This was undertaken in order to protect the north-eastern 
frontier. 


These works are designed to prevent the smuggling of arms 
and the entry of undesirable persons into Palestine. 


19. From March onwards, security committees on which the 
Civil Administration, the Police, and the Army were represented 
met almost daily at headquarters in Jerusalem and in the 
districts. 


20. On the 1st December, the appointment was made of an 
additional District Commissioner in the Southern District to 
take charge of the Gaza and Beersheba Sub-Districts with his 
headquarters in Gaza. 


During the year further British officers joined the district 
staffs on secondment from other colonial territories and from the 
Sudan. They were posted as Assistant District Commissioners 
throughout the country. 


21. On Ist January, 1938, the strength of the forces of the 
Crown in Palestine and Trans-Jordan was two infantry brigades 
(a total of six battalions) and ancillary units; one squadron and 
two flights of light bomber aircraft; one company of armoured 
cars; and the Trans- Jordan Frontier Force. 


This force remained unchanged until mid-July when the situa- 
tion demanded an increase in the force and one armoured car 
Tegiment, two infantry battalions, and the H.Q. and two flights 
of Royal Air Force Squadron were sent from Egypt. 


Further deterioration in the situation led to additional rein- 
forcements being despatched from England, and by the 26th 
September a brigade headquarters and three infantry battalions 
had arrived in the country. Almost at once, however, the 
European situation necessitated the return to Egypt of the 
armoured car regiment and two battalions of infantry. 


Subsequently, reinforcements were again despatched to 
Palestine, and by mid-November the forces in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan had increased to two regiments of cavalry; one 
armoured car regiment; one battery and detachment of the 
Royal Horse Artillery; 18 infantry battalions and the neces- 
sary ancillary units; two Royal Air Force Squadrons; an 
armoured car company and the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


15774 B2 


24 


The following are the quantities of arms and ammunition 
seized by the military forces in the course of operations and 
searches during the year:— 


Rifles.. és ae 344 
Pistols and revolvers 146 
Shotguns Por 53 
Ammunition ++. 26,000 rourids (approximately) 


In addition, considerable quantities of other warlike material 
and equipment, such as grenades, bombs, explosives, fuzes, per- 
cussion caps, uniforms, etc., were captured. 


During the same period the Police made the following seizures 
of arms, etc. :— 


Rifles.. Es 558 
Pistols ‘and revolvers 388 
Shotguns... tae 65 
Ammunition ++. 42,000 rounds (approximately) 


They also captured one sub-machine gun and 238 bombs. 


23. The Military Courts, established in November, 1937, con- 
tinued throughout 1938. Up to the end of the year they had 
tried 382 persons. The following is a summary of the sentences 
confirmed by the General Officer Commanding British Forces 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan:— 


Court. 

Sentence. Jerusalem. Haifa. Total. 

Death sentences... ns a 20 34 54 
Life imprisonment ... aes an 25 13 38 
12 years imprisonment I _ I 
Io years imprisonment 14 15 29 
7 years imprisonment 5 4 9 
5 years imprisonment 17 7, 24 
4 years imprisonment 2 2 4 
3 years imprisonment 7 4 Ir 
2 years imprisonment 9 6 15 
18 months imprisonment . I _— I 
1 year imprisonment : 4 3 7 
Under 1 year imprisonment Y] 5 12 
Acquitted 81 60 141 
Bound over ... 20 13 33 
Finding reversed 2 I 3 
215 167 382 


Fifteen juvenile offenders were directed to serve their sen- 
tences in reformatories. 


One accused person was found ‘‘ not guilty ’’ on the grounds 
of insanity. 


24. During the year, the control of the Press continued to be 
exerted under the Press Ordinance and the Defence Regulations 
made under the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council. 


25 
25. Local newspapers, daily and weekly, were penalized as 
follows:— 
No. of Total 


Name. . Suspensions. period. Cause. 
I, Arabic Press {Daikes): 

“Al Difa’a’” a Po I 3 weeks Publication of matter 
likely to endanger 
public peace. 

“Falastin” 3 caer - 

“Al Jamia al Islamiya ” 2 4 on ” 

“Al Sirat al Mustagion af I 3 months 

“Al Lahab ”” + 1 1 month Publication of a false 


report. 
Two official warnings were given to ‘‘Al Difa’a ”’ and one to ‘Al Akhbar.” 
II. Hebrew Press (Dailies). 
“ Hatzofeh ” maa S08 I 2 weeks Publication of matter 
likely to endanger 


public peace. 
“ Davar ”” Ses ae I 


204 ” 
“ Haboker ” eee =a I 1 week Publication of a false 
report. 
Three official warnings were given to ‘‘ Davar ”’ and two to ‘‘ Haboker.” 
III. The Palestine Post (published in English)—Five official warnings were 
given to this paper. 


26. Weekly journals published in the country were suspended 
as follows:— 


No. of Total 


Name. Suspensions. period. Cause. 
“ Palestine and Trans-Jordan ” 2 9 months Publication of matter 
(published in English). likely to endanger 
public peace. 
“Arab News Agency ”’ (published I 6 os . 
in English). 
“ Al Lahab ” (Arabic) I Soest? . 
“Al Nafir’’ (Arabic)... 1 3 ae ae 
“El Carmel el Jedid ” (Arabic) I 6 , ee 
“ Al Iqdam ” (Arabic) 3 I 6 “a A 
“ Sawt el Sha’ab ”’ (Arabic) I I year as 
“ Hayarden ” (Hebrew)... I 3 months BS 
“ Haolam "’ (Hebrew) I 2275 a 


An official warning was given once to ‘‘ Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan ”’ 


Two official warnings were given to ‘‘ La Terre Sainte’, a 
monthly paper published in French and Spanish in Jerusalem 
by the Franciscan Order. 


“ 


27. Newspapers published in neighbouring countries were ex- 
cluded from Palestine under section 20 (1) of the Press Ordi- 
nance, as follows:— 


Syrian newspapers on 13 occasions. 
Lebanese newspapers on I5 occasions. 
Egyptian newspapers on 12 occasions. 


15774 B3 


26 


28. The High Commissioner made use of the powers conferred. 
by Regulations 11 and 12 made under the Palestine (Defence) 
Order in Council, 1937, as follows: — 

(a) A censorship of outgoing foreign Press telegrams was 
enforced from the 13th July to the 1st September and from 
the 8th September to the 31st December. 

(b) International trunk telephone calls to and from 
Palestine were restricted to an approved list of subscribers 
from the 29th August to the 31st December. 

(c) Certain pamphlets, books and manifestos were pro- 
hibited. 

(d) A Censor’s order of the 25th August prohibited the 
local Press from publishing any accounts of or comment on 
the activities of armed gangs or terrorists or of military 
and police operations except those contained in official 
communications to the Press. This Order was still in force 
at the end of the year. A regulation (11 (c)) under the 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, was published 
on the 7th December requiring the editors of newspapers to 
publish such communications textually and in full or an 
abbreviated version thereof containing all the relevant facts. 


POLICY. 


29. On the 4th January, 1938, a Command Paper regarding 
policy in Palestine was issued by His Majesty’s Government 
simultaneously in London and Jerusalem. It contained the 
text of a despatch dated the 23rd December, 1937, from the 
Secretary of State for the Colonies to the High Commissioner for 
Palestine announcing the decision of His Majesty’s Government 
to send to Palestine a commission, later known as the Palestine 
Partition Commission, and setting out its terms of reference. 
The text of the Command Paper is attached to this section as 
Appendix ‘‘ A ’’. 


Later, appointments were made to the Commission as 
follows:— 
Sir John Woodhead, K.C.S.I., C.I.E.—Chairman. 
Sir Alison Russell, K.C. { 
Mr. A. P. Waterfield, C.B. 
Mr. T. Reid, C.M.G. \ 
Mr. S. E. V. Luke—Secretary. 


The Commissioners reached Jerusalem on the 27th April, and 
during their stay in Palestine, which ended on the 3rd August, 
they held 55 sessions, two of which were in public, toured the 
country extensively and visited Trans-Jordan where nine days 
were spent. No Arab witnesses came forward to give evidence. 


Members. 


27 
Their Report, a summary of which is attached to this section 
(Appendix ‘‘ B ’’), was presented to Parliament by the Secre- 
tary of State for the Colonies on the 9th November, and was 
published simultaneously in London and Jerusalem together 
with a statement on Palestine by His Majesty’s Government 
(Appendix ‘‘ C ’’). 


30. The Report and the Statements (Appendices ‘‘ B ’’ and 
“‘C”’) were debated in both Houses o Sparlamient later in 
November. The text of the opening speech in the debate by 
the Secretary of State for the Colonies in the House of Commons 
is appended (Appendix ‘‘ D ’’). 


31. The Secretary of State for the Colonies paid a visit to 
Jerusalem on the 6th and 7th August. 


32. Two important regulations made by the High Commis- 
sioner under the Palestine (Defence) ler in Council, 1937, 
were promulgated in October. 


The first (Control of Police), which was made on the 17th 
October under Article 6 of the Order in Council, gave effect to 
the decision reached in September (see Public Security para- 
graph 15) whereby the Palestine Police Force was made subject 
to the general or specific direction and control of the General 
Officer Commanding the British Forces in Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan (Appendix “ E ’’). 

The second regulation (Military Commanders), which was 
made on the 18th October, empowered the General Officer 
Commanding to appoint, with the consent of the High Commis- 
sioner, Military Commanders in the various districts who would 
assume all the powers and duties hitherto vested in the respec- 
tive District Commissioners by the Defence Regulations 
(Appendix ‘‘F’’). The District Commissioners themselves 
became the political advisers of the Military Commanders. 

On the same day, the 18th October, a Military Commander of 
the Jerusalem District was appointed by the General Officer 
Commanding; and on the roth October, four similar military 
appointments were made affecting the Samaria, the Haifa and 
Galilee and the Southern Districts and the Jordan Valley within 
the boundaries of Palestine. 


IMMIGRATION. 


33. From the beginning of August, 1937, Jewish immigration 
into Palestine was conducted according to the policy stated in a 
Command Paper presented to Parliament by His Majesty’s 
Government in July, 1937 (vide Appendix ‘‘B ’’ on page 41 
of the Annual Report for 1937), whereby as an interim measure 
a total Jewish immigration in all categories of 8,000 persons was 


15774 Bs 


28 


rmitted for the eight months’ period from August, 1937, to 
rch, 1938, provided that the economic absorptive capacity 
of the country was not exceeded. 


34. The policy of His Majesty’s Government from April, 1938, 
was embodied in a despatch No. 248 of the roth March, 1938, 
addressed by the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the 
High Commissioner, the text of which is reproduced in full in 
Appendix “‘ G ’’. 

35. In accordance with this policy, the High Commissioner 
authorised the admission of the following aggregate numbers of 
immigrants (Jewish and non-Jewish) in the several categories 
for the six monthly periods commencing the rst April, 1938, and 
the 1st October, 1938, respectively :— 


Category as defined in Siz-monthly period Six-monthly period 
Rule 4 (rz) of the commencing commencing 
Immigration Ordinance. rst April, 1938. Ist October, 1938. 
A (i) 2,020* 2,020f 
A (ii) Nil Nil 
A (iii) Nil Nil 
A (iv) 20 20 
A (v) 20 20 
B (i) Io 10 
B (ii) 200 200 
Cc 1,150 1,150 
D 
(Dependants other than wives 
and minor children) oes 250 1,450 
* 600 of these certificates were subsequently converted into certificates in 
Category D. 


t Later 30 of the certificates in Category A (i) were converted into 
certificates in Category B (ii) (persons of religious occupation). 

36. Jewish immigrants to the number of 12,868 were registered 
during the year. Of these, 1,753 were capitalist immigrants 
whose dependants numbered 1,722, 2,537 were students whose 
maintenance in an approved educational institution is assured, 
2,573 were persons coming to employment whose dependants 
numbered 1,662, and 2,565 were dependants of residents of 
Palestine. 


37. The Palestine Government has continued to take measures 
to check illegal immigration through the agency of His Majesty's 
Consular Officers abroad, by control arrangements at the ports 
and frontiers and by the employment of special preventive 
forces by land and sea. 

Illicit immigration through the northern frontier is being more 
effectively controlled as the result of the construction of the 
frontier fence and frontier road and the employment of a special 
force of police in this area. 

The improvement of the existing control of illicit immigration 
by sea by the establishment of an organized coast guard service 
was under consideration at the end of the year. 


29 

38. Seven hundred and fifty-two persons, including 103 Jews 
who entered Palestine surreptitiously during 1935, were later 
detected, sentenced to imprisonment and recommended for de- 
portation. Seven hundred and thirty-three deportations were 
carried out during the year, comprising 30 Jews and 703 other 
persons. 

Seven Jewish and twelve other travellers were deported for 
overstaying their period of permitted stay in the country. In 
addition, I,III persons were summarily deported to Syria and 
Egypt. 

Towards the close of the year illicit immigration of Jews from 
countries of Central and Eastern Europe appeared to be on the 
increase, doubtless as a result of the further deterioration in the 
political, social and economic situation of Jews in those countries. 


39. Germany (including Austria) has displaced Poland as the 
principal country of Jewish immigration into Palestine. The 
proportion of Jewish immigrants from Germany rose to 52 per 
cent. of the total Jewish immigration in 1938. Poland furnished 
25 per cent. of the total number of Jewish immigrants. There 
was also a noticeable increase in the proportion of Jewish immi- 
grants from Czechoslovakia. 


ARAB AFFAIRS. 


40. Apart from the major issues dealt with in the Policy 
section there were few developments of note in Arab affairs in 
Palestine during 1938. This was mainly due to the absence 
from the country of the majority of the political leaders, some 
of whom had been deported in October, 1937, while orders pro- 
hibiting the re-entry of others into Palestine were maintained 
throughout the year. In addition, as the result of local terrorism 
many others, the majority of whom belonged to or were in 
sympathy with the National Defence Party (see the Annual 
Report for 1937, paragraph 63), left the country in the interest 
of their personal safety. 


41. In the second week of October a congress which assembled 
under the name of ‘‘ The World Parliamentary Congress of 
Arab and Moslem Countries for the Defence of Palestine ’’, 
held its sessions in Cairo. It passed a series of resolutions against 
the Balfour Declaration and Jewish immigration into Palestine 
and also elected a permanent committee, three of whose members 
had been members of the former Arab Higher Committee (see the 
Annual Report for 1937, paragraphs 50 and 51). 


42. Immediately afterwards—also in Cairo—an Arab 
Women’s congress was held in support of the Palestine Arab 
cause. 


30 
43. In November, after the pobleaton of the Report of the 
Woodhead Commission and the statement of His Majesty's 
Government in the United Kingdom (see “‘ Policy ’’), Fakhri eff. 
el Nashashibi, a near relation of Ragheb Bey el Nashashibi, the 
leader of the National Defence Party, submitted a memorandum 
to the High Commissioner in the course of which, claiming to 
speak on behalf of the ‘‘ 75 per cent. of the interests of the 
country ’’ and ‘‘ much more than half of the Arabs of the 
country ’’, he condemned terrorist methods. 


44. In December an order was issued for the release from the 
Seychelles of the five Arab leaders who were deported from 
Palestine in October, 1937 (see the Annual Report for 1937, 
pages 20 and 21, paragraphs 50 and 51). This decision was 
made public in London and Palestine on the 7th December in 
the folowing terms:— 


‘* On 23rd November the Secretary of State for the Col- 
onies informed the House of Commons that invitations to 
attend the proposed discussions in London regarding Pales- 
tine had been sent to the Governments of Egypt, Iraq, Saudi 
Arabia and Trans-Jordan and to the Jewish Agency. 
Acceptances of these invitations have now been received by 
His Majesty’s Government, and the King of the Yemen has 
also been invited to send a delegation to attend. His reply 
is shortly expected. 

“Simultaneously in order to facilitate the nomination of 
the Arab delegates from Palestine itself, His Majesty’s 
Government have decided that full facilities to attend the 
discussions should be available to the Arabs selected to pro- 
ceed to London to represent Palestine and that these facilities 
shall apply equally to those Arabs who are at present de- 
ported or excluded from Palestine. In pursuance of this 
decision and after consultation with the High Commissioner 
for Palestine His Majesty’s Government have ordered the 
release of those Arabs who are now detained in the Sey- 
chelles. Effect will be given to this Order as soon as trans- 
port can be arranged from Mahé. 

“* The release of these persons is final. 

“* Should their services be required at the discussions in 
London, they will be available for selection as the represen- 
tatives of the Arabs of Palestine and will enjoy full liberty 
of movement subject only to the stipulation that they will 
not be allowed to return to Palestine where under the 
present circumstances their admission is regarded as un- 
desirable ’’. 


45. Up to the end of 1938 the representatives of the Arabs of 
Palestine to attend the proposed discussions in London had not 
been finally selected. 


31 

46. The Commission referred to in paragraphs 52-3 on pages 
21-2 of the Heport for 1937 continued to control the finances of 
Moslem Awgaf in Palestine. The method of exercising that 
control has, however, been modified as it was found that the 
Supreme Moslem Sharia Council and Awgaf officials were pre- 
pared to co-operate with the Commission. A modus vivendi 
was agreed upon between the Commission and the Supreme 
Moslem Sharia Council under which the Council was permitted 
to resume a considerable degree of control over Moslem Awgaf, 
subject to the reservation to the Commission of certain specific 
alee! necessary for the proper control of the financial affairs 

ereof. 


SUPREME MOSLEM COUNCIL. 


47. During 1938 the Supreme Moslem Council and the Awqaf 
Administration maintained the essential wakf services in so far 
as funds and the disturbed state of the country permitted. 


The Dome of the Rock. 


Some work was carried out on the restoration of the marble ' 
panels on the exterior of the Dome of the Rock. Certain tem- 
porary measures cos to prevent the penetration of rain into 
the walls were also taken in order to preserve the structure until 
proper restoration of the whole of the exterior can be carried out 
on the basis of a scheme which is being prepared by the experts 
from Egypt who are advising the Supreme Moslem Council on 
the conservation of Islamic monuments in Palestine. 


Repairs to Al Aqsa Mosque. 


In the Annual Report for 1937 (page 27), detailed reference 
was made to the dangerous faults observed in the structure of 
the Mosque of Al Aqsa. Early in 1938 a further examination re- 
vealed that the position was serious. The Supreme Moslem 
Council therefore scught the advice of Mr. W. Harvey, a dis- 
pace English engineer who had been summoned to 
Palestine to report on the condition of the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre. ey also secured the assistance of Egyptian 
Government engineers who were specialists in the conservation 
of mosques and Islamic monuments in Egypt, and under their 
direction the work of shoring up the eastern portion of the 
Mosque was undertaken. Later in 1938 this work was inspected 
by an experienced Egyptian engineer who reported that it re- 
moved any immediate danger to the eastern portion of the build- 
ing. He advised, however, that the restoration of the central 

rtion of the Mosque should be undertaken without delay. 

is has been put in hand. 


32 


The Haram es Sherif. 


A number of minor urgent repairs were executed on various 
other buildings in the precincts of the Haram es Sherif at 
Jerusalem. 

Hebron. 


At Hebron the Great Mosque (Haram el Ibrahim) was ex- 
amined by the Egyptian engineers who are drawing up a scheme 
for enlarging fe retem as the available space is often insuffi- 
cient to accommodate the worshippers who attend on major 
religious festivals. Funds, however, are not at present avail- 
able for the execution of that scheme as priority must be given 
to making the Mosque of Al Aqsa safe. 

Certain minor works have, however, been carried out in the 
Haram el Ibrahimi at Hebron, e.g., the lead covering on the 
roof has been repaired to stop the infiltration of rain water into 
the arches and walls which, if it had continued, might have 
caused serious damage to the structure itself. 

A sum of £P.500 has also been provided for a number of 
urgent minor repairs which have been put in hand. 


At Nablus work continued, albeit slowly, owing to lack of 
funds, on the new “‘ El Nasr ’’ Mosque. 


Jaffa. 


At Jaffa a sum of £P.2,000 was provided for the installation of 
proper sanitation and drains in two of the principal mosques. 


JEWISH AFFAIRS. 


48. During the first eight months of 1938 the interest of the 
Jewish community was focused on the investigations of the 

alestine Partition Commission, before whom evidence was 
given by the Jewish Agency and other Jewish bodies including 
representatives of the Revisionist (New Zionist) Organisation 
and the Agudat Israel. 

Official Zionist opinion on the question of partition, as well as 
that of the Jewish public generally, was sharply divided and did 
not follow normal party lines. The abandonment of the par- 
tition proposal by His Majesty’s Government, while a disappoint- 
ment to certain sections of Jewish opinion, served to unite 
Zionist parties on the question of policy in Palestine. 


49. The increased severities exercised against the Jews in 
Germany aroused considerable feeling amongst Palestine Je 
and the proceedings of the Evian Conference for dealing wi 
the international refugee problem were followed locally with 
keen interest. Dr. Ruppin, a member of the Executive of the 


33 


Jewish Agency, attended the Evian Conference. The local 
Jewish community contributed generously to funds for the 
settlement of German Jews in Palestine. 


50. The strained relations between the official Zionist bodies 
and the Revisionist (New Zionist) Organisation showed no 
improvement during the year. Collections on behalf of the Re- 
demption Fund (Kofer Hayishuv), which was instituted under 
the auspices of the Vaad Leumi to provide funds to assist in the 

rotection of Jewish outlying settlements, were actively oppo 
iy the Revisionists, on the grounds that members of their 
organization had not been allowed to co-operate in the measures 
taken for the defence of Jewish settlements. These disputes 
resulted in a few breaches of the peace. 


51. Negotiations were still in progress at the end of the year 
for the amal, ation of the committee of the local Jewish com- 
munity of Tel Aviv established under the Religious Communities 
(Organization) Ordinance with the Municipal Council of Tel 
Aviv. Amalgamation of the corresponding bodies was com- 
ee in the case of the newly established Municipal Council of 

etah Tiqva. 

New local councils were elected in Rishon le Tsiyon, Hertse- 
liya, Ramat Gan and Raanana. 

Local town planning commissions were established in the 
Jewish settlements of Ramat Gan and Bnei Beraq. 


52. The establishment of a temporary landing ground for aero- 
planes was authorized in September on Government land north 
of the River Auja, adjoining Tel Aviv. A passenger and mail 
service plying daily between Tel Aviv and Haifa and Beirut 
was inaugurated by Palestine Airways. 


53. Negotiations were continued for combining all Jewish 
citrus co-operatives under a single organization, with a view 
to centralizing arrangements for the disposal of the citrus crop 
and eliminating uncontrolled exports of citrus fruits but no 
agreement was reached for the 1938-9 citrus season. The 
negotiations were still in progress at the end of the year. 


54. The Jewish Agency carried out a census of Jewish whole- 
sale and retail distribution trades. 7,103 retail and 423 whole- 
sales stores were enumerated, representing a capital investment 
of £P.7,780,000 and affording employment to 19,910 persons. 


55. Since the opening of Tel Aviv Lighter Harbour, increased 
interest has been shown by the Jewish public in the possibility of 
maritime developments, and a school of navigation and marine 
engineering was opened at the Hebrew Technical Institute at 
Haifa at which 41 students are attending. 

A local Jewish shipping company which is carrying out 
coastal trade in the eastern Mediterranean in two small cargo 
vessels manned by Jewish crews is expanding its activities. 


34 


56. The award of an ponetay Order of the British Empire 
to Mr. I. Rokach, the Mayor of Tel Aviv, was among the Birth- 
day Honours conferred by His Majesty the King. 


57.. Professor A. H. Fraenkel, of the Faculty of Science, was 
appointed by the Senate as Rector of the Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem. 


_ 58. Dr. Emil Schmorak was appointed member of the Pales- 
tine Executive of the Jewish Agency in charge of trade and in- 
dustrial affairs in place of the late Dr. F. Rotenstreich. 


ECONOMIC AFFAIRS. 


59. The revised estimate of revenue for the financial year 
1st April, 1938, to 31st March, 1939, excluding grants by His 
Majesty’s Government, is £P.4,123,000 compared with the 
original estimate of £P.4,343,435, a decrease of £P.220,435. 
The principal decreases occur under the heads tor Customs 
50,000), Licences and Taxes (£P.145,000), and Fees, etc. 
£P.26,000). There were increases, however, under the heads 
for Posts and Telegraphs (4P.24,000) and Interest (£P.12,000). 
The revised estimate of grants by His Majesty’s Government is 
£P,1,811,980. These grants comprise £P.200,000 for the Trans- 
Jordan Frontier Force, £P.18,000 for Hydrographic Survey, 
£P.13,980 from the Colonial Development Fund and 
£P.1,580,000 in respect of the reimbursement of emergency 
expenditure on security. The revised expenditure is estimated 
at £P.5,765,000 as compared with the original estimate of 
4P.5,445,700, an increase of £P.319,240 due to the increased 
expenditure on Police and Prisons service (£P.361,000), the 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force including extraordinary works 
4P.45,000) and Posts and Telegraphs including extraordinary 
f £P.9,000). Expenditure for compensation for loss of life and 
injury caused an increase of £P.56,000 on the vote for Miscel- 
laneous, and there was an increase of £P.108,000 in the estimate 
of the deficit on the Railways, due partly to decreased traffic and 
partly to repairs of damage caused by sabotage. On the other 
hand there were decreases amounting to £P.259,000 on other 
heads. 

The revised estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year 
ending the 31st March, 1939, therefore, show a surplus of 
£P.170,000; and it is anticipated that, even after accounting 
for the anticipated depreciation of investments at the 31st 
March, 1939, the general revenue balance will be slightly higher 
than at the rst April, 1938, when it amounted to £P.2,400,838. 
It will be necessary, however, to provide in the Estimates for 
1939-40 for considerable revotes of emergency expenditure on 
security measures which were approved during 1938-9, but were 
not completed in that year. 


35 


60. During the calendar year 1938 a total number of 15,263 
immigrants entered Palestine as compared with a total of 12,475 
in 1937, 31,671 in 1936, and 64,147 in 1935. The number of 
Jewish immigrants with a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards in 
1938 was 1,753 as compared with 1,275 in 1937, and with 2,970 
and 6,309 in 1936 and 1935 respectively. The total value of 
imports (excluding military stores) decreased from £P.15,435,000 
in 1937 to £P.11,566,000 in 1938; and the total value of exports 
decreased from £P.5,814,000 in 1937 to £P.5,020,000 in 1938. 

61. The number of dunums of land sold in 1938 was approxi- 
mately 70,000 valued at £P.2,952,556, as compared with 103,000 
dunums valued at £P.4,388,556 in 1937. 

62. The estimated value of investments in buildings in 1938 
was £P.1,800,000 as compared with £P.3,000,000 in 1937, 
£P.4,000,000 in 1936 and £P.7,000,000 in 1935. 

63. New areas planted with citrus trees amounted to 1,500 
dunums in 1938 as compared with 1,500 dunums in 1937, 
20,000 dunums in 1936 and 28,000 dunums in 1935. 

64. During 1938 the number of new local companies registered 
totalled 163, with an authorized capital of £P.1,173,597 as com- 
pared with 207 and an authorised capital of £P.g09,000 in 1937; 
while 52 companies increased their capital from £P.1,384,579 to 
£P.2,258,251. At the 31st December, 1938, the currency in 
circulation amounted to £P.5,509,134 as compared with 
£P.4,829,134 at the 31st December, 1937, and £P.5,741,134 
at the 31st December, 1936. Deposits with banks and the 
leading local co-operative societies at the 31st December, 1938, 
amounted to £P.17,650,000 as compared with £P.16,000,000 at 
the 31st December, 1937, and £P.16,600,000 at the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1936. 

65. Revenue receipts, which towards the end of 1935 began to 
reflect the uneasiness aroused by the political outlook in Europe, 
continued to fall throughout 1936-7 owing to the after effects of 
the disturbances in that year. Though they showed a slight 
increase in 1937-8 over the previous year, they fell short of the 
estimate for the year and were still considerably below the level 
of 1935-6. It is expected that revenue receipts for 1938-9 will 
show a further decline. Customs receipts, which for the 12 
months ended December, 1935, had maintained an average of 
4P.239,000 a month fell in 1936 to an average of £P.168,000 a 
month, and although the monthly average showed a slight im- 
provement in 1937, when it stood at £P.178,000 it dropped in 
1938 below £P.146,000. The general uneasiness and uncer- 
tainty as to the trend of events in Palestine to which reference 
was made in the Reports of the preceding two years continued to- 
discourage new developments in trade and industry. Credit 
facilities were curtailed in 1936 and continued to be restricted 
throughout 1937 and 1938. The number of companies that went 


36 


into voluntary liquidation in 1938 was 28 as compared with 27 
in 1937 and with 17 in 1936. SEA Orders were issued in 
1938 in respect of two companies with estimated assets of 
£P.6,000 and estimated liabilities of £P.12,000 as compared with 
seven companies in 1937 with estimated assets of £P.93,500 and 
estimated liabilities of £P.187,500. The number of Receiving 
Orders issued in 1938 was 82* representing estimated assets of 
4P.98,000 and estimated liabilities of £P.166,000 as compared 
with 60 Orders issued in 1937, representing estimated assets of 
4£P.37,000 and estimated liabilities of £P.93,000. 

66. Reference was made in paragraph 83 of the Introductory 
Chapter to the 1937 Report to meetings held between represen- 
tatives of the Egyptian and Palestine Governments with a view to 
improvement of the trade relations between the two countries 
under the terms of the Trade Agreement with Egypt. The pro- 
posals which were formulated as a result of these meetings, and 
which involve reciprocal tariff concessions in respect of agricul- 
tural products of both territories are now under consideration by 
the respective Governments. 

67. The question of the revision of the Syria Palestine Customs 
Agreement of 1929 so as to bring it more into accord with de- 
velopments in recent year in Palestine’s trade and industry has 
been under active consideration during 1938. Preliminary 
negotiations were opened with the Haut Commissariat in Beirut, 
and in September, 1938, the Palestine Government gave six 
months’ notice of the termination of the Agreement to take effect 
from the 1st March, 1930, under Article 20 of the Agreement. 
As later it became clear that the negotiations for a new Customs 
Agreement could not be concluded by the rst March, 1939, the 
period of the notice of termination of the existing Agreement was 
extended with the consent of the Haut Commissariat until the 
Ist June, 1939. 

68. Mention was made in paragraph 85 of the Introductory 
Chapter to the 1937 Report of proposals by the Citrus Trans- 
portation and Marketing Committee for the enactment of legis- 
lation designed to improve the standard of ships carrying citrus 
fruit from Palestine. The shipping interests have since been 
consulted in regard to the proposed legislation, and in view of 
their representations it has been thought desirable to obtain the 
advice of the Board of Trade before the final proposals for 
legislation of this character are formulated. 

69. The General Manager of the Jaffa Citrus Exchange again 
made visits to European countries during 1938 with a view to 
securing a relaxation of trade and currency restrictions which 
are an obstacle to the development of the Palestine export trade 
in citrus fruit. 

* Six debtors have not to date submitted statements of their assets and 
liabilities, 





37 


As a result, additional facilities were secured in respect of 
citrus exports to Denmark, Hungary, Roumania, Poland and 
Yugoslavia. : 


7o. Under the Trade Agreement between the United Kingdom 
and the United States of America which was signed in November, 
1938, Palestine will receive most-favoured-nation treatment in 
the United States and will benefit in the British market from all 
the concessions extended to American produce. 

The chief concessions by which Palestine may profit are those 
in respect of canned grape fruit, canned grape fruit juice and 
canned orange juice which will be accorded duty free entry 
to the United Kingdom. 


71. The manufacture of citrus juices in Palestine is expand- 
ing, exports of fruit juices (chiedy citrus fruit juices) having 
increased from £P.9,928 in 1937 to £P.17,220 in 1938. 

72. The Government of Brazil has, on the representations of 
His Majesty’s Government under the terms of the Notes ex- 
changed between the two Governments in London on roth 
August, 1936, accorded most-favoured-nation treatment to goods 
produced or manufactured in Palestine. 


73. The railways have suffered severely from the disturbed 
state of the country and from the decrease in commercial and 
industrial activities, particularly in the building trade. 

A local committee was set up towards the end of the year to 
examine, as an emergency measure, the possibilities of een: 
temporary economies during the prevailing critical period, wit 
a view to reducing the railway deficit. The committee has sub- 
mitted its Report: a number of its recommendations for 
economies have been adopted and will be given effect in the next 
financial year and others are receiving consideration. 


74. In view of the increasing importance of the trade and in- 
dustry of the country, the Palestine Government have created a 
new post of Economic Adviser to the High Commissioner. Mr. 
G. Walsh, C.B.E., who has been appointed to this office, has 
also assumed the Chairmanship of the Standing Committee for 
Commerce and Industry, the advisory body consisting of official 
and non-official representatives which was set up in 1928 to 
advise Government on questions affecting trade and industry. 
In addition to the Chairman, the Standing Committee now con- 
sists of four official members and six unofficial members repre- 
sentative of the commercial and industrial interests of all com- 
munities. 

75. The principal new industrial enterprise initiated in 1938 
was the establishment at Haifa of a large oil refinery by Con- 
solidated Refineries Limited. The construction of the works, 
which is expected to be completed in 1940, is affording employ- 
ment to about 2,000 workmen. 


38 


Other new industrial enterprises include factories for the 
manufacture of matches, electrical apparatus, textile printing, 
tapestries, margarine and flour, and ihe cutting and polishing 
of diamonds has been commenced on a small scale. 

76. In accordance with recommendations of the Standing 
Committee for Commerce and Industry, local industry was 
given further assistance by the impositioin of protective tariffs 
on certain articles which are produced in Palestine, by exemp- 
tion from import duty of a number of raw materials, and by 
the grant of customs drawback in cases where exemption from 
import duty of the raw material was impracticable. The in- 
dustries benefiting from these measures included cotton textile 
manufacture, cutting and polishing of diamonds and other 
precious stones, manufacture of rivets and denatured alcohol, 
and other minor industries. 


AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND LAND. 


77. The year 1938 was abnormal and on the whole unfavour- 
able to agriculture. The wheat crop, as the result of an attack 
of rust, was the lowest for many years, the yield being only 
about 44,000 tons of very poor quality, as compared with 127,420 
for 1937. On the other faad the barley and leguminous crop 
yields were generally satisfactory and the melon and olive crops 
were particularly good, thus compensating in some degree for the 
failure of the wheat crop. 


78. The activities of the Department of Agriculture were 
severely restricted owing to the disturbed state of the country, 
and nearly all the agricultural and horticultural stations were 
attacked and in some cases destroyed by armed bands. As the 
result it eventually became necessary to close down all the 
stations except three. 

79. As regards education and pe aganda, the publication of 
the agricultural supplement to the Bevctie was continued and 
weekly “‘ talks to farmers ’’ were broadcasted throughout the 
year by the Palestine Broadcasting Service. They appeared to 

e a popular feature. 

80. The year was favourable for stock raisers, but the activi- 
ties of the veterinary service also had to be curtailed owing 
to the disturbed state of the country. Towards the end of the 
year the majority of the animal quarantine stations, poultry 
stations and apiaries were closed. 

81. £P.2,342 was allocated under the scheme for the issue of 
loans for the development of the hill areas, but owing to prevail- 
ing conditions and the difficulty of obtaining adequate security 
it was eventually decided that the issue of these loans should be 
suspended. 


39 


82. Citrus exports for the season 1937-8 were even higher than 
the record crop of the previous season and the general condition 
of shipments arriving on the markets abroad was much 
improved. 


83. The fishing industry also suffered from the prevailing 
insecurity which discouraged the investment of capital; but 
although the number of fishing licences showed a slight decrease 
during the year, there was an increase in the number of fishing 
craft registered. 


84. The work of the Department of Forests was continued 
under difficulties. Fifty-four plantations covering 22,400 
dunums were formed by private persons and institutions during 
the season, and one new forest reserve was proclaimed, bringin; 
the total number of reserves up to 278 with a nominal area o: 
740,639 dunums. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


85. On the 4th February, 1938, the High Commissioner, Sir 
Arthur Wauchope, officially opened the new automatic telephone 
exchange at Tel Aviv. 


86. On the 24th March, Lord Lloyd and Colonel Bridge of the 
British Council visited Haifa in the course of their tour to en- 
quire into educational facilities for British children in the Near 
and Middle East. The British Council subsequently made a 
grant of £P.1,000 per annum towards the elemen education 
of children of British birth and allegiance resident in Palestine. 


87. On the 17th June, 1938, the High Commissioner, Sir 
Harold MacMichael, officially opened the new General Post 
Office building in Jerusalem and the Jerusalem automatic 
telephone exchange. 


88. On the 21st December, the High Commissioner officially 
opened the new Government Hospital at Haifa. 


89. Through the instrumentality of the Haifa branch of 
Rotary, the Palestine Society for Crippled Children was enabled 
to open a clinic in Haifa. A panel of doctors has been formed 
who place their services at the disposal of the clinic when re- 
quired. Jewish, Moslem and Christian children are being 
treated in the clinic. Free treatment is given to poor children. 


40 
APPENDIX “A.” 


Despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the High 
Commissioner for Palestine.* 


Downing Street, 
23rd December, 1937. 


Sr, 


I have the honour to inform you that His Majesty’s Government in the 
United Kingdom have had under consideration the Statement of Policy in 
Palestine issued in July last (Cmd. 5513), and the conclusions to be drawn 
from the resolutions on the subject which have been passed first by the 
House of Commons and subsequently by the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission and the Council and Assembly of the League of Nations. A 
memorandum containing relevant extracts from the Statement of Policy 
and the resolutions in question, and containing also extracts from Ministerial 
statements, is enclosed for convenience of reference. 


2. I feel that it is necessary to emphasize certain implications of the 
acceptance in principle by His Majesty’s Government of the recommenda 
tions contained in Part III of the Report of the Royal Commission, + and to 
dispel if possible, the uncertainty which appears to exist in some quarters 
with regard to the course of action which His Majesty’s Government have 
in view. 

3. In the Statement of Policy His Majesty’s Government have expressed 
their general agreement with the arguments and conclusions of the Royal 
Commission and their opinion that a scheme of tripartite division is the 
best and most hopeful solution of the problem. In view of the public 
attention that has been devoted to criticism of certain features of the 
tentative plan of partition which is outlined in Part III of the Report of 
the Royal Commission, I wish to make it clear that His Majesty's Govem- 
ment are in no sense committed to approval of that plan, and in particular 
that they have not accepted the Commission’s proposal for the compulsory 
transfer in the last resort of Arabs from the Jewish to the Arab area. 


4. In the opinion of His Majesty’s Government the discussions at Geneva 
justify the undertaking of the further investigations required for the draw- 
ing up of a more precise scheme expressed in greater detail. The final 
decision cannot be taken in merely general terms, and the further enquiry 
will undoubtedly provide the necessary materials on which, when the best 
possible scheme has been formulated, to judge of its equity and 
practicability. 


As you are aware, it has been announced that a further special body 
will be appointed to visit Palestine, and to submit to His Majesty's Govern- 
ment, after consultation with the local communities, proposals for a detailed 
scheme of partition; and that it will be the task of this body to advise in 
due course as to the provisional boundaries of the proposed Arab and 
Jewish areas and of the new British Mandated area, and also to undertake 
the financial and other enquiries for which the Royal Commission recom- 
mended that a Financial Commission should be appointed. The functions 
of this new body will be to act as a technical Commission, that is to say, its 
functions will be confined to ascertaining facts and to considering in detail 
the practical possibilities of a scheme of partition. 





* Published separately as Cmd. 5634. t Cmd. 5479. 


4r 
6. The terms of reference of the technical Commission will be as 
follows :— 

“* Taking into account the plan of partition outlined in Part III of 
the Report of the Royal Commission, but with full liberty to suggest 
modifications of that plan, including variation of the areas recom- 
mended for retention under British Mandate, 

And taking into account any representations of the communities in 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan— 


(i) to recommend boundaries for the proposed Arab and Jewish 
areas and the enclaves to be retained permanently or temporarily 
under British Mandate which will— 

(a) afford a reasonable prospect of the eventual establish- 
ment, with adequate security, of self-supporting Arab and 
Jewish States; 

(b) necessitate the inclusion of the fewest possible Arabs and 
Arab enterprises in the Jewish area and vice versa; and 

(c) enable His Majesty’s Government to carry out the 
Mandatory responsibilities the assumption of which is recom- 
mended in the Report of the Royal Commission, including 
the obligations imposed by Article 28 of the Mandate as 
regards the Holy Places; 


(ii) to examine and report on the economic and _ financial 
questions involved in partition upon which decisions will require 
to be taken, including— 

(a) the allocation so far as may be necessary between the 
various areas of the public assets and public debt of Palestine 
and other ‘ financial obligations legitimately incurred by the 
Administration of Palestine during the period of the Mandate ’” 
teferred to in Article 28 thereof; 

(5) means to ensure that the financial obligations referred to 
above will be fully honoured in accordance with Article 28 of 
the Mandate; 

(c) the administration of the railways, ports, postal, tele- 
graph and telephone services; 

(d) currency arrangements; 

(e) customs adininistrations and tariffs; 

(f) the budgetary prospects of the various Administrations 
to be established; 

(g) the preservation of the rights of civil servants in accord- 
ance with the provisions of Article 28 of the Mandate; 

(h) the treatment of industrial and other concessions; 

(i) the possibility of voluntary exchanges of land and popula- 
tion, and the prospects of providing by works of land develop- 
ment room for further settlement to meet the needs of persons 
desiring to move from one area to another; 

(j) the provision of effective safeguards for the rights of 
religious or racial minorities in the areas to be allocated to 
Arab and Jews respectively; including the protection of 
religious rights and properties.’’ 


7. If, as a result of the investigation of the technical commission, which 
will undoubtedly occupy many months, a scheme of partition is regarded 
as equitable and practicable by His Majesty’s Government, it will be re- 
ferred to the Council of the League for consideration. If the scheme is 
approved by the League Council, a further period will be required for the 
establishment of new systems of government under mandate in the areas 
concerned and, if the necessary consent is forthcoming, for the negotiations 
of treaties with a view to the eventual establishment of independent States. 
It may also be necessary, in the light of the Commission’s report, for His 


42 


Majesty’s Government to give further consideration to the suggestion of 
the Permanent Mandates Commission that the Arab and Jewish areas 
should be administered temporarily under a system of ‘‘ cantonisation °’ 
or under separate mandates. It is obvious, therefore, that, for some time 
to come, any action taken will be only of an exploratory nature. 

8. I will communicate with you further in due course on the subject of 
the personnel of the Commission and its procedure. 

I have, etc., 
W. ORMSBY GORE. 
High Commissioner, 
General Sir Arthur Wauchope, 


G.C.M.G., K.C.B., C.I.E., D.S.O., 
etc., etc., etc. 


APPENDIX ‘‘B.” 
Partition Commission. 


SUMMARY OF REPORT. 
1. Only the briefest description of the main conclusions is possible in 
this summary. 
2. In their report the Commission examine three plans of partition, A, B 
and C, besides certain Jewish proposals. 
Pian A. 


3. In plan A, which is the Royal Commission’s plan with the boundaries 
adjusted for purposes of defence, the figures of population and land are— 


Population. 
Arab State 
(Including Jerusalem and 
Beersheba Jewish State. Nazareth 
sub-district), Enclaves. 
Arabs dae tee 485,200 294,700 221,400 
Jews ase a 7,200 304,900 80,200 
Total population ... 492,400 599,600 301,600 
Land (in dunums). 
Arab State 
(excluding Jerusalem and 
Beersheba Jewish State. Nazareth 
sub-district). Enclaves. 
Arabs. Jews. Arabs. Jews. Arabs. Jews. 
Citrus land ... 26,600 1,300 78,600 135,900 37,900 8,900 
Other land ... 6,981,300 35,700 3,776,100 1,004,300 1,466,700 69,900 
Total land ... 7,007,900 37,000 3,854,700 1,140,200 1,504,600 78,800 


By their terms of reference the Partition Commission are required to 
recommend boundaries which will necessitate the inclusion of the fewest 
possible Arabs and Arab enterprises in the Jewish State and vice versa. 

A plan for a Jewish State in which there will be nearly as many Arabs 
(295,000) as Jews (305,000) and four-fifths of the land will be owned by 
Arabs is plainly inconsistent with this requirement, unless there is a 
reasonable prospect that the problem thereby created can be solved by 
exchange or transfer of most of these Arabs to the Arab State. It was 
a fundamental assumption of the Royal Commission’s plan that this could 
and should be done. The Partition Commission find, however, that this is 
impossible. 


43 


Further, they find that Galilee should not anyhow be included in the 
Jewish State, because— 


(a) The population is almost entirely Arab and the land almost 
entirely owned by Arabs: its inclusion would, therefore, be plainly 
inconsistent with the Commission’s instructions. 

(6) The Arabs will resist inclusion in the Jewish State by force. 
The use of force to compel this homogeneous body of 90,000 Arabs 
to accept Jewish rule cannot be justified. 

(c) Even if their resistance were crushed, pacification would only be 
temporary and Galilee would remain a running sore in the body of the 
Jewish State. 


The Commission therefore reject plan A. 


Pian B. 


4. Plan B (map 9g) is plan A with the exclusion from the Jewish State 
of Galilee and the small and predominantly Arab area at the southern 
extremity of the Jewish State. 


The Commission recommend that the latter area should be included in 
the Arab State, but the majority of them reject the rest of plan B, 
because— 

(a) Galilee cannot be placed under Arab control without endangering 
the security of the Jewish State. 

(0) Its retention under Mandatory control is open to strong objection 
because the Arabs of Galilee would thereby have to be denied their 
independence in order to ensure the security of the Jewish State. 

(c) Haifa, the only deep-water harbour in Palestine, could not be 
included in the Jewish State without serious detriment to Ajrab 
interests. Similarly it could not be included in the Arab State without 
serious detriment to Jewish interests. 

(d) Even with the exclusion of Galilee and the area in the south from 
the Jewish State, the number of Arabs in that state would still be 
very large, 188,000 Arabs as compared with 300,000 Jews. 

(e) In the portion (excluding Haifa) of the Jewish State which runs 
from Haifa east to Beisan and then north to the Palestine frontier, 
the Arabs are in a majority, the Jews only forming 24 per cent. of the 
population. The Commission consider that a plan of partition which 
brings under the political domination of the Jews large numbers of 
Arabs in an area where the Jews are not already in a majority, will be 
opposed by the Arabs and will not lead to peace. 


JewisH Proposals. 


5. The Commission reject certain Jewish proposals for the inclusion in the 
Jewish State of part of Jerusalem, and of certain other areas outside the 
Jewish State is outlined by the Royal Commission. 


Pian C. 


6. The majority of the Commission put forward plan C as the best they 
have been able to devise. 


Map to of plan C shows Palestine divided into three parts— 
(i) a northern part to be retained under mandate; 
(ii) a southern part (the Negeb) to be retained under mandate; 
(iii) a central part to be divided into an Arab State, a Jewish State 
and the Jerusalem Enclave. 
The argument for plan C is summarized thus— 
(i) The northern territory cannot be partitioned without injustice 
to either Arabs or Jews, nor can it be handed over intact to either side. 


44 


(ii) It is impossible to hand over the Negeb to the Jews, and unfair 
to the Jews to hand it over to the Arabs while any reasonable prospect 
Temains of Jewish settlement therein without prejudice to the rights 
of the existing inhabitants. 

(iii) Both these territories must, therefore, be retained under 
mandate. , 

(iv) Only the central part, therefore, can be partitioned. Here the 
boundaries of the Arab and Jewish States and the Jerusalem Enclave 
will be identical with those in plan B except for slight changes acrose 
the Carmel Ridge, and on the Negeb boundary. 

The political future of both the Northern and Southern Territories must 
be clearly defined so that both races may know under what form of 
government the inhabitants will live henceforth. The Mandate for the 
Northern Territory should continue in being till both races in the territory 
agree to ask that it should be surrendered and the territory be given its 
independence either as part of an existing Jewish or Arab State or as a 
separate Palestinian State. By ‘‘ agreement ’’ is meant that the majority 
of one race in the territory must agree with the majority of the other. 

But Haifa and Acre can only be granted independence provided this can 
be done safely considering the special responsibilities of the Mandatory 
for the protection of the Holy Places and the new states against external 
aggression. 

In the Southern Mandated Territory, also, no independent state should 
be set up in opposition to the wishes of the minority, unless the minority 
is so small that its wishes ought not to be allowed to prevail, and the 
Mandate should continue for at least ten years. The Occupied Area (ex- 
plained below) will anyhow not be made an independent state if the 
majority of the Bedouin, assuming their numbers and territorial disposition 
are much as at present, object. 

The Arab inhabitants of both the territories will, therefore, have a 
binding assurance that they cannot possibly be placed under the political 
domination of the Jews against their will. 

The Jerusalem Enclave will, as proposed by the Royal Commission, 
be retained under a permanent mandate. 

The figures for the land and population under plan C are— 


Arab State. 
Arabs. Jews. Total. 
Population... ie 444,100 8,900 453,000 
Land (dunums) ... 7,329,700 63,800 7,393,500 
Jewish State. 

Population... Baa 54,400 226,000 280,400 
Land (dunums) ... 821,700 436,100 1,257,800 
Mandated Territories. 

Population... aoe 502,800 157,400 660,200 
Land (dunums) ... 6,160,200 811,500 6,971,700 


Jewish Settlement in the Mandated Territories under Plan C. 
7. To control Jewish acquisition of and settlement on the land in the 
Mandated Territories, the Commission recommend that— 
A.—The Northern Mandated Territory. 


(i) The Mandatory should be empowered to prohibit the transfer of 
land to any person in any part of the Mandated Territories, and in 
Galilee should immediately prohibit the transfer of land by a non- 
Jew to a Jew, but not Jewish residence. 


45 


(ii) After ten years this prohibition should be reviewed but not with- 
drawn or relaxed unless Arab opinion favours such action. 

(iii) Haifa and Tiberias and any other urban area approved by 
Government should be declared ‘‘ free areas ’’ in which the transfer 
of land to Jews should not be prohibited. 

(iv) Elsewhere the transfer of land to Jews should be prohibited 
except— 

(a) Transfers with Government approval for the consolidation of 
existing Jewish holdings, etc. 

(b) Any other transfers respecting which Government are satisfied 
that— 

(1) there are possibilities of closer settlement on the land; 

(2) adequate provision has been made for the resettlement of the - 
cultivators; 

(3) save where Government are satisfied that conditions make 
it impracticable, any surplus land resulting from closer settlement 
will be shared equitably between Jews and Arabs. 

(v) Government should be prepared to spend additional sums on 
agricultural development and agricultural research, experiment and 
education. While this expenditure, funds for which it is proposed 
should be provided by His Majesty’s Government, would benefit both 
Arabs and Jews, its primary object would be to facilitate Jewish 
settlement. 

(vi) Surplus agricultural land which may be made available as the 
direct result of such development schemes should be shared equitably 
between both Arabs and Jews. 


B.—The Jerusalem Enclave. 
All these recommendations apply to the Jerusalem Enclave except that 


it will probably not be necessary to create a ‘‘ prescribed '’ area such as 
Galilee. The urban area of Jerusalem should be declared a free area. 


C.—The Southern Mandated Territory. 
This area should be divided into an Unoccupied and an Occupied Area, 
the latter being the portion which the Bedouin tribes are accustomed to 
cultivate, and the former the rest. 


(i) Unoccupied Area. 

This should where necessary be declared a public domain and leases of 
such parts as Government think fit granted to a Jewish company for 
development. 

(ii) Occupied Area. 

This should for the present be declared a prescribed area in which Jews 
would be prohibited from acquiring land. 

The survey and settlement of this area should be undertaken as quickly 
as possible. 

The goodwill of the Bedouin should be obtained before experiments are 
undertaken for the purpose of developing this area, and they should be 
shown that they themselves will be the first to benefit by development. 
When this has been done, the Jews should carry out the greater part of the 
experiments with Government approval. 

If closer settlement should prove possible, the quantity of surplus land 
should be estimated in consultation with the Bedouin and the Jews. 

The Bedouin, considering their exceptional poverty, should have the 
first claim to benefit from the improvements in order to provide them with 
a reasonable standard of living. 


46 


As soon as Government are satisfied that the reasonable needs of the 
existing inhabitants will be met, the prohibition on the Jewish acquisition 
of land should be withdrawn. 

If the Bedouin from the outset oppose development, the experiments 
should be carried out by Government themselves. When the results of the 
experiments are available, the matter should be re-examined and it is 
hoped that the Bedouin will change their attitude on realising that other. 
wise they cannot expect money to be spent on improving their position. 

8. The Commission recommend that, provided that the Arabs will co 
operate, His Majesty’s Government should provide funds for agricultural 
development within the following limits— 

(i) on non-recurrent expenditure such as grants for development in 
whatever form in the Mandated Territories, including the Huleh con- 
cession scheme, not exceeding {1,000,000; 

(ii) on recurrent expenditure on agricultural services, including land 
settlement operations in the Southern Mandated Territory, not exceed- 
ing £75,000 a year for 10 years. 


Immigration into the Mandated Territories under Plan C. 


9. Immigration into the Mandated Territories should be regulated thus— 

(i) The rate of immigration should be decided upon political, social, 
and psychological, besides economic considerations. 

(ii) Among intending immigrants from outside Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan preference should be given to Jewish immigrants. 

(iii) Persons of whatever race habitually residing in the rest of 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan should be free to enter the Mandated 
Territories for short or casual visits but not to reside habitually therein 
without Government permission. Permission to reside habitually 
should be granted to such persons within the limits of an “* intr- 
Palestinian ’’ quota, with preference to Arabs wishing to leave the 
Jewish State. 

(iv) Article 4 of the present Mandate should not be reproduced in 
the new Mandate, but before fixing the immigrant quota the Man- 
datory should consult with representatives of both Arabs and Jews 
and with experienced opinion independent of Government and _ both 
races. 

Budgetary Prospects under Plan C. 


10. The Royal Commission proposed that the Jewish State should make 
a subvention to the Arab State. The Partition Commission think that 
such a stipulation would be unwise and likely to provoke resentment. 
They doubt whether it could prudently be made the foundation of a 
permanent settlement. 

The forecasts of revenue and expenditure show that on the existing 
standards of administration and without making any provision for defence 
the budgetary prospects under plan C will be— 

(i) For the Jewish State a surplus of about £P.600,000, 
(ii) For the Arab State (including Trans-Jordan) a deficit of about 
£P.610,000. 
(iii) For the Mandated Territories a deficit of £P.460,000. 


The financial position of the Arab State will be no better under any 
conceivable plan of partition. It is only the Jewish contributions to tax- 
revenue that have enabled Palestine to balance its budgets. 

The Commission cannot therefore recommend boundaries which will 
afford a reasonable prospect of the eventual establishment of a self-support- 
ing Arab State. If partition is carried out Parliament must be asked 
to provide the necessary financial assistance from United Kingdom funds. 
A capital payment of {2,000,000 as proposed by the Royal Commission is 
not recommended. If assistance takes the form of a direct subsidy, 


47 


financial control will be necessary, and the Arab State could not then be 
called self-supporting. The United Kingdom must also provide the means 
of balancing the Mandated Territories’ budget, including the proposed 
cost of development. Altogether partition would cost the United Kingdom 
say {1,250,000 annually, whereas the Jewish State would have an annual 
surplus of say £600,000, excluding the cost of defence in either case. The 
result would be much the same under any conceivable plan of partition. 


Customs and Tariffs under Plan C. 


11. (a) The Arab State cannot survive economically without access to 
the markets of the Mandated Territories for the sale of its agricultural 
produce. Access to the Jewish State also, although not essential, would 
be advantageous. 

(b) If the Jewish State is to provide employment for additional immi- 
grants in large numbers it must expand industrially and it cannot do so 
without an assured market larger than can be provided within its own 
territory. It must therefore have an outlet for its manufactures in the 
Mandated Territories. An outlet in the Arab State also, although not 
essential, would be advantageous. 

{c) The interests of both states demand that the three areas should con- 
stitute a single customs union, but this, though advantageous, is not 
essential to the Mandated Territories. 

(d) A customs union would give the Jewish State an assured market in 
the whole of Palestine and Trans-Jordan, and it would be reasonable to 
tequire that state in return to enter into a financial arrangement which 
would improve the financial position of the Arab State. Any such arrange- 
ment would tend to reduce the charges which partition must impose on 
the British Exchequer. 

(e) But a customs union between a mandated territory and an inde- 
pendent state or states would create serious constitutional difficulties. His 
Majesty’s Government could not be expected to approve a scheme which 
would deprive them of the right to insist on changes in the fiscal policy of 
any member-state which they may think necessary, on revenue grounds, 
as a condition of their continuing to vote assistance to enable that member 
to balance its budget. A customs union between the Mandated Territories 
and the Arab and Jewish States would therefore be impossible except under 
conditions which would be inconsistent with the grant of fiscal independence 
to those states. 


ConcLusIon. 


12. Apart from political considerations, the question whether partition 
is practicable or not concerns chiefly finance and economics. Taking into 
account the latter considerations, the Commission conclude that if they 
were to adhere strictly to their terms of reference, they would have no 
alternative but to report that they were unable to recommend boundaries 
for the proposed areas which will give a reasonable prospect of the eventual 
establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish States. 

But they do not believe it would be in accordance with the wishes of 
His Majesty’s Government or with the public interest that they should 
end their enquiry with a purely negative conclusion. 

They therefore put forward a suggestion for a modified form of partition, 
which they call economic federalism. Under this both states would be 
tequired, as a condition of the surrender of the Mandate, to enter a customs 
union with the Mandated Territories in which the fiscal policy would be 
determined by the Mandatory after consulting both states. The customs 
Ttevenue would be collected by the Mandatory, and the net surplus after 
meeting certain common charges would be distributed between the three 
areas according to an agreed formula, subject to periodic review. The 
Commission suggest that initially each area’s share should be one-third. 


48 


To enable the Arab State to balance its budget without subjecting it to 
external financial control, it should receive a supplementary share out of 
the share of the Mandated Territories, under conditions which will entitle 
it to share in any expansion of customs revenue resulting from an increase 
of prosperity in the rest of Palestine. This arrangement could be extended, 
if desired, to cover internal communications—railways, posts and tele- 
graphs—thus removing certain obvious administrative difficulties consequent 
on partition. While this arrangement withholds fiscal autonomy from the 
Arab and Jewish States it seems to the Commission, subject to certain 
reservations, to form a satisfactory basis for settlement, provided His 
Majesty’s Government are prepared to accept the very considerable 
financial liability involved. 


Note of Reservations by Sir Alison Russell. 


in a note of reservations Sir Alison Russell, while agreeing that plan A 
is unacceptable, considers that plan B is preferable to plan C. 

He holds that a Jewish State of the small size proposed in plan C is not 
in accord with the obligations to the Jews. 

He agrees that the financial position of the Arab State under plan B is 
much the same as under plan C, and that under plan B there is no reason- 
able prospect of the eventual establishment of a self-supporting Arab State. 


Note of Reservations by Mr. Reid. 


i a note of reservations Mr. Reid, while agreeing that plan C is the 
best that can be devised under the terms of reference, considers that both 
pians B and C are impracticable. He classifies his reasons under the 
following heads: (a) absence of consent, (b) absence of equity, (c) absence 
of security, (d) dismemberment of Palestine, and (e) absence of solvency. 


APPENDIX C. 


Statement by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom. 


1. The Royal Commission, presided over by the late Earl Peel, published 
its report in July, 1937, and proposed a solution of the Palestine problem 
by means of a scheme of partition under which independent Arab and 
Jewish States would be established while other areas would be retained 
under mandatory administration. In their statement of policy following 
upon the publication of the report, His Majesty’s Government in the 
United Kingdom announced their general agreement with the arguments 
and conclusions of the Royal Commission, and expressed the view that a 
scheme of partition on the general lines recommended by the Commission 
represented the best and most hopeful solution of the deadlock. 


2. The proposal of the Commission was framed in the light of the 
information available at the time, and it was generally recognized that 
further detailed examination would be necessary before it could be decided 
whether such a solution would prove practicable. This proposal was sub- 
sequently discussed in Parliament and at meetings of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission and the Council and Assembly of the League of 
Nations, when His Majesty’s Government received authority to explore 
the practical application of the principle of partition. A despatch of 23rd 
December, 1937, from the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the High 
Commissioner for Palestine*, announced the intention of His Majesty’s 
Government to undertake the further investigations required for the draw- 
ing up of a more precise and detailed scheme. It was pointed out that 
the final decision could not be taken in merely general terms and that 
the further enquiry would provide the necessary material on which to 





* Cmd. 5634. 


49 


judge, when the best possible partition scheme had been formulated, its 
equity and practicability. The despatch also defined the functions and 
terms of reference of the technical Commission who were appointed to 
visit Palestine for the purpose of submitting in due course to His Majesty’s 
Government proposals for such a detailed scheme. 


3. His Majesty’s Government have now received the report of the 
Palestine Partition Commission who have carried out their investigations 
with great thoroughness and efficiency, and have collected material which 
will be very valuable in the further consideration of policy. Their report 
is now published, together with a summary of their conclusions. It will 
be noted that the four members of the Commission advise unanimously 
against the adoption of the scheme of partition outlined by the Royal 
Commission. In addition to the Royal Commission’s scheme, two other 
schemes described as plans B and C are examined in the report. One 
member prefers plan B. Two other members, including the Chairman, 
consider that plan C is the best scheme of partition which, under the 
terms of reference, can be devised. A fourth member, while agreeing 
that plan C is the best that can be devised under the terms of reference, 
regards both plans as impracticable. The report points out that under 
either plan, while the budget of the Jewish State is likely to show a sub- 
stantial surplus, the budgets of the Arab State (including Trans-Jordan) 
and of the Mandated Territories are likely to show substantial deficits. 
The Commission reject as impracticable the Royal Commission’s recom- 
mendation for a direct subvention from the Jewish State to the Arab 
State. They think that, on economic grounds, a customs union between 
the States and the Mandated Territories is essential and they examine the 
possibility of finding the solution for the financial and economic problems 
of partition by means of a scheme based upon such a union. They 
consider that any such scheme would be inconsistent with the grant of 
fiscal independence to the Arab and Jewish States. Their conclusion is 
that, on a strict interpretation of their terms of reference, they have no 
alternative but to report that they are unable to recommend boundaries 
for the proposed areas which will afford a reasonable prospect of the 
eventual establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish States. 


4. His Majesty’s Government, after careful study of the Partition 
Cummission’s report, have reached the conclusion that this further 
examination has shown that the political, administrative and financial 
difficulties involved in the proposal to create independent Arab and Jewish 


States inside Palestine are so great that this solution of the problem is 
impracticable. 


5. His Majesty’s Government will therefore continue their responsibility 
for the government of the whole of Palestine. They are now faced with 
the problem of finding alternative means of meeting the needs of the 
difficult situation described by the Royal Commission which will be con- 
sistent with their obligations to the Arabs and the Jews. His Majesty's 
Government believe that it is possible to find these alternative means. 
They have already given much thought to the problem in the light of 
the reports of the Royal Commission and of the Partition Commission. It 
is clear that the surest foundation for peace and progress in Palestine 
would be an understanding between the Arabs and the Jews, and His 
Majesty’s Government are prepared in the first instance to make a deter- 
mined effort to promote such an understanding. With this end in view, 
they propose immediately to invite representatives of the Palestinian 
Arabs and of neighbouring States on the one hand and of the Jewish 
Agency on the other, to confer with them as soon as possible in London 
tegarding future policy, including the question of immigration into Pales- 
tine. As regards the representation of the Palestinian Arabs, His Majesty’s 
Government must reserve the right to refuse to receive those leaders whom 
they regard as responsible for the campaign of assassination and violence. 


50 

6. His Majesty’s Government hope that these discussions in London may 
help to promote agreement as to future policy regarding Palestine. They 
attach great importance, however, to a decision being reached at an early 
date. Therefore, if the London discussions should not produce agreement 
within a reasonable period of time, they will take their own decision in 
the light of their examination of the problem and of the discussions in 
London, and announce the policy which they propose to pursue. 

7. In considering and settling their policy His Majesty’s Government 
will keep constantly in mind the international character of the Mandate 
with which they have been entrusted and their obligations in that respect. 


APPENDIX “‘ D.”’ 


Speech by the Secretary of State in the House of Commons. 
(24th November, 1938). 


I should like to preface my statement to-day by thanking hon. Members 
in every part of the House for the patience and restraint with which they 
have watched growing each month the unhappy situation in Palestine. 
I know how easy it would have been for them to have badgered the 
Colonial Secretary at Question Time or to have drawn angry attention 
to this or that aspect of the matter on Motions for the Adjournment. 
But hon. Members have refrained from doing these things. It is not be 
cause they are indifferent to what is going on in Palestine. The House is 
conscious of its responsibilities in Palestine, as it is of its responsibilities in 
any other part of the world. I think hon. Members have, perhaps, re- 
frained from doing these things because they appreciate the special diff- 
culty and delicacy of the situaton with which we are faced in that country. 
I hope that I may appeal to hon. Members this afternoon, when we are 
about to enter into discussions with representatives of the Arabs and the 
Jews in London, to conduct this Debate with such a wise judgment that 
no word which is spoken here shall prejudice the chance of these dis 
cussions bearing at last the fruit of an Arab-Jewish agreement. 

During the last few months a constructive political effort to ease the 
situation in Palestine has not been possible. It was unfortunate, but it 
was inevitable. We had to await the presentation of the Woodhead 
Commission’s Report, and so our attention has been concentrated on 
the mere physical effort to restore law and order in that country. During 
the idle summer days, when there was little work for labourers to do in 
the fields, a campaign of assassination and violence, waged by terrorists, 
grew into something like an organised and widespread Arab revolt against 
British authority. The powerful military and police forces which are now 
at the disposal of the Government are steadily and surely re-establishing 
the authority of the Government throughout the land. A few weeks 
ago they cleared the old city of Jerusalem of the rebels. The authority 
of the administration has been re-established in Jaffa. Without any 
blowing of trumpets the walls of Jericho have been re-occupied by our 
troops. Gaza is once more a place where the writ of the Government muns, 
and this week hostile elements have been driven out of Beersheba. Steadily 
and painfully the process of restoration is going on throughout the country. 

We all know that certain interested propagandists have been levelling 
many foul charges against the conduct of our troops. I see a good 
many things in the Colonial Office, but I have never seen any evidence in 
support of these charges. On the contrary, the whole world know that 
the 1e-cccupation of the old city of Jerusalem a few weeks ago was an 
example of the way in which British troops can with perfect humility, as 
well as perfect success, conduct a delicate military operation in the midst 
of a civilian population. But the real problem in Palestine is not a 
military problem but a political problem. Our troops can restore order; 


51 
they cannot restore peace. The Government have to do that; this House 
has to do that. There is nothing so easy as to state the problem in 
Palestine. It was done brilliantly in the pages of the report of the Peel 
Commission. There is no need to alter a word or a comma in the analysis 
of the problem as it is made in that remarkable State document. 

Palestine is a tiny country; spiritually it is great. In its spiritual quality 
it has no peer among the countries of the earth; it guards some of the 
Holy Places of three of the world’s great religions. But physically it is 
tiny. Its soil is very fertile and bears rich fruit, but much of the land is 
rocky or hilly, and much of it is desert. That is the nature of the small 
stage on which a great tragedy is being played to-day. There are two 
protagonists in the field. First of all there are the Jews. Nearly 2,000 
years ago their home was Palestine, but since then they have been dis- 
persed, scattered over the face of the earth. They are a countryless people, 
but during the last 20 years many of them have been hastening back 
to Palestine under the terms of the Mandate, endorsed by more than 50 
nations, under which the administration of the country was entrusted 
to Great Britain. I do not think that any one can justly say that during 
these years Great Britain has not been fulfilling her obligation to facilitate 
the immigration of Jews into Palestine. 

Since 1922 more than 250,000 Jews have entered Palestine and settled 
there. Their achievement has been remarkable. They have turned sand 
dunes into orange groves. They have pushed ever further into waste land 
the frontiers of cultivation and settlement. They have created a new city, 
housing to-day 140,000 souls, where before there was only bare sea-shore. 
There is no knowing where their achievement might end if Palestine were 
empty of all other populations and could be handed over to them in full 
ownership. The Jews are in Palestine not on sufferance but by right, 
and to-day, under the lash of persecution in Central Europe, their eagerness 
to return to their own home land is multiplied a hundredfold. The tragedy 
of a pecple who have no country has never been so deep as it is this week. 
The sympathy of our own countrymen, their anxiety to do everything they 
can to help the persecuted Jews has never been so firm as it is to-day. 
But I hope that we are not going to allow our horror at the plight into 
which these people have been thrown to warp our cool and just judgment 
on the difficult problem of Palestine to-day. 

I must utter this word of warning. When we promised to facilitate the 
establishment of a national home for Jews in Palestine, we never antici- 
pated this fierce persecution in Europe. We have made no promise that 
that country should be the home for everyone who is seeking to escape 
from such an immense calamity, and even if there were no other population 
in Palestine, its rather meagre soil could not in fact support more than a 
fraction of those Jews who may wish to escape from Europe. The problem 
of the refugees in Central Europe cannot be settled in Palestine. It has to 
be settled over a far wider field than that. Palestine, of course, can make 
its contribution; it is making a contribution to-day. At the present time, 
despite the disturbances, Jewish emigrants are going to Palestine week after 
week at the rate of about 1,000 a month. The Jewish Agency naturally, 
in the light of recent events, are now anxious that the rate of immigration 
shall be greatly increased. I saw two representatives of the Agency on Mon- 
day and they spoke to me about it. I asked them to let me have their pro- 
posals complete in every detail. Those proposals reached me this morning, 
and they will, of course, receive at once my most careful consideration, 
and I shall consult about them with the High Commissioner in Jerusalem. 
But I must in all honesty say this: the Government have often been 
charged with having no policy in Palestine, or else they have been charged 
with having a policy and then wobbling on it, changing their mind. The 
Government announced a short time ago what the next definite stage in 
its policy would be. That is a policy of discussions with Arabs and Jews 


52 
in London, and we are going to abide by that conference. We cannot do 
anything now which might prejudice the chance of those discussions ending 
successfully. It is in the best interests of the Jews themselves that future 
policy in Palestine should as far as possible be based on a wide agreement. 


The second people who are involved in this bitter controversy in Palestine 
are the Arabs. They have lived in the country for many centuries. They 
were not consulted when the Balfour Declaration was made, nor when the 
Mandate was framed, and during the post-War years they have watched 
with occasional angry protests this peaceful invasion by an alien people. 
They have watched the buying up of their lands, they have watched 
Jewish settlements spreading ever further over the countryside. They 
have been compelled to recognise the superior energy and skill and wealth 
of that wonderful people; and the Arabs are afraid. In 1933, 30,000 Jews 
came into Palestine; in 1934 42,000 Jews came into Palestine; and in 1935 
the number was 61,000. The Arabs wonder when a halt is going to be 
called te this great migration. They wonder whether a halt is ever going 
to be called to it, and they fear that it is going to be their fate in the 
land of their birth to be dominated by this energetic, new-coming people, 
dominated economically, politically and commercially. If I were an Arab I 
would be alarmed. If we are ever to have an understanding of this 
problem, if we are ever to play our part in finding a happy solution for 
it, we must be able to put ourselves in the shoes not only of the Jews but 
of the Arabs. 


I know that a great many people regard this Arab agitation as the mere 
protest of a gang of bandits. Of course it is true that many of these Arabs 
who have taken part most eagerly in the troubles are cut-throats of the 
worst type. Their massacres of the innocents at Tiberias, and on a score 
of other miserable battle-fields, have disgraced their cause. It is true also 
that many of those who are associated with them have been terrorised into 
that association. But there is much more than that in the Arab move- 
ment. I think that this House, which is so capable of a generous under- 
standing of other peoples, ought to recognise that many in the Palestinian 
Arab movement are moved by a genuine patriotism. However wrong they 
may be, however misguided they may be, however disastrous their policy 
may be, many of them have felt compelled to take the risk of laying down 
their lives for their country. 


I know that that is not the whole story. There is a great deal else 
that has to be said if the description of the situation is to be complete and 
just. There is one set of facts especially, of great importance, that I must 
mention. Those who conceived 20 years ago the possibility of facilitating 
the establishment of a Jewish National Home in Palestine were moved by 
a great idea, and already in these first 20 years that idea has been trans- 
lated into a wonderful act of creation. But I do sometimes wonder 
whether all of the authors of this great creative act were fully informed 
of the situation even at that time, in 1917, 1918 and 1919. I sometimes 
wonder whether they knew then that there were already living between 
the Jordan and the Mediterranean Sea more than 600,000 Arabs. Certainly 
T do not think they could know that as a result of the coming of the British 
administration, with the coming of the Jews and because of the coming of 
the Jews, that Arab population would increase rapidly. The Jews brought 
with them money and development work provided extra livelihood. 
Modern health services, which were extended not only to Jews but to 
Arabs, gave the individual a further lease and security of life. Since 1922 
the Arab population in Palestine has, scarcely at all by migration from 
outside and almost entirely by natural increase, gone up from something 
over 600,000 to 990,000 persons. Perhaps I should add that it is calculated 
that the total of 990,000 Arabs in Palestine to-day will have become 
1,500,000 Arabs within 20 years from now. 


53 


That remarkable and significant set of facts leads to two reflections. In 
the first place I think it must upset at any rate some of the calculations 
about how many Jews could be settled in Palestine without prejudicing the 
rights and position of the Arab population. But, as I say, there are two 
sides to that state of things. The other side is this: The Arabs cannot 
say that the Jews are driving them out of their country. If not a single 
Jew had come to Palestine after 1918, I believe the Arab population of 
Palestine to-day would still have been round about the 600,000 figure at 
which it had been stable under Turkish rule. It is because the Jews who 
have come to Palestine bring modern health services and other advantages 
that Arab men and women who would have been dead are alive to-day, 
that Arab children who would never have drawn breath have been born 
and grown strong. It is not only the Jews who have benefited from the 
Balfour Declaration. They can deny it as much as they like, but materi- 
ally the Arabs in Palestine have gained very greatly from the Balfour 
Declaration. 

I know that it is useless to press that argument on the Arabs. They 
are deaf to the argument, they are blind to the spectacle of a gradually 
improving standard of life for their people, because they are thinking of 
something else. They are thinking of their freedom and they are afraid 
that, if this process goes on, then at last they will have to surrender to the 
political over-lordship of the enterprising, hardworking, ever-increasing citi- 
zens of the Jewish National Home. I say that we British people ought to be 
the last people in the world not to understand the feelings of the Arabs in 
this matter, because we too would sacrifice material advantages if we 
thought our freedom was at stake. We cannot put the Jews under the 
domination of the Arabs in Palestine, but also, unless we can remove that 
Arab fear that they are going to be put under the domination of the Jews, 
we shall have to face a suspicious and hostile people over a great area of 
the Near East, and we shall find that we have to lock up a great part of 
our Army in Palestine indefinitely. 


Therefore, we have most solemn obligations to both peoples in Palestine. 
On the one hand. we are pledged to facilitate Jewish immigration into 
Palestine under suitable conditions and to encourage close settlement of 
Jews on the land; and on the other hand, we are pledged to see that the 
rights and position of the Arab population are not prejudiced. How can 
we reconcile justly and peacefully those two obligations? That is the 
problem that we have to solve. That is the riddle for which we have to 
find an answer. What is the answer? The Peel Commission, with 
irresistible logic, recommended that the country should be partitioned, that 
the Jews and the Arabs should be, to a certain extent, kept apart, that the 
ambition of each of them to enjoy self-government should be satisfied in 
different areas of Palestine, while the Holy Places were kept in an 
enclave still under mandatory control. This House never committed 
itself to that policy. The Government accepted it in principle as the most 
hopeful solution to the deadlock which had arisen, but admittedly the 
practicability of the principle had to be further investigated, and the 
‘Woodhead Commission went out to Palestine for that purpose. 


For three months they lived dangerously in the city of Jerusalem, they 
toured the whole country, always with their escort of armed men, they 
went about their business with great courage, and they went about it also 
with great thoroughness. A short while ago they presented their report. 
That report makes it clear that partition, as proposed by the Peel Com- 
mission, is impracticable. That report makes it clear that if we were 
to divide Palestine into a Jewish State and an Arab State and a Mandated 
area, then the Jewish State would have a great surplus in its budget every 
year, but year after year the budgets of the Arab State and the Mandated 
Territory would show a great deficit. The Commission therefore reported 
that under the terms of their reference they were unable to recommend 


15774 c 


54 


boundaries for the proposed areas which would afford a reasonable pr 
of the enventual establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish State. 
I think that is itself a remarkable tribute to the achievement of the Jews 
It is impossible, without the continuous aid of the Jews, for people iiving 
in Palestine beyond the Jewish settlements to maintain the standard oi 
government and the social services to which they have become accustomed 

But that state of affairs also kills the proposal for the dividing up of 
Palestine into two sovereign States, and His Majesty’s Government lost 
no time in accepting the position. A part of Palestine is not to tk 
handed over to control by the Jews, another part is not to be handed 
over to control by the Arabs; the Government have declared that they 
will continue their responsibility for the Government of the whole country. 
We have adopted, if I may say so, a motto, a policy, which my right 
hen. Friend the Member for Epping (Mr. Churchill) said that he would 
make a present of to me when I met him in the Lobby shortly after | 
had assumed my office as Colonial Secretary. He muttered to me, as he 
passed one afternoon, ‘‘ Not partition, but perseverance.’’ We have gt 
to find the alternative means of meeting the needs of the unhappy situa- 
tion in Palestine. I receive a great deal of help in my study of the prob 
lem from numerous correspondents. Scores of letters pour in, many of 
them containing solutions to this problem. I do not remember any two 
letters which suggested exactly the same solution. Many of the lettes 
offer no solution at all; their writers merely cry in desperation, ‘‘ Is there 
any solution to this appalling problem? ”’ 

Of course, there is a solution, but I do not think that it ought to rest 


on the Government alone to find that solution. It ought to rest also on | 


the two other parties who are concerned in this matter, the Arabs and 
the Jews. They have both got a contribution to make; they have both 
got to make concessions to the other. If they would only be willing to 
do that, then peace and prosperity would return to both peoples in Pales- 
tine. I know that it is going to be exceedingly difficult to break down 
the hard bitterness which has naturally grown up on each side during 
months of violence and bloodshed. It may be that one’s idealism is mn- 
ning away with one in supposing that any agreement is possible at the 
present time. But the Government attach so much importance to an 
understanding between the Jews and the Arabs that they are prepared to 
make a supreme effort to achieve that understanding. It is not impossible 
for ordinary Jewish and Arab people to live contentedly side by side in 
Palestine. Many of them have been doing so in numerous communities in 
Palestine right through these distressing times. Nor is it impossible for 
Jewish and Arab leaders to reach agreement together. There was a 
moment, 20 years ago, when that not only seemed possible, but seemed 
to have been actually accomplished. Dr. Weizmann, on behalf of the 
Zionist Organisation, crossed the River Jordan and met the Emir Feisal 
in his camp in the desert, surrounded by his Arab hosts, and in due course, 
after some months, those two men signed an agreement about Palestine. 
It is to that sort of relationship between Arab and Jew that we want to 
go back. 

So the Government have proposed that discussions should take place in 
London. They will probably be, in the first instance, discussions between 
the Government and the Arab representatives and discussions between the 
Government and the Jewish representatives, but we hope that they will 
develop before long into a discussion between all three parties meeting 
round a common table. The Government will, of course, enter those dis- 
cussions bound by its obligations under the Mandate to Jews and to Arabs, 
bound by its duty to Parliament, and to the other members of the League 
of Nations, and to the United States of America; but we shall not seek to 
prevent either the Arab representatives or the Jewish representatives from 
offering arguments as to why the Mandate should be changed. The dis- 
cussions will be full, frank, and free; and therefore, I am sure the House 


55 


will not expect me to say more at this stage about the policy which the 
Government itself will pursue in the course of those discussions. I hope 
that it will be possible for the discussions to start in London within the 
next few weeks. If they cannot start before Christmas, I hope they will 
start at the very latest at the beginning of January, for it is imperative 
that the present uncertainty should be brought to an end as soon as 
possible. It is of the highest importance that policy should be formulated 
aud clearly declared. For that reason, if the discussions in London do 
not yield some kind of understanding between the three parties within a 
reasonable period of time, then the Government will itself take full respon- 
sibility, in the light of its examination of the question, following the Peel 
and Woodhead Reports, and in the light of the discussions themselves, for 
formulating and declaring future policy. 

Hon. Members in this House in these days have to deal with a great 
variety of political problems. Each day they crowd upon us, but I always 
feel conscious that there is something about Palestine which distinguishes 
its problem from any of the others. The others are essays in the art of 
government—the most difficult of all the arts. When I attempt to deal 
with them I, naturally, like other hon. Members, feel a lively human 
interest and even fascination in them. In the possession of those qualities 
this Palestine problem yields nothing to any other. Its complexities make 
it the supreme test of our capacity to govern. But there is more to it 
than that. When I turn to the Palestine problem I feel a certain awe and 
reverence. I cannot remember a time when I did not hear about 
Palestine. I cannot remember a time when I was not told stories about 
Nazareth and Galilee, about Jerusalem and Bethlehem, where was born 
the Prince of Peace. This House, in its long history, has had placed in 
its keeping many noble trusts, but it has never had a trust so sacred as 
that of restoring peace and good will in the Holy Land. 


APPENDIX E. 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 
REGULATIONS MADE BY THE HiGH COMMISSIONER UNDER ARTICLE 6. 
In exercise of the powers vested in him by Article 6 of the Palestine 


(Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the High Commissioner has made the 
following regulations :— 


1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Control of Police) 
Regulations, 1938. 

2. In the exercise of the powers and duties conferred on him by the 
Police Ordinance the Inspector-General of Police shall be subject to the 


general or specific directions and control of the General Officer Command- 
ing the Forces. 


By His Excellency’s Command, 


W. D. BatrersHILyt 


Chief Secretary. 
17th October, 1938. 


APPENDIX F. 
Palestine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937. 


REGULATIONS MADE BY THE HicH CoMMISSIONER UNDER ARTICLES 6 AND Io. 


_In virtue of the powers vested in him by Articles 6 and 10 of the Pales- 
tine (Defence) Order in Council, 1937, the High Commissioner has made 
the following regulations :— 

1. These regulations may be cited as the Defence (Military Commanders) 
Regulations, 1938, and shall be read as one with the Emergency Regula- 
ions, 1936. 


15774 Cc 2 


56 


2.—(1) The General Officer Commanding may, with the consent of the 
High Commissioner, appoint for any area or place a military commander 
who shall be responsible in such area or place for public security and in 
any area or place in which a military commander is appointed the District 
Commissioner shall in all matters relating to public security become and 
act as a political adviser to the military commander. 


(z) Where a military commander has been appointed all the powers 
and duties vested in the District Commissioner by the Defence Regulations 
in respect of that area or place shall become vested in the military com- 
mander and may be exercised by him within the area or place for which 
he has been appointed, and upon such vesting the District Commissioner 
shall cease to exercise within the area or place for which the military 
commander has been appointed any of the powers or duties vested in him 
by the Defence Regulations: Provided that nothing in this regulation shall 
affect anything done by the District Commissioner under the Defence 
Regulations prior to the publication of this regulation and anything so 
done shall until revoked, amended or varied have full force and effect as 
if this regulation had not been made. 


By His Excellency’s Command, 


W. D. BatrersHiLy 
Chief Secretary. 
18th October, 1938. 


APPENDIX ‘‘G.’’ 


Palestine. Downing Street, 
No. 248. roth March, 1938. 
Sir, 


I have the honour to inform you that His Majesty’s Government have 
recently had under consideration the question of the procedure to be 
adopted for the regulation of Jewish immigration into Palestine on the 
expiry of the special restrictions which have been imposed for the eight 
months period August, 1937, to March, 1938, in accordance with the terms 
of paragraph 6 of the Statement of Policy of July last (Cmd. 5513). 


2. I desire, in the first place, to explain the grounds on which His 
Majesty’s Government felt it necessary to propose, in the Statement of 
Policy, that Jewish immigration during the eight months period August, 
1937, to March, 1938, should be subject to an overriding maximum of 
8,000. You will be aware that in Part II (Chapter X) of their Report the 
Royal Commission recommended that a “‘ political high level ’’ of Jewish 
immigration should be laid down by His Majesty’s Government and that 
the high level for the next five years should be fixed at 12,000 per annum. 
But Part II of the Report presupposed the continuance in operation of the 
existing Mandate, and its major recommendations have not yet been 
adoptcd by His Majesty’s Government, who came to the conclusion that 
the best and most hopeful solution lay in a scheme of partition on the lines 
recommended in Part III of the Royal Commission’s Report. 


3. It was clear that the decision of His Majesty’s Government in favour 
of the policy of partition could not be translated into action until after a 
further period of investigation and preparation, and it became necessary to 
consider the question of the steps to be taken to regulate Jewish immigra- 
tion during the interim period. In Chapter XXII of their Report the Com- 
mission dealt with the transition period ‘‘ in the immediate future if it 
should be agreed to terminate the Mandate and establish a treaty system 
on a basis of partition.’’ For this period the Commission proposed that 


57 


instead of the “‘ political high level ’’ there should be a territorial restriction 
on Jewish immigration. ‘‘ No Jewish immigration into the Arab area 
should be permitted... .. The volume of Jewish immigration should be 


determined by the economic absorptive capacity of Palestine less the Arab 
area.” 


4. The Commission had not, however, made any recommendation with 
regard to the contro] of immigration during the immediate interim period 
between the issue of the Statement of Policy and a final decision with 
regard to partition. As the prospective boundaries of the Arab and Jewish 
areas could not be predicted and must remain uncertain until a decision 
has been taken on the Report of the new Commission which will shortly 
visit Palestine, it was not practicable to adopt the procedure recommended 
by the Royal Commission in respect of the ‘‘ transition period ’’ to which 
they refer in Chapter XXII of their Report. 


5. Seeing that the declared object of their policy, as set out in the White 
Paper of July last, was a scheme of partition under which Jewish immigra- 
tion would be confined to a limited area, His Majesty's Government felt 
that it was impossible, during the interim period of preparatory investiga- 
tion, to allow immigration to be determined by the economic absorptive 
capacity of the whole of Palestine, and that a temporary and admittedly 
arbitrary restriction of immigration was inevitable. It was in accordance 
with this view that an overriding limit of 8,o00 immigrants was laid down 
for the eight months August, 1937 to March, 1938, and powers for this 
purpose were conferred upon the High Commissioner’ by the addition of 
a new section (5a) to the Immigration Ordinance. 


6. Section 5a of the Immigration Ordinance, which empowers the High 
Commissioner to prescribe the maximum aggregate number of foreigners to 
be admitted to Palestine as immigrants during any specified period, to 
prescribe categories and to fix the maximum number of persons to be 
admitted in respect of each category, expires on the 31st March, 1938, 
** or on such later date as the High Commissioner in Council, with the 
approval of the Secretary of State, by notice in the Gazette may appoint ’’. 
After full consideration, His Majesty’s Government have decided that there 
has been no such change in the situation since August as would justify 
withdrawal from the High Commissioner of the powers of prescription con- 
ferred upon him by Section 5a, and that the validity of this section should 
be extended for a further period of twelve months. If, at the end of that 
period, it is still considered essential that the High Commissioner should 
retain these additional powers, the necessary legislation will be enacted. 
At the same time, His Majesty’s Government desire to make it known that 
it is their intention, once the boundaries of the various areas under an equit- 
able and practical scheme of partition have been defined and so long as 
the existing Mandate continues in operation, that the entry of Jewish 
immigrants shall be regulated, so far as concerns the non-Arab areas, by 
the principle of economic absorptive capacity. 


7. Consideration has also been given to the question of the specific 
application after the 31st March next of the powers conferred by Section 5a 
of the Immigration Ordinance. This section is purely permissive, and His 
Majesty’s Government have decided that in the first instance the power 
of prescription should be exercised by the High Commissioner for a period 
of six months only, from April to September, 1938, leaving open for later 
consideration the procedure to be adopted after that date. 


8. As regards the restrictions to be imposed, the attention of His 
Majesty’s Government has been drawn to various representations received 
from the Jewish Agency and from other sources; and they realise that there 
is considerable force in the contentions which have been submitted in 
favour of the more generous admission, on economic grounds, of persons 


15774 C3 


58 
of independent means and, on grounds of humanity, of the class of de- 
pendant defined in Section 2 (1) of the Immigration Ordinance, that is to 
say, wives and children of immigrants. 


g. With these considerations in mind, and with a view to diminishing 
to some extent the element of arbitrariness which is involved under present 
temporary arrangements while at the same time avoiding any considerable 
change in the total rate of immigration, in the immediate interim period, 
His Majesty’s Government have decided that the following procedure shall 
be adopted for the six months April-September, 1938 :— 

(a) Persons of independent means. (Category A(i)—capital of 
£1,000.) 

His Majesty’s Government have decided that 2,000 shall be fixed as 
the maximum number of immigrants of this category. There will, 
however, be no objection to the admission, if you see fit, within this 
quota, of ten pensioners (Category A (iv) and twenty agricultural 
settlers with capital of not less than {500 (Category A (v)), whose 
admission was recommended by your predecessor. Categories A (ii) 
(members of professions with capital of {500) and A (iii) (persons skilled 
in trades or crafts with capital of £250) will remain closed. 

(b) Students. (Category B (iii).) 

Students as defined in Category B (iii) that is to say, ‘‘ any student 
whose admission to an educational institution in Palestine and whose 
maintenance is assured until such time as he is able to support him- 
self ’’, will be admitted without numerical restrictions, subject to 
compliance with the conditions imposed in the Immigration Regula- 
tions. Categories B (i) (orphans) and B (ii) (persons of religious 
occupation) will remain closed. 

(c) Labour immigrants. (Category C.) 

I understand that, according to estimates prepared by the Govern- 
ment of Palestine, Arab unemployment in seven selected towns 
amounted to 21,000, and Jewish unemployment (combining whole and 
part time unemployment) amounted to 12,000 on the 31st December 
last. In the circumstances, it is obvious that at the present time the 
admission of additional immigrants of the labour class is not justifiable. 
His Majesty’s Government have, however, approved of your fixing 
a quota of 1,000 for this category on the understanding that it will 
be left to you to decide, in the light of economic circumstances, 
whether any labour immigration shall be permitted during the six 
months period, and if so, when and to what extent. 

(d) Dependants. (Category D.) 

Near dependants, as defined in Section 2 (1) of the Immigration 
Ordinance, that is to say, wives and children, both of new immigrants 
and of immigrants who have already entered the country legally, will 
be admitted without numerical restriction subject to proper inquiry 
and investigation. As regards other dependants (parents, etc.), a 
quota of 200 will be allowed in order to meet individual cases of 
exceptional hardship. 


10. I shall be obliged if you will take such legal and administrative action 
as is necessary to give effect to these decisions. You may furnish the 
Jewish Agency with a copy of this despatch, which should also be published 
in the Gazette. 

I have, &c., 


W. ORMSBY GORE. 
Sir Harold MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., 


High Commissioner for Palestine, 
Jerusalem. 


59 


I. JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


1. The affairs of the Jewish community during 1938 continued 
to be largely dominated by the state of insecurity and by the 
uncertainty which existed in regard to the political future of 
Palestine. The slackening in commercial, industrial and building 
activity during 1936 and 1937 which had resulted from the 
disturbed state of the country showed no signs of abating until 
the end of the year when the economic situation slightly 
improved. This was reflected in a decrease in the numbers of 
Jewish unemployed, which were lower in the last quarter of 
1938 than those reported in the corresponding period of 1937 
or in the first half of 1938. 


2. During 1938, 12,868 Jews were registered as immigrants 
of whom 2,573 were working men and women (with 1,662 
dependants), 3,475 including dependants were of the capitalist 
category (persons with £P.1,000 and upwards) and 2,565 were 
dependants of residents of Palestine. 


Seventeen thousand, nine hundred and eighty-eight Jews 
acquired Palestinian citizenship by naturalisation, including 
wives and children who became Palestinian citizens through the 
naturalisation of their husbands or fathers or mothers. 


The Jewish population was estimated to be approximately 
420,000 at the end of the year, equivalent to about 30 per cent. 
of the settled population of the country. 


3. During the year, 27,280 dunums of land were purchased. 
by Jews from non-Jews at a cost of £P.174,802, as compared 
with 29,367 dunums at a cost of £P.392,916 in 1937 and 18,146 
dunums at a cost of £P.158,826 in 1936. 

The land in the ownership of the Jewish National Fund 
reached a total of 420,000 dunums, equivalent to about 32 
per cent. of the area in Jewish ownership. The Fund completed 
the afforestation of an area of 1,600 dunums during the year. 


4. The following grants-in-aid were made by the Palestine 
Government towards the expenditure of the Jewish community 
upon various services of a public character during the financial 


year 1938-9:— 
Education: £P. 
Grant-in-aid to the schools of the General 
Council (Vaad Leumi) (recurrent services) ... 49,591 
do. (capital grant) roe 71500 
Health: 
Contribution to Jewish health services— 
(a) Tuberculosis hospital, Safad... bo 1,700 
(b) School hygiene... bey a6 2,041 
(c) Infant welfare work aes ive 1,771 
(d) Tel Aviv hospital (recurrent service) 6,841 





Grant to Hebrew University Hospital sa 3,100 
15774 C4 


60 
Agriculture : £P. 
Grant for citrus research by the experimental 
station of the Jewish Agency ae 3,000 
Grant to Jewish Agency for experimental 
fruit growing at Kiryat Anavim ... 300 
Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farming 
experiments . 300 
Grant to Jewish “Agency for research | 2,950 
Grant to Hebrew University for field mice 
investigations... 200 
Grant to Hebrew University for "spirochaetosis 180 
Miscellaneous : 
Grant-in-aid to the Municipal eAepora none) of 
Tel Aviv for open spaces ... 5,000 


5. The Budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the 
Jeveh Community of Palestine for the year ended the 3oth 

eptember, 1938, provided for an_ estimated revenue of 
4£P.161,318 and an estimated expenditure of £P.160,470, the 
peoePe heads of expenditure being Education: £P.135,790, 

ealth: £P.6,439, Social Services: £P.9,347, Rabbinical 
Council: £P.2,115, and Administration: £P.5,819. 


At the request of the General Council, the High Commissioner 
approved an Order of the Elected Assembly made under the 
Jewish Community Rules, increasing the maximum rates to 
be levied by a local community on its members from 6 per cent. 
to 8 per cent. of the annual rental value for the services of the 
local community and from 1 per cent. to 2 per cent. of the 
annual rental value for the expenses of the General Council. 


6. During the year October, 1937-September, 1938, the Jewish 
Agency res pee the following amounts on its activities on 


behalf of the Jewish settlement in Palestine: — 
£P. 
Agricultural colonization ae 0 wy 200,000 
Labour ... Po 3 151,000 
National institution and security ae: a 90,000 
Investments os a ais oe hiss 55,000 
Immigration sis said aor ies hs 37,000 
Education.. on “as sac a 31,000 
Settlement of German Jews sigs ere See 23,000 
Health... we fee oe te i 17,000 
Administration ... San hs on ae 15,000 
Repayment of loans ae oe Ene ie8 47,000 


The Central Bureau for the Settlement of German Jews in 
Palestine expended a sum of £P.186,000 in 1938 on the settle- 
ment of immigrants from Germany and Austria. The total 
expenditure of the Bureau since 1933 amounts to approximately 
three-quarters of a million pounds. 


61 


7. Fourteen new Jewish agricultural settlements were estab- 
lished in 1938 on a total area of 32,000 dunums and with a 
population of 1,200 persons. Of the 31 new agricultural settle- 
ments established during 1937 and 1938, 12 are in the coastal 
plain, 12 in the Jordan valley and the remainder for the most 
part in the Southern District. Twenty-five of these settlements 
are established on land belonging to the Jewish National Fund 
and a sum of approximately £P.140,000 has been expended 
by the Jewish Agency on their colonisation during the past 
two years. 

The Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association established 
two new settlements in Galilee and continued its activities in 
ae consolidation of its existing settlements in Samaria and 
Galilee. 


8. The Central Bank of Co-operative Institutions issued loans 
during 1938 to the amount of £P.406,085, of which 98 per cent. 
were granted to Jewish agricultural and rural co-operative 
societies. The turnover of the Jewish co-operative societies 
engaged in agricultural production and marketing amounted 
to about two and a half million pounds. 


g. Further improvements were introduced at the Tel Aviv 
Lighter Harbour by the Marine Trust, Limited, including the 
enlargement of the lighter basin, and the provision of two 
additional transit sheds. 

The landing of passengers and immigrants was authorised 
by Government and about 16,500 passengers were landed at 
the harbour. 

The amount of cargo handled at the port increased from 
124,000 tons in 1937 to 196,500 tons in 1938. It is estimated 
that in the 1938-9 citrus season approximately two million cases 
of citrus fruit will be exported eouel Tel Aviv. 

Over a thousand workmen are now employed in the port and 
its subsidiary activities. 


1o. The number of Jewish children attending schools increased 
during the year ending the 30th September, 1938, from 67,273 
to 71,376 (36,474 boys and 34,902 girls). Seventy per cent. 
of the Jewish pupils attended Vaad Leumi Schools, and the 
remaining thirty per cent. attended public and private schools 
outside the Vaad Leumi school system. 

The attendance at the schools and educational institutions of 
the Vaad Leumi was as follows: — 


Kindergartens ee foe Sse oe oats 7,503 
Elementary Schools... ase weg 2 vee 36,085 
Secondary Schools ... we ne ase es 4,599 
Teachers’ Training Colleges Oe a an 702 
Technical Schools, Agricultural Colleges, etc... 431 





Total tae oe ses 49,920 





62 


The total budget of the Hebrew public system in 1937-8 was 
4P.397,231 which was derived from the following sources : — 





£P. 
Local Bodies Ss tis aS Use we 181,481 
School Fees... or aes oes De vee 138,932 
Government grant ... aa Ses aa see 46,600 
Jewish Agency fos ees ee sea ss 25,000 
Palestine Jewish Colonization Association ee 3,564 
Other bodies ee aoe aes ies Eas 1,054 
\ 
Total So £P.397,231 





11. At the end of the academic year 1937-8 the staff of the 
Hebrew University of Jerusalem comprised 118 members, 
including 31 professors and 27 lecturers. 


The number of students enrolled was 734 (of whom 196 were 
women) as against 779 in the preceding year: 683 were under- 
graduates of whom 462 were in the Faculty of Humanities, 
223 in the Faculty of Science and 49 research students. 


Seventeen students in the Faculty of Humanities graduated 
with the degree of M.A. and the degree of M.Sc. was granted 
to eight students in the Faculty of Science. 


Through the generosity of the French Government a lecture- 
ship in French was established in the Faculty of Humanities, 
and an important collection of French books was donated by 
the French Government to help in the study of the French 
language. 

A chair of Social Philosophy has also been established. 


The aggregate expenditure for the financial year 1937-8 
amounted to about £P.109,000. 


12. New Jewish industrial undertakings established during 
1938 included factories for the manufacture of margarine, 
printing of fabrics, diamond cutting, manufacture of electrical 
supplies, pencils, and the construction of lighters and small 
boats. 


Further assistance was given to local industries which are 
largely or entirely in Jewish hands by the grant of exemption 
from import duty on raw materials and by the increase of 
import duties for protective purposes. 


These included protective duties on rivets, tehini, cotton tex- 
tiles, and crown corks. The importation of denatured alcohol 
was prohibited. 


The raw materials exempted from import duty included 
artificial silk staple fibre, secd waste and slug pearls, and 
precious and semi-precious stones. 


63 


Il.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


During the year under review the activities of Municipal 
Corporations and Local Councils were considerably affected by 
the disturbed state of the country. The resulting economic 
depression and difficulties encountered in the collection of 
municipal rates and taxes adversely affected the revenues of 
local authorities, so that only essential public services were 
maintained and the execution of a number of works had to be 


postponed. 


2. The following Municipal By-laws were issued by Municipal 
Corporations during the year: — 


Demolition of dangerous buildings... ++ (Tel Aviv) 
Entertainment fees ke (Tel Aviv) 
Construction of roads, iootways and pave- 

ments ... oe : oe «+ (Tel Aviv) 
Slaughter house fees... wee one vs (Jatfa) 
Pensions regulations... one ws. (Satta) 
Regulation of stationary vehicles ane vs (Jatta) 
Advertisements ... ee «+» (Jatta) 
Cleansing of drains and cesspits nea «+ (Jatta) 
Prevention and abatement of nuisances + (Petah Tiqva) 
Protection of plants ee ah -. (Petah Tiqva) 
Licensing of bicycles and tricycles we .-. (Petah Tiqva) 
Pensions regulations... oes ose -.. (Lydda) 
Water supply... cia oH ast «.  (Lydda) 
Water supply... oe we, 2 «  (Ramleh) 
Pensions regulations... oes ane « (Ramleh) 
Licensing and control of dogs ... ae ... (Haifa) 
Number of houses ane one on «. (Haifa) 
Pensions regulations... ast ae «.. (Haifa) 
Bathing by-laws... re ae ies +. (Haifa) 
Pensions regulations... aes +. (Acre) 
Grazing and keeping of animals’ as +. (Acre) 
Preservation of streets . one oes + (Khan Yunis) 
Pensions regulations... one +. (Khan Yunis) 
Demolition of dangerous buildings nae «(Khan Yunis) 
Pensions regulations... get sels + (Majdal) 
Weights and measures ... ee a +» (Majdal) 
Water rate ne on ae Sa «+» (Gaza) 
Pensions regulations... vs ot +. (Gaza) 
Preservation of streets ... oes te +s. (Gaza) 
Street trade eee eis oe oe .+ (Jerusalem) 
Pensions regulations... Pa Se «ee (Jerusalem) 
Street name plates oe one eee +s. (Jerusalem) 
Advertisements ... od oe ose +. (Jerusalem) 
Protection of plants... nas ase «+. (Jerusalem) 


The following By-laws were issued 4 by L Local Councils :— 


Construction of roads... ae et «. (Bat Yam) 
Construction of footpaths es os «.. (Bat Yam) 
Licensing of bicycles and tricycles... «+ (Kfar Saba) 
Closing of shops ... wes ae oe «+. (Kfar Saba) 
Entertainment fees oe ss co «. (Raanana) 


Construction of roads ... ase one +» (Raanana) 


Entertainment fees ae nA aes ... (Hertsliya) 
Closing of shops ... awe ey oy ... (Bnei Braq) 
Construction of roads ... tes oe ... (Bnei Braq) 
Protection of plants... ies ahs ... (Rishon-le-Zion) 
Entertainment fees a ian ats ... (Rehovot) 
Protection of plants... aie aise ... (Ramat Gan) 
Licensing of bicycles and tricycles... «+ (Faluja) 


3. The High Commissioner found it necessary to appoint 
Commissions under the Municipal Corporations Ordinance to 
perform the duties of the Councils and to administer the 
municipal affairs of Jaffa, Lydda and Jenin where the Corpora- 
tions had become inoperative owing to the disturbed situation 
in the country. 

In Haifa the Municipal Commission which was appointed by 
the High Commissioner in 1936 continued in office throughout 
the year. 


4. The municipal area of Tel Aviv was enlarged and new 
Presidents and Councillors were elected for the Local Councils 
of Ramat Gan, Raanana, Hertsliya and Rishon le Zion. 


5. Public parks were opened in Petah Tiqva and Ramat Gan. 


6. Electricity was introduced into Gaza during the year. The 
Mayor was dismissed by the High Commissioner under 
section 52 of the Municipal Corporations Ordinance in 
December. 


7. Essential municipal services such as improvement of 
drains, water-supply and repairs to roads and pavements were 
carried out in Acre, Beisan and Nazareth, and the construction 
of municipal offices and stables at Beisan was completed during 
the year. 


8. At Safad a number of dangerous buildings were 
demolished and a road leading to the Government Hospital in 
the town was constructed and metalled. The municipal garden 
and slaughter house road is being metalled. 


9. The Mayor of Tiberias was murdered in October and one 
of the Municipal Councillors was appointed in his place in the 
succeeding month. 


10. In September, the High Commissioner appointed Mustafa 
Bey Khalidi, C.B.E., a Moslem Arab and formerly Puisne 
Judge of the Supreme Court, to be Mayor of Jerusalem in 
succession to Dr. Hussein Khalidi who was deported to 
Seychelles in 1937. 

11. The High Commissioner also appointed during the same 
month a British Government Officer as acting Town Clerk of 
Jerusalem, 

12. The Municipal Commissions for Hebron and Ramallah 
continued in office throughout the year. 


65 


I1l.—JEWISH AGENCY. 


1. The representations of the Jewish Agency to Government 
during the year principally concerned the question of Jewish 
immigration into Palestine. Prior to the quota period commenc- 
ing the 1st April, 1938, the Jewish Agency again urged the 
restoration of the principle of economic absorptive capacity for 
the regulation of Jewish immigration into Palestine, maintaining 
that any arbitrary restriction of Jewish immigration was incon- 
sistent with the international obligations of the Mandatory 
Power under the Mandate. The Agency also stressed the 
adverse effect which the departure from the principle of economic 
absorptive capacity in the previous quota period had exercised on 
the economic and political situation in Palestine. 


After consideration of these and other representations the 
policy adopted by His Majesty’s Government was described in 
a despatch to the High Commissioner dated the roth March, 
1938, which was published for the information of the public. 
The full text of this despatch is reproduced in Appendix G to 
the Introductory Chapter. 


2. Following representations by the Jewish Agency in regard 
to the inadequacy of the qucts of 250 for dependent relatives 
other than wives and children in the six-monthly period com- 
mencing the Ist April, 1938, 600 certificates from the quota for 
capitalists which were unused were subsequently transferred to 
the quota for dependants. In the subsequent quota period 
commencing the Ist October, 1938, provision was included for a 
quota of 1,450 for dependent relatives other than wives and 
children, including the 600 additional certificates authorized at 
the end of the previous quota period. 


3. Representations were also made by the Jewish Agency for 
the admission of 5,000 Jewish children from Germany either as 
dependent immigrants or as students. His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment examined this and other requests for increased facilities for 
the admission of Jewish immigrants into Palestine in the light of 
their policy which had then been announced of holding discus- 
sions with Arab and Jewish representatives on the question of 
future policy in Palestine, including immigration. Having ex- 
amined the matter from this point of view, His Majesty’s 
Government reached the conclusion that they would not be 
justified in acceding to these requests for increased immigration 
facilities as the effect of any alteration in the existing rate of 
immigration might prejudice the position regarding one of the 
principal subjects for discussion in London. 


4. Representations were made by the Jewish Agency regard- 
ing the Medical Practitioners (Amendment) Bill, 1938. 


66 


The Bill provides for the amendment of section 4, 4A and 4B 
of the Medical Practitioners Ordinance in consequence of the 
provisions having been declared by the Court to be ultra vires 
the Palestine sCitivenship Order, 1925. The Court held 
that the provisions in this section in so far as they discriminate 
in favour of Palestinian citizens by birth or by naturalization 
before the rst December, 1935, were ultra vires Article 8 
of the Palestine Citizenship Order, 1925, the object of 
which was to ensure that there should be the same law for all 
Palestinian citizens, no matter how or when their nationality was 
acquired. The Bill abolished the distinction between the two 
categories of applicants and, for the purpose of limiting the num- 
ber of practising licences to a prescribed maximum for any one 
year placed all applicants on an equal footing, no matter how or 
when their Palestinian nationality was acquired. The Jewish 
Agency requested that there should be no restrictions in the grant 
of medical licences to Palestinian citizens and alternatively that 
the enactment of the Bill should be postponed until the end of 
1939. In the interests of the medical profession Government 
considered it essential that the Bill should be enacted without 
delay so as to enable the number of medical licences to be con- 
trolled and to prevent further overcrowding of the profession. 
In prescribing the maximum number of licences for 1939 the 
amendment of the Ordinance was taken into account. 


5. The Jewish Agency submitted applications for the exemp- 
tion from import duty of certain raw materials and for the im- 
position of protective tariffs on a number of commodities which 
are being manufactured in Palestine. 


6. The Jewish Agency also submitted a memorandum in re- 
gard to the proposed revision of the Syria-Palestine Customs 
Agreement, which is being considered in connection with the 
negotiations proceeding with the French authorities in Syria and 
the Lebanon. 


7. Representations were also made by the Jewish Agency in 
regard to the employment of Jews in public works and in the 
railway and port services. The share of Jewish labour in public 
works amounted to approximately 26 per cent. of the total wage 
bill of the Public Works Department. 

Asa result of theabnormal conditions prevailing in the country, 
it has not been possible to adhere to the arrangements made by 
Government in previous years in regard to the allocation of a 
fixed proportion of public works to Jewish labour. 

Amongst other public works Government entrusted to Jewish 
labour the completion of ‘‘ Tegart’s Wall ’’ on the northern 
frontier, construction of a police post on the northern frontier 
and part of the work of improving and asphalting the north 
frontier road. 


67 


In addition, Jewish labour was employed in the completion of 
the following works started in 1937: the construction of the 
Raanana-Miskeh road, police station and police married quarters 
at Tel Aviv, and the new Government hospital in Haifa. 


Arrangements have also been made to allocate the contract for 
railway porterage in the railway stations in the Jewish towns of 
Tel Aviv and Petah Tiqva to a Jewish contractor, in order that 
Jewish labour might be employed on this work under suitable 
conditions. Customs porterage in Tel Aviv railway station has 
been allocated to a Jewish contractor for a similar reason. 


8. The Jewish Agency continued to co-operate with the 
military and police authorities in all matters relating to the 
defence and security of Jewish settlements. A large force of 
Jewish temporary additional police and special constables is 
employed in the protection of Jewish quarters in towns and of 
Jewish settlements. The Jewish Agency assisted in the recruit- 
ment of suitable candidates for these duties. 


1V.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


I. The numbers of persons in the several classes recorded as 
having entered or left Palestine during 1938 and distributed by 
“racial ’’ or “‘ national ’”’ declarations are as follows: — 


Arrivals. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
(a) Residents returning after a 
period exceeding one year 1,586 1,035 401 150 


(6) Residents returning after a 
period not exceeding one 


year ae. . 95,269 22,537 62,596 10,136 
(c) Immigrants ... aaa 








12,134 11,437 355 342 
(2) Exempted persons 1,281 4 I 1,276 
(e) Temporary visitors... Poe 73,782 10,239 44,429 19,114 
(f) Transit travellers ... Pos 9,239 680 2,328 6,231 
Total... ves 193,291 45,932 II0,110 37,249 
Departures. 
(a) Residents departing for. a 
period exceeding one 
year ay see eee 1,811 1,095 298 418 
(6) Residents departing for a 
period not exceeding one 
year wee Noe we TII,263 27,334 73,134 10,795 
(c) Temporary visitors... ss —-71,288 8,728 44,089 18,471 
(@) Transit travellers ... ae 9,055 690 2,358 6,007 
Total... — «.. 193,417 37,847 119,879 35,691 
Net increase (+) or decrease (—) 
of population due to recorded 
migration... ae, —126 +8,085, —9,769 +1,558 


68 


2. The numbers of persons recorded as having entered 
Palestine during 1938 and arriving by the several means of trans- 
port are as follows: — 


Sea. Land. Air. 

Total arrivals ie ae oe sss 44,242 146,288 2,761 
Temporary visitors ... vee a wes 12,947 59,491 1,344 
Immigrants ... 11,831 1,541 43 
Residents returning after a period exceeding 

one year ... 1,239 333 14 
Residents returning ‘after a period not ex- 

ceeding one year ... 5 os ws 16,283 77,873 1,113 
Transit travellers... es eo: pny 1,942 7,050 247 


The numbers of persons recorded as having departed from 
Palestine during 1938 and leaving by the several means of trans- 
port are as follows: — 


Sea. Land. Air. 

Total departures”... atts a ss 36,251 153,987 3,179 
Temporary visitors ... . II,012 58,793 1,483 
Residents departing for a period exceeding 

one year ... 1,455 336 20 
Residents departing ‘for a ‘period ‘not ex- 

ceeding one year ... é 21,587 88,273 1,403 
Transit travellers... es on i 2,197 6,585 273 


3. Of the persons who entered Palestine prior to the end of 
1938, as travellers, 1,848 were registered as immigrants. Of 
these, 1,427 were Jews and 421 were non-Jews. 


Including exempted persons, the total number of immigrants 
registered during the year was thus 15,263 of whom 12,868 were 
Jews and 2,395 were non-Jews. 


4. The recorded volume of Jewish immigration and emigra- 
tion in 1938 and previous years is as follows: — 








. Jewish persons 
Jewish persons recorded 
registered as as leaving 
Year, immigrants. permanently, 
1920-1924 ... $09 bee BR 42,784* 5,476F 
1925-1929 ... se wae vee 57,022 18,501 
1930-1934 ... wae os oo 91,258 2,345 
1935 nee ae ar wee 61,854 396 
1936 os v6 2 oe 29,727 773 
1937 oo Ase ia aes 10,536 889 
1938 Ses a Oats ae 12,868 1,095 
Total... aie 306,049 29,475 








* The records begin in September, 1920. 

+ No figures are available for Jewish emigration in 1920, 1921, 1932, 1933 
and 1934. The census in 1931 revealed that the actual number of Jewish 
emigrants was larger than that revealed in the migration records. . 


69 


5. The countries of previous residence of immigrants regis- 
tered in 1938 (i.e., of persons arriving as immigrants or as 
travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) were as 
follows : — 


Country of previous residence. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 


Total immigrants registered ... vee 15,263 12,868 473 1,922 
Total Europe .. mie ¢ ses 13,675 12,056 2 1,617 
Austria (now Germany) ooh 2,526 2,510 —_ 16 
Belgium .. 3 ‘ ae 50 47 — 3 
Bulgaria vee we cee 2r 2r _— _ 
Czechoslovakia . ae a 424 414 _ Io 
Danzig ... sa fds ace 108 108 _ —_ 
Denmark Se ae oo 5 4 _ I 
Eire mee see oe aa I _ —_ I 
Esthonia... ae A ate 10 10 _ _ 
Finland ... Bah nas aie I I — _ 
France ... wee saa see 120 69 I 50 
Germany ona aay ae 4,309 4,223 I 85 
Great Britain ... Aes Hs 1,388 76 _ 1,312 
Greece ... aes aes ies 46 26 _— 20 
Hungary... sat See nfs 72 71 _— I 
Italy see Pon Dee Bet 243 167 _ 76 
Latvia... De oun ac 130 129 — I 
Lithuania bes Shs a 160 160 _— = 
Netherlands ae ae ee 7 67 — 4 
Norway ... oo fe vee ey I _ _— 
Poland ... Jee Me exe 3,279 3,269 _— 10 
Rumania ae sas ae 526 519 _ 7 
Spain... es SM Pa 7. 4 _— 3 
Sweden ... Bs oa is 6 5 _ I 
Switzerland as 23% ase 43 37 _ 6 
U.S.S.R. (Russia) aes ae qt qt _— a 
Yugoslavia eee ee 49 42 I 7 
Other countries of Europe see 8 5 _ 3 
Total Asia... ae oe or 1,046 593 344 109 
Aden... esis eu oD 15 15 _ —_ 
Afghanistan... sue wae 53 53 —_ —_— 
China... ots ass as 6 6 —_ —_ 
Cyprus ... sae a5 eis 34 _ 7 27 
India... es ne ae 10 6 _ 4 
Iran wee Bis wae oe 39 35 —_ 4 
Iraq ee ee nae Sit 84 77 2 5 
Syria and Lebanon... ae 419 48 309 62 
Trans-Jordan ... Ban wae 26 _— 25 I 
Turkey ... a oe ae 39 32 I 6 
Yemen ... a 319 319 — =— 
Other countries of Asia. ee 2 2 — = 
Total Africa fee a coe 298 89 64 145 
Abyssinia as ae on I — — I 
Egypt ... os wes ots 254 52 63 139 
Morocco ... os nh ni 5 4 — I 
Sudan ... oe oes te 3 _ _ 3 
Tripoli... ae bite, wo Ir Io I —_ 
Tunis... a nee I I _ _— 
Union of South ‘Africa iv 23 22 _ I 


Other countries of Africa ts _— _ = = 


Country of previous residence. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 


Total America es Sa Ss 220 112 62 46 
Canada . ves 8 3 I 4 
United States of “America as 121 94 4 23 
Argentine Pac ee 7 3 2 2 
Brazil... as ove oe Ir _ 10 I 
Mexico ... 3 _— _ 3 
Other countries of Latin ‘America 7o 12 45 13 

Australia can as ase on 8 8 os — 

New Zealand... ue 2c os 4 _— _— 4 

Undefined... ni on ere 12 10 I 1 


6. The following table illustrates the changes in the principal 
sources of Jewish immigration : — 
Proportion per 100 Jewish immigrants 
coming from all countries in years 
Country of previous residence. 1922-1929. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


All countries... wed wes 100 100 100 100 
Poland ... as eed ire 46 4I 35° 25 
Russia... site ois ty 20 2 3 I 
Germany Eo we ke _ 27 34 52° 
Rumania os va aoe 6 5 3 4 
Lithuania eee 5 3 2 1 
United States of “America ae 3 I 2 1 
Others ... wea ae 20 ar 2 16 


*, * Including Austria, 


7. Persons granted visas for Palestine are liable to be refused 
admission on arrival at the frontier if the Immigration Officer is 
not satisfied that they are persons who may lawfully be admitted 
to Palestine. The numbers of persons so refused admission in 
1938 and previous years are as follows: — 

Number Number refused 


Total refused admission per 
Year. entrants. admission. 1,000 entrants. 
1932 ae s+» 100,679 253 3 
1933 24s ses 141,478 1,505 Ir 
1934 wee vs 176,681 945 5 
1935 oo + 230,643 831 4 
1936 ies wes 147,932 315 2 
1937 see vs 216,270 588 3 
1938 has «-» 193,291 229 I 


8. The numbers of immigrants by sex registered in 1938 are as 
follows : — 


Race. Total. Male. Female. 
Jews ... eRe ... 12,868 6,448 6,420 
Arabs ... eve ta 473 193 280 
Others... ve ans 1,922 1,499 423 


These figures indicate that Jewish women formed 49-9 per 
cent. of the Jewish immigrants registered in 1938. According to 
the census taken in 1931, Jewish women formed 49-5 per cent. 
of the Jewish population of Palestine. 





71 
g. The age groups of immigrants registered in 1938 (i.e., of 
persons arriving as immigrants, or of persons arriving as 
travellers and subsequently registered as immigrants) are as 
follows : — 


Age groups. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
Total... we 15,263 12,868 473 1,922 
o- 4 ats ee 661 502 98 61 
5-9 oo oe 632 545 47 4° 
10-14 5 ote 949 837 76 36 
15-19 oot wee 2,514 2,310 103 Ior 
20-24 Bas oc 2,492 2,021 41 430 
25-29 ies Pry 2,621 1,876 38 707 
30-34 oie ae 1,346 1,026 30 290 
35-39 ste be 892 765, 15 112 
40-44 noe we 740 681 12 47 
7 584 549 8 27 
50-54 ase be 497 407 2 28 
55-59 oe on 401 443 3 15 
60-64 eat uve 401 356 _ 15 
65-69 ane a8e 234 228 _ 6 
79-74 oe 148 145 =| 3 
75 and over ESS gt 87 _ 4 


Io. The change in the relative proportions of Jewish immi- 
grants over and under the age of 35 years during the last six 
years is indicated by the following figures: — 


Under 35 years Over 35 years 





Year. per cent, per cent, 
1933 of re es 79°9 20°1 
1934 a8, eis Bee 15°7 24°3 
1935 wale ais eae 71-2 28-8 
1936 oes ote ras 68-5 3I°5 
1937 a 68-5 31°5 
1938 ae oe See 70°9 29°1 


11. The numbers of immigrants by sex and conjugal condition 
registered in 1938 are as follows:— 








Conjugal condition. Jews. Arabs. Others. 

Males: 

Persons ... aes, ste 6,448 193 1,499 

Unmarried ae Oe 3,657 161 1,402 

Married ... ans oes 2,051 31 93 

Divorced a8 os 40 I 3 

Widowed ane a 100 _ I 
Females: 

Persons ... oath ais 6,420 280 423 

Unmarried aH aide 2,584 98 229 

Married ... oes ane 3,305 176 182 

Divorced eee M23 54 _— _— 


Widowed os A 417 6 12 


12. The numbers of immigrants by previous occupation regis- 


tered in 1938 are as follows : — 


72 














Total. Jews. Arabs. Others. 
: 8 é Pa 8 
Occupation. 3 3s “ 8 3 3 S s 
s/f iaileisisgiaisa 
5 cy = & |S |e | Ss] 
Total persons in all 
occupations... 8,140 | 7,123 | 6,448 | 6,420 193 280 | 1,499 423 
Total persons in specified 
occupations . 6,153 1473 | 4,682 | 1,310 63 9 | 1,408 154 
Agriculture, Forestry and 
Fishing 962 186 959 186 2| — ri] — 
Mines and Quarries wale I _— t _— ae — — — 
Manufacturing Industries : 
Textiles : iiss 15 3 15 3; — — —_— — 
Leather works Ir _ Ir _ —_— — _— — 
Wood works ... 78 Zz 75 I 2| — T _ 
Metal works 45 — 37 _— 3] — 5| — 
Ceramics ss 4 I 4 1] — — — — 
Chemical products 4 —_ 4 _— _— —_ —_ _ 
Food products... sae 37 2 34 2; — _ 3; — 
Dress and toilet oe 93 49 93 49} — —_ — — 
Building +. 114 2 112 2; — = zj|;— 
Industries relating to 
literature and artistic 
trades ae 40 I 39 1} — _ ri}; — 
Transport... 40 _ 22 _— 3) — 5) — 
Commerce 941 21 926 18 12 I 3 2 
Other trades 5 I 3 I 1} — 1] — 
Clerical Service ... 150 28 102 21 7|— 41 7 
Public Officials, Police and 
Army 1,185 3 5 —_ _ — |1,180 3 
Professions and Liberal 
Arts: 
Religion 158 86 29 I 7 6| 122 79 
Law... nae 76 I 75 I xr} — _— — 
Medicine : 
Physicians, PuNeeone 131 15 128 14 _— = 3 I 
Dentists ° 31 2 30 2} — — 1} — 
Medical attendants... 30 18 30 g9/ — — — 9 
Education 3 48 33 37 22 = 9 Ir 
Architects, engineers - 52 2 45 2 ri}; — 6; — 
Arts... 6 3 5 3 I rs) = _ 
Other liberal professions 38 Ir 36 o| — = 2 2 
Domestic service.. Ir 99 5 59 I 2 5 38 
Insufficiently described 
occupations 606 103 597 103 3 — 6 —_ 
Students (16 years and 
over) 1,241 802 | 1,223 800 7 — II 2 
Persons of no men 802 — 774 = a) 20} — 
Occupation or 
oe per women —_ 4,614 — 4,228 | — 180 | — 206 
Minors and 
Dependants children | 1,185 | 1,036 992 882 122 or 71 63 





























1 Google 


73 


13. Immigrants registered in 1938 belonged to the following 
categories defined in the rules under the Immigration 
Ordinance :— 


Categories. Total. Jews. Arabs. Others, 
A (i) Persons with Eh tices and 
upwards ... ah 1,771 1,753 8 10 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (i) ae wee 1,731 1,722 I 8 


A (ii) Members of liberal professions 
with a capital of not less 
than {P.500 sive _ _ _ _— 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (ii)... tre _ _ _— _- 
A (iii) Skilled artisans with a capital 
of not less than £P.250 ... I I _ —_ 
Dependants of persons in 
category A (iii)... i's I 1 _— _ 
A (iv) Persons of minimum income 
of {P.4a month ... te 37 34 _ 3 
A (v) Persons with a capital of not 
less than {P.500 ... he 7 7 _ _ 
Dependants of persons in 
category A(v)... % Ir Ir _— — 
B (i) Orphans comune to institu 
tions Se s I _ I — 
B (ii) Persons of religious. occupa 
tions see see 227 2 15 210 
Dependants of persons in 
category B (ii) iz 5 I 2 2 
B (iii) Students whose maintenance 
is assured ... . 2,629 2,531 52 46 
Cc Persons coming to employ- 
ment ee ee 2,765 2,573 45 147 
Dependants of persons in 
category C 1,701 1,662 14 25 
D Dependants of residents of 
Palestine... 3,079 2,565 329 185 
Persons exempted from the 
provisions of the Immigra- 
tion Ordinance... Aes 1,297 5 6 1,286 





Total ders vee 15,263 12,868 473 1,922 





14. The fluctuations in the number of Jewish immigrants with 
a capital of £P.1,000 and upwards during the last seven years is 
shown by the following figures: — 


Proportion per cent. of 


Year. Number. total Jewish immigrants. 
1932 we oa ase 727 8 
1933 eae ae ee 3,250 Ir 
1934 eee ase Se 5.124 12 
1935 ae ane aes 6,309 10 
1936 eee aes ae 2,907 10 
1937 ase aes sie 1,275 12 


1938 ane wos wise 1,753 14 


74 


15. The fluctuation in the number and proportion of de 
pendants among Jewish immigrants during the last six years is 


as follows: — 
Year. Number. 
1933 15,653 
1934 24,472 
1935 37,739 
1936 17,658 
1937 6,230 
1938 5,962 


Proportion per cent. of 
total Jewish tmmigranis. 


16. The riers of pe inmigenist apart from dependants, 
authorized under labour schedule during 1938 as compared with 


previous years are as follows: — 


Schedule Period. 


April-September, 1933 
October, 1933-March, 1934... 
April-September, 1934 i 
October, 1934—March, 1935... 
April-September, 1935 eee 
October, 1935-March, 1936... 
April-September, 1936 x 
October, 1936-March, 1937... 
April-July, 1937... ee 
October, 1937—March, 1938 
April-September 1938 : 
October, 1938—-March, 1939 


Certificates for 
Jewish Agency and 
departmental 


reserve. 

5,500 
5,500 
6,200 
7,500 
8,000 
3,250 
4,500 
1,800 

77° 
1,780 
1,150 
1,150 


17. The immigration certificates ine the labour schedules 
approved during 1938 were issued under special conditions as 


to age, sex, conju; 


condition and skill in accordance with 


the following specifications : — 
October, 
April- 19 38- 
Specification. Total. September, March, 
1938. 1939. 
By age.—18-35 years 965 345 620 
18-45 years . 140 40 100 
Any age above 18 years .. 1,195 705 430 
By sex.—Men 3 : $e goo 300 600 
Women 250 100 150 
Either sex ... 1,150 75° 409 
By method of selection. — 
Skilled workers nominated by indivi- 
dual employers (part A)... 350 250 100 
Skilled workers required by individual 
employers (part B) . — = =. 
Skilled workers, relatives of residents 
of Palestine (part C)... 180 _ 180 
Workers selected Ane the * Jewish Agency 
(part D) : 970 400 570 
fem and 
Non-Jews. Jews. ‘om- Jews, 
Workers approved by the Department _ 
of Migration (part Be Peper enental 
re) 500 300 


75 


18. The distribution of certificates granted to the Jewish 
Agency by conjugal condition was as follows: — 
October, 


Apri- 1938- 
September, March, 


Specification. Total. 1938. 1939. 
Married men... eh pos Bars 575 200 375 
Unmarried men... ie ice ns 325 100 225 
Unmarried women oe ses ws 250 100 150 
Unrestricted as to conjugal condition... 350 250 100 


19. His Majesty’s Consular and Passport Control Officers 
have standing instructions to facilitate the return of any Turkish 
citizen of Palestinian birth who wishes to come back to Palestine. 
Among the facilities given are the grant of visas for Palestine, 
without reference to the Department of Immigration, to these 
persons and to their wives and minor unmarried children, and 
of affidavits in the place of the passports ordinarily required, 
if these latter are not available. In short, these persons and 
their dependants are not obliged to carry out the formalities and 
to satisfy the conditions normally imposed upon foreign 
pavellers or immigrants to Palestine, or to pay immigration 
ees. 


20. The numbers of de entering Palestine as travellers 
(temporary visitors and transit travellers) for limited periods 
who remained illegally in Palestine in 1938 and previous years 
iyone the authorised period of temporary residence are as 
‘ollows : — 





Proportion of travellers 
Numbers of entering October, 1937—- 


Numbers of travellers September, 1938, and 
travellers remaining vemaining illegally at the 
Year. entering. illegally. end of 1938 per thousand 


travellers entering in 1938. 








Non- 
Jews. Jews. Jews. Non- Jews. 

1933 (from 

“Ist Sept.) 2,321 989 340 55 
1934 van 2,907 3,022 110 46 
1935 Bs 4,618 3256 128 46 
1936 —132*| 1,288 _ 31 
1937 93 | 1.679 6 20 
1938 307 2,196 28 30 

















* The negative sign implies that the population of Jewish illegal immi- 
grants who have abused the facilities granted to travellers actually in Palestine 
at the 31st December, 1936, declined by 132 persons. 


76 
21. The numbers of persons deported in 1938 and previous 
years for immigration and other offences are as follows: — 


Year. Total. Jews. Non- Jews. 
1934 ... a ae 2,407 772 1,635 
1935... sas ioe 2,445 293 2,152 
1936 ... sae ioe 2,039 152 1,887 
1937 ..- acs aes 2,375 157 2,218 
1938 ee 1,950 46 1,904 


22. It is not * poi to give an adequate analysis of migration 
to and from Palestine in each calendar year at the time at 
which this report is prepared. Such an analysis is dependent on 
proportionate and other statistics which cannot be completed 
until some months after the closure of the immigration account 
for each year. 


V.—LAND REGIME. 


With a view to accelerating land settlement in conformity 
with the recommendations of the Royal Commission, considera- 
tion was given to the question of the amendment of the Land 
(Settlement of Title) Ordinance to provide for the simplification 
of settlement procedure. 


2. The Rates and Taxes (Exemption) Ordinance, which pro- 
vides for certain exemptions from municipal rates and urban 
and rural property taxes, was enacted in June, 1938. 


3. Consideration is being given to the amendment of the 
Urban Property Tax Ordinance with a view to simplifying the 
procedure prescribed. 


4. An investigation into the area of land held by Jews and 
non-Jews was carried out and the figures were brought up to 
date. The village statistics, based mainly on taxation records, 
were also revised and will shortly be ready for printing. 


5. Inquiries into the area under citrus plantation were con- 
tinued during the year, and the result of these inquiries will be 
embodied in the rural property tax rolls for 1939-40. 


State Domains. 


6. The examination and inspection of State Domains had 
virtually to be suspended owing to the disturbed conditions in 
the country. 


7. A detailed statement, together with a valuation, of all 
known State Domains was prepared. The valuation was based 
on the records of purchases, sales, leases and taxation assess- 
ments and revealed a value of some £P.2,597,000, including 


77 


the Harbour Reclaimed Area Estate at Haifa, but excluding 
the considerable areas of State Domains which are dedicated 
to the use of the public or occupied by Government for public 
purposes. 


8. A total area of 19,489 dunums of land was adjudicated to 
Government at land settlement during the year. This figure 
cannot, however, be taken wholly as an addition to the known 
State Domains as some of the land included was regarded as 
State Domain prior to land settlement. 


g. Any estimate of the total area of State Domains can only 
be of doubtful accuracy as experience has shown that attempts 
made by Government to sell, lease, or exercise other rights of 
ownership over State Domains which have not yet been settled 
are frequently opposed by individuals who dispute the title. 
These disputes, although based sometimes on the flimsiest pre- 
texts, result in years of litigation during which a claimant, who 
meanwhile has entered into possession, cannot be evicted. This 
unsatisfactory state of affairs is being gradually remedied by 
the acceleration of land settlement. 


10. The area of State Domains for which certificates of regis- 
tration under the Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance have 
been issued is 303,950 dunums. 


11. During the year 305 agreements and leases were con- 
cluded. 

There are in addition 54 long-term leases which were entered 
into previously and are still in force. 


12. A number of State Domain buildings were damaged or 
destroyed by incendiarism. So far as it has yet been possible 
to ascertain, the damage done is estimated to amount to about 
£P.6,000. 


Valuations. 


13. Forty-one valuations, mainly in connection with the 
expropriation of private property for defence and other public 
purposes, were made during the year. 


14. An examination under the Land Valuers Ordinance was 
held in March. Thirteen out of 22 candidates passed and were 
ted licences. Four applicants for licences were found to 

be qualified without examination. 


The number of licensed land valuers at the end of 1938 was 43. 


Land Settlement. 


15. The Sub-District of Nazareth was declared a Settlement 
Area in February, 1938, and Settlement Offices were opened in 
Nazareth, Gaza and Acre. 


2p 
16. Notices of Settlement were polled during the year in 
46 villages, comprising an area of 407,836 dunums. 


The Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance has now been 
applied to a total of 230 villages in the following Settlement 
Areas: — 





No. 

Jaffa Settlement Area se ome see 45 | 

Ramleh Settlement Area... Ie on 54 | 
Gaza Settlement Area rs ae es 49 
Haifa Settlement Area ice nie Je 15 
Tulkarm Settlement Area ... wee te 43 
Jenin Sub-District ... ae aes ay 2 
Safad Sub-District ... 2 
Jerusalem Sub-District ae “e I 
Jericho Sub-District ae eae pers I 
Tiberias Settlement Area ae ae 2 
Nazareth Settlement Area ... ile re 12 
Acre Sub-District ... ee BAG eee 4 
Total 230 





17. The following is a summary of the work completed in | 
1938: — | 
In Mafruz In Masha’ Total | 


(a) Claims recorded :— land. land. number. 
No. of Claims, original a 16,322 35 16,357 
(b) Disputed Claims :— 
Number of disputed claims out- 
standing at end of 1937 vs: 13,083 353 13,436 
Number received during 1938... 2,440 159 2,599 
Number settled during 1938 ... 4,130 79 4,209 
Number outstanding at the end 
of 1938 ee ws 11,393 433 11,826 


(c) Land Cases :— 
Total number of actions outstanding 








at end of 1937 . is 1,365 
Total number ois actions added 1 during 
1938 ee 805 
2,170 
Total number of actions decided 
during 1938 :— 
(a) by judicial settlement of 
disputes . t 604 
(0) by amicable agreement im- 
plemented by judicial decision 265 
959 


Number of actions outstanding | at the 

end of 1038 be : 1,211 
Number of actions referred to the 

Land Courts on appeal oe ahs 124 


79 


Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules Published :— 





Schedules Published. 





Mafruz Land— 
Schedules of 
Rights 


Masha’ Land— 
Schedules of Par- 
tition ... a 


Total number of 
Schedules pub- 
lished . ro 











Covering 
No. of No. of No. of total area. 
Registered Parcels. Schedules. Metric 
Blocks. dunums. 
320 12,813 _ 144,090 
os = 9 1,000 
320 12,813 9 145,090 











t 





18. The following is a comparative statement of the area 
completed to date under settlement operations: — 





June, 1928, to 
December, 1930... 
During 1931 eee 
w 1932 
» 1933 
» 1934 
1935 
» 1936 
» 1937 
” 1938 


Total 





Preliminary Investigation. 


Final Investigation. 





Recording of Claims and 
publication of Schedules of 
Claims. 


Metric dunums. 


Settlement of Claims and 
publication of Schedules of 
Rights and of Partition. 


Metric dunums. 





212,992 142,799 
255,947 138,387 
358,303 167,293 
479,195 334,139 
355,732 233,404 
196,119 298,549 
138,276 127,246 
118,236 189,244 
191,046 145,090 

2,305,846 1,826,211 








_ Ig. Land Settlement ficld work and the hearing of cases were 
impeded during the year by the unsettled conditions. 


20. The Land Settlement field parties working in Kafr Lam, 
Haifa Sub-District, and in Faluja, Gaza Sub-District, were 
attacked by armed men and the tentage, equipment and some 
tecords were destroyed by fire. 


21. Early in October the Settlement Offices in Acre, Tulkarm 
and Gaza, including the ficld staffs, were withdrawn to Haifa, 
Nazareth and Jaffa respectively. The only main Settlement 


80 


Offices whose activities were not restricted were those in Haifa 
and Jaffa, but the field staff of the latter was withdrawn and 
the former had only one party operating in Shefa ‘Amr. 


Land Settlement Fees. 
22. The following is a statement of registration, survey and 
court fees arising out of Settlement :— 
(a) During the year 1938 
Payable. Collected. 
£P.2,947 £P.2,755 
(b) From beginning of Settlement, 1928, to end of 
December, 1938 
Payable. Collected. Outstanding. 
£P.56,815 £P.35,738 £P.21,077 


Urban Property Tax. 


23. The Urban Property Tax Ordinance was applied during 
the year to Affula in the Nazareth Sub-District, thus bringing 
the number of towns to which the Ordinance applies to 29. 


24. Revision and assessment operations which were begun in 
1937 for the tax year 1938-9 were carried out as follows : — 
Original assessment operations were completed in Affula 
and in the extended areas of Nazareth, Jaffa and Tiberias. 
Quinquennial revaluation in accordance with section 19 (6) 
of the Ordinance was carried out in the urban areas of Petah 
Tiqva, Rehovot, Rishon le Tsiyon and Majdal. 
Annual revision operations were carried out in the follow- 
ing 24 urban areas: — 

Jerusalem, Jaffa (including Tel Aviv, Bat Yam and 
Sarona), Gaza, Beisan, Tulkarm, Tiberias, Ramleh, 
Lydda, Shefa ‘Amr, Khan Yunis, Nablus, Hadera, 
Beit Sahur, Nazareth, Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, 
Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala, Ramat Gan, Ramallah, 
Haifa and Acre. 


25. The rates of urban property tax remained unaltered, 
being Io per cent. of the net annual value. 


26. Exemption from payment of the tax was granted on house 
property occupied by registered owners of which the net annual 
value is less than:— 

£P.2z0—in the urban areas of Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa. 

£P.13—in the urban areas of Tulkarm, Tiberias and Nablus. 

£P.ro—in the urban areas of Acre and Affula. 

£P.7—in the urban areas of Beisan, Gaza, Ramleh, Lydda, Nazareth, 
Beersheba, Safad, Jenin, Hebron, Bethlehem, Petah Tiqva, Rishon le 
Tsiyon, Rehovot, Majdal, Hadera and Ramat Gan. 

£P.q4—in the urban areas of Beit Jala, Ramallah, Khan Yunis and 
Shefa ’Amr. 

{P.2—in the urban area of Beit Sahur. 


81 


27. Assessment operations in respect of the tax year 1939-40 
were begun and are still in progress. As the result, however, 
of the state of unrest, assessment operations were “suspended 
early in October in all urban areas with the exception of 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel Aviv and Haifa. 


28. The urban property tax records and other records in 
respect of the Beersheba and Tiberias Sub-Districts were 
destroyed by arson during the year and arrangements are 
being made to recompile them. 


Rural Property Tax. 


29. The aggregate area of all the tax categories under the 
Rural Property Tax Ordinance, 1935, totals 13,580,895 dunums. 


30. Annual revision of the tax in respect of areas brought 
under cultivation was made during the year. In addition 37 
new industrial buildings were valued and found to have a net 
annual value of £P.3,244 

Eight hundred and ohio Notices of Development of Land 
were submitted. 


31. Supplementary Rural Property Tax Rolls, showing the 
revised tax categories of the land by reason of development, 
were posted for 311 blocks in 129 villages. 


32. To these alterations in the tax category of the land 19 
objections were submitted and dealt with by official valuers, 
ten being admitted and nine refused. 


33. A redistribution of the tax on 843 blocks was made in 
cases where changes had been made in the tax category of the 
land on account of development. The area of citrus was revised 
and redistribution of the tax was carried out for 274 blocks 
which were settled during the year under the Land (Settlement 
of Title) Ordinance. 

34. A further reduction in the rate of tax on land planted 
with citrus was granted during the year. This resulted in 
reducing the tax payable on citrus from £P.224,000 to 
4P.107,280 for the year 1938-9. 

35. The following is a statement of the amount of rural 
property tax due on the ist April, 1937, collected during 
1937-8, and outstanding on the 1st April, 1938:— 

£P. 








P. 
Gross assessment as at 1.4.37 ane hrs rt ae 
Less— 
Reductions sie see re Bus os 48,735 
Exemptions Poe wee ae Bee se 129,835 
178,570 
Amount payable... one eb Ae EAS 273,155 
Collections during 1937-38 «. a eee see a 130,460 


Amount outstanding on 1.4.38 0 aa we £P.142,695 


82 


Tithes. 
36. The Commutation of Tithes Ordinance is still applicable 
to the Beersheba Sub-District and the Huleh Concession Area. 
37. The total aggregate commuted tithe payable and collected 
in these two areas during the tax year 1st April, 1937, to 31st 
March, 1938, was as follows :— 


Assess- Remis- Out- 

ment. sions. Collections. standing. 
&£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Beersheba Sub-District 8,940 _ 95 8,845 
Huleh Concession Area... 1,235 310 335 590 
Total... £P.10,175 310 430 9,435 


38. The following is a summary for the whole country of 
the amount of arrears outstanding on the 1st April, 1938, and 
the amount collected during the period 1st April to 3ist 
December, 1938:— 


Outstanding on 1st April 1938... ee ee ss 144,800 
Remissions during period 1.4.38 to 31.12.38 oo a 3,600 
Collected during period 1.4.38 to 31.12.38 we sy 3,860 
Balance outstanding on 1.1.39... ee as see 137,340 


Land Registration. 


39. The decline in the value of agricultural land, referred 
to in paragraph 43 on page 76 of the Annual Report for 1937, 
continued and was marked particularly in land distant from 
the main groups of Jewish settlements. As in the previous year 
there was a tendency for building sites, except those in the 
centres of the larger towns, to depreciate. 


40. In the Beersheba Sub-District Jewish companies and 
individuals completed the registration of previously unsurveyed 
land which they had already purchased by contract, and at the 
end of the year some 60,000 dunums in that Sub-District were 
registered in the name of Jews. This land is in scattered parcels 
and not in solid blocks. 

41. Jewish interests purchased land in the neighbourhood of 
Lake Huleh and the head waters of the River Jordan, on the 
northern frontier near Hanuta, and near Beisan. In other 
districts Jewish purchases registered were either in completion 
of old contracts or in order to round off blocks. 

42. Areas amounting to 27,280 dunums of land were pur- 
chased by Jews from non-Jews during the year at a total cost 


of £P.174,802. 
The corresponding figures for previous years were :— 


Year. Dunums. £P. 
1935 «+ as 72,905 1,699,121 
1936 ... ats 18,146 158,826 


1937 ..- ss 29,367 392,916 


83 
43. During the year, 855 settled parcels were divided or com- 
bined and became 5,643 new parcels. In the year 1937, 794 
settled parcels were divided and became 6,745 new ones. 
In the non-settled lands, 3,644 new parcels were created as 
the result of partition and parcellation. 


44. The total number of transactions registered during the 
year was 30,574 as compared with 42,009 for the previous year. 

Fees amounting to £P.142,381 were collected as compared 
with £P.208,323 in 1937. 

45. The registration of titles settled under the Land (Settle- 
ment of Title) Ordinance amounted during the year to a total of 
338 blocks and 13,332 parcels in the various land registries. 


Ghor Mudawwara Land Agreement. 


46. Sales by transferees under the terms of the original Ghor 
Mudawwara Land Agreement of 1922 continued during 1938. 
Eighty-seven parcels owned by transferees and representing an 
area of 3,745 dunums were redeemed and sold during the year 
and the total price, with accrued interest, was paid in full. The 
amount collected was £P.7,711. 


47. An attempt was made by persons who had signed the 
revised agreement to dispose of their land, notwithstanding that 
one of the conditions of the revised agreement was that the 
owners should not dispose of the land for 30 years from the date 
of execution. The Director of Land Registration refused his 
consent to this transaction and his refusal was upheld by the 
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council to whom the transferees 
Crake when their application had been rejected by the High 

ourt. 


Surveys. 


48. Early in the year armed bands destroyed several survey 
camps by fire. A number of original records were destroyed 
and instruments stolen. 

These acts in the ope) country necessitated the withdrawal 
of field parties to the larger towns. 

49. During the year a revised edition of the catalogue listing 
all the maps and publications up to 1st October, 1938, which 
are available for sale to the public, was produced. 

50. Twenty candidates entered for the land surveyors’ licence 
examination of whom seven passed. 

51. Rules were made under the Survey Ordinance involvin 
the revision of existing rules concerning licensed surveyors, an 
regarding the provision of property marks at the time of regis- 
tration of property. 

Triangulation. 
52. Work was continued on the major extension towards the 
Egyptian frontier, with a view to linking up the Egyptian and 
Palestine triangulation systems. 


84 


53. Five new topocadastral points were fixed for the Beer- 
sheba topographical surveys over an area covering 300 square 
kilometres. 

Precise Levelling. 

54. The southern circuit of 245 kilometres (Jerusalem— 
Ramleh—Gaza—Beersheba—Hebron—Jerusalem) was com- 
pleted with a closure of 75 millimetres. 


Tertiary Levelling. 

55. Levelling of trigonometrical points used in the water 
resources survey was completed in the area in which wells were 
investigated. 

Special Levelling. 

56. Parties withdrawn from rural areas were able to carry 
out town levelling in Nazareth, totalling 31-3 kilometres and 
in Hebron totalling 35-4 kilometres. This levelling will form 
the basis of contour surveys of each of these towns. 


Magnetic Variation. 


57. Observations were made with a ‘‘ Connolly ’ 
compass at II stations, during the year. 


standard 


Topographical Surveys. 
58. The topographical survey, started last year in the Beer- 
sheba Sub-District, was completed during the year. 


59. A car and compass traverse of 600 kms. was made 
between Beersheba and ’Aqaba to bring up to date the motor 
roads and tracks for the 1:250,000 sheet Palestine (South). 








60. Progress of Cadastral, Survey. 
Average 
Category No. of Area No. of area 
of Land. blocks. dunums. parcels. per 
parcel. 
| dunums 
Mafruz (divided lands) 173 98,600 3,506 28.1 
scale I: 2,500. } 
Mafruz (divided lands) 135 21,220 8,195 | 2.6 
scale I: 1,250. | 
Built-on areas... 2 80 138 1.7 
scale 1: 625. 
| 
Total ... 310 119,900 11,839 | 
| 











In addition, 403 blocks covering an area of 177,000 dunums 
were surveyed, but examination was not completed. 














No 


No. of Blocks 
6300 
6200 
6100 
6000 
5900 
5800 
5700 
5600 
5500 
S400 
5300 
5200 
5100 
5000 
4900 
4800 








4700 





4600 
4500 
4400 
4300 





4200 








4100 





4000 
3900 
3800 
3700 
3600 





3500 
3400 
3300 








3200 
3100 
3000 


Nov. Dec. 


Survey of Palestine, Jaffa 1938, 


9 oN WVUDVIG 


LIDEARY 
OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINON 








85 


61. 744 preliminary block plans containing 32,332 parcels 
covering an area of 262,592 dunums with schedules of reputed 
owners and areas were issued to the Land Settlement Branch. 

62. Sixteen blocks covering an area of 2,410 dunums were 
Te-surveyed, as it was found that the original scale of survey of 
parcels held in common ownership was too small for the accurate 
evaluation of the areas of the parcels which the settlement officer 
subsequently allotted to individual owners. 

63. Final plans of 358 blocks, to which settlement decisions 
had been ee were submitted for registration. They con- 
tained 4,836 parcels covering an area of 170,421 dunums. 


Urban Surveys. 


64. The following are particulars of-re-surveys carried out in 
closely developed areas 


Urban area. Scale, Dunums. 
Haifa... See as 1: 1,250 
Haifa (extensions) ... 1:3 eee 22,319. 
Jaffa—Tel Aviv we 12625 and 1: 1,250 270 


65. Field revision of large-scale plans for urban assessment 
purposes was completed in 12 towns and villages. 
tban assessment plans amounting to 820 were revised and 
issued for assessment under the urban property tax. 


Land Registration Surveys. 

66. The number of plans examined and dealt with at head- 
quarters was 1,422 covering an area of 54,816 dunums. 

67. In connection with the survey of State Domains 20 plans, 
covering a total area of approximately 4oo dunums, were pro- 
duced during the year. Owing to unsettled conditions this work 
was confined to the large towns. 

68. Mutations in settled areas to the number of 659 were dealt 
with during the year making a total of 5,035 since the beginning 
of settlement. 

Citrus Revision. 

69. A revision of the areas under citrus was carried out during 
the year in seven villages, all new groves and the dates of their 
plantation being recorded. 45,000 dunums were revised at a 
total cost of 4 mils per dunum. 


Mapping and Publications. 
70. A conventional sign sheet in Hebrew for use with the 
I:100,000 scale maps will shortly be available. 

1. A revised edition of the 1:250,000 scale layered map was 
printed showing new roads and a number of new settlements 
with the district and sub-district names and boundaries over- 
printed in red. 

15774 D 


86 


Index to Villages and Settlements. 


72. The three 1:150,000 scale sheets peecinae | village bound- 
aries were reduced by photography and printed for official use 
as one sheet, scale 1:250,000, with the district and sub-district 
boundaries and names overprinted in red. 


73. A second sheet similar in style to the administration map, 
covering southern Palestine from Beersheba to ’Aqaba and 
portions of Trans-Jordan and Sinai, is being compiled. A plan 
of Petra will be inset. 

Motor Map. 


74. The ninth edition was published early in the year. 


Development. 


Resettlement of Displaced Arab Cultivators. 


75. A disastrous attack of rust, which severely injured the 
wheat crop, caused yet a further setback to the displaced Arab 
cultivators who have been settled on irrigated land in the Beisan 
Sub-District. The settlers are, however, being encouraged to 
persevere and they are gradually coming to rely less on financial 
assistance from Government than formerly. e progress made 
by those settlers who were transferred in 1936 from irrigated 
to rain farmed land was satisfactory and they started to pay off 
the arrears of their loans. Most of the settlers from the Abu 
Qandil tribe are making good progress, are contributing reason- 
able amounts towards debt payments and are satisfied with their 
conditions and prospects. (See Report for 1937, page 81, 
paragraph 75.) 

76. The Wadi Hawarith Arabs are progressing and give 
indications of adopting intensive cultivation to a greater extent. 

77. Birket Ramadan still presents a serious problem, and 
endeavours continue to be made to persuade the owners to adopt 
methods of cultivation which will prevent the marsh from revert- 
ing to its condition before it was drained. Remedial works were 
carried out by the Department of Health in the marsh area in 
connection with anti-malaria measures. 


78. Observations made on the run-off of rain water during the 
rainy season of 1937-8 (see Report for 1937, page 81, para- 
graph 79) confirm the conclusion arrived at in previous years 
that the percentage running off is abnormally low. During six 
days of fairly continuous rain amounting to 146 millimetres, the 
run-off from the catchment area of the Wadi Sarar at Motza 
was equivalent to only 26-4 millimetres or 18 per cent. of the 
rainfall over the catchment. The percentage of run-off from 
the same catchment for the whole rainy season was 7-8 per 
cent. The run-off from catchment areas in the western reaches 
of the same wadi, containing less hill area and debouching 


87 

on the plains, gave even lower figures. A catchment area on 
urely plain land gave slightly less than 4 per cent. run-off. 
ese figures are parkealany interesting in connection with the 
suggestion frequently made that storing flood water in Palestine 
is practicable. During the year arrangements were made. to 
establish three additional observation stations, of which two 
have actually been completed. The disorders prevented readings 
being taken at four stations erected during the previous year, 
while one station was destroyed by an exceptionally high flood 
in November. A map showing the catchment areas of Palestine 

has been prepared and will be published shortly. 


79. A geo-hydrological report on underground and surface 
water (see Report for 1937, page 82, paragraph 82) is under 
preparation and will be completed soon. 

80. The observation of the underground water levels at a 
series of well stations was continued. At two out of the 27 
stations observations had to be suspended and three new 
stations were established. The utility of these observation 
stations is evident as affording proof of the adequacy of the 
underground water resources to meet the expanding exploita- 
tion to which they are subjected. 

While the results of attempts to find satisfactory underground 
water in hitherto unexplored areas, which have been made in 
connection with the hydrographic survey of southern Palestine 
and the lower reaches of the Jordan valley, proved disappoint- 
ing, private enterprise was successful in the foot-hills of the 

ordan valley north of Beisan and in the foot-hills overlooking 

e Huleh. A small supply was also struck in an unexpected 
quarter, namely on the western slope of the Galilee hills at 
Hanuta and further supplies have been tapped near Karkur on 
the coastal plain. (See Report for 1937, page 82, paragraph 81.) 
8x. Work on water settlement operations was suspended at the 
end of October owing to the disturbances. By that time, how- 
ever, data had been compiled regarding water rights in, and 
distribution of, all springs in the neighbourhood of and south of 
Beisan. This data will form the nucleus of future water 
een ; - 
egular monthly gaugings of the discharge of these springs 
were ken from Gcteber, tae, to October, 1938. The contour 
survey, contemplated in 1937, was also completed with the 
exception of a small area which was left unfinished when the 
field work had to be suspended. (See Report for 1937, page 82, 
paragraph 83.) 

82. The hydrographic survey of southern Palestine and the 
Jordan valley, referred to on page 82, paragraph 84 of the 1937 
Report, was started in February, 1938, and continued until the 
pa of August when it had to be closed down owing to the 
disturbed state of the country. 


15774 D2 


88 


By that time 21 bores (including five bored in connection with 
the water resources survey) were completed, of which five were 
in the Jordan valley and 16 in the Gaza-Beersheba sub-districts. 
Ten bores, of which two are in the Jordan valley and eight in 
the Gaza-Beersheba area, were uncompleted in August and 
were carefully sealed with a view to future operations. A full 

eo-hydrological report on the work done is under preparation, 
but from the results of the survey up to the date when it was 
suspended in August, it can safely be said that the Gaza- 
Beersheba area is not one in which it is possible, as has some- 
times been suggested, to sink a bore at random and obtain sweet 
water. On the contrary, even when sites are chosen after pro- 
longed geo-physical experiments and geological investigations, 
75 per cent. of them prove to be complete failures. The presence 
of abundant sweet water in the coastal sand dunes seems likely 
to be confirmed, and there is always the possibility that water 
may be found in the Turonian-Cenomanian formation which 
has not yet been tested. This water, however, would be at 
great depths and from indications obtained in other parts of 
Palestine, the quality, even if water exists, may well prove to 
be too saline for: irrigation purposes. The general conclusion 
which has been reached as a result of the survey is that in far 
the greater portion of the area no improvement in agriculture 
which is dependent on irrigation is to be anticipated. 


A well with some 40 metres of underground channelling has 
been constructed at Asluj (Beersheba Sub-District) and the 
results show possibilities of useful, if limited, development in 
areas similarly situated by means of the construction of such 
wells or of chains of wells following the practices in Cyprus and 
in India. Two sites for flood diversion weirs were selected in 
the Beersheba area. The stream beds and the irrigation areas 
to be served by the weirs were surveyed and contoured, but the 
construction of the weirs could not be begun owing to the 
disturbances. 


Much of the underground water discovered during the survey 
was of a salinity higher than that of any saline water hitherto 
used for intensive cultivation in Palestine, but field and labora- 
tory experiments have been started in the hope that it may still 
be usable for certain crops under certain soil conditions. Here 
also the field experiments had to be discontinued. 


VI.—NATIONALITY. 


1. The text of the Palestinian Citizenship Order, 1925, and 
of a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine 
amending Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the 
Report for 1925; and the text of the amending Order in Council 
of 1931 was printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


89 


2. The qualifications for naturalization are: two years’ 
residence in Palestine out of the three preceding the date of 
application, good character, adequate knowledge of English 
or Arabic or Hebrew, and the intention to settle in Palestine. 
In special cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant 
naturalization even if the prescribed period of residence has 
not been within the three years preceding the date of application. 
The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. 


3. The total number of persons to whom naturalization 
certificates were delivered in 1938 compared with those in 
previous years is as follows: — 


Applications Certificates 

submitted. delivered. 
Total ... 36 nas 60,831 53,696 
1925-1929 dee eee 20,168 15,550 
1930-1934 Sah ane 7,978 8,161 
1935 ees pas Bos 6,007 5,994 
1936 wae re ess 5,444 4,941 
1937 fas ace Se 12,194 9,925 
1938 sad tie be 9,040 9,124 


18,259 persons acquired Palestinian citizenship in 1938, in- 
cluding wives and children who became Palestinian citizens 
through the naturalization of their husbands or fathers or 
mothers. 


4. The decline in the number of applications in 1938 may be 
attributed to the disturbances in Palestine which made travelling 
difficult, prevented many prospective applicants engaged on 
security duties from submitting their applications and, in some 
cases, caused applicants to defer their applications on grounds of 
economy. 


5. The race and previous nationality of the persons 
naturalized in 1938 were as follows: — 





Per cent. 
Number. of Jews 
A. Jews :— naturalized. 

Total ... oe w+ 17,988 100 
Polish... ae «+ 6,630 37 
German ... ote nis 4.415 25 
Rumanian an Be 1,099 6 
Russian ... fae aes 552 3 
Other... a We 3,099 17 
Stateless ate oe 2,193 12 

B. Non- Jews :— 

Total ... 271 100 
Turkish ... 92 34 
Syrian 40 15 
Egyptian se 7 6 
Other... ee 122 45 


In 1937 the proportions of applicants who were Polish and 
German subjects were 43 per cent. and Io per cent. respectively. 


15774 D3 


go 
- 6. The passport services granted by the department in 1938 
oe coupes with previous years are shown in the following 
table: — 


Service. 1936. 1937- 7938. 
Total ... as BS ss 34,689 46,798 49,324 
Palestinian passports issued ... 9,039 15,267 15,593 
Palestinian passports renewed... 3,626 3,830 2,568 
Palestinian passports endorsed 3,141 4.156 2,971 
Certificates of Identity issued... 398 572 448 
Return visas granted ... ws 14,567 18,306 13,649 
Other visas granted... een 2,484 2,633 3,501 
Identity and Travel documents 
issued ... any aah 256 416 621 364 
Identity and Travel documents 
renewed Sh es a 59 7o 7 
British passports issued ey 429 575 537 
British passports endorsed or 
renewed 463 741 685 


Registration of British subjects 
and of retention of ian 
domicile oa nA a 67 27 I 

7. The number of Palestinian passports granted during 1938, 
namely 15,593, was the largest number ever issued in one year 
since the creation of the department. 

In spite of the disturbances, large numbers of Palestinian 
ports were sought by Palestinian Arabs who (a) were no longer 
able freely to cross into Syria and the Lebanon as a consequence 
of the wire fence; or (b) who left Palestine for Egypt, Syria and 
the Lebanon and other countries on account of the disturbances 
in Palestine; or (c) who wished to travel to Trans-Jordan for 
admission to which passports are now needed by Palestinian 
citizens. 

8. Since 1926, when Palestinian passports were first printed, 
some 117,500 have been issued of which some 110,500 have been 
issued in Palestine and 7,000 have been issued by His Majesty’s 
Consuls abroad. 


g. The following numbers of changes of names were registered 
in 1938 as compared with previous years:— 


1933... rey 2 6G 1936... we 682 
1934... vee G12 1937... see 1,427 
1935 -. we 793 1938 ... ++ 1,017 


The majority of these changes are made by Jewish immigrants 
from Europe adopting Hebrew names on the acquisition of 
Palestinian citizenship. 


to. Consideration is still being given to the amendment of the 
Palestinian Citizenship Order 1925, with a view to giving effect 
to the recommendation in Chapter XV, paragraph 12, of the 


Report of ‘al Commission in regard to the position of 
persor ‘vlestine who acquired on birth, or sub- 
seque ossess Turkish nationality, but who were 
habit road at the time at which treaty nationality 


was * tine by the above Order. 





gr 
VII. JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Legislation. he 


The following were the most important Ordinances enacted 
during the year 1938:— 

Water Survey Ordinance.—This Ordinance makes pro- 
vision in respect of the discovery and raising of under- 
ground water in Palestine and vests the High Commissioner 
with powers incidental thereto. 


Huleh Concession (Boundaries) Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance defines certain areas in connection with a concession 
for the drainage and reclamation of the lands known as 
the Huleh area and provides for certain matters in con- 
nection therewith. 


Town Planning (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance amends the principal Ordinance mainly in order to 
enable the town planning authorities to exercise a stricter 
control over the appearance and use of buildings. 


Loans (Recovery of Interest) Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
provides that the interest recoverable upon certain loans 
may exceed the amount of the principal, notwithstanding 
the provisions of the Ottoman Law. 


Playing Cards Excise Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
regulates the manufacture of playing cards in Palestine and 
prescribes an excise duty thereon. 


Civil Procedure Ordinance——This Ordinance is con- 
sequential to the enactment of Rules of Court entitled 
‘* Civil Procedure Rules, 1938,’’ and declares that the 
Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure, with the exception of a 
few articles thereof, shall cease to have effect in Palestine 
in proceedings in any court other than a Magistrate’s court. 


Rates and Taxes (Exemption) Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance make provision for the exemption from municipal 
rates, and from rural and urban property tax, of property 
of various descriptions of which the main categories are 
property occupied and used by the Government, property 
occupied by consular officers, and property used for 
religious, charitable or educational purposes. The Ordi- 
Nance incorporates specifically the exemptions hitherto 
enjoyed by institutions or bodies by virtue of treaties, 
firmans, decrees and other provisions of the Ottoman 
regime, and it provides for the future exemption of certain 
further categories of property. 


Oil Mining Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals, and 
re-enacts with considerable amendments and additions, the 
law relating to prospecting and mining for oil, hitherto 


15774 . D4 


g2 


contained in the Mining Ordinance (Cap. 94) and confines 
the scope of that Ordinance to prospecting and mining for 
minerals other than oil. : 


Agricultural Fertilizers Ordinance.—This Ordinance 
provides for the protection of agricultural fertilizers against 
adulteration. 


Advocates’ Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals, and with 
certain amendments re-enacts the provisions of, the 
Advocates’ Ordinance (Cap. 2), mainly in view of the 
establishment of a Law Council under the Law Council 
Ordinance, 1938. 


Law Council Ordinance.—This Ordinance provides for 
the constitution of a Law Council which is charged, inter 
alia, with the duties of enquiring into the conduct of 
advocates, and of persons permitted to practise before the 
Moslem religious courts, alleged to have been guilty of 
unprofessional conduct; the control and supervision of the 
Jerusalem law classes and the Palestine law examination; 
and the issue of certificates to persons possessing the 
necessary qualifications entitling them to be inscribed on 
the roll of advocates or on the roll of persons permitted 
to practise before the Moslem religious courts under the 
Advocates’ Ordinance, 1938. 


Anglo-Iranian Oil Conventions Ordinance.—This Ordi- 
nance validates certain conventions entered into between 
the Government of Palestine and the Anglo-Iranian Oil 
Company, regulating the conveyance through Palestine of 
mineral oils and the refinement thereof. 


Trade Marks Ordinance.—This Ordinance repeals, and 
re-enacts with considerable amendments, the trade marks 
law of Palestine hitherto contained in the Trade Marks 
Ordinance (Cap. 144). 


Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance (No. 2).—This 
Ordinance provides for the grant of pensions to the 
dependants of officers who have died as a result of injuries 
attributable to serious and widespread disturbances in 
Palestine at more generous rates than those provided in 
the principal Ordinance. 


Police (Amendment) Ordinance.—This Ordinance pro- 
vides for the grant of pensions to the dependants of 
members of the Palestine Police Force who have died as 
a result “ ‘juries attributable to serious and widespread 
dist" “alestine at more generous rates than those 
pr "incipal Ordinance. 


93: 


: Bankruptcy. : 

2. Prior to the enactment of the Bankruptcy Ordinance, 1936, 
the bankruptcy law in force was that contained in the Ottoman 
Commercial Code, a code based on French law, under which 
the bankruptcy administration was vested in the four District 
Courts of Palestine. 

Under the Ottoman Code the Court, on adjudicating a person 
bankrupt, appointed what was known as a Juge Commissaire, 
generally a judge of the court itself whose duty it was to super- 
vise the bankruptcy. Under him he had a Syndic, i.e., the 
trustee, and a secretary to the bankruptcy. The Syndic was 
elected by the creditors and his appointment was confirmed by 
the court. Generally he was the lawyer who had applied for 
adjudication in bankruptcy. The secretary was practically in 
all cases a clerk of the court. These three officers were paid 
out of the assets of the bankrupt. 

The Bankruptcy Ordinance which repealed the Ottoman Law 
of Bankruptcy was enacted on the 24th January, 1936, but 
did not come into operation until the 15th August, 1936. From 
the date of the Ordinance coming into operation until the end of 
1938 there have been 150 bankruptcies. : 

e following figures give a rough indication of the number 
of bankruptcies from the year 1929 to the date of the coming 
into force of the Bankruptcy Ordinance :— 


Year. Number of bankruptcies. 
1929s. ia ae ove ee Io 
1930s oa ies ae are 33 
1931 saa 38 oe eee tee 22 
1932 ae aa a5 hae ae 10 
1933 sei Ses ave we ey 9 
1934 ea Aa tee see kes 13 
1935 ass née oe nee oe 17 
1936 (to 15.8.36) Be 23 


The following figures furnish a tabular view of the total 
amount of insolvency in the years 1936 to 1938:— 


Year. No. Assets. Liabilities. 
£P. z 
1936 (as from 15th August, 1936) 6 8,193.627  22,272.397 
1937 oe Bee de 60 37,308.961  93,411.621 
1938 eee see nee 84 165,388.715 203,599.783 
150 210,891.303 319,283.801 


In 106 cases trustees were appointed and the administration 
in bankruptcy was supervised e the Official Receiver. In 35 
cases the Official Receiver is acting as trustee. 

104 public examinations were conducted during the year. 
These were divided as follows: — 


Jerusalem aks sie ae and 35 
Tel Aviv and Jaffa... cee bos 64 
Haifa... ree ra 55 ate 5 


4 


Nineteen applications for the approval of compositions pro- 
posed by debtors with their creditors were heard by the courts. 

In 16 cases debtors undertook to pay from 25 to 35 per cent. 
of their debts. In one case the debtor undertook to pay 45 per 
cent. of his debts and in another case the debtor undertook to 
pay roo per cent. of his debts. 

Three companies went into liquidation during the year. The 
total liabilities and assets of these companies were as follows: — 


; £P. 
Liabilities ee ee see 20,381.594 
Assets... ey \ wee: 16,110.639 


. The Official Receiver was acting as liquidator of eight com- 
panies at the close of the year. 


Outside liquidators were appointed in the case of 16 liquida- 
tions and these act under the supervision of the Official Receiver. 


The revenue for the year 1938 in respect of liquidations and 
bankruptcies was £P.956. The revenue would have been much 
higher but for the fact that under present economic conditions 
it is difficult, if not impossible, to realize assets, and when assets 
are realized they bring in a quarter of their value. The amount 
of fees collected is thus reduced. 


Four bankrupts were prosecuted for offences under the Bank- 
ruptcy Law and the director of one company was publicly 
examined. : 


On the 15th December, 1937, the registration of partnerships 
previously ‘carried out by the District Courts was transferred 
to the Registrar of Companies. There are 4,705 partnerships 
registered in Palestine. During the year 1938, 233 partnerships 
and three limited partnerships were registered and the revenue 
for the period was £P.704. 


Companies. 


3. During the year, 163 Palestinian and 17 foreign companies 
were registered, bringing the total number of companies regis- 
tered in Palestine to 1,743. Fifty-two companies increased their 
share capital during the same period. 


The revenue collected during the year in respect of registra- 
tion fees amounted to £P.9,464 as compared with £P.23,154 
collected during the previous year. ; 


Changes in Constitution and Jurisdiction of the Courts. 


4. The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order.—Under 
this Order Magistrates’ Courts were established in Tel Aviv, 
Petah Tiqva and Rehovot. There was a Magistrate’s Court at 
Tel Aviv prior to the promulgation of this Order, but it was 
part of the Magistrate’s Court of Jaffa. 


‘95 

5. The Establishment of Courts (Amendment) Order (No. 4) 
was necessitated by the closing of the District Court of Nablus 
for reasons of security. This Orden vests increased jurisdiction 
in the District Court of Haifa and the Land Court of Haifa 
in order to include the area over which the District Court of 
Nablus and the Land Court of Nablus exercised jurisdiction. 
This Order also established a Magistrate’s Court in Affule. 


6. Orders under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction 
Ordinance, 1935.—For reasons of security a number of Magis- 
trates’ Courts had to be closed and Orders under section 4 of 
the above Ordinance had to be made transferring the jurisdiction 
of these courts to Magistrates’ Courts in the larger towns. 


Rules of Court. 


‘7. The following Rules of Court were made by the Chief 
Justice during the year:— 

The Archives (Amendment) Rules make provision for the 
destruction of old records of District, Land, and Magistrates’ 
Courts, on application being made to the Chief Justice. 

The District Courts (Summary Trials) Rules prescribe a 
uniform procedure for the conduct of the trials, otherwise 
than upon information, of persons by district courts. 

The Civil Procedure Rules.—These rules (made as a 
result of the enactment of the Civil Procedure Ordinance, 
1938) define in a comprehensive manner the procedure for 
civil matters in the Supreme Court sitting as a Court of 
Appeal, District Courts, Land Courts and Special Tribunals. 
They replace the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure and the 
various rules of procedure which have been made since the 
inception of the civil Government. 

The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules make provision for 
the exemption from court fee on the copy of the record of a 
preliminary inquiry furnished to any accused person com- 
mitted for trial under section 18 (2) of the Criminal 
Procedure (Trial Upon Information) Ordinance. These 
tules also provide for exemption from fee on the attestation 
of the signature to a recognizance of a young offender and 
exemption from filing fee on a recognizance in respect of a 
young offender. 

The Foreign Tribunals (Evidence) (Amendment) Rules 
were designed to remove a doubt as to whether or not a fee 
ii payable to an Examiner acting under the principal 
tules. 

The Court Fees (Amendment) Rules (No. 2) give an 
appellate court power to exempt an appellant who alleges 
poverty from the payment of court fees on being satisfied 

. that such appellant has reasonable grounds of appeal and 
that the allegation of poverty is true. These rules. also 
abolish the fees formerly payable in respect of the filing of 
a notice of appeal in a criminal case. 


96 


Work of the Courts. 


8. The entries of new cases for the early part of the year 
showed a general increase as compared with the year 1937, but 
as the political situation deteriorated the entries of new civil 
cases and the prosecution of offenders decreased. In the month 
of September it became necessary to close the District and Land 
Courts of Nablus and a number of Magistrates’ Courts in isolated 
smaller towns. Three Magistrates’ Courts (Nazareth, Bethlehem 
and Beersheba) were destroyed by fire and minor robberies of 
cash and stores took place in others. The jurisdiction of the 
courts which had to be closed was transferred to the courts of 
larger towns. Towards the end of the year however, the 
Magistrate’s Court of Gaza was reopened and it is anticipated 
that a number of others will be reopened early in 1939. 


g. When the territory was divided into areas under the control 
of Military Commanders in the month of October, 1938, the 
civil courts continued to sit, the Military Commanders rendering 
every assistance to this end. 


ro. Although the number of new cases entered decreased 
during the latter part of the year the prevailing conditions pre- 
vented the courts from disposing of the cases which were in 
arrears. 


1x. At the thirty-fourth session of the Permanent Mandates 
Commission, Baron Van Asbeck raised the question of the 
enforcement of Ottoman legislation which might be found to be 
repugnant to the Mandate. It is in fact the case that the 
Supreme Court of Palestine sitting as a Court of Appeal has 
held that, in view of the fact that Article 17 of the Palestine 
Order in Council referred only to Ordinances and not to Ottoman 
laws in’force on the rst November, 1914, it had no power to go 
into the question whether such laws were repugnant to the terms 
of the Mandate and that, even if such laws were repugnant, 
they remained in force. There are, however, no Ottoman laws 
in force in Palestine which are repugnant to the Mandate. In 
the case referred to by Baron Van Asbeck, the Supreme Court 
held that the particular law referred to was not repugnant to the 
Mandate but in any event the Ottoman Penal Code has now 
been repealed and replaced by a Code based on English law. 
Furthermore, the High Commissioner has power to declare 
Ottoman laws no longer to have effect in Palestine and he would 
no doubt exercise that power in cases where an Ottoman law 
in force in Palestine was found to be repugnant to the Mandate. 


12. The Permanent Mandates Commission also desired that 
some reference might be made to the position arising from the 
extension of the privilege of electing to be tried before a British 
Magistrate or before a British majority in the District or 
Supreme Courts. Election in favour of trial before a British 


97 


Magistrate is fairly common but figures are not available. The 
law does not provide, however, for the constitution of a District 
Court or Court of Criminal Assize (Supreme Court) with a 
British majority. Provision exists for an accused person to make 
application for trial by a British Judge of the District Court 
sitting alone and there is a similar provision in respect of the 
Court of Criminal Assize. Five of such applications have been 
made in respect of the Court of Criminal Assize since the year 
1935- The Court of Criminal Assize consists of (a) the Chief 
peeee or a British Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court, (b) a 

ritish Puisne Judge or British Judge of the District Court, and 
(c) a Palestinian Judge. It has therefore always a British 
majority. 

13. Criminal Assizes.—Sittings of the Court of Criminal 
Assize were held at regular intervals. 


14. Municipal Courts—These Courts exist only in Tel Aviv, 
Gaza and Acre, and sit only as Criminal Courts. 5,982 cases 
were entered in the Municipal Court at Tel Aviv during the year. 
5,951 were decided and 131 cases were pending at the close of 
the year. 

No cases were entered in the Municipal Courts of Acre and 
Gaza. 


15. Magistrates’ Courts.—42,225 civil cases were entered in 
these Courts, and 44,332 were decided; 2,464 were pending at 
the end of the year. 

The number of criminal cases entered was 37,760; 38,416 
were decided, and there were 667 pending at the end of the year. 

16. District Courts—The total number of cases entered in the 
District Courts showed a decrease of 532 in comparison with the 
previous year. 

The following table shows the total number of civil and 
criminal cases entered in the last five years:— 


Civil Criminal 
Year. Entered. Entered. 
1934 see one one a 2,403 2,338 
1935 awe es $35 see 2,300 1,769 
1936 ee ree ee fa 1,586 1,683 
1937 ore ses aoe is 2,140 1,803 
1938 ane a a8 nee 2,351 1,060 


The following table sets out the number of civil and criminal 
cases decided and pending in the last five years: — 


Civil Civil Criminal Criminal 
Year. Decided. Pending. Decided. Pending. 
1934 aS tad 2,403 512 2,338 130 
1935 ais 3 2,169 643 1,788 IIr 
1936 Sa sa 1,607 622 1,686 108 


1937 see oo 2,339 595 1,737 190 
1938 eae: ae 2,276 670 1,152 98 


98 


These statistics show a decrease in the number of cases decided 
during the year. This is due to the closing down of a number 
of courts throughout the ccuntry. 


17. Land Courts.—Cases entered in these Courts during the 
year under review numbered 414; 528 were pending at the end 
of the previous year; 527 were decided and there were 415 
pending at the end of the year. 


18. Supreme Court.—Civil appeals to the number of 47 were 
pending at the beginning of the year; 261 were filed during the 
year; 279 were decided and the number of appeals pending at 
the end of the year was 29. 

Eleven criminal appeals were pending at the beginning of the 
year; QI were lodged during the year; 99 were decided; and at 
the end of the year there were three appeals pending. 


19. Court of Criminal Assize.—Eight cases were pending from 
the previous year; 28 cases were entered during the year; 35 
cases were decided and one case was pending at the end of the 
year. 


20. High Court.—Nine cases were pending from the previous 
year and 70 cases were entered during the year. Seventy-seven 
cases were decided and two cases were pending at the end of the 
year. 

The 77 cases which were decided may be classified as 
follows :— 

(1) Petitions in the nature of Habeas Corpus proceedings, 


under Section 6 (a) of the Courts Ordinance, Cap. 28... 3 

(2) Petitions under Section 6 (b) of the said Ordinance in 
execution matters cia oe. ee an eee 49 

(3) Other petitions under sub-section 6 (b) for orders directed 
to public bodies ... ee ae wes wee os 22 

(4) Petitions under Section 6 (c) relating to change of venue 
of trials aie a6 ee. aae ree Bid 3 
(5) Other petitions not coming within the above sub-sections _ 
Total ... sae 77 


21. Special Tribunal.—No cases were pending at the begin- 
ning of the year; two cases were entered, one of which was 
decided, leaving one case pending at the end of the year. 


22. Revenue.—The revenue of the courts during the first three 
months of the year showed a strong upward tendency but later 
receipts dropped considerably and the total revenue of the courts 
was £P.144,034 as compared with £P165,904 in 1937, and 
£P.145,075 in 1936. ; 

23. Advocates.—No complaints of such a nature as to move 
the Chief Justice to constitute a court of discipline were received 
against any practising advocate. 


99 - 
Law Reports.—Arrangements were completed for the 


completion and publication of reports of leading cases decided 
in the Courts of alestine. 


Religious Courts. 


25. Moslem Community.—In the Moslem Religious Courts 
11,766 cases were decided during the year, including 121 appeals. 
The Sharia judges issued 5,250 deeds of marriage and 751 
decrees of divorce. £P.3,650 were collected in fees. 

26. Orthodox Community.—The Ecclesiastical Courts of the 
Orthodox Patriarchate sat in Jerusalem and in Acre, Jaffa, 
Haifa, Nazareth and Gaza. The revenue from fees during the 
year amounted to £P.225. The cases disposed of numbered 
370 of which 8 were heard on appeal. The majority of the cases 
were concerned with matrimonial matters and the administration 
of estates. Seventeen cases affected change of religion. 

27. Jewish Community.—The Jewish Rabbinical Courts heard 
the number of cases shown in brackets:—Jerusalem (including 
a Court of ease (309), or Aviv (2,111), Haifa (207), 
Safad (65), Petah-Tiqva (206), Hadera (46), Rishon-le- 
Tsiyon (4), Ein-Ganim (9), Affule (15), Nahlat-Ganim (10), 
Kfar Saba (82), Zichron-Yaakov (18), Tiberias (15), Rehovot 
(18), Pardess-Hanna (16), Kiryath Yoseph (27), Bnei-Brak (228), 
Raanana (44), Nathanya (25). : 

28. Syrian Orthodox Community.—The Court of this com- 
munity disposed of eight cases: six were concerned with matri- 
monial affairs, and two with succession. 

29. Armenian Patriarchate.—The tribunal of this Patriarchate 
heard 11 cases during the year, concerning wills, succession, 
guardianship, divorce and alimony. 

30. Latin Community.—During the year, 86 cases were heard 
by the Latin Ecclesiastical Courts concerning succession, 
guardians, wills and matrimonial matters. 


Cases Pending, Entered and Decided during 1938, 


A Supreme Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.38. during year, during year. 31.12.38. 
Civil... ane bee 47 261 279 29 
Criminal ew ae Ir gl 99 3 
Totals ... as 58 352 378 32 
B High Court. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 


1.1.38, during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Totals... ~*~ «.- tee 9 7° 77 2 


100 














c Court of Criminal Assize. 
Pending Entered Decided dep | 
1.1.38. during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Totals ... 8 28 35 I 
D Special Tribunal. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.7.38. during year. during year, 31.12.38. 
Totals ... _ 2 pine? I 
E District Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
2.1.38. during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Civil... oy er 595 2,351 2,276 670 
Criminal Bs aes 190 1,060 1,152 98 
Totals ... aes ae5 785 3,41 3,428 768 
F Land Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.38, during year. during year. 31.12.38 
Totals ... wie aes 528 414 527 415 
G Magistrates’ Courts. 
Cases Summarily Dealt with. 
Pendi: Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.38. during year, duving year. 31.12.38. 
Civil... 4.573 42,225 44,332 2,464 
Criminal 1,323§ 37,760 38,416 667 
Totals ... 5,804 79,985 82,748 3,131 
} Figure of 4,402 shown in 1937 report was incorrect. 
§ Figure of 1,245 shown in 1937 report was incorrect. 
H Municipal Courts. 
Pending Entered Decided Pending 
1.1.38. during year. during year. 31.12.38. 
Totals... 100 5,982 5,951 331° 


* 3 cases pending at Gaza—oourt temporarily closed. 


Acre—court temporarily closed, 


I case pending at 





S16'S | LgELe ‘ ‘ ‘ 0 “ see oe sor 





Zlob s Ses syuerrem jeroads 
Sutpjog sopeNsiseyy 


ax0}9q pesreqo suosieg 


_ Sob‘z1 “ ¢ _ synog redioranyy 
ze6'1S 6zo'ge “i Sas spo) ,sezeNnsiseyy 
S6b ines hs i tae Se, ie sO} puey 
ob1‘z €go'r : I z z yt “+ spMOD PLASICGE 

= _ = #2 * yeunquy tereds 

_ is ‘ezissy eames jo 3mn0) 
ol _ ye os pmoy Yat 
ole one ** ymoy euaidng 





pasg frousmssn | “pat [rrousmssg | patg fous 














“Spanod snosdyay wvys 49yj0 oursayyg us Spanoy Yo us spaddy Surpnjour “possqug soso f£ 























z6‘ly 








€1z'6L 


6Le'> 


ogg's 


00S‘99 


LEL‘t 





19z‘zS 
vvo'r 
691'z 


Sz 
gre 









“NAD tous | “1atD 





“SEOX 





Surproy 


$1010, 


spuesrem peroods 
sozesiseyy 


ar0¥9q po3reqo suosieg 





sqinoy fedrorunyy 
S}MOD ,soyeNsIse 

+. gyMOD pue’y 
syANoZ 2014SIq 

* peumquy Teeds 
“rezissy yeuturLiy jo.3n0D 
: qanog ys 
qanog eueidns 





‘SUNOD SnOsToY uy; soyJo oUNSOIDG Us SyanoD To us svaddy Furpnjouy “popieq sosvy y 


103 


L_ Persons charged before officers holding special magisterial 
é warrants tn all Palestine. 


1935 +e one ess a wae see * 13,647 
1936... oe ee a soe ee 4,972 
1937+ ase oe a one ae 4879 


1938... ake ae on an one 2,796 


VIII.—ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


1. The safeguarding of the economic interests of the com- 
munity is constantly the pre-occupation of Government as 
follows :— 

(a) The railways, posts, telegraphs, telephones, ports and 
roads are in public ownership and administered by Govern- 
ment Departments. 


(6) Haifa Harbour and the Oil Dock were constructed 
by a Government Department. 

(c) All water ue are administered by the Munici- 
palities or by the Local Councils concerned. 

Note.—The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was completed 
early in 1936 by a Government Department, employing a special staff. 
It is now operated by the Public Works Department and the distribu- 
tion within the city is administered by the Jerusalem Municipality. Asa 
result of this new supply, the price of water to the consumer has been 
reduced from 80 mils to 50 mils per metre cube. 


(ad) The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been abolished. 
(e) All mineral resources are Government property and 
my only be exploited by private persons in accordance 
with the provisions of the Mining Ordinance. 
(f) Other Palestine Ordinances cover the control of: — 
(1) Fisheries, forests and game. 
(2) The cultivation, manufacture and sale of tobacco 
or liquor. 
(3) The manufacture and sale of salt and matches. 
(4) The export of fruit. 
(5) Mewat (waste) lands. 
(6) Companies. 
(g) Measures are being taken to carry out a cadastral 
survey and a settlement of title to land. 


2. It has not been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services and 
utilities. teat ade Agency is, however, a large shareholder in 
the Palestine Electric Corporation; and the Palestine Economic 
Corporation of New York, the Directors of which are non- 
Zionist Jews co-operating with the Abie Agency, has a con- 
siderable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. 


104 
3. A complete list of concessions and the names of the 


concession-holders is appended to this report (Appendix III). 


4. The latest balance sheets of the several companies holding 


concessions are furnished as an appendix to this report 
(Appendix I). 


aids Provisions are made to secure economic equality under 
ifferent headings as follows: — 

(a) Concessions— 

(x) All concessions granted by Government for the 
exploitation or development of the natural resources 
of Palestine or public services include time-limit 
clauses, in the interests of genuine and expeditious 
development, affecting the commencement of the work 
and the expiry of the concession. 

(2) Concession rights may not be assigned without 
the consent of Government which may also take over 
undertakings in the event of war or of other similar 
emergency. 

(3) At the end of the term of the concession, the 
undertakings and all their assets and effects revert to 
Government. 

(4) The concessionnaires’ accounts are, by right, open 
to the inspection of Government which may also invest 
in the Eee of the Company. 

(5) All leases of State Domain Lands specify the 
right of Government to resume possession of the area— 
wholly or in part—for public utility purposes. 

(6) The employment of local labour by concession- 
naires is adequately safeguarded. \ 

(b) Land Tenure.—The Palestine Government has re- 
moved the Ottoman prohibition against a foreign corpora- 
tion holding land and has abolished the special Ottoman 
tax upon immovable property owned by corporate bodies. 
All foreign bodies, whether individual or corporate, may 
hold land in Palestine upon the same terms as any Palesti- 
nian individual or corporate person. 

(c) Mining Rights (in particular, Rules in regard to Pro- 
specting).—Economic equality is secured by the provisions 
of the Mining Ordinance, 1925, and the Oil Mining 
Ordinance, 1938 (see paragraph 4o of Chapter XXVI, 
Public Works and Geology), which, inter alia, prevent 
speculative ‘‘ tying-up ’’ of undeveloped mineralised areas 
by prospectors. 

(d) Fiscal Regime (Direct and Indirect Taxation). 


(e) Customs Regulations (Imports, Exports, Transit). 
Note.—For reasons of convenience these two headings are taken 
together. 


105 


There is no economic discrimination either in the Fiscal 
Regime or in the Customs Regulations of Palestine. 

Prior to the War, certain foreign charitable, religious and 
educational institutions, enjoyed under the Ottoman Law of 
Silhi 1281 A.H. and various firmans, special privileges in 
aes of import duty, State and municipal taxation and 
titles. 

These privileges have been maintained in toto by the 
Palestine Government, but no fresh privileges of this nature 
have been granted. 

Otherwise foreign nationals are liable to the same taxa- 
tion, State or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. 

Save for slight exceptions, which will disappear in the 
course of time, taxation on immovable property is now of 
two kinds only: — 

(1) The Urban Property Tax, which is a rate on net 
annual value in all towns and is assessed by committees 
on which the public and the Government are repre- 
sented in equal proportion. 

(2) The Rural Property Tax, which is a tax per 
dunum of land in all rural areas. 

The Ottoman Law of Professional Tax (Temettu), which 
was assessed only upon Ottoman subjects and not upon 
foreigners, has not been applied by the Palestine Govern- 
ment. 


6. The Palestine Government has agreed to extend certain 
facilities, including the landing, warehousing and transhipment 
of goods and a certain degree of manipulation, in free zones 
which will be set up in the port of Haifa. These free zones will, 
of course, be under general Governmental control and subject to 
such prohibitions or restrictions as to importation into Palestine 
as are required by inter-national conventions or local needs. 

Officials of the foreign Government concerned will be allowed 
to take charge of all processes within the zones and will be 
granted reasonable concessions in respect of local taxation. 

The Government of Iraq is specially interested in these 
developments. 


7. The Bon Voisinage agreement executed between the High 
Commissioner for Syria and the Lebanon and the High Com- 
missioner for Palestine on the 2nd February, 1926, was amended 

luring the year to provide for the collection of taxes imposed by 
the two Governments on estates and properties contained within 
the limits of one village whose lands are crossed by the frontier. 


Notes: 


(1) Owing to the unsettled conditions there was little develop- 
ment in mining during the year. 


106 


(2) The Jerusalem water supply from Ras el Ain was com- 
pleted in 1936 and, with the exception of a few interruptions 
through sabotage of the pipe line or floods, it worked satis 
factorily during the year. 

(3) Consideration continues to be given to the provision of 
water supplies ‘in the following towns in Palestine, but in each 
case the financial difficulties are serious : — 


affa. Beit Jala. 

el Aviv. » Ramallah 
Haifa. Bireh. 
Bethlehem. 


(4) An agreement was concluded in 1937 with the concession- 
naires of the Tiberias hot springs under which the springs were 
leased to them for a period of 60 years. 

(5) A topographical and hydrographical survey of Lake Huleh 
basin was carried out in 1936. 

(6) The development of the Dead Sea Concession proceeded 
satisfactorily. 

_. (7) The Palestine Sulphur Quarries, Ltd., continued work 
during the year, and 1,215 tons of sulphur were produced. 

(8) The Palestine Electric Corporation completed the con- 
struction of a 30,000 kw. steam-driven station at Tel Aviv. 
This station, to a capacity of 24,000 kw. was put into operation, 
in August, thereby raising the total installed generating capacity 
of the Corporation’s plants to 76,398 kw. - The Corporation 
continued to extend its system steadily, and during the year 265 
plans for transmission and distribution line extensions and seven 
power station and sub-station extensions were approved by 
Government. The total units generated during the year exceeded 
105,000,000 kilowatt-hours. e construction of a transmission 
line to Gaza was completed and the town is now receiving 
electricity from the Corporation’s supply. 

(9) The Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation 
continued to extend and reinforce its transmission and distri- 
bution systems, 22 plans for extensions having been approved 
during the year. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES 


Basilica of the Nativity, Bethlehem. 


1. Minor repairs to the roof of the Basilica of the Nativity 
at Bethlehem have been undertaken by Government. 

The Orthodox Community have not modified their attitude 
in regard to the incidence of the cost of these repairs, and main- 
tain their claim to pay the whole of the expense involved. 
(See paragra' » page Io2 of the Report for 1937.) In 

ursuance they decline to contribute towards the 
Joint dep : 


107 
The annual cleaning of the Basilica was postponed this year 
it the request of the Orthodox Patriarchate. 


A decision has been given by Government in connection with 
the dispute between the Latin and Orthodox Communities re-: 
garding the use of certain of the Grotto of the Nativity 
on the coincident occasion of the festivals of the Latin Epiphany 
and the Orthodox Christmas. Both communities have submitted. 
a formal protest in writing against Government’s decision. 


Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre, Jerusalem. 


2. The Easter ceremonies were celebrated without an 
untoward incidents. g 


Government gave a decision in connection with the dispute 
between the two hereditary Moslem janitors of the Basilica in 
regard to their respective claims to the exclusive right of seal- 
ing the Tomb on the Orthodox ceremony of the Holy Fire. 
This decision was to the effect that the representatives of both 
families should jointly and simultaneously seal the Tomb. 

The restoration of the mosaics in the Calvary Chapel has 
been completed by the Latin Community. 

The restoration of the Chapel of St. Helena, which was ap- 
proved by the Archaeological Advisory Board in 1931-2 is in 
process of execution by the Armenian Community. This restora- 
tion necessitates inter alia the repairing of the roof and dome 
of the Chapel. The roof and dome form a part of the Deir es 
Sultan, the exclusive ownership of which is claimed by both 
the Coptic and the Abyssinian Communities. In view of this 
standing dispute, in conformity with Article 13 of the Mandate 
and pending the appointment of the Special Commission en- 
visaged in Article 14, Government will undertake the necessary 
repairs from public funds. The Abyssinian Community has 
acquiesced in this decision but the Coptic Community has pro- 
tested and requested that these repairs should be carried out 
by them and at their own cost. 


In view of the dangerous structural condition of the fabric 
Government closed the Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre to the 
public before the Western Easter Week. It was subsequently 
decided to carry out certain urgent repairs at the expense of 
the three principal communities, in order to secure the stability 
of the building pending the consideration of a scheme for its 
permanent restoration. This work is now proceeding. 


El Haram es Sharif. 
3. A number of minor urgent repairs were executed on various 
other buildings in the precincts of the Haram es Sharif at Jeru- 
lem.- (See section on the Supreme Moslem Council in the 
Introductory Chapter, paragraph 47.) 


108 


X.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


I. There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious 
observance throughout Palestine. 

. The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescrip- 
tions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows:— 

‘* All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of 
conscience, and free exercise of their forms of worship 
subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals. 
Every religious community recognised by the Government 
shall enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs of the com- 
munity subject to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order 
issued by the High Commissioner.’’ 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change 
of religious community is regulated by the Religious Community 
(Change) Ordinance and is directed to secure that there will 
be public notification of the change of legal status which is 
involved. 


An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to 
make regulations for the organization of any religious community 
which applies therefor. Separate regulations are to be made 
in each case suited to the special circumstances and organiza- 
tion of the community concerned. The regulations may provide 
for the constitution of councils or boards of the community, 
which shall have juristic personality, and may confer on them 
power to mnpose contributions and fees for communal purposes 
which shall be recoverable in the same way as municipal taxes 
and fees. 

The only regulations of this kind which have so far been made 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish community, which 
contain provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion 
to Jews who wish to hold aloof from the established community. 

Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, 
so as to allow every labourer to enjoy in freedom of 
conscience, that weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, 
subject to technical exigencies or considerations of emergency; 
and a six-day working week is general in such works. The 
precise method of securing this end depends on the kind of 
work to be done, the period fixed for its completion, the locality 
in which it is to be carried out, and the difficult racial and 
religious elements of the labour employed on it. The matter 


is usually susceptible « “stment by the District Commis- 
sioner concerned, } 1 with the undertaker or con- 
tractor responsibl: . and, if need be, with the 
religious head of affected. : 

There is no diffi: skilled individual craftsmen, 


who can do their ° time. 


109 

As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.) undertaken by 
Jepartments or under contract, the Government endeavours 
o avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour un- 
ivoidable to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions 
is might encourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All 
sovernment officers are granted the weekly day of rest observed 
vy the religious community to which they belong. But in the 
case of certain departments, such as the Railways, Post and 
[elegraphs, and Police, the difficulty of duplicating staff, the 
cacial distribution of technical skill, and the essential continuity, 
‘or example, of watch and ward duties, entail the consequence, 
n some centres, that some employees shall perform essential 
services on their weekly day of rest. 


2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done 
by Jews and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the 

ailing Wall Order in Council, which was printed in Appendix 
I to the Report for 1931.* 


3. The registration of schools is required by the Department 
of Education and granted subject only to compliance with 
sanitary requirements of the Department of Health. The 
establishment of schools in Palestine by communities or private 
organisations or individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 

The Education Ordinance ensures the rights of communities 
to maintain their own schools for the education of their own 
members. All teachers are required to register their names and 
certain particulars with the Education Department, but except 
for this formality there is no restriction on the free exercise of 
the educational profession in a private school, that is, a school 
not receiving assistance from public funds. Private schools, 
other than those private schools exempted by the High Commis- 
sioner on the ground that only religious instruction is given, are 
subject to inspection by certain officers of the Departments of 

Education and Health. No changes in the curriculum or internal 
management of a private school established or maintained by 
a religious association may be required by the Department of 
Education. 

The full text of the Education Ordinance was given in 
Appendix I to the 1932 Report. t 


4. A draft Ordinance to amend the existing Fundamental 
Law of the Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem is under con- 
sideration by Government. 


XI.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 
The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and Prisons 
Service in 1938 was £P.1,034,852. j 


* Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial Nc. 75, 1932. 
t Non-Parliamentary publication, Colonial No. 82, 1933. 





IIo 











“110, puvsy 





110, 






























































— {4 JF ||] —]—]% | + estates suosig ony 
fr |zq | 9f)—|S |% | 2 | 09 a0IOg 910g PUL 
CITI SLES SEITE El E22 ie iecig 
SFiS; E/ELELE FE /ELEIEIEIF ETE ELE 
e | ° Ea ee Fan H/F is" Fels 
2 |: a] e/? 2/2 
: e : s : a 
= # 3 
“suDYstAY *;suoystay ‘suoy 
“SHAY 
“syuDy 42410 *saozoagsuy “ssvJO 





—‘Jepun se sem ‘ge6r ‘Iaquieseq sI€ ay} uO YySuas oY 


v 


v Googl 


Digitized 


rIt 


2. Compared with the previous year the establishment of the 
Police Force was increased by the following officers and other 


District Superintendents eee Sy a 4 
Financial Assistant ... ata ae Doe I 
Deputy Superintendents ae ea a 4 
Assistant Superintendents... rer we 16 
British Inspectors see ee vee w+ = 35 
Assistant Inspectors ... eed vee hee EE 
First British Sergeants Bae ce «1 109 
Second British Sergeants... oe8 we 18E 
British Constables... wed Bas +++ 1,569 
Palestinian Constables oa & Si 7 


The increases were mainly required for combating the inten- 
sified campaign of sabotage, attacks on individuals, and attacks 
on isolated police stations and posts which started in June; 
and for the rehabilitation and maintenance of security in urban 
areas. 


3. In order to ensure close co-operation between the army 
and the pac the Force was placed under the operational 
control of the General Officer Commanding the British Forces 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan on the 12th September, 1938. 


4. Apart from injuries sustained by personnel in the 
discharge of their duties, the health of the Force was satisfactory 
throughout the year. 


5. One hundred and sixty-two British and 241 Palestinian 
ranks passed the proficiency pay examination. 


6. There were 100 British and 80 Palestinian recruits in train- 
ing at the beginning of the year, 1,177 British and 107 Palestinian 
recruits were accepted during the year, and of these 1,119 
British and 168 Palestinians were posted to districts. 


7. In the higher language examination 47 British personnel 
passed in Arabic and nine in Hebrew; and in the lower language 
examination 107 passed in Arabic and 42 in Hebrew. 


8. Twelve new wireless telephony stations were put into 
service during the year in the northern frontier and adjoining 
police posts. Twelve vehicles of the police force fleet were 
equipped with transmitting and/or receiving apparatus, making 
a total of 20 vehicles so fitted. 


g. The number of messages dealt with by the wireless tele- 
graphy service is rapidly increasing in volume, and the main- 
tenance of the service for the purpose of public security has now 
become a vital necessity. Over three and a half million words 
were handled during the year, in addition to wireless telephonic . 


112 


work. The large volume of traffic was due primarily to the 
general reliability and ony of wireless as compared with the 
overhead telephone trunks which are subject to sabotage. 


to. Although the holding of first-aid instructional classes was 
interrupted by the state of the country, the number of personnel 
who qualified in first-aid tests held by the Order of St. John of 
Jerusalem showed an increase over 1937, being 172 as compared 
with 84. 

On numerous occasions throughout the year first aid was ren- 
dered by members of the Force to wounded and injured members 
ef the public, and in many cases it was instrumental in saving 

e. 

11. Road Traffic.—Vehicular traffic declined in volume during 
the second half of 1938 owing to restrictions which it was neces- 
sary to impose in view of the intensified campaign of violence 
throughout the country. 


During the last six months of the year the control of traffic 
was practically abandoned as public security demanded the 
employment of every available police officer on duties connected 
with the suppression of disorder and the defence of Government 
property. 

The number of accidents on roads showed a slight decrease 
over last year. The following is a comparative table: 

1935. 1936. = 1937. 1938. 
Fatal road accidents ... 153 129 105 97 
General accidents ae 1,527 1,109 1,126 950 


12. Crime.—At the beginning of the year the Criminal Inves- 
tigation Department was considerably expanded and subsidiary 
branches were formed in all districts. In the principal towns of 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel Aviv and Haifa, British Assistant Super- 
intendents of Police were posted to the district Criminal Inves- 
tigation Departments. 


13. District Criminal Investigation Departments now work 
directly under the Deputy Inspector General (C.I.D.) but main- 
tain close liaison with the officer in charge of the district in re- 
gard to all matters of intelligence affecting that district. 


14. It is the intention that under this system district Criminal 
Investigation Departments, apart from providing experts for the 
investigation and prosecution of important cases, shall be 
capable of taking independent and immediate action on infor- 
mation obtained. 


15. The ex ' Criminal Investigation Department 
included the of small police posts consisting of 
British pers: “ entry on the frontiers. 


113 


The Criminal Investigation Department is under the command 
of a Deputy Inspector General, and the staff consists of one Dis- 
trict Superintendent, five Deputy Superintendents, thirteen 
Assistant Superintendents, 38 Inspectors, two Assistant Inspec- 
tors, 107 non-commisioned officers and 306 constables. 

The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are to 
prevent and detect crime by the collection of information and 
evidence and by investigation in collaboration with the district 
police; to watch and report upon political movements; to re- 
press seditious activities; to maintain criminal records, finger- 
prints and pbotoerephe ; to examine the regular organs of the 
Press and occasional pamphlets with a view to action in case 
of seditious, inflammatory or pornographic articles; to prevent 
the smuggling of arms, drugs and the entry of illegal immi- 
grants; to scrutinize applications for naturalization, to arrange 
deportations and extraditions; to maintain liaison with appro- 
priate departments and authorities in Egypt, Syria, Trans- 
Jordan, India, ‘Iraq, Cyprus and Europe; and to maintain the 
closest appreciation of the state of public security from the 
political and criminal points of view. 


16. In a year which was in most respects highly abnormal 
there car. be no common basis of comparison between crime 
statistics for 1938 and those of the previous years, especially as 
a large number of offences which in ordinary times would be 
tried summarily became, under the Defence Regulations, indict- 
able offences. As the result, the figures for 1938 show a con- 
siderable increase in the number of indictable offences and a 
corresponding decrease in non-indictable offences. 


are | 2994 1935. | 1936. | 1937. | 1938. 























Indictable offences ... aoe 2,172 1,753 3,971 2,653 | 4,573 
Non-indictable offences... 8,454 | 10,525 | 11,502 | 14,399 9,318 
Crime :— 
Murder and Manslaughte: 109 1I5 254 192 594 
Attempted murder oe 122 115 508 250 569 
Robbery ... ene Ar 32 32 122 221 600 
Theft by breaking into 
Premises seas 337 858 | 1,194 935 835 
Animal theft ste 499 393 463 543 211 
Agrarian offences... 425 443 688 439 314 


Police dogs continued to give valuable service in the detection 
of crime. The dog section of the force was expanded. Two 
more trained dogs and four trained bitches were purchased 
during the year. One more dog and bitch were also under 
ne the end of the year. Two dogmasters from the South 
Africa Police were seconded to Palestine for the purpose of 


; 1i4 

organizing and assisting in police dog work. A dog unit was 
established in northern Palestine at Affula and new buildings 
and quarters were constructed there. The opening of this unit 
greatly increased the efficiency of the section. Dogs can now 
arrive at the scene of a crime in any part of the country within 
two hours of being requisitioned. Out of a total number of 183 
cases in which dogs were employed during the year, they were 
successful in 59 cases. ; 


17. One person was extradited from Palestine to Syria and 
six to Trans-Jordan. Ten were extradited from Syria, eight 
from Trans-Jordan, two from French Morocco and one from 
Cyprus. i 

18. Criminal Records Office.—The Criminal Records and 
Fingerprint Bureau now holds 52,147 dossiers of convicted 
criminals: 3,978 were opened during 1938. Fingerprint iden- 
tification slips received for search numbered 8,741 and in 2,471 
cases previous convictions were traced. In seventeen cases 
criminals were directly identified from fingerprints left on the 
scene of crimes. 


Work proceeded during the year in the classification and filing 
of individual fingerprints of habitual burglars and housebreakers. 
There are now 3,600 prints classified and indexed. 


During the year, 2,463 Arabs and 80 Jews were detained 
under the Defence Regulations or the Prevention of Crime 
Ordinance for various periods. 


19. Communism.—Communist activity continued to engage 
police attention and surveillance. Of eight communists prose- 
cuted, six were convicted and two acquitted; 53 were dealt with 
under the Defence Regulations, seven were deported and one 
left of his own accord and was prohibited from returning. Thir- 
teen orders of exclusion of undesirables were made during the 
year. 

20. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners was satisfactory. 

At the end of the year there were 27 inmates in the criminal 
lunatic section and fourteen prisoners under treatment in the 
tubercular ward of the Central Prison at Acre. 

Sixty-one prisoners escaped from central prisons, jail labour 
companies and lock ups, of whom 12 were recaptured. 

Under the Penal Labour Ordinance, 3,266 prisoners were re- 
leased and employed on work of public utility. No wages were 
paid to them for this work. The figure shows a decrease of 
2,209 as compared with the previous year. ‘ 

The convicts in the central prisons are employed on carpentry, 
basket-making, tailoring, weaving, printing, black-smithy, shoe- 
making and the repair of mail bags. The prisoners receive no 
payment for their work. 


115 


The number of prisoners in custody on the 31st December, 
1938, was as follows: — 











Detained under 
regulations made 
Convicted. Awaited under the Palestine 
trial. (Defence) Order 
in Council. 
Central Prison, Jerusalem 332 91 6 
Central Prison, Acre eee 380 49 137 
Jail Labour COMPanY: No. 1, 

Nur-Esh-Shams . 329 _ _ 
Female Prison ea - 31 : 2 4 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups 18 5 103 
Southern District Lock-ups 27 57 24 
Gaza District Lock-ups_... 6 38 I 
Northern District Lock-ups 14 59 3 
Nablus District Lock-ups ... 40 189 34 
Nazareth District Lock-ups 12 10 20 
Frontier District Lock-ups... 9 —_ 6 
Acre Detention Camp ees 47 _ 824 
Athlit Detention Camp ... 26 _ 269 
Sarafand Detention Camp... 2 _ 424 

Totals ... as 1,273 500 { 1,855 





The distribution of sentences was as follows: debtors, 8; up 
to three months, 114; three to twelve months, 155; one to five 
lee 443; five to fifteen years, 460; over fifteen years, 17; 

fe he capital punishment, 2. 

During the year, 1,297 debtors were imprisoned as compared 
with 1,258 in the previous year. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 
21. The strength of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force including 
id reserve at the 31st December, 1938 was 1,177 made up as 
‘OLlOws : — 


























S 
i} yx . 
: x ¢ } z 
x § 3 3s 
s 5 3 3 Qlog 
an eae epee tae pa D 
= C = & 2 gn 8 
ge }/Pl_oT;To};s 4a A] a8 
Officers ... . 25 12 9 8 3} — I 58 
Warrant Officers 7 = _ _— = a = 7 
N.C.Os. and 
Troopers | — 384 | 235 | 244 22 41 20 | 946 
Totals ... Sse. 32 396 | 244 252 25 41 21 {1,011 
Reserve Officers... —_ _— _— I ‘eee ais os I 
Reserve N.C.Os. 
and Men see _ 102 23 34 _ — 6 165 
Grand Totals ... 32 | 498 | 267] 287 25 4t 27 :|1,177 


























116 


22. Recruits enlisted during the et numbered 214, of whom 
I41 were Circassians; 40 Arab Christians; 26 Arab Moslems; 
4 Jews; and 3 Egyptians and Sudanese. 


23. Ninety men were discharged on termination of contract 
or otherwise, and 20 of these enrolled in the reserve. One 
hundred and ninety-two other ranks, time-expired, have been 
re-engaged for a further period. One man deserted from the 
Force and another was tried by Court Martial. 


24. Regulations governing the award to members of the 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force of a Long Service and Good 
Conduct Medal were enacted during the year. 


25. The general health of the Force was good. Four hundred 
and sixty-seven cases were treated in the Frontier Force hospitals 
and seven in Government and other hospitals. 


The incidence of malaria was high. There were 246 cases, 
132 of which were primary cases. This comparatively large 
number is due to the fact that the troops have been performing 
constant patrol work during the year in the highly malarious 
area of the Jordan valley. 


26. All units of the Force were paploves on active operations 
and in aid of the Civil Power in Pa 
degree in Trans-Jordan throughout the year. 


27. Owing to active operations, it was only possible to carry 
out cadre classes of instruction, recruit training, and the annual 
musketry course. The programme of co-operational training 
with the Royal Air Force was carried out only in part. Four 
tactical exercises only were held in the Northern and Southern 
Districts. Collective training had to be cancelled owing to the 
situation in Palestine. 


28. The annual courses for rifles, machine guns, and light 
automatics again revealed a satisfactory standard in weapon 
training. 

2g. The progress of educational classes was satisfactory at the 


beginning of the year but later, however, owing to the situation 
in Palestine the classes were much depleted. 


The educational standard of personnel in the Force is as 
follows : — 
rst Class. 2nd Class. 3rd Class. Iiliterates. Total. 
30 274 283 253 840 
In addition, there are 113 well educated personnel including 
43 who command foreign languages. 


Thirty-nine soldiers passed examinations to a higher grade 
during the year. 


estine, and to a lesser : 


117 
Of the 214 recruits enlisted during the year— 


20 were well educated prior to joining the Force. 
6 had a knowledge of a foreign language. 

I passed 1st class examination. 

20 passed 2nd class examination. 

92 passed 3rd class examination. 

75 are illiterate. 


Two classes in English have been formed for local officers 
and senior non-commissioned officers and for signal personnel 
whose knowledge of English is below the standard required. 

Three British Officers passed the Army preliminary examina- 
tion in Arabic. 

30. Owing to the disturbances in Palestine the Trans-Jordan 
Frontier Force Reserve was mobilised as a reinforcement and 
took over guard and camp duties thereby releasing nearly all 
Regulars for employment on active service. 

During the year the following mobilisation orders for 
reservists were issued :— 


In March axe eee eee 58 were called up. 
In June tee ae Rod 62 were called up. 
In September ae ee 51 were called up. 


A further three troopers were embodied on discharge from 
Colour service and transferred to the Reserve. 

Out of a total of 174 reservists, 163 have served with the 
Force since they were called up and this number remained 
embodied at the end of the year. 


31. The approved estimates of expenditure of the Force for 
the financial year 1938-9 amount to £P.257,927 including 
£P.38,905 for extraordinary works and the approved grant-in- 
aid from the Imperial Government amounts to £P.187,000. 


32. The animal strength on 31st December, 1938, was four 
hundred and seventy-four horses and eleven mules. During 
the year, 79 remounts were purchased in Trans-Jordan and 
Palestine, the average price paid was £P.27. 

The health of the horses has been good throughout the year. 


33. Horse Breeding Scheme.—The Force now possesses— 


Three thoroughbred Arab stallions ; 
Four country-bred Arab stallions ; 
Nine specially selected mares ; 
Sixteen Yearlings. 


As in previous years, the country-bred stallions and mares 
have been with squadrons doing ordinary troop work. 

During the year, 300 mares belonging to the Arab Legion, 
civilians and tribes, were served. 

The popularity of the breeding scheme continues, and 
demands by Mukhtars of villages and Sheiks of tribes for horses 
to stand at stud are increasing. 


34. Thirty-three 1313” Chevrolet trucks and three Ford V.8 
station wagons were ordered during the year. 


15774 E 


118 


XI1.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 


AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syria 


Egypt 
‘Iraq 


Syria 


Syria... 
Trans-Jordan 


Egypt 
Egypt 
Egypt 


France 


France 
Great Britain 


Greece 
‘Traq ae 
Switzerland 


Palestine. 


(i) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendun ... 


Amendment 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramleh. 
11.7.21, Palestine. 

15.7.21, Syria. 
10.1.24, Palestine. 
28.1.24, Syria. 
11.9.33, Palestine. 
23.9.33, Syria. 


(ii) CoMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Agreement to facilitate commer- 
cial relations between Egypt 
and Palestine. 

Exchange of Notes oes 

Special Customs Agreement to 
facilitate commercial relations 
between ‘Iraq and Palestine, 
Exchange of Notes 14.12.36. 

Customs Agreement f wes 


Amendment ‘ 
Transit Agreement 


(iii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Convention concerning the Re- 
ciprocal Enforcement of Judg- 
ments. 

Agreement concerning the Meas- 
ures to be applied for the Con- 
trol of Dengue Fever. 

Arrangements for the Transit of 
Palestinian Pilgrims through 
Egyptian Territory. 

Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of Palestine 
on the one part and by France 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

Parcel Post Agreement ... we 

Agreement between the Post 
Office of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Ireland and 
the Post Office of Palestine for 
the Exchange of Money Orders. 

Parcel Post Agreement ae 

Parcel Post Agreement 

Parcel Post Agreement 


18.8.36 
(Effective date). 


18.8.36. 
14.2.37 
(Effective date). 


4-5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 
22.10.35, Jerusalem. 
26.9.28, Jerusalem. 

Amended— 
18.12.28, Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, Amman. 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


28.12.33, Cairo. 
(Effective date). 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 
14.3.27, Jerusalem. 
21.3.27, Beirut. 
21.10.38, Jerusalem. 
3.11.38, Beirut. 
31.3.36/19.6.36 
10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


13.3-36/28.3.36. 
29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 


119 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name of 


Country. 
Syria... 


Syria 

Syria 

Syria 

Syria 

Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Syria aoe 

Syria 


Trans-Jordan 
Trans-Jordan 


Trans-Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


Trans- Jordan 


United States of 
America. 


Palestine—cont. 


Name. 
Agreement concerning the Im- 
portation of Antiquities. 
Agreement to provide for the Dis- 
tribution of certain Receipts 
from Animal Tax. 
Parcel Post Agreement 


Money Orders Agreement nse 
Agreement regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 
Agreement for the Reciprocal 
Grant of Gratis Visas. 
Agreement relating to the Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 
Agreement to facilitate the move- 
ment of certain animals from 
one territory into the other for 


purposes of grazing and watering. 


Agreement relating to the Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Convey- 
ance of Corpses from Palestine 
for Burial in Trans-Jordan and 
from Trans-Jordan for Burial 
in Palestine 

Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to Regulate the Service 
of Judicial Documents between 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 


Convention regarding the Rights 
of the Government and Nation- 
als of the United States of 
America in Palestine. 


(iii) OTHER AGREEMENTS—cont. 


Date of Signature. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 

Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 
17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 


20.8.32, Jerusalem. 
5.9.32, Beirut. 
18.9.35, Jerusalem. 


2.10.37, Jerusalem. 
2.10.38 (Renewed 
for one year). 


16.6.38 

(Effective date). 
25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 
1.10.29. 


16.7.34 (Amended 

24.8.35/1.9.35)- 
28.11.34, Amman. 
13.12.34, Jerusalem. 

Amended. 

11.4.38, Amman, 
30.4.38, Jerusalem. 
3-12.24. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Date of Date of 
Name. Signature. Accession. 
International Convention prohibiting the Use of 26.9.06, 17.9.25. 
White (Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufac- Berne. 
ture of Matches. 
International Convention relative to the Protec- 13.11.08, 21.3.24. 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 
International Opium Convention and subse- 23.1.12, 21.8.24. 
quent relative papers. The Hague. 
Additional Protocol to the International Copy- 20.3.14, 21.3.24. 
tight Convention signed at Berlin on the Berne. 
13.11.08, 
15774 E2 


120 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and 


Name. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navi- 
gable Waterways of International Concern. 
Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- 

national Concern. 

Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 
matters). 

International Convention relating to the Simpli- 
fication of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Railways and Protocol of Signature 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electric Power and Protocol of 
Signature. 

International Agreement as to Contagious 
Disease of Animals. 

International Sanitary Convention oe 


International Commission for the Scientific Ex- 
ploration of the Mediterranean Sea. 

International Convention for the unification of 
certain rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circula- 
tion of Motor Vehicles. 


Convention relating to the Regulations of Aerial 
Navigation and Additional Protocol of May, 
1920, 

International Convention relating to Inter- 
national Exhibitions. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 


International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protec- 
tion of Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of 
Foreign Arbitral Awards. 


Conventions—cont. 
Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.2, 28.1.24. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.2, 9.10.22. 
Barcelona. (Ratification). 
12.9.23, 23.5.27. 
Geneva. 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 
Geneva. 
3.11.23, 29.8.24. 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva. 
25.1.24, 13.7.27. 
Paris. 
21.6.26, 9.10.28. 
Paris. 
26.4.29, 19.12.29. 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31. 
Brussels. (Effective 
date). 
24.4.26, 4-12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date). 
13.10.19. 11.7.22 
(Effective 
date). 
22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
Paris. 
19.2.25, 25.9.28 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
Rome. 
26.9.27, 26.5.31. 
Geneva. 


Iai 


(CB) Multilateral Agreements and 


Name. 


International Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick 
in Armies in the Field. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of 
the Traffic in Women and Children. 

International Agreement regarding False Indica- 
tions of Origin on Goods. 


International Convention for the Protection of 
Industrial Property. 


European Broadcasting Convention 


International Convention for Mutual Protection 
against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for Sanitary Control 
of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


Universal Postal Convention 


Agreement concerning Insured Letters and 
Boxes. 

Convention for the Unification of certain rules 
relating to International Carriage by Air. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connection with Bills of Exchange 
and Promissory Notes. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Cheques. 


International Convention relating to Taxation 
of Foreign Motor Cars. 

International Convention for the Regulation of 
Whaling. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the 


Conventions—cont. 
Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
27.77.29, 23.6.31. 
Geneva. (Ratification) 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
18.5.04, 6.5.32 
Paris. (Effective 
4.5.10, date). 
Paris. 


30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 
Geneva. 


6.11.25 12.9.33 
(Effective 
date). 
6.11.25, 12.9.33 
The Hague. (Effective 
date). 
19.6.33, 15.1.34 
Lucerne. (Effective 
date). 
25-7.34, 3-5-35- 
Athens. 
12.4.33, 1.8.35. 
The Hague. 
9.12.32, 24-5-35- 
Madrid. 
20.3.34, 1.1.35. 
Cairo. 
20.3.34, 1.1.35. 
Cairo. 
12.10.29, 3-3-35- 
Warsaw. 
7.6.30, 16.10.36, 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
19.3.31, 16.10.36. 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
30.3.31. 29.4.36. 
24.9.31, 17.2.37 
Geneva. : 


United Kingdom and 


Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Country. Date of Signature. 
Between United King- 22.7.26 
dom and Albania. 


26.6.1901 
, 29.10.01 ... 
Been Cone ori 5.3.07, 
Belgian , 3:3:10;. 0 cis 
Ruanda-Urundi 8.8.23 and 
2.7.28 
15774 


Date of Application, 
29.1.27 (Ratification). 


1.8.28 (Effective date). 


E3 


122 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Palestine—cont. 


Country. 
Bolivia ... 
Chile... 
Colombia 


Cuba 
Czechoslovakia 


Denmark 
Ecuador 
Estonia 
Finland... 
Germany 


Greece ... 
Guatemala 
Hayti 
Hungary 


‘Iraq... 
Latvia ... 
Liberia ... 
Lithuania 
Monaco 


Netherlands 


Roumania 

San Marino 

San Salvador ... 
Siam 

Spain 


Switzerland 


United States of 
America, 


Yugoslavia 


Date of Signature. 


22.2.1892 
26.1.1897 
27.10.1888 
2.12.29. 
3.10.1904 
17.4.1930. 
11.11.24, 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
31.3.1873 
20.9.1880 
18.11.25 ... 
30.5.24 ... 
14.5.1872 and 
10,12.1928. 
24.9.10 ... 
4-7-1885 ... 
7-12.1874 
3-12.1873 and 
26.6.1901. 
18.9.1936. 
2.5.1932 «.. 
16.7.24 
15.12.1892 
18.5.26 
17.12.91 and 
27.11.30. 
26.9.1898 
19.4.1905 
26.6.1873 
18.2.1907. 
25.8.1906 
12.9.1908 
26.1.1904 
1I.1.1932 
17.10.1892 
20.1.1932. 
21.3.1893 
16.10.1899 
23.6.1881 
4-3-1911 ... 
4-6.1878 and 
19.2.1889. 
26.11.1880 
29.6.1904. 
19.12.34. 
22.12.31 ... 


6.12.1900 


Date of Application. 
18.2.28. 


13.1.28. 
5.12.30 (Effective date). 


12.12.31(Effective date). 


15.7.27. 


10.2.28. 

19.1.28. 

10.3.27. 

25.11.26. 

17.8.30 (Effective date). 


19.4.28. 
11.9.29. 
13.1.28. 
25.4.28. 


15.6.33 (Effective date). 
7.6.26. 

16.10.28. 

29.3.27 (Ratification). 
5-7-31 (Effective date). 


27.1.28. 
12.1.28. 
13.12.29. 


24.1.28, 

16.1.28. 

16.1.28. 

12.3.34 (Effective date). 
23.6.34 (Effective date). 
II.1.29. 

19.7.34 (Effective date). 
8.8.30 (Effective date). 
27.2.28. 

13.2.28. 


19.9.29. 


24.6.35. 


1.11.28, 


In addition to theo countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 
list (A) (i), the Palestine Extradition Law has been applied to the following 


countries :— 


Argentine. 


France. 
Italy. 


Mexico. 
Tunis. 
Uruguay. 


123 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. 
Between the 
United King- 
dom and 
Bulgaria 


Czechoslovakia ... 
Egypt ... vee 


Finland ... 
Finland ... 


Germany 


Greece 


Greece 


Hungary... 
Japan... ee 


Latvia... 


Lithuania 


Netherlands 
Panama ... 


Poland ... 


Portugal 
Spain... rer 
Spain 


Union of South 
Africa. 


Yugoslavia 


15774 


Name. 


Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 

Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23.... Rie 

Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.30, 
Cairo. 

Prolongation until 16.2.34 by Notes of... 

Prolongation until 16.2.38 by Notes of ... 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14.12.33. 

Convention regarding the Suppression of 
Illicit Importation of Alcoholic Liquors 
into Finland, 13.10.33, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2.12.24, London. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 
of Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
23.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3-4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 

Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 
tions 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 

Exchange of Notes 28.11/10.12, 1929, 
modifying this Agreement. 

Trade Agreement, Exchange of Notes, 
18.11.35, London. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.28. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 

Trade Agreement, 27.2.1935 . 

Notes on Flag Discrimination in Portu- 
guese Ports, 14.10.33, Lisbon. 

Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 
Commercial Agreement, 30.8.35, Pretoria 
Supplementary Agreement, 10.3.36, Cape 

Town. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 

12.5.27. 


Date of 
Application, 


25.2.29. 


5.6.25. 
11,6.30. 


16/19.2.33. 
13/14.2.37. 
13.2.26. 


13.10.33. 


2.12.26. 
21.6.29, 
5-7.29 
(Effective 
date). 
23.3.27 
9.7.29. 


1.6.30. 


25.5.24. 
24.4.23. 
10.12.29. 
1.1.36. 
2/19.9.32. 
19.6.24. 


24.7.35- 
14.10.33. 


6.8.31. 


1.12.28. 


1.7:35- 
4.4.28. 


Eq 


124 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom 


Country. 
Belgium ... 


Belgium ... 


Czechoslovakia ... 


Czechoslovakia ... 


Denmark 


Estonia ... 


Finland ... 


France 


Italy 


Italy 


Lithuania 


Netherlands 


Netherlands 


Countries which apply to Palestine. 


Name. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
21.6.22, London. 

Supplementary Convention regarding 

in Civil and Com- 
mercial Matters, 4.11.32, Brussels. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.11.24. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
15.2.35, Prague. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
29.11.32, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
22.12.31, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
11.8.33, London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
2.2.22, London. 

Extension to French Colonies and Terri- 
tories under Mandate, 1.1.33 and 
1.8.33. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
20.3.28. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
25.9.35, Budapest. 

Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certifi- 
cates and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 
25.1.29. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
17.12.30, London. 

Notes respecting Documents of Identity 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.3, London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 
24.4.34, Kovno. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 


Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
Wiss 


ing Legal Proceedings 
Commercial Matters, 


and Foreign 


Date of 
Aptlication. 
13.3.25 
(Effective 
date). 
27.6.35 ‘ 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 
date). 
5.1.37 5 
(Effective 
Date). 
27.3.34 
(Effective 
date). 
11.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
276.35 
(Effective 
date). 
22.3.23 
(Effective 
date). 
20.10.33 
(Effective 
date). 
25.11.29 
(Effective 
date). 
25.6.37 
(Effective 
Date). 
11/25.8.30. 


25.8.32 
(Effective 
date). 
13.4.31. 


29.6.37 
(Effective 
Date). 

1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 

23-5-34 

(Effective 
date). 


125 


CE) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine—cont. 


* Date of 
Country. Name. Application. 
Norway ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 14.11.31 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
30.1.31, London. date). 
Poland ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 17.10.32 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
26.8.31, Warsaw. date). 
Portugal ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 30.4.33 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
9.7.31 London. date). 
Spain... .. Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 23.2.31 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
27.6.29, London. date). 
Sweden ... ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 23.2.31 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, (Effective 
28.8.20, London. date). 
Other Treaties concluded in 1938 which apply to Palestine. 
Yugoslavia ... Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 20.11.38 
in Civil and Commercial Matters... (Effective 
date). 


XIII.—ANTIQUITIES. 


1. During the year licences were issued for archaeological ex- 
cavations, soundings or clearances at the following sites: — 


(a) Tell esh Shuni, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik for the Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem. 

(b) Tell al-Mutasallem (Megiddo), by Mr. Gordon Loud 
for the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(c) Khirbet Minyeh, by Dr. Puttrich-Reignard for the 
Goerres-Gesellschaft, Freiburg, and the Islamic Depart- 
ment of the Berlin State Museum. 

(d) Khalasa, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly for the British 
School of Archaeology in semen 

(e) Tell el-‘Ajjul, by Dr. Margaret Murray and Dr. Ernest 
Mackay for the British School of Egyptian Archaeology. 

(f) Tell Duweir, by Mr. Charles Inge for the Wellcome- 
Marston Archaeological Research Expedition to the Near 
East. 

(g) Latrun, by Mr. P. L. O. Guy for the British School 
of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(h) Balata, near Nablus, by Professor E. Sellin and Dr. 
Steckeweh for the German State Institute of Archaeology. 

(i) Sheikh Abreik, by Dr. B. Maisler for the Jewish 
Palestine Exploration Society. 

(j) Isbeita, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly for the British School 
of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 


126 


(k) Ain Karem, Church of the Visitation, by the Reverend 
Father B. Bagatti for the Custodia di Terra Santa. 

(1) Bethlehem, Ard el Baten, by Miss D. M. A. Bate for 
the Wellcome-Marston Archaeological Research Expedition 
to the Near East. 

(m) ‘Auja el Hafir, by Mr. T. J. Colin Baly for the 
British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(n) Khirbet al-‘Uraimeh, by Dr. Herman Junker for the 
Goerres-Gesellschaft. 


2. Excavations by the Department of Antiquities were con- 
tinued at the Citadel in Jerusalem and at Khirbet el Mefjir, near 
Jericho. In addition, some research has been undertaken into 
the history of the North Wall of Jerusalem and the Damascus 
Gate. 


A number of registered historical sites have been demarcated 
in connection with land settlement. 


3. The Palestine Archaeological Museum was opened to the 
public on 13th January, 1938. The portions opened were the 
tower hall, south gallery, students’ gallery, south and north 
octagons and south room, including the exhibitions of the Stone 
and Bronze Ages, Greek and Roman sculpture and coins of 
Palestine, together with special temporary exhibitions of the 
Samaria ivories, Hebrew epigraphic material, the Megiddo gold 
and ivory hoard, and the Omayyad sculpture and architecture 
from the Department’s own excavations at Khirbet el Mefjir, 
A sale desk was installed in the Tower Hall where all the 
Department’s publications can be purchased, including 
eponady prepared series of postcards, and the maps issued by 

e Department of Surveys. Considering the disturbed state 
of Palestine the attendance of the public for the first five months 
of the year was satisfactory. By May the number of visitors 
was approching 1,500 a month. Later, however, the number 
of visitors decreased until October when the museum had to be 
occupied by the military forces and closed entirely to the public 
for two weeks. Under the circumstances many of the projects 
which would normally have been put in hand during the first 
year after opening have inevitably been postponed. The 
unpacking and preliminary sorting of material from the im- 
mediate post war years were completed by the end of the year. 


2,150 new acquisitions were inventoried. 


The detailed card catalogue was continued. All antiquities 
in the students’ gallery, i.e., of the Stone and Bronze Ages, 
were so catalogued, and many of those selected for exhibition 
in the north gallery and north octagon, i.e., of the Iron Age 
and later periods. Work was commenced on the subject 


127 


catalogue, i.e., a second version of the card catalogue but 
arranged according to periods, types and forms instead of 
inventory numbers. 

Shelf cards were prepared for the galleries which have been 
arranged. They provide, for the convenience of staff and 
students working in the offices, an index of the objects on every 
shelf and in every drawer in those galleries. 

An illustrated pamphlet was issued advising visitors how 
best to use the museum (a) if they can come once only; (b) if 
they can pay repeated visits. 

A beginning was made with the repair of the mosaics which 
have been lifted and brought to the museum from time to 
time, and with their preparation for exhibition. For this 
purpose the services of a mosaic expert were obtained. 

The Keeper visited museums and excavations in Syria, 
Turkey, Greece and Cyprus in order to keep in touch with the 
most recent work being done in those countries, particularly 
in the prehistoric and classical periods, and for purposes of 
tesearch. 


4. During 1938 205 books—excluding periodicals—com- 
prising 273 volumes—have been acquired, of which 22 have 
been presented. Among the principle acquisitions were Prisse 
d’Avennes, L’art Arabe and the ‘volumes so far published of 
Pope’s Survey of Persian Art. 


Thirteen periodicals have been added to the number of those 
Tegularly received. Six of these were obtained by exchange 
against the Quarterly. The total number of periodicals re- 
ceived in that way is one hundred and five. 

1,569 books have been borrowed by members of the staff, 
833 by the public. 


All catalogues have been brought up to date. 


5. Work on the records collection has been continued, includ- 
ing new entries on sites discovered during the year and new 
material on sites already known. Twenty-five volumes have 
been added to the collection which now contains 123 volumes 
on Palestine and 8 on Trans-Jordan. 


A new schedule of historical sites and monuments is being 
prepared, to replace the schedule published in 1929. Work on 
the general bibliography for all Palestinian sites has been 
continued. A classified subject index to records has been pre- 
pared for the entries under A. (16 volumes); the index is on 
the loose-leaf card system and includes photographs of the 
objects indexed. 


6. Volume VII (1937) and Volume VIII (1938) of the 
Quarterly have been published. Volume IX is in the press. 


128 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 


I. The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance 
with Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows: — 


“* All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of 
the Government and all official notices of local authorities 
and municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the 
High Commissioner, shall be published in English, Arabic 
and Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates 
and discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to 
any regulations to be made from time to time, in the 
Government offices and the Law Courts.”’ 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 
which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to 
the use of English, Arabic, and Hebrew in the Law Courts was 
more exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows: — 


“‘TIn the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a tri- 
lingual area, every process, every official copy of a 
pice, and every official document shall be issued in the 
language of the person to whom it is addressed, and 
written and oral pleadings shall be conducted in any of the 
three official languages. The Legal Secretary may from 
time to time issue rules* restricting the languages of pleading 
in any Court or class of Courts outside the trilingual areas. 

‘‘Tn a trilingual area the public notary of the Court 
shall, and in any other area may, accept a declaration and 
register a document in any of the three official languages.’” 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, 
Haifa and Jaffa, and also the District of Jaffa and the Sub- 
Districts of Tiberias and Safad. The recognition of the three 
languages in the Courts involves some complication in the 
hearing of cases, and occasionally trials are protracted. The 
rules have, however, on the whole worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occuring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, reports of official commissions and 
committees, and departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic and Hebrew. 


4. Arabic and Hebrew characters continued to be used in 
transmitting inland telegrams. 





* These rules are now issued by the Chief Justice. 


129 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognized as holy days by the 
various communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix II 
to this Report. 


2. During the examination of the Annual Report for 1937, the 
Permanent Mandates Commission requested that the correspond- 
ing Christian dates should be added to the tables of holy days. 
These dates have been shown in the tables as they occurred 
during the year 1938; but it should be explained that they vary 
each year according to the Moslem and Jewish calendars. The 
dates now given cannot therefore be regarded as annually 
uniform. 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN. 
See separate section on Trans-Jordan, page 307. 


XVII.—LABOUR. 


I. The international labour conventions applied to Palestine 
are set out in paragraph 2 of Section XVII of the Report for 
1933- 


2. Since January, 1938, statistics of the number of persons 
on pay rolls, the number of man-days of employment afforded 
during each month and the amounts of pay rolls have been 
collected by the Government Statistician from 15 employing 
departments of the Government, from 24 municipal corporations 
and from 339 private manufacturers, each employing ten or 
more labourers, in twelve different branches of industry. The 
present investigation covers about 50,000 employees with a 
total pay roll of about £P.300,000 a month. The recorded 
totals of these items, together with index numbers, are published 
in a monthly employment and pay rolls bulletin. 

The present rar of employment is not sufficiently repre- 
sentative to be taken as adequately illustrating the general 
employment situation of the country. For one thing, employ- 
ment by Government is at present over-represented in the 
sample; for another, private employment is defective in that 
it does not cover the important building industry, or the road 
transport industry, or employment in trading and financial 
institutions. The lack of statistics of employment in the building 
industry causes the sample to be heavily weighted with the 
more stable manufacturing undertakings, and the published 
figures for the first nine months of 1938 are remarkable for 
the stability they reveal rather than for any violent fluctuations. 
It is hoped to include in the bulletin statistics in respect of the 
building and transport industries in the near future. 


130 


Employment by Government departments showed a sharp 
rise in March, the last month of the financial year, followed 
by an even greater drop in April. Thereafter there was a 

adual rise. In September, the index of man-days worked 
(aeaty 2400); which had reached 114 in March and declined 
to 95:2 in April, had risen to 103-4. The monthly average 
number of persons given employment in the so-called employing 
departments of Government was 26,815 during the first nine 
months of the eee The fluctuations in total municipal employ- 
ment revealed by the returns are not very wide, the total 
number of persons given employment in each month remaining 
in the vicinity of 5,000. The index of man-days worked in 
municipal employment (daily average) reached its peak in 
Jone. at 111-2. There was a high point in March (104-0) 
‘ollowed by a fall to 96-1 in April, this figure being the lowest 
of the year. 


The reporting private manufacturers employed a_ monthly 
average of 16,295 persons during the first nine months of the 
year. On the whole their reports indicate a falling off in 
employment during that period. The index of man-days worked 

x day (Jan =100), remained in the vicinity of 100 until 

ay, fell thereafter by about ten per cent., and in September 
stood at 88-8. The individual groups, textiles and leather, 
showed higher figures in September than in January; printing 
and stone crushing showed declines of about ten per cent. The 
greatest decline of all was in wood-working where the index 
in September stood at 69-3. The following table gives the 
index numbers of daily average man-days worked in the twelve 
industrial groups during the period February-September, 1938 
(January=100). The caily average of eras is derived by 
dividing the total number of man-days worked during the month 
by the total number of days in the month; the index is therefore 
not corrected for rest days and holidays which vary from one 
community to another. 











Index number of daily average man-days worked 
(January 1938 = 100.) 
Industry. 

Feb. | Mar. | Apr. | May | June | July | Aug. | Sept. 
ee ee | eases 
Food ... «+ | 105°7 | 109-1 | 93-4 | 88-6 92-6 | go°8 | 103-1 | 87-5 
Tobacco fee 92°6 | 105-0 | 1or-3 | Ior-2 99°2 73°7 96:1 89-8 
Textiles «+ | 127°3 | 148-8 | 150°5 | 156°7 | 146-8 | 130°0 | 110-5 | 103-3 
Clothing « | 113°9 | 129-9 | 132°3 | 128-4 | 111-9 | 94°5 87-7 | 89:1 
Metal ... +. | 103°8 | 93°5 | 97°09] 94°9| 86-8] 80-6] 81-6] 76-1 
‘Wood ss | 10771 | 98-9] 77° | 75°4] 77°1 | 66°3 | 67°5 | 69-3 
Leather +. | 122°3 | 137°9 | 153°4 | 148°5 | 100-0 | 84-5 | 100-0 | 108-7 
Printing +. | 1002 | 99°7 | 96°5 | 94:0] 92°6| 91°6| 93-9] 97°5 
Paper and 

stationery ... | ror-8 | 106-5 | 95:3 | 106-0 | 101-8 | 87-7 | 102°4 | 92-4 
Chemicals... | 95:3 | 105-8 | 83:7] 105-1 |] 80°5| 74°8 | 83-6] 85-4 
Stone, etc. ... | 104-8 | 100'4 | 95°4| 96°4| 86-8 83-2 93°4 | 98-0 
Miscellaneous 102:0 89-2 99°4 99°7 96-2 93°3 g2°9 gos 





























131 


3. The establishment of a revised index of cost of living, 
to include rent and clothing as well as food and fuel, is still 
under consideration, but the family budget enquiry predicted 
in previous reports has not yet been undertaken by the Govern- 
ment Statistician for financial reasons. Plans that do not involve 
any material increase in expenditure are being made for the 
revision of the present index number. 


The present index number, which is constructed from the 
retail prices of food commodities and fuel collected at the 
middle of each month and based on January, 1922 (=100), 
had an average value of 57-6 in 1938 as compared with 59-1 
in 1937, 56-4 in 1936, 53-4 in 1935 and 53-8 in 1934. The index 
fell in the first part of 1938, reaching its lowest point (55-9) in 
May. Thereafter it rose until it reached a maximum of 61-4 in 
November, when retail prices were ener at abnormally 
high levels due to the transport strike. In December the index 
fell to 58-3. It must be emphasized that the index is defective 
and therefore lacks the significance that attaches to similar 
indices in other countries. 


4. Statistics of Arab unemployment are very difficult to secure. 
Apart from the difficulties inherent in the attempt to collect 
statistics from a population which is not organized for economic 
purposes of this type, the large number of small craftsmen work- 
ing on their own account for whom a decline in business activity 
may mean hardship without actual total loss of employment 
makes for great practical difficulty in the application of the 
definition of unemployment. . 


A system of quarterly estimates of Arab unemployed workers 
in seven towns and of the number of villagers coming to these 
towns in search of work was in operation in 1937. This system 
was extended in 1938 to include a total of eighteen towns. 
Attempts were also made to improve the reporting scheme by 
more careful definitions and by specifying occupations in more 
detail. The district officers who supply the quarterly figures, 
usually after consultation with mukhtars, municipal authorities 
and representatives of the various occupations, were requested 
to form estimates of the total number of wage earners in each 
occupation in their towns and to ascertain how many of these 
wage earners were unemployed at the end of each quarter. In 
the directions issued as a guide to district officers, a ‘‘ wage 
earner ”’ is defined as any person who normally works in any 
capacity for salary or wages. Employers, workers on their own 
account and unpaid family workers are not considered as ‘‘ wage 
earners.”” An unemployed worker is defined as any wage 
earner who is both able and willing to work but is at the time 
of the investigation unable to find employment at the prevailing 
rates of pay. 


132 


_ Owing to the disturbed conditions of the country it was not 
possible thoroughly to check the returns sent in or to provide the 
necessary guidance and supervision for the officers concerned 
with making the estimates. Nevertheless the returns indicate 
the existence of a serious problem of unemployment among 
Arabs in almost all towns; the numbers of unemployed are 
highest in occupations connected with building—quarrymen, 
stone dressers, masons and carpenters—and also in transport 
(particularly in Jaffa), shoemaking, tailoring and weaving. 


5. The measurement of unemployment among Jews was de- 
rived from the monthly reports on the registration of unemployed 
workers submitted by the General Federation of Jewish Labour 
and by four smaller labour organizations. These organizations 
are believed to comprise the vast majority of the Jewish wage 
earning population of Palestine. 

Despite lack of uniformity in the systems of registration 
adopted by the various reporting labour organizations, the 
figures supplied by them gave a useful indication of the fluctua- 
tions in Jewish unemployment throughout the year. 


6. One of the difficulties encountered in estimating the extent 
of Jewish unemployment was connected with the trade unions’ 

ractice of rationing employment among their members by the 
introduction of part-time work. The numbers of persons re- 
corded as wholly unemployed sometimes failed to show the real 
burden and hardship involved in under-employment. 

However, the rationing of employment and the unemploy- 
ment benefits given by the unions were strong inducements for 
regular registration. 

7. The average daily registration of unemployed Jewish 
workers with the reporting unions in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and 

- Haifa reached nearly 4,500 in December, 1937. During the 
first half of 1938 unemployment was steadily increasing, chiefly 
because of the decline of activities in building and the allied in- 
dustries. From July, 1938, a downward trend was in evidence, 
the average daily registration in these three towns having de- 
creased from 6,500 in June to 4,500 in November. 

These figures include workers who applied for work at the 
labour offices of the reporting unions, but they do not include 
those labourers working part time who are engaged in permanent 
or semi-permanent work and divide among themselves the avail- 
able work. 

The rise in the volume of employment of Jewish labour was 
mainly caused by the recruitment of a large number of super- 
numerary policemen, by the employment of labour in the con- 
struction of roads and the erection of military barracks and by 
the considerable reduction of the number of Arabs employed 
in orange groves belonging to Jews. 

8. At the end of November, 1938, about sixty per cent. of the 
persons registered as applicants by the urban labour offices of 
the reporting unions consisted of building workers and unskilled 


133 


men, about fifteen per cent. were industrial workers of either 
sex, and nearly a quarter consisted of unskilled women workers, 
servants, clerks, members of liberal professions, etc. 

Workers changing jobs and new immigrants were also covered 
by the union system of registration. 

g. In the Jewish settlements of the maritime plain where Jew- 
ish hired agricultural labour was concentrated, the same trend 
of unemployment was observed, though seasonal factors in- 
fluencing the labour situation were also in evidence. 

In the early spring, the height of the citrus export season, all 
agricultural workers were busy. The seasonal unemployment 
began to be felt in April and reached its peak in June, when the 
number of rural workers registered as unemployed exceeded 
4,000. Beginning from July both seasonal works and the 
exodus of Arabs from the Jewish orange groves brought about 
a continuous decline in Jewish rural unemployment. In 
November the picking of oranges was started, and large numbers 
of unemployed workers were transferred from the towns to the 
villages. The number of Jewish rural workers out of employ- 
ment was estimated in November, 1938, at about 500. 

Io. In spite of the efforts to reduce unemployment by trans- 
ferring unemployed able bodied workers to rural areas, there 
remained a hard core of unemployed workers, who could not 
be transferred either owing to incapacity for hard physical work 
or because the added expense of separation from their families 
would more than outweigh the increased income from regular 
sapien over their present income from part time work and 
relief. 

11. The net total of collections of the unemployment fund of 
the General Federation of Jewish Labour, principally derived 
from contributions by members of that organization, was stated 
to have reached £P.142,000 at the end of 1937 and £P.189,750 
at the end of November, 1938. Although the main purpose of 
the fund is to increase the sources of employment by supporting 
works of construction and other works undertaken by workers’ 
institutions and by various public bodies, a considerable part of 
the monies collected was allotted for direct financial aid, for the 
organization of the supply of food and medical aid and for other 
social needs of unemployed workers. The amounts allotted by 
the administration of the unemployment fund for aid to unem- 
ployed workers in this manner reached £P.42,000 in the first 
eleven months of 1938 and totalled £P.94,650 from January, 
1936, to the end of November, 1938. e remainder of the 
funds collected were mainly invested in the support of works of 
construction and similar works. The Bitzur Co. Ltd., which 
was established early in 1936 for the purpose of increasing the 
sources of employment and which co-operated with the unem- 
ployment fund, had invested £P.335,000 up to the end of 
November, 1938. The total cost of works promoted by the 
initial investments of that company during the last three years 
exceeded £P.g00,000. 


138 

amended Employment of Women and Children Ordinance and 
the amended Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, are stil 
under consideration by Government. 

The principles of the proposed labour legislation were set 
out in paragraphs 24-8 of Section XVII in the Report for 1936. 

No progress has been made in the introduction of new labour 
legislation, as owing to the situation in Palestine it has not 
‘been found possible to arrange for sittings of the Labour 
Legislation Committee. 


XVIII.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 
Arms. 


1. The following is a comparative table of seizures of firearms 
and ammunition effected during 1937 and 1938:— 


193: 1938. 
Type. Service- Unservice-  Service- Unservice- 
able. able. able. able. 
Rifles 1,239 15 530 28 
Sub-machine gun.. _ — I _ 
Pistols and revolvers 1,461 29 356 32 
Shotguns ... 144 8 52 13 
Bombs and grenades : 105 14 212 26 
Rifle ammunition, rounds’ 19,216 — 36,396 —_ 
Pistol and revolver ammu- 
nition, rounds ... 5,141 _ 5,604 _ 


In addition to the above, the military forces seized di 
1938, 344 rifles, 146 pistols and revolvers, 53 ae 
approximately 26,000 rounds of ammunition. Considerable 
quantities of other warlike material and equipment such as 
grenades, bombs, explosives, fuzes, percussion caps, uniforms, 
etc., were also captured. 


Licensed Firearms, 


2. The following table gives details of licences issued during 
1937 and 1938:— 














2937: _| 1938. 
Police | eer, ] ] 
District. Pistols | Pistols 
Rifles. and | Shotguns. | Rifles. and Shotguns. 
Revolvers.| | Revolvers.| 
es | eee ee = | 
Jerid aieii 37 300 705 | 36 656 797 
Northern ... 29: | 647 1,950 | 58 1,128 937 
Southern ... | 6 | 40 1,146 | 3 991 1,286 
Nablus aa 20 49 437 | 28 251 363 
Nazareth ... 16 143 456 | 12 130 335 
Gaza 48 10 173 3 24 110 
Frontier _— -- — 10 | 121 444 
Totals ... | 154 1,189 4,867 | 150 3,301 4,272 
| 











139 
In addition to the above, 24 licences for air-guns were issued. 
The figures for the Nazareth and Gaza districts are incom- 


plete as the records belonging to these districts were destroyed 
yy terrorists during the year. 


.3- During the year, 284 persons were convicted under the 
Firearms Ordinance and Defence Regulations for the illicit 
Possession of firearms and ammunition. 


Liquors. 


4. The variation in the number of factories licensed to manu- 
facture intoxicating liquors and spirits during the past five years _ 
was as follows:— ; 











1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 
Spirits “ed vas 16 15 16 16 17 17 
Wines oe, See 15 15 14 14 15 13 
Beer ... es ae — _ I I I I 
Total 256 31 30 31 31 33 31 
Their output was as follows:— 
Other 
Year. Wine. Arak. Beer Cognac. Spirits. 
(litres). (litves of (litres). (litres of (litres of 
alcohol). alcohol). alcohol). 
1933 1,629,125 38,307 _ 121,292 686,989 
1934 2,378,922 41,855 = 203,495 853,681 
1935 2,619,980 51,611 242,600 295,539 1,012,598 
1936 2,257,550 58,540 1,954,786 187,593 1,070,234 
1937 3,393,569 58,985 1,830,245 364,876 948,298 
1938 3,053,580 = 59,696 1,723,941 173,845 858,997 
Imports and Exports* 
Commodity. Imports. Exports. 
Litres. Litres. 
Beer 625,690 _ 
Wines oes eae 55,521 760,386 
Arak bie are as ste 16 884 
Cognac and Brandy 5,889 23,511 
Other Spirits 53,822 5,380 


* Excluding imports by military and N.A.A.F.I. 


5. The abnormal and disturbed conditions which prevailed 
during 1937 and 1938, and in particular the imposition of 
curfew for lengthy periods in towns and villages throughout the 
country and the extraordinary security measures that had to be 
taken, again rendered it impossible to assess the practical effect 
of the application of the Sale of Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 
1935. 


136 


The reports on labour disputes show that the Arab unions were 
less active in demanding the improvement of the conditions 
of work in 1938 than in the preceding years. 


21. The activities of the Central Labour Office, established 
at Tel Aviv in 1937, continued in 1938. The number of disputes 
arising out of the distribution of work between the various 
labour organizations diminished considerably as compared 
with previous years. 


22. Seventy-six labour disputes caused by demands of an 
economic nature came under notice during the year, including 
two disputes in which there was no actual stoppage of work. 

The particulars of labour disputes recorded in each of the 
last five years are shown in the following table. 

1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
1. Total number of labour disputes 
which came under notice aes 49 60 20 53 76 
2. Causes of disputes : 
(a) Disputes over wages, hours of 
work and conditions of 


work . 23 36 10 19 20 
(b) Disputes over | discharge of 
workers wie 4 8 I 12 12 


(c) Disputes over employment of 
union labour and distribu- 


tion of work... * 8 7 6 13 19 
(ad) Disputes caused by ‘irregular 

payment of wages ... I 3 2 4 20 
(e) Disputes arising out of the 

race of the workers empleyed 12 4 I 3 _ 
(f) Other causes . I 2 _ 2 5 


3. Settlements of disputes which were 
concluded each year :— 
(a) Number of instances where 


the workers were successful 27 33 13 16 52 

(6) Number of instances where 
the workers failed ... aes 15 12 5 12 6 

(c) Number of compromise settle- 
ments <S 6 13 2 ar 17 

4. Number of strikes and lockouts i in 
progress ... 41 57 15 44 fe 

5. Number of workers involved 3 in 
strikes and lockouts eee +. 2,051 3,648 956 6,305 1,876 

6. Number of man-days lost in strikes 
and lockouts ase +++ 17,273 28,415 11,625 21,167 14,149 


7. Number of disputes where n no stop- 
page of work was caused by the 
workers employed at the estab- 
lishment under dispute ... as 8 3 5 9 2 


23. The total number of disputes recorded in 1938 showed 
an increase as compared with the preceding year. is increase 
should in part be attributed to t the increase in the volume of 
information on labour disputes secured by the Office of Statistics. 
The total number of workers involved and the aggregate amount 
of man-days lost were less than the Sontrsponsing figures in 


1937. 
ah 


137 


Of the total number of 1,876 workers involved in strikes and 
lockouts, 1,588 were Jews who lost 12, 140 man-days and 288 
were Arabs who lost 2,000 man-days. Arab labour was involved 
only in two disputes ‘of an economic nature. The number of 
disputes over wages, hours of work and collective agreements 
was proportionally less than in the preceding two years. There 
was an increase in the number of disputes caused by irregular 
payment of wages. There were also four cases of a type which 
was infrequent in previous years. These were disputes caused 
by demands for the regulation of the distribution of work among 
rationed employees. 


No disputes arising out of the racial principle of employment 
came to notice. 


24. In some disputes officers of the district administration 
or representatives of the Jewish Agency and other Jewish public 
institutions intervened with a view to effecting a settlement. 
Many disputes were settled by arbitration. 


25. In June, 1938, the High Commissioner directed that the 
following employments should be added to the schedule of 
oe ation in respect of which the employers are liable under 

orkmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927: 


(a) Transport by sea in vessels registered in Palestine, 
to include any person employed on board any such vessel. 
(b) Fishing in vessels registered in Palestine—not, to 
include such members of the crews of fishing vessels who 
are remunerated wholly or mainly by shares in the profits 
and are not members of a registered co-operative society. 


Prior to 1938, the following employments had been scheduled 
in rules made under the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, 


(i) Building operations, installation of gas and electricity. 

ii) Transport by railway and motor vehicles. 

fh Bintang, boring, excavation, quarrying and mining. 

Manufacturing operations in which mechanically 

c power is use 

(v) Generation and distribution of electricity, water 
supply, the laying and maintenance of telegraph and tele- 
phone lines, public drainage schemes. 

(vi) Construction and maintenance of roads. 

(vil) The handling of goods at docks, quays, wharves or 
warehouses within the area of a port. 

(viii) The handling of goods on lighters, at shipside and 
on board ships, when within the area of a port, by persons 
other than members of a ship’s crew. 


26. Except the regulation mentioned above, no labour legis- 
lation was enacted or published in the form of bills in 1938. 
The draft Ordinances which were published as bills in 1935 
and 1936, namely the Masters and Servants Ordinance, the 


138 

amended Employment of Women and Children Ordinance and 
the amended Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, are still 
under consideration by Government. 

The principles of the proposed labour legislation were set 
out in paragraphs 24-8 of Section XVII in the Report for 1936. 

No progress has been made in the introduction of new labour 
legislation, as owing to the situation in Palestine it has not 
been found possible to arrange for sittings of the Labour 
Legislation Committee. 


XVIII—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS AND LIQUORS. 
Arms. 


1. The following is a comparative table of seizures of firearms 
and ammunition effected during 1937 and 1938:— 


1937- 1938. 
Type. Service- Unservice- Service- Unservice- 

able. able. able. able 

Rifles ae aus as 1,239 15 530 28 

Sub-machine gun... ace _ _ I _- 

Pistols and revolvers aoe 1,461 29 356 32 

Shotguns ... an aay 144 8 52 13 

Bombs and grenad: a6 105 14 212 26 

Rifle ammunition, rounds 19,216 _— 36,396 —_ 
Pistol and revolver ammu- 

nition, rounds ... vee 5,141 _ 5,604 _ 


In addition to the above, the military forces seized during 
1938, 344 rifles, 146 pistols and revolvers, 53 shotguns, and 
approximately 26,000 rounds of ammunition. Considerable 
quantities of other warlike material and equipment such as 
grenades, bombs, explosives, fuzes, percussion caps, uniforms, 
etc., were also captured. 


Licensed Firearms, 
2. The following table gives details of licences issued during 
1937 and 1938:— 











1937. 
Police 
District. Pistols 
Rifles. and 
Revolvers. 
Jerusalem... 37 300 
Northern .. 27 647 
Southern .. 6 40 
Nablus... 20 49 
Nazareth .. 16 143 
Gaza aes 48 Io 
Frontier ... _ _— 
Totals ... 154 1,189 

















139 
In addition to the above, 24 licences for air-guns were issued. 


The figures for the Nazareth and Gaza districts are incom- 
piste as the records belonging to these districts were destroyed 
yy terrorists during the year. 


3- During the year, 284 persons were convicted under the 
Firearms Ordinance and Defence Regulations for the illicit 
possession of firearms and ammunition. 


Liquors. 


4. The variation in the number of factories licensed to manu- 
facture intoxicating liquors and spirits during the past five years _ 
was as follows:— 


1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 





Spirits See oe 16 15 16 16 17 17 
Wines oes ans 15 15 14 14 15 13 
Beer ... _ _ I I I I 

Total nb 31 30 31 31 33 3r 








Their output was as follows:— 


Other 
Year. Wine. Arak. Beer. Cognac. Spirits. 
(Htres). (litres of (Htres). (litres of (tres of 
alcohol). alcohol). alcohol). 
1933 ee 1,629,125 38,307 —_ 121,292 686,989 
1934 ate 2,378,922 41,855 _— 203,495 853,681 
1935 ees 2,619,980 51,611 242,600 295,539 1,012,598 
1936... 2,257,556 = 58,540 1,954,786 187,593 1,070,234 
1937. «+ ~—-34393,569 58,985 1,830,245 364,876 948,298 
1938... 3,053,580 = 59,696 1,723,941 173,845 858,997 
Imports and Exports* 
Commodity. Imports. Exports. 
Litres. Litres. 
Beer ove ate Wee Ses 625,690 _ 

Wines... aes as bis 55,521 760,386 

Arak avs 2c aa es 16 884 

Cognac and Brandy ... os 5,889 23,511 

Other Spirits... os on 53,822 5,380 


* Excluding imports by military and N.A.A.F.I. 


5. The abnormal and disturbed conditions which prevailed 
during 1937 and 1938, and in particular the imposition of 
curfew for lengthy periods in towns and villages throughout the 
country and the extraordinary security measures that had to be 
taken, again rendered it impossible to assess the practical effect 
of the application of the Sale of Intoxicating Liquor Ordinance, 
1935. 


140 


6. Incidence of Drunkenness during 1937 and 1938. 














1937. 1938. 

Number of persons convicted. Number of persons convicted. 

On four On four 

Once. On two On three oy inove one On two | On three a alone 
Moslems 355 12 4 3 153 Ir 2 1 
Christians 68 I _— —_— 27 — as 
Jews 53 I = = 24) <a = 
Totals... | 476 14 4 3 204 Ir 2 I 





























7. The distribution of cases of drunkenness among the various 
police divisions during 1938 is shown hereunder : — 


Division. Once. 


Jerusalem Urban 


w 
ray 


On two 


occasions. 


On three 


On four 


OCCASTONS. 





Jerusalem Rural 
Hebron : 
Haifa Urban 
Haifa Rural 
Acre . 
Jaffa... aes 
Ramat Gan ... 
Tel-Aviv 
Ramle 

Nablus 

Jenin 
Nazareth 
Tulkarm 
Safad 

Tiberias 

Gaza 
Beersheba 
Rehovoth 


vlrwaalanolS|Lul Fl 


blll lellel 


PITT Edt tat 


pc elf a | 





Pa af a 


PESTA I 
Pld dd 





Totals 


4 


n 





Drugs. 


8. The traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs is governed 
by the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 1936. 


International Opium Convention. 
The number of import certificates for dangerous drugs granted 


during the year was 108. 


I4I 
Actual imports were as follows: — 


Kgs. 

Medicinal Opium a 47500 
Opium in the form of Preparations 10° 582 
Morphine ‘ uae e 1°357 
Diacetylmorphine o'12r 
Cocaine 2+840 
Eucodal 0-091 
Dicodide O-1Ig 
Dilaudide 0:025 
Acidicone 0-009 
Codeine 14°880 
Dionine : 1052 
Indian Hemp ii in n the form of galenical Preparations 

(tinctures and extracts) . 0-350 


g. During 1936, under the new Ordinance which brought 
dangerous drugs legislation into line with the latest recommenda- 
tion of the International Opium Commission, wholesale com- 
pounding chemists were for the first time permitted to import 
codeine and dionine for compounding pharmaceutical prepara- 
tions made by them. The increase of codeine imported during 
1936 and 1937 largely represents the working stocks of manu- 
facturers. The import for 1938 of codeine was 14 kilogrammes. 

It will be noticed that in general the import of dangerous drugs 
was below the average of previous years. This was mainly due 
to the depressed and unsettled conditions prevailing during the 
year. 


io. Notwithstanding their strenuous duties, the police main- 
tained vigilance in suppressing the traffic through Palestine to 
Egypt of narcotic drugs. The following table shows seizures 
of narcotic drugs during the last three years : — 


Year. Hashish. Opium. Cocaine. Others. 
kilogrammes. kilogrammes. grammes. kilogrammes. 

1936 ats vee 45°624 91-007 7 _— 

1937 wee se -75°190 154°856 471 = 

1938 306 vee 720171 109°115 _— I1‘000 


Sixty-one persons were prosecuted in connection with illicit 
traffic in narcotic drugs of whom 46 were convicted and Io were 
awaiting trial at the end of the year. Fines ranged from 500 
mils to £P.100 and terms of imprisonment from one week to two 
years. The fines imposed amounted in the aggregate to 
£P.125,500 mils. 


Anti-Narcotic Measures. 


11. The measures taken by the police for the suppression of 
traffic in narcotic drugs include supervision of the movements of 
known drug dealers, employment of agents to collect informa- 
tion, exchange of information with other Governments, patrol- 
ling’ of frontiers, and searches of vehicles and animals en route 
for Egypt. 


142 

With a view to preventing the smuggling pf narcotic drugs 
into Palestine by ocean-going steamers, Customs guards and 
members of the port and marine ae are A ean on er all ships 
entering the ports of Jaffa and H eir period of stay. 
Lighters, motor launches, and faking vo vessels are closely ex- 
amined; and lightermen, ‘stevedores, other port workmen, and 
the crews of visiting craft are carefully searched on coming 
ashore. The baggage of incoming passengers is examined by 
the Customs authorities. Prompt advance information in regard 
to suspected ships or individuals coming to Palestine is passed to 
the Customs authorities by the Criminal Investigation Depart- 
ment of the Palestine Police. 


X1X.—EDUCATION. 


The normal programme of coeiion of Arab elementary 
education initiated in 1933, and suspended in 1936-7, was 
Tesumed in 1937-8. 


The percentage of applicants who could be admitted to 
Government schools, both in towns and villages, remained at 
about 50 per cent. 


The Hebrew public system continued to expand in 1937-8, 
notwithstanding the disturbances and the unfavourable economic 
situation. The following is a comparative table for two years:— 











1936-37. 1937-38. 
Schools. | Pupils. 
Arab Schools :— 
Arab Public System (Govern: 
ment) Schools 382 42,713 
Other schools :— 
Moslem schools Me aes 175 12,537 
Christian schools... sae 181 22,897 
Total—Arab Schools... 738 78,147 
Jewish Schools :— 
Hebrew Public System wee ad 
Leumi) Schools ES 373 47,288 
Other schools ... non wh 208 19,985 
Total—Jewish Schools ... 581 67,273 
Grand Total... ese 1,319 | 145,420 1,40r | 158,874 














Under the term Christian Arab schools are included all those 
maintained by foreign missionary bodies. 


143 


The 87,498 pupils in Arab schools (62,322 boys and Boot 176 
girls) comprise 62,706 or 71°7 a cent. fos lems (48,890 boys 
and 13,816 girls), 22,904 or 26-2 per cent. Christians (12,246 
boys and 10,658 ‘girls), 1,048 or 1-2 per cent. Jews (498 boys 
and 55° ee and 840 or o-g per cent. others (688 boys and 
152_g1r 

The’ oe f° Pe upils in Jewish your s (36.474 boys and 34,902 
a inclu Moskens and 17 C) 


The Education Ordinance, pares was amended to enable 
bad and not only buildings, to be registered in the name of a 
local education authority free of charge. The rules under the 
Ordinance were also amended to enable the Director of Educa- 
tion, or a medical officer of health, to ask an applicant for the 
registration of a school to submit plans of the premises. 

Educational films were added to the free list under the 
Customs Tariff and Exemption Ordinance. 

3. The number of classified officers employed by the Depart- 
ment in December, 1938, was 1,126, against 1,072 in December, 
1937- Fourteen were British and the rest, with very few 
exceptions, Palestinians. 

4. The expenditure by the Department of Education in the 
school year 1937-8 on education services was approximately 
as follows :— 

(a) Administration and Inspectorate (Avab and Hebrew). 

Overhead 














Charges :— £P. £P. 
Salaries... oes a ri eh ae 18,345 
Other Charges... nee - ues AES 541 
18,886 
(6) Schools :— 
@ Government (Arab) :— 
Salari 166,886 
Grants t to local authorities for school buildings 6.745 
Books, furniture and equipment aus 19,592 
Sea, matntenance. atowances. etc... 8,653 
Sundries.. f wos 1,244 
- 203,120 
(ii) Non-Government :— 
Block Grant to Hebrew Public System... 46,600 
Additional grant to Hebrew public Peeeoe on 
account of capital expenditure... 9.145 
Per a gs crank to other schools :— 
Jewish see eee 2,615 
Moslem ies aes oe 1,685 
Christian (including foreign) eer ie 1,468 
61,513 
(c) Miscellaneous :— 
Grant to Board of a Studies a8 soa 500 
Transport and Travelling . ‘ wae Bek 5,050 
Other minor charges ion ed see os 221 
5.77% 





£P.289,290 





; 144 

The revenue from the sale of books and school materials 
in Government schools during the school year 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.1,600 and that from school fees to £P.3,791, a total of 
£P.5,391. 

5. The distribution of educational benefits between Arabs and 
Jews was based on the proportion of school age population, and 
educational il pe incurred by other Government Depart- 
ments was included in the calculation. 

The actual expenditure by the Department under “‘ schools ” 
was apportioned as follows :— 





Arab Schools :— £P. £P. 
Government eh was «es 203,120 
Non-Government vee we 3.153 

206,273 

Jewish Schools :— 

Hebrew Public System ... ae 555745 
Others... ay Ss on 2,615 





58,360 

The benefits to Arab schools are gross, and should be reduced 
by £P.5,391, the amount of the revenue from sales and fees 
shown above. 

6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1937-8 
by other Government Departments upon educational services:— 


Department. Object. Approximately. 
£P. 
Agriculture ... Supply of trees ate Zee Gs an 361 
Health ... ... Hygiene and Medical Care of Pupils aes 2,038 
Secretariat ... Printing and Stationery... see wee 480 
Public Works ... Rent, repairs, office furniture, etc. see 14,585 


These figures exclude any share of overhead charges for 
salaries and other administrative expenditure by the Depart- 
ments concerned. 

In addition, the following sums were expended during the 
year by the Public Works Department on new Government 
Sa) schools or on additions to existing Government (Arab) 

ools:— - 





£P. 
From the Public Works Extraordinary budget... 9,334 
From Loan Works budget... ety ene 13,769 
£P.23,103 





The net expenditure of all Government Departments was 
distributed as follows:— 


Arab education Bers es ee 3a aoe Bae 
Jewish education AO wee See oar ae 59,352 
Administration—Department of Education (Arab 

and Jewish) ... ore eee see ney ee 18,886 





£P.324,466 


145 
If the expenditure on administration and all special expendi- 
ture including the Spends by the Public Works Department 
from its extraordinary and loan fund budgets are excluded, the 
net expenditure was distributed as follows : — 





P £P. 
Arab education on oes wes ves 216,435 
ewish education oie ace ass Ca 50,20’ 
7 
£P.266,642 





The expenditure on Jewish education was therefore 23-66 

rx cent. of that on Arab education. The percentage was 26 

or the previous year. 

There is thus a discrepancy between the ratio of expenditures 
eee -66 : an and the ratio of school-age populations 


Sach: dis ines: which occurred in 1936-7 and in 1937-8, 
are due to, or are corrected by, adjustments in other years. 

The contributions to the Va’ad Leumi in respect of 1937-8 
were as follows:— 





By the Government Department of - Me 
Education :— 
Recurrent grant ... ere aes 46,600 
Non-recurrent grant se a 9,145 
55:745 
By Jewish Agency... fad Ses 25,000 





Total £P.80,745 





7. There are no exact figures of the total educational expendi- 
ture of private bodies. In particular no reliable estimate can 
be made of the expenditure of foreign organizations. 

The figures of the Jewish public system are given in para- 
graphs 21 and 22 below. 


8. The numbers of children in the age group 5-15 on the 
1st October, 1937, was approximately as follows :— 





Arabs :— 
Moslems and others ... 242,469 
Christians one nae 23,401 
265,876 
Jews ee Soe 66,391 


The ratio of Jews to Aebet in ths age group 5-15 was therefore 
24-97 per cent. on the Ist October, 1937. 


On the rst October, 1938, the estimated figures were as 
follows: — 
Arabs and other non-Jews (excluding foreign Christians) :— 





Moslems and others... 248,023 
Christians a es 23,878 
271,901 
Jews eee a5 we 67,908 


ty 


146 


Thus the proportion of Jewish to non-Jewish children was 
estimated at 24-98 per cent. on 1st October, 1938. 

The pupils attending schools in July, 1938, were as follows. 
The age range is 3-20, but the very if ge majority are in the 




















Tange 5-15:— 
Boys. Girls. Total. 

Ayvabs and other non-Jews :— 
Moslems ao «48,893 13,817 62,710 
Christians wee ee 12,257 10,664 22,921 
Other denominations ... 688 152 840 
Total ... «61,838 24,633 86,471 
Jews tee ee ee 36,958 35445 72,403 
Grand Total... 98,796 60,078 158,874 











These figures do not include pupils in a small number of 
Christian schools which have rendered no statistical returns; 
but otherwise they cover the whole population, settled and 
nomad. 


g. Education in Palestine is not compulsory and is not uni- 
versal. The extent of education varies considerably amon 
the various religious communities. Thus in the Jewish an 
Christian communities, almost 100 per cent. of the children 
receive education of some kind or other; the period of schooling 
varies from about 5 years to 10 years or more, the average being 
about 8-9 years. In the Moslem community the extent of educa- 
tion is smaller, and the demand for greater educational facilities 
still outstrips the efforts of the Government within the limits of its 
available resources, to make good the deficiency. Further, the 
demand for the education of girls in Moslem villages, though 
increasing, has been relatively small, while at the same time there 
have been great difficulties to contend with in the supply of 
women teachers to villages. The approximate percentages of 
Moslem children who receive education for some period or other 
have been estimated as follows: — 


Boys. Girls. 

Per cent. Per cent. 
In towns aes wee te 80 50 
In villages... ¢ 50 4 


The period of schooling averages about six years in Government 
town schools and four to five years in Government village 
schools. The average in Moslem non-Government schools is 
believed to be less. 
School Fees. 

to. Arab Public System.—In the Government kindergartens 
and elementary schools education is free. In the lower secondary 
classes day-pupils are required to pay £P.3 a year, and in the 
higher secondary classes £P.6 a year. Boarders at the Govern- 
ment Arab college and the Women’s training college pay £P.24 


147 
and £P.2I a year, respectively. At the Government trade 
school, Haifa, boarders are charged £P.12 a year. A number of 
pupils in the secondary schools are exempted from payment of 
any fees when poverty is established. 


In the two Kadoorie agricultural schools (Arab and Jewish) 
the students pay £P.24 a year for tuition and board. The 
boarding fees for pupils in the hostels at Tulkarm and Jenin are 
£P.10 a year. At Beersheba Beduin hostel no fee is charged. 


Non-Government Moslem Schools.—In the villages the fees 
paid rarely exceed £P.1 a year, and are usually less than 500 
mils; in some places the practice of paying fees in kind persists. 


In the town elementary schools the feesare usually about £P.2} 
a year. In the Raudat al-Ma’aref college at Jerusalem the 
tuition fees in the elementary classes are £P.6 a year and in the 
secondary classes they rise to £P.8. Boarders pay an inclusive 
fee of £P.36 a year for board, lodging and tuition. 


Jewish Schools—The education rates and other revenues 
which support the Hebrew public schools are, in many localities, 
supplemented by school fees assessed according to the means 
of the parents and the grade of the class. Total exemptions as 
well as part remissions of fees are frequent. 


In the kindergartens, all of which are either private or main- 
tained by local authorities, the fees range from £P.3 to £P.12 
ayear. Inthe elementary schools they vary from £P.2 to £P.12 
and in the higher classes of the secondary schools nse as high as 
£P.26 a year. No tuition fees are charged in the municipal 
elementary schools of Tel Aviv. 


In the bulk of the purely private schools the fees charged are 
lower than in public schools, but in a few are appreciably higher. 


At the boarding section of the Reali secondary school at Haifa, 
pupils are charged £P.1I0 a year. 


At the agricultural boarding schools the fees charged vary from 
£P.30 to £P.72 a year. 

In the religious elementary schools, known as Talmud Toras, 
the fees, if any, are generally small. 


Christian Schools.—No information is available regarding the 
fees charged in the schools controlled by the Latin Patriarch, the 
Greek Catholic Archbishop of Galilee, and the consulates of 
certain foreign states. 


_ In some of the German secondary schools the maximum fee 
is £P.5 a year in the elementary classes and £P.12 in the 
secondary classes. In the Syrian orphanages the maximum fee 
paid by a boarder is £P.20 a year inclusive. 


148 


In the European and American missionary town schools the 
maximum annual fee charged in the elementary classes is £P.12, 
but in the large majority of these schools the fees are very much 
lower. In the secondary classes the fees range from £P.6 to 
4P.15 a year. In addition to tuition fees, boarders pay board- 
ing fees which do not usually amount to more than £P.35 a 
year. £P.75 a year is charged for a boarder in the British 
oy school in Jerusalem which is open to British children 
only. 

Generally speaking no fees are charged in the village mission- 
ary schools nor any in the schools of the Orthodox and Latin 
Patriarchates. 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


rz. During the school year 1937-8, 1,052 classified teachers 
were employed in Government schools as against 965 in the pre- 
ceding year. Of these four were British and the rest Arabs. There 
were in addition 228 unclassified teachers, mainly in villages, 

aid by Government, and 16 others paid by local authorities. 

hus the total number of teachers in Government schools 
was 1,296 as against 1,174 in 1936-7. Eight women teachers 
resigned on marriage and six retired. Four men teachers retired 
on pension and four retired on other grounds. 


12. Elementary Education.—The gradual scheme of expan- 
sion of facilities for Arab elementary education, which was 
initiated in 1933 in order to keep pace with the increasing de- 
mand but was suspended in 1936-7, was resumed in 1937-8. As 
regards town schools the term ‘‘ expansion ’’ means the pro- 
vision of the elementary school places necessary to maintain 
the number of annual entries at the same figure as in 1933. 
Ninety-one new teaching posts in town schools and 4o in village 
schools were filled in October, 1937, and 18 new village schools 
were opened. In the third term of the school year 1937-8 there 
were 398 Government elementary schools with 48,563 pupils 
(including 2,121 children in kindergarten classes) . 

The following table gives the numbers and percentages of 
applications for admission to Government schools accepted and 
aelared in September, 1937, and in September, 1938:— 




















September, 1937. September, 1938. 
a Towns. Villages. Towns. Villages. 
| No. of No. % No. % No. % 
\ 
Applied ae 9.458 | — | 13,572 | — |] 10,285 | — | 12,746 | — 
Accepted te 4,647 | 49 | 7,723 | 57 | 4,667] 45 | 6,885 | 54 
Deferred ees 4,811 | 51 5,849 | 43 5,618 | 55 5,861 | 46 

















149 
Lack of accommodation still retards progress in the grading 
of classes by age. Entries are deferred for one, two, or three 
years: thus the age range of the lowest class is too wide and 
the average age of entry tao high. 


The number of pupils who repeat the lowest class has been 
further reduced, but the number of ‘‘ repeaters ’’ for the lower 
elementary course is still somewhat high. The average length 
of school life is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


13. Town Schools.—The following table gives figures for 
town schools in the school years 1936-7 and 1937-8:— 














1936-7. 1937-8. 
Schools. Pupils Schools. Pupils. 
Boys ... a oe ees 37 11,649 41 13,271 
Girls ... ios aos nae 30 7,993 31 9,053 
Total see ote 67 19,642 72 22,324 


The Bere for 1937-8 include 1,703 children (126 boys and 
1,577 girls) in kindergarten classes and 740 pupils in secondary 
classes. 

Over 1,530 village boys and 172 village girls attended town 
schools. Small hostels attached to Tulkarm, Jenin and Lydda 
boys’ schools exist for the benefit of the village boys, but, in 
general, villagers attending town schools are poorly lodged 
under their own arrangements. The boarding school for the 
children of Bedu sheikhs at Beersheba accommodated 56 boys. 


In July, 1938, a seventh (top) elementary class existed in 
20 boys’ and in 14 girls’ schools in towns, with 831 boys and 
272 gitls. The majority of children do not proceed beyond the 
lower elementary cycle, a self-contained unit of five classes in 
towns and four in villages. 

The two commercial classes (3rd and 4th secon} at the 
Jaffa elementary-secondary school for boys contained 6 and 
12 boys, respectively. Instruction is given through the medium 
of English and Arabic, and French is also taught. 

A school for the blind was opened in Hebron, with 14 pepe 
The headmaster, who is himself blind, has had a specia! ee 
years’ training in England. 

New Government school buildings were erected in Safad and 
Beersheba and completed in August, 1938. Three new school 
buildings were under construction in Jaffa, but were not com- 
pleted by the end of the school year. An addition was also 
made to the Tulkarm girls’ school, with Government aid. 

15774 F 


150 


- 14. Rural Schools—The following table gives figures for 
village schools in 1936-7 and 1937-8:— 


1936-7. 1937-8. 





Schools. Pupils. Schools. | Pupils. 





For Boys... ae ne 295 21,554 305 24,974 
For Girls ae aa xe 20 1,517 25 2,102 








Totals ess one 315 23,071 | 330 | 27,076 





The figures for 1937-8 include 418 children (18 boys and 400 
girls) in kindergarten classes. 

: wees village schools were opened and two were closed 
in 1937-8. 

ik aoraber of villages erected new buildings or made additions 
to existing buildings or began construction. The estimated cost 
to the villagers on all projects, both completed and in process 
of erection, was about £P9,950 to which the Government con- 
tributed approximately £P6,145. 

Out of the 330 village schools, 273 included the full four years 
of the elementary course, or more. Higher elementary eaeee 
existed in ten village schools. 

In 117 village schools there were small libraries for the use 
of teachers, pupils, old pupils, and adults generally. 

Evening classes for illiterate adults were conducted in three 
villages. 

15. Secondary Schools—There were 740 pupils in the 
secondary classes of 13 Government schools, as against 626 the 
previous year. These figures include the students at the two 
teachers’ colleges in Jerusalem. 

16. Government Arab College —The number of students was 
too during the year (85 Moslems and 15 Christians), including 
a post-matriculation class for teacher training. 

17. Training of Teachers.—Teachers are trained in the 
following institutions :— 

(i) Government Institutions— 

(a) Government Arab College, Jerusalem.—The training class 
is an integral part, and at present the highest section, of the 
College. In 1937-8 it contained 12 students all of whom passed 
the diploma examination. In it, Arabic and English literature 
are continued beyond the matriculation level, and other general 
subjects are studied only in connection with the elementary 
school syllabus. The course of pedagogy is practical rather 
than theoretical. Some attention is paid to psychology but a 
greater part of the lesson time is given to practical training in 
methods of teaching and in class management. 


— 


I5I 


The former system under which male teachers received their 
general and professional education concurrently in a special 
institution was generally abandoned between 1924 and 1928. 
Admission to training is now allowed only after the completion 
of the secondary course. For financial reasons the numbers 
at present are limited to those necessary for replacement of 
casualties in the existing teaching cadre. 


(b) Rural Teachers’ Training Centre, Tulkarm.—This Centre 
in normal years contains a number of selected students, who 
have completed the course at the Kadoorie (Arab) Agricultural 
School, Tulkarm, and undergo a course of one year’s training 
with the object of fitting themselves for teaching posts in 
villages, more especially those where school gardens exist. The 
Centre did not open in 1937-8, as there were no suitable candi- 


‘dates available for selection from the Agricultural School 


following its closure in 1936 owing to the disturbances. 


(c) Women’s Training College, Jerusalem.—This College 
accommodates 60 students, all boarders, who follow a four years’ 
course. The first three years of study, in which the medium 
of instruction is Arabic, Piow a secondary syllabus which has 
been adapted for women and includes domestic science, child 
welfare, physiology and hygiene. In the fourth year the 
students, numbering about fifteen, are divided into two groups, 
kindergarten and class teachers respectively, and are given an 
intensive course in the theory and practice of teaching. Half 
the work is devoted to teaching practice in the largest elementary 
girls’ school in Jerusalem. 


Those women who successfully pass out of the College are 
appout ted to posts in urban girls’ schools in which the majority 
of teachers are graduates of the College. Over 200 women have 
passed out of the College since it was opened in 1920. 


(d) Women Rural Teachers’ Training Centre, Ramallah.—The 
need for specially trained teachers for village schools was met by 
opening the Rural Training Centre in 1935, with a particular 
view to improving child welfare, house management and general 
hygiene in villages where the ignorance of the women so 
gravely retards progress. Since the majority of Palestine 
villages are Moslem, the 25 students selected for training are 
at present all of the Moslem faith. The standard of entry is 
lower than at the Women’s College and the course of study 
is for two years only. It aims at preparing girls to take charge 
of a village school of from 30-40 children of varying ages. 

In addition to academic subjects, the students are given a 
thorough domestic training. They do all the house and laund: 
work of the centre and some of the cooking. They also loo 
ee vegetable garden and the poultry. No English is 
‘aught. 


15774 F2 


va 


152 


In the second year of study, teaching practice is carried out 
at the Ramallah elementary school and at a village school 
near by. 

Approximately twelve women students pass out of the Centre 
each year. 


“ (ii) Non-Government Institutions— 

(a) The Jerusalem Girls’ College (Anglican Mission). 

(b) Schmidts Girls’ College, Jerusalem (Sisters of St. Charles 
Catholic Mission). 

Each of these colleges conducts a small teacher training class 
after the conclusion of a full secondary course up to Matriculation 
standard. Instruction in these colleges is through the medium of 
English. 

In both institutions the practical examination in teaching is 
conducted by examiners appointed by the Director of Education. 
Most of the graduates are employed by the Department of 
Education in urban girls’ schools. 


18. Scholarships.—Seven Government scholars were main- 
tained in British universities and colleges. Four of the former 
completed their courses in the summer of 1938 and were subse- 
quently appointed to teaching posts. Three other selected 
candidates were thereupon sent to England to fill the vacancies 
thus created. Two selected candidates were appointed to one 
year scholarships in England made available by the British 
Council. Six scholars were maintained at the American Uni- 
versity at Beirut; two graduated in the summer and were 
replaced by two others. Four scholars were maintained in 
trade schools in Egypt. Six scholars were maintained in non- 
Government secondary schools in Palestine. All of these 
scholars are Arabs. 


Hebrew Public System. 


19. The Va‘ad Leumi remained in control of the Hebrew 
Public System, the administration of which continued to be 
conducted as hitherto by the Executive Education Committee, 
consisting of representatives of the Jewish Agency, the Va‘ad 
Leumi, the Tel Aviv Municipality and the Jewish settlements. 
A representative of the Government Department of Education 
attended all meetings of the committee. In July, 1937, another 
committee, known as the Va‘ad Hahinnukh, was set up to deal 
primarily with pedagogical matters, but with advisory powers 
also in matters of administration. This committee represents 
mainly local interests and the Hebrew Teachers’ Association. 
The Director and Senior Inspectors of the Va‘ad Leumi Depart- 
ment of Education, and a representative of the Government 
Department of Education, attend the meetings of the committee. 


153 


20. The following table gives the actual recurrent expenditure 
and revenue of the Jewish Central authority for 1937-8. Ex- 
penditure showed an increase of £P.3,871 over the previous 




















year. 
Revenue— 
x. Central Authorities— £P. £P. 
Jewish Agency ies wee re sos 25,000 
Government . 46,600 
Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association. 2,200 
73,800 
2. Local Sources 
Tel-Aviv Municipality eee aay aS 25,225 
Other local authorities as: tis ae 15,640 
School fees... we ae and Sa 19,850 
60,715 
3. Miscellaneous ae ‘se _ ais su 1,080 
Total ... tee £P.135,535 
Expendtture— 
1. Administration and Inspectorate— 
Salaries tee 5,660 
Collection Office 1,850 
Other charges 1,450 
8,960 
2. Schools— 
(i) Maintained schools. 
Salaries... eee is eee 100,771 
Rent and maintenance ... Bea 3,400 
Furniture and equipment ie 1,750 
: : 105,92 
(ii) Assisted schools. 
Grants to Labour schools ae 8,000 
Grants to other schools ... asd 4.422 
: 12,422 
3. Miscellaneous— 
Contribution to pension fund a os 4,400 
Pensions and gratuities... 1,803 
Substitutes in cases of sickness, | life in- 
surance, etc. Ge 800 
Part re-payment of deficit of 1936-37 ne 750 
Unforeseen expenditure... eae 459 
8,212 
Total ww we £P.135,515 


The Government grant for the financial year April, 1937— 
March, 1938, was £P.44,300 for recurrent charges as against 
%P.42,000 in the previous financial year, the increase bein, 
due mainly to the increase of Government expenditure on Ara 
education. Of this sum, £P.21,000 was paid in the period April 
—September, 1937, leaving a balance of £P.23,300 for the 
period October, 1937—March, 1938: which is the first half of the 
school-year under review. ae equal sum of £P.23,300 was 
paid in the se~ond half of the school year, making a total grant 
of £P.46,600 for the school year. 


15774 F3 


154 


A grant of £P.9,145 was also made by Government to the 
Va‘ad Leumi in respect of non-recurrent expenditure on build- 


ings and equipment. 


21. The receipts and expenditure shown in paragraph 20 are 
only in respect of the services maintained directly by the Va‘ad 


Leumi. 
by the local authorities. 


Most of the expanded and new services are provided 
The followin, 
cost of maintaining the schools in the 


Bese gives the actual 
ebrew public system, 


mention being made of the sources of revenue : — 


























Sources of Revenue. 
Grade or Central. Local. Total 
Type Revenue. 
of School. Pacey 
Per ios Fees. Total. Per 
cas: Bodies. cond: 
iP Be. | gp. | 2p. 
ties 
Kindergartens 1,232 2°5 34.703 | 12,127 | 46,830 | 97°5 48,062 
Elementary ... | 52,443 | 22:0 |139,666*| 49,328 | 188,994 | 78:0 241,437 
Training Colleges| 5,568 | 45-0 1,621 51305 6,926 | 55°0 12,494 
Secondary eae 780 1-0 1,956 | 70,677 | 72,633 99°90 730413 
Trade and Voca- 
tional — i... 75| 4-5 3,535 | 1,495 | 5,030 | 98-5 5,105 
Administration 
Central 16,720 | 100-0 _ _— — 16,720 
Total 76,818¢| 19-0 | 181,481}) 138,932 | 320,413 | 81-0 397,231 

















* Inclusive of administration expenses incurred by Local Authorities direct. 


t Includes : 


£P.46,600 (or 60-7 per cent.) from Government. 


£P.25,000 (or 32-5 per cent.) from Jewish Agency. 
£P.3,564 (or 4:7 per cent.) from the Palestine Jewish Colonisation 


Association, 


t Includes about {P.600 grants-in-aid paid by Government directly to some 


schools. 


22. The following tables give comparative figures regarding 


schools and pupils : — 


Table I. Administrative Groups. 











1936-7. 1937-8. 
Schools. | Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
General... ase 164 27,841 172 28,967 
Mizrahi... ae 67 11,323 81 12,057 
Labour ean aba 142 8,124 142 8,896 
Totals 373 | 47,288 395 49,920 





Digitized b: 


Google 
c 


155 
Table II. Types of Schools. 




















1936-7. 3 1937-8. 

Schools. | Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 

Kindergarten chal 187 7,067 199 7,503 

Elementary aes 163 34,481 174 36,685 

Secondary .. > 12 4,583 12 4,599 

Training Colleges .. 4 | 667 4 702 

Technical and voca- 

tional ... ite 5 237 5 315 

Agriculture avs 2 253 I 416 
ooo 

Totals ...- 373 | 47,288 395 49,920 





.._ The secondary schools also include elementary classes, and 
the purely secondary classes number about 2,817 pupils. 


The number of teachers employed in all schools was 1,888. 


23. The schools, especially the elementary schools, have 
continued to show improvement. The adverse economic con- 
ditions of the country have, however, been felt by local authori- 
ties and schools have suffered in consequence. Many schools 
were insufficiently equipped. 

The local authority of Tel Aviv continued to improve its 
educational services in many ways. Its expenditure on education 
amounted to £P.120,000 in the financial year 1937-8. 


The secondary school leaving examination was conducted 
by the Va’ad Leumi Department of Education and nine schools 
submitted 290 candidates. 228 students passed the examination 
and 62 failed. 


IIo out of 116 students of the top classes of three teachers’ 
colleges were awarded diplomas. An external examination was 
held by the Va’ad Leumi Department for uncertificated 
teachers; 18 out of 28 passed. 


Much was done for adult education by local authorities and 
by semi-public bodies. 


The four new schools erected out of a loan of £P.72,000 
obtained by the Tel Aviv municipal council from Barclays 
Bank (see paragraph 24, page 147 of 1937 Report) were com- 
pleted by the end of the school year. 


Other Schools. 


24. I.—Moslem Schools—During the year 184 Moslem schools 
were maintained with an enrolment of 14,052 pupils of whom 
2,332 were girls. Two of these schools have secondary classes 
and a number are comparable with Government elementary 
schools. The majority, however, are old fashioned and 
inefficient. 


15774 F4 


156 


25. II.—Christian Schools—The following table gives com- 
parative figures for two years. The figures are only approxi- 
mately correct, as some groups of Catholic schools, not always 
the same groups, have for some years past anited to render 
statistical returns. 








The following tables give particulars of the Christian schools 
maintained by local and foreign bodies. 

















1936-7. 1937-8. 
Schools. | Pupils. | Schools. | Pupils. 
(a) Palestinian : 
Latin Partriarchate .. er 31 1,636 32 1,545 
Greek Orthodox Patriarchate mee 14 800 13 774 
Armenian Orthodox Patriarchate ... 4 856 4 951 
Syrian Orthodox Patriarchate... 2 255 2 251 
Armenian Catholic Convent I 109 I 126 
Orthodox Societies ... aay ae 6 963 6 1,181 
Custodia di Terra Santa... ae 16 3,052 16 3,152 
Greek Catholic areata ose 8 857 10 1,050 
Russian Religious Schools . eae _ —_ 2 81 
Others oe vee sae 12 793 13 829 
| : 
94 |; 9321 99 9,940 
J} 
(b) Foreign : 
French ave a wea ae 32 6,239 36 6,147 
British sae eae Sax Wie 19 2,622 19 2,808 
German wae ap sie age 20 2,301 19 2,233 
Italian aee he eee ose 12 1,701 16 2,173 
American... ie as oe 3 465 3 478 
Swedish tee ass aes aes I 248 I 267 
87 13,576 94 14,106 
Total... an ats 181 22,897 | 193 24,046 

















26. III].—Jewish Schools (not included in the Hebrew Public 
System).—The following table gives comparative figures for 
two years :— 


biatized ty GOORTe 
Cc 


157 





1937-8. 











1936-7. 
Schools. | Pupils. 

Hiance Israélite Universelle .. 

nglo-Jewish Association (Eveline de 

Rothschild Girls’ School) ... 1 

‘fomen’s International Zionist Organi- 

sation eee aA 5 

gudat Israel Organisation ous on 20 


nder Private Control nee we | 173 





Total ... se | 208 





Schools. | Puptis. 





* These figures include 12 schools and 1,196 pupils of the Beit Ya’aqov 


irls’ school type. 


Secondary and Post-Secondary Education and Examinations. 
27. The following summaries show the numbers of schools 


in which secondary education was given: — 

























































































1936-7. 1937-8. 
ili al 
a | 3 Bal ge | 
Oe IES oO}; & | 3 
aja) a} s] a jaca | és 
1 Public System: ean | r 
(raining Colleges... 2 8 85 60 2 9 99 60 
Secondary Schools ... Ir 20 481 | — II 23 581 _ 
13 28 566 60} 13 32 680 60 
aslem Schools 2 6 ms | — 2 6 128 | — 
ristian Schools: — 
Teaching in English... | 17 | 52 | 486] 422| 15 | 56 | 534] 479 
ss) » French... 9 31 282 202 9 35 305 266 
»  » German 5 6 57 25 5 9 52 35 
oe i Greek a3 I 2 12 _ I 3 16 I 
» » Italian... | — — — —_ 4 Io 82 Ir 
i » Arabic ... —_ _— _— _— 4 5 50 I 
»  » Armenian | — _ = — I 4 = 
32 gr 837 649 9 122 {072 19. 
bed Public System: : 3 i sh 
raining Colleges... 4 18 219 | 448 4 18 249 | 453 
Secondary Schools ... | 12 48 | 1,302 |1,331 | 12 5 | 1,387 | 1,430 
16 66 | 1,521 | 1, 16 1,636 | 1,88. 
rivate Jewish Schools : 3 1 2 : 2 
Training Colleges... I 3 _ 62 2 5 _- 118 
Secondary Schools ... 8 31 337 | 478] 15 53 458 | 704 
9 34 337 | 540 | 17 58 458 | 822 
Total... = «| 72 | 225 | 3,379 |3,028 | 87 | 287 |3,974 |3,558 





























158 


28. Students are admitted to the Government law classes in 
Jerusalem in alternate years only; 123 (85 internal and 38 
external) new students were admitted in November, 1937. 

29. Out of 211 candidates who entered, 201 sat for the 
Palestine matriculation examination in July, 1938. Of these, 
84 obtained the matriculation certificate and 61 qualified for 
the school certificate. Three candidates presented themselves 
for the Palestine intermediate examination in July; two passed 
and one was “‘ referred ’’ in one subject. 

30. Hebrew University.—At the end of the academic year 
1937-8, there were 118 members on the staff of the Hebrew 
University, including 31 professors and 27 lecturers. 

The number of students enrolled was 734 (of whom 196 were 
women) as against 779 in the preceding year. Undergraduates 
numbered 685, of whom 462 were in the Faculty of Humanities, 
223 in the Faculty of Science, and 49 were research students. 
About 15 per cent. of the students received their secondary 
education in Palestinian schools and about 85 per cent. in other 
countries, notably Poland and Germany. Eighteen candidates 
presented themselves for the University entrance examination, 
of whom 9g passed. 

Seventeen students in the Faculty of Humanities graduated 
with the degree of M.A., and the degree of M.Sc. was granted 
to eight students in the Faculty of Science. 

Through the generosity of the French Government, a lecture- 
ship in French culture was created in the Faculty of Humanities. 
The French Government also presented an important collec- 
tion of French books, in order to promote the study of the 
French language. 

In the Faculty of Science, laboratory accommodation was 
increased in chemistry and bacteriology. 

In addition to the scientific publications of the University 
staff, the Hebrew University Press continued its series of Hebrew 
translations from classical philosophical texts. The series now 
comprises 20 volumes. 

The construction of the buildings of the medical centre is 
nearing completion. The Nathan Ratnoff Medical School 
building will contain medical laboratories in pathological 
physiology and anatomy, cancer research, hygiene and bacterio- 
logy, and hormone research. 

The aggregate expenditure for the financial year 1937-8 
amounted to about £P.109,000. Government contributed a 
een of £P.543 towards research in agricultural-veterinary 
work. 

31. Language Examinations for Government officers.—In the 
lower standard Arabic examination sixteen passed both the 
colloquial and literary tests, and nine passed the colloquial test 
only. In the lower standard Hebrew fifteen passed both the 
colloquial and literary tests, and one passed the colloquial test 
only. In the higher standard examinations four out of six 
passed in Arabic and four out of six passed in Hebrew. The 


159 
Arabic examinations were taken by fifteen British and nineteen 


Jewish officials, while the Hebrew examinations were taken b' 
seven British and eighteen Arab officials. 


32. Government (Arab) Teachers’ Examinations.—At the 
teachers’ lower certificate examination, 24 out of 62 passed in 
Part I (pedagogy), and 18 out of 62 in Part II (school sub- 
jects). At the secondary teachers’ certificate examination, 10 
out of 18 candidates passed in Part I (pedagogy) and g out of 
32 in Part II (school subjects). An elementary teachers’ higher 
certificate examination, designed for older teachers was also 
held: two out of nine passed in both Parts I and II. 


33. Foreign Examinations.—Eighty-six candidates entered 
for London University examinations conducted in Jerusalem, 
of whom 28 passed. Thirty-eight candidates also presented 
themselves for other British examinations, namely, those for 
the Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate, the London 
Association of Certified Accountants, the Chartered Surveyors’ 
Institution, the Chartered Institute of Secretaries, the Institute 
of Book Keepers, the Town Planning Institute, and Pitman’s 
Shorthand Institute. Of those entering 23 passed. 


Agricultural Education. 


#4; Agricultural education of an elementary nature is pro- 
vided in many of the general schools, both Arab and Jewish. 
There are also a number of special institutions with various 
standards and aims :— 


(a) In the Arab Public (Government) School System 
there were 219 gardens in general elementary or secondary 
schools with a total area of 2,216 dunums (about 550 acres). 
Of these gardens go were supervised by trained agricultural 
teachers. 

The school nursuries raised over 24,000 fruit trees during 
the year, and distributed about 4,000 seedlings, either free 
or at a low price. Over 15,700 forest tree seedlings were 
also raised, and over 12,000 were similarly distributed. 
Three hundred and twelve dunums were planted with vege- 
tables, and 120 dunums with cereals. Sixteen thousand 
seedlings of improved vegetable varieties were distributed. 

In January, 1938, about 30,000 forest trees, 3,000 fruit 
trees and 5,000, grape vines were planted by Government 
school pupils. 

Twenty-seven schools kept bees with a total of 310 hives; 
pom was raised in 13 schools, and rabbits in five schools. 

xperiments were made with preserving home fruit and 
vegetables. 

(b) Agricultural studies are as yet a less prominent part of 
the Jewish Public School System but are being steadily 
developed. Gardening is done in most of the rural schools 
and in the majority of urban schools. 


160 


35. The two Kadoorie schools, maintained partly from the 


Kadoorie bequest but largely by Government, are, with Mikveh 
Israel, the principal special institutions for vocational training 
in agriculture. 


(a) The Kadoorie Agricultural Arab school, Tulkarm, 
was reopened in September, 1937, when 48 of the 60 students 
who had been dismissed in April, 1936, for going on strike, 
were readmitted. Twenty-five finished their course in 
January, 1938, and twenty-eight new students were 
admitted. 

(b) The Kadoorie Agricultural Jewish school, Mount 
Tabor, was open throughout the year. Twenty-one students 
completed their course in August, 1937, and seven of them 
formed a co-operative farm. 

(c) Mikveh Israel.—The total number of pupils in the 
three classes were 292, all boys and boarders coming from 
22 different countries. Ninety-three finished their course 
in 1938. The accommodation available at the school is 
being enlarged so as to allow the number of pupils to be 
increased to 400. A shorthand course of two years has 
been introduced for the benefit of the more indigent students, 
and 76 are availing themselves of it. 


36. Other Agricultural institutions which are mainly of a 


more elementary and practical type are as follows: 


Numbers of pupils (approximate). 
i Girls. Total. 


(a) Jewish: Boys 
Children’s Village, Ben-Shemen ... ++» 103 69 172 
Children’s Village, Meir Shefeya ... «60 56 116 
Agricultural School, Pardess Hanna a 57 13 70 
Girls’ Agricultural School, Nahalal oo 121 121 
Wizo Girls’ School for Domestic Science 
and Agriculture, Nahalat Yitzhaq wo 60 60 
Five Training Farms for Girls (Wiz 
and Women Workers’ Council) ... we oo 186 186 
Girls’ Agricultural Farm School, J 
Talpiyot, Jerusalem ae ree eo 40 40 
Girls’ Agricultural Farm (Women Workers’ 
Council), Tel Aviv a a8 oo 34 34 
(b) Non-Jewish : 
Trappists’ Agricultural School, Latrun ... 16 —_ 16 
Salesian Agricultural School, Beit Jamal... 47 _ 47 
Latin Agricultural School, Rafat ... ves 30 —_— 30 


Improvements were effected in some of the girls’ agricultural 


school farms. The Pardess Hanna school is a secondary school. 


Manual Training and Technical Education. 


37. Manual work is part of the general curriculum in Govern- 


ment schools. A weaving section has been introduced at Majdal 
village school. The weaving section at Bethlehem Government 
boys’ school did not function during the year, but the industrial 
section of the Dura village school continued to work. 


16r 


38. The Government Trade School for Arabs at Haifa was 
opened in October, 1937, with 50 pupils. Of these forty, selected 
from the higher elementary classes, constituted a first year class 
in general carpentry and metal work prior to specialization in 
various trades. The remaining ten pupils formed a special class 
selected from the second secondary class of technical sections of 
Jaffa and Nazareth, for a year’s continuation course. They 
were trained as teachers of drawing and manual work in general 
schools. All the pupils were boarders, paying an inclusive fee 
of £P.12 a year. The course is intended to cover three years. 


39. There was a considerable increase in the number of 
pare at the Max Pine and the Mizrahi Trade Schools at 
viv. 


Additions were made to the new trade school in Yajur settle- 
ment, near Haifa, which is used for immigrant Jewish youth, 
mostly from Germany. 


Higher technical education is provided at the Hebrew Techni- 
cal Institute, Haifa, which trains civil engineers, architects, 
and mechanical or electrical engineers. The students numbered 
527 of whom 45 took the final diploma examination, controlled 
by Government. Thirty-five students took both the written and 
the project parts and 20 qualified for the diploma. The trade 
school and technical secondary school attached to the Institute 
were amalgamated into one, and had 185 pupils. 


40. The technical schools and institutions in Palestine are as 
follows : — 


Pufils. 
—e_e—ot_o-:.“'\' 
Arab Public System: Boys. Girls. Total. 
Government Trade School for Arabs, Haifa aoe 51 — 51 
Moslem Schools : 
Moslem Orphanage, Jerusalem* (Technical Section) 39 —_ 39 
Christian Schools : 
Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem* (Trade Section)... 52 — 52 
Salesian School, Bethlehem* (Technical Section) ... 40 _— 40 
Ratisbonne School, Jerusalem (Technical Section) 11 _— Il 
Hebrew Public System: 
New Bezalel School of Arts and Crafts, Jerusalem... ar 15 36 
Rebecca Somekh Trade School for Girls, Jerusalem —_ 63 63 
Max Pine Trade School, Tel-Aviv... Ee ve TI6 — 116 
Mizrahi Trade School, Tel-Aviv ae ene se 33 — 33 
Trade School for Yemenite Girls, Shekhunat 
Marmorek ... a a Gee SK aad 4 %I2r 125 
Hebrew Technical Institute, Haifa : 
i. Vocational High School .. ... Sia ve 185 — 185 
ii. Engineering College... Bas ane wae W507 20 527 
Ludwig Tietz Trade School, Yajur ... ene an 67 —_ 67 





* Includes a boarding section. 


162 


41. Education of defectives.—There has been no appreciable 
change in the number of blind and deaf and dumb persons 
cared for in special schools. The following are the figures for 
the year:— 

Arabs: ° Blind. Deaf and dumb. 

Government School for 


the Blind, Hebron 14 _ 
Syrian Orphanage 4 in school (boys) 

Jerusalem a8 eos 5 in workshops (boys) _ 
Moslem Orphanage, 12 in workshops, 

Jerusalem ou es including 4 girls _ 
Sisters of St. Vincent de 18 in school, 15 in school 

Paul, Jerusalem ae including 4 boys including 4 boys 
The “ Thankful Hearts’ 

League ”’ School for the 12 in school 

Deaf, Jerusalem aps _— all boys 

Jewish : 

Institute of the Blind, 

Jerusalem 27 _ 


Alliance Israélite School 
for the Deaf and Dumb, 


Jerusalem — 26 


The municipal school for mentally defective children at Tel 
Aviv had 110 pupils. A similar school in Petah Tiqva also 
continued to exist with about 50 pupils. The Jewish school for 
mentally defective children was transferred from Jerusalem 
to Ramat Gan. A special branch for retarded, problem, and 
mentally defective children has been established by the Tel 
Aviv local authority as a part of its educational service. 


42. Physical training, athletics, scouting, etc.—Progress was 
made with courses for teachers of physical training in Govern- 
ment schools, and the general level of athletics was maintained. 

Political conditions have greatly disturbed all scout and 
guide work and the majority of groups of the Palestine Boy 
Scouts’ Association have been inactive during the year. 

The new association of Jewish scouts (boys and girls), 
established in 1936, now numbers 3,000. 


Probation Service. 


43. The progress made in the preceding year in the develop- 
ment of the probation system was maintained during 1938, but 
further progress in actual probation work was rendered im- 
possible owing to the disturbed condition of the country. The 
full time and the part time probation officers in the principal 
towns continued to work, although their activities were neces- 
sarily curtailed. 

44. In 1937, 2,007 boys were dealt with by the courts; in 


1938 the number was 1,135 of whom 776 were Moslems, 310 
Jews and 49 Christians. This year’s figures, owing to the 


163 


abnormal conditions, cannot be regarded as indicative of the 
actual amount of juvenile delinquency in the country and are 
not of comparative value. 


45. The Juvenile Offenders Ordinance, which was enacted 
on the 18th February, 1937, came into operation on the 22nd 
September, 1938. The Ordinance provides for the establish- 
ment of juvenile courts and so legalizes the existing practice of 
hearing all juvenile cases in camera. Rules under the Ordinance 
have been made and court procedure is now simplified. The 
ees of young offenders is safeguarded both before and during 
trial. 

46. A remand home for the detention of young offenders 
awaiting trial or transfer on committal to an institution has 
been established in Jerusalem. An important provision em- 
bodying a new principle in Palestine law is contained in 
section 16 of the Grdinance, This section empowers the court 
to deal with children and young persons who are found to be in 
need of care and protection. It also provides that in certain 
cases Government will provide for the maintenance of such 
children or young persons in private institutions. It is antici- 
pated that when full use is made of these provisions an 
appreciable degree of preventive work will be possible. 


47. The essential co-operation between police and probation 
officers has been maintained, and, following the enactment of 
the Juvenile Offenders Ordinance, instructions were issued to 
all police stations regarding the treatment of young offenders 
during interrogation and preliminary investigation. 

Quarterly statistical returns of juvenile offenders are sub- 
mitted from each police district to the probation office. 

48. The connection between the Probation Service and the 
Government Boys’ Reformatory School, Tulkarm, has been 
strengthened by the transfer of the school from the Police 
and Prisons Department to the Department of Education. 


49. The number of boys committed to the Reformatory 
School was 83 compared with 177 in 1937. This represents 
7-3 per cent. of the total cases dealt with as compared with 
g-6 per cent. in 1937. 

Boys to the number of 205 were placed on probation for 
periods varying from 12 months to 3 years. 


50. Apart from the regular staff there are a number of Arab 
and Jewish Honorary Probation Officers. The Arab Honorary 
Probation Officers for the most part are headmasters of Govern- 
ment secondary schools, and the Jewish Honorary Probation 
Officers are the trained social workers of the Department of 
Social Service of the Va’ad Leumi and the Social Service 
Department of the Municipality of Tel Aviv. Their help and 
co-operation has been of great value. 


164 
XX—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


1. Epidemic Diseases.—During the year 1938 there were 
6,450 cases of notifiable disease reported with 788 deaths, as 
compared with 11,693 cases with 1,390 deaths in 1937. 

The diseases showing the greatest incidence were typhoid 
fever with 1,643 cases in 1938 as compared with 2,049 cases in 
1937, and measles with 3,218 cases in 1938 whereas in 1937 
7,504 cases were notified. 

It is recognised, however, that the notification of these 
diseases was incomplete owing to the unrest in the country. 
Movement of the population was greatly restricted, which con- 
trolled the spread of the infecton. At the same time mild and 
isolated cases did not seek medical aid and consequently were 
not reported. Nevertheless, there was an actual decrease in the 
incidence of both these diseases. 

A system of whole blood prophylaxis was instituted against 
measles in the centres where the disease was most prevalent, 
which proved of value in preventing the spread of the disease 
and in modifying the severity of its course. 

There was a definite decrease in the notifications received 
during the year of typhus and cerebro-spinal meningitis; the 
former with 176 cases in 1938 compared with 262 cases in 1937; 
the latter with 14 cases as compared with 44 cases respectively. 

Notifications of influenza showed an increase to 46 cases in 
1938 with one death, as compared with 22 cases with 3 deaths 
in 1937. The distribution of these cases was scattered and 
without any localized outbreak. 

No case of smallpox, cholera or plague occurred during the 
year 1938 amongst the indigenous population. Protective 
vaccination was maintained in regard to these and to all new 
immigrants to the country. 


2. Ankylostomiasis and Village Sanitation—The campaign 
for the investigation and treatment of hookworm disease was 
continued during the year, although the troubled state of the 
country necessarily curtailed such work in new areas and con- 
siderably reduced re-surveys of treated cases and the treatment 
and re-treatment of infested individuals. 

Three thousand, five hundred and ninety-three persons were 
examined for helminthic infestation from areas not previously 
investigated. This investigation showed an average infestation 
incidence of 29 per cent. with a maximum figure of 60 per cent. 
One thousand, five hundred new cases received treatment. 

Rural sanitary measures, particularly the introduction of 
latrines in village areas, are important in the campaign against 
this disease. They therefore continued to receive the attention 
which their success in previous years warranted. 

“--e 25,000 village latrines have been installed during the 

--vears. 


165 


Scavenging contro] in individual houses and constant inspec- 
tion of latrines, with a view to proper use, are now a routine 
in most rural centres of population. 


3. Schistosomiasis.—The survey of schistosomiasis infestation 
continued to be the duty of a special unit of the department. 
The work comprises field investigation in suspected localities, 
incidence of infested molluscs and human infestation. 

During the year some 2,000 individuals were examined from 
the general population in one area resulting in an infestation 
rate of 1-2 per cent. with schistosomum haematobium. No 
schistosomum mansoni was found in these cases. 

The principal foci in Palestine still appear to be the River 
Rubin and the River Auja, both in the southern district. 

A previous important focus of dissemination of the disease, 
the annual Moslem festival which draws thousands of people 
to the Rubin area for some weeks, was absent during 1938. 


4. Tuberculosis.—The modified scheme for a tuberculosis ser- 
vice proposed as a result of the survey carried out in 1935 had 
again to be deferred for reasons of economy. 

The various tuberculosis clinics of the department dealt with 
8,063 attendances during the year. Of these, 301 were new 
cases, of which 233 were pulmonary and 68 non-pulmonary, 
compared with 237 and 67 respectively in 1937. 

Notified deaths from tuberculosis (all forms) were 211 in 1938 
as compared with 234 in 1937 and 2or in 1936. 

The attendances recorded are considered to be very encoura- 
ging when compared with the difficulties and dangers of travel 
during the period under review; and there is no doubt that 
the population would respond eagerly to a well-organized scheme 
of tuberculosis treatment and control. 

Three hundred and fifty-seven artificial pneumothorax induc- 
tions and refills were administered at the Jerusalem and Haifa 
clinics during 1938, the phrenocectomy was carried out in two 
cases with very encouraging results. 

Careful records are kept of all cases investigated, and effort 
at home control is the general rule as far as circumstances 
permit. 


5. Venereal Diseases.—A total attendance of 42,161 indicated 
that main treatment centres continued to work in a_ highly 
satisfactory manner throughout the year in spite of the difficulties 
prevailing. : 

The routine treatment of gonorrhoea and syphilis was brought 
into line with the latest modern opinion, sulphanilamide being 
in general use for the former complaint. The following figures 
indicate new cases reporting for treatment during the year: — 


syphillis ... oon ie 539 
soft sore ... a8 ate ass 18 
gonorrhoea Ss as ce 400 


non-venereal yas a3 sh 640 


166 


Eight thousand and eleven serological and microscopical 
examinations were carried out, and an effort was made to 
influence ‘‘ follow up ’’ procedure, resulting in 9,781 injections 
of arsenic and 9,326 of bismuth. 


The incidence of syphilis appeared to be proportionately high. 
This is due to the results of the campaign against the endemic 
form of the disease in the Hebron area aiee mass investigation 
and treatment is the procedure followed. 


Venereal disease in women is a special feature of the campaign 
and is solely under the control of women medical officers. 


6. Malaria.—The unsettled state of the country caused more 
difficulty in the control of malarial conditions generally than 
in any other sphere of work undertaken by the Department of 
Health. Nevertheless, routine antimalarial measures were well 
maintained in urban areas where the incidence continued to be 
negligible, while rural districts received adequate attention, 
although interrupted and spasmodic from time to time. That 
this disease has not produced any damaging effect in the country 
as a whole, in spite of the existing troubles, is due to the work 
of previous years, to the system of observation in force and to 
the prompt action taken on an increase in incidence in any 
area. 


Sixty-seven mosquito-catching stations now operate and these 
are being considerably augmented as valuable information in 
regard to dangerous breeding grounds can thus be obtained. 


Spleen rates for the-last three years were as follows: — 


Number of children 1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 

examined in 1938. percent. percent. percent, percent. 
Urban areas: 35,874 ... 14 I'5 18 7 
Rural areas: 32,696 ... 4°5 4°7 6-7 74 


Routine measures were intensified where military forces had 
to be stationed in potentially endemic areas, but night patrols 
and pickets all over the country tended to create a special 

roblem. In all the circumstances the small number of fresh 
infections of malaria by the security forces may be considered 
to have been very satisfactory. 


7. Although no new major schemes of antimalarial drainage 
could be undertaken owing to financial stringency and labour 
difficulties, progress was continued on certain works of improve- 
ment to existing schemes. 


Thus the drainage of the important Birket Ramadan area 
received further attention, while the works in existence at Lake 
Tiberias, Bassah, Ra’anana, Ras el Ain, and Rubin were fully 
maintained. : 





167 
8. The following statistical tables are of interest : — 


























Infectious Diseases. 
1936. 1937. 
Diseases. 
Cases. Deaths. Cases Deaths. 
Acute Poliomyelitis 18 4 19 I 
Anthrax Be eek 25 4 20 _ 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis 44 26 14 6 
Diphtheria ... one on 373 2 256 19 
Dysentery ... 373 27 303 28 
Encephalitis Lethargica 3 2 _ _— 
Influenza... 22 3 46 I 
Measles Mie 7,594 669 3,219 175 
Paratyphoid — 201 7 132 I 
Pneumonia ... 512 390 470 388 
Puerperal Fever 45 24 22 6 
Relapsing Fever... 40 _ 38 _ 
Scarlet Fever 116 — 67 _ 
Typhoid 2,049 194 1,643 155 
Typhus as as 262 3 176 5 
Undulant Fever... 7 _ 18 _— 
Blackwater Fever 2 I 2 2 
Kala Azar... 7 4 5 I 
Totals... 11,693 1,390 6,450 788 
Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality—1934-8. 
Birth- Number Number Death- 
vate per of sina’ of vate per Infant Infant 
Year 1,000 births pee Y tom deaths I,000 deaths. mortality. 
living. vegistered. aie hei registered. living. 
1934 --- 41°59 45,942 1,104,605 24,136 21°35 7,245 = 157°69 
1935 --- 45°16 53,940 1,194,529 22,249 18-62 7,092 131-48 
1936... 44°88 56,993 1,269,952 20,465 16-11 6,929 121°57 
1937 .-- 41°58 54,749 1,316,767 24,882 18-90 8,369 =—-152°86 
1938 ... 39°89 53,928 1,352,066 20,268 14°99 6,040 112-00 
Births, Deaths and Infant Mortality, 1938. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 
Estimated settled popula- 
tion on 30th June, 1938 111,796 828,606 399,808 11,856 1,352,066 
Deaths 1,391 15,449 3,231 197. —-20,268 
Death-rate per 1,000 of 
population 12°44 18-64 8-08 16-61 14°99 
Births 3,818 39,048 10,563 499 53,928 . 
Birth-rate per rs }000 of 
population 34°15 47°12 26°42 42°09 39°89 
Deaths—Infants under 
one year wee 397 4,983 615 45 6,040 
Infant mortality-rate per 
1,000 births 103:98 =127-61 58-22 90-18 112-00 
Natural Increase per 1,000 ; 
of population 21-71 28-48 18-34 25°48 24:90 





168 


g. The estimated mid-year population is based on the census 
of 1931 after allowing for natural increase of population and 
that due to migration. His Majesty’s Forces and nomadic 
Bedouin tribes, the latter numbering 66,553 in 1931, are not 
included in this figure. 


to. Regulation of Trades and Industries —The enforcement 
of the provision of the Trades and Industries (Regulation) Ordi- 
nance was maintained with difficulty in the larger towns but it 
was suspended altogether in certain rural areas owing to the 
disturbed state of the country. Nevertheless licences issued 
during the year 1938 numbered 18,747 as compared with 
21,288 in the previous year. 

During the year estab hchmneats or depots for receiving goods 
or materials for laundering, dyeing or dry cleaning were added 
to schedule of controlled trades and industries. 


11. Food Conirol.—This branch of the Department’s activi- 
ties was actively maintained in the larger towns during the year 
under review. Certain relaxation, however, was unavoidable 
in the rural districts. 

Particular attention was paid to the application of food stan- 
dards. 

The Public Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance and rules 
thereunder were amended in order to be more effective. Under 
the amendments inter alia medical officers are given powers to 
condemn, and have destroyed, foodstuff which in their opinion 
is unwholesome or unfit for human consumption. 

Rules for the purpose of effecting adequate control over the 
importation of meat and edible viscera into Palestine, were also 
enacted. 


12. Drainage and Sanitation.—Municipal sanitary services 
were on the whole well maintained in the principal towns, having 
regard to the difficult conditions prevailing from time to time 
and certain attempts connected with the disturbances to interfere 
with public services. Local and temporary interruptions 
occurred in the towns of Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa, but through 
the efforts of the sanitary surveyors and the loyalty of their 
staff, scavenging services were quickly restored. It is a matter 
for regret that the local staff were the victims of armed attacks 
by terrorists, in several cases with fatal results. 

Progress was made with the Jerusalem main drainage scheme 
in Jerusalem in the western sections of the city, and with minor 
extensions of laterals in Haifa and Jaffa. Main drainage works 
in Tel Aviv still await the raising of funds but to relieve the in- 
sanitary conditions in certain built up areas work proceeded with 
temporary drainage lines designed so as to be suitable for even- 
tual incorporation in the main scheme. Main drainage schemes 
for Gaza and Majdal were prepared. 


169 
The department advised on the sanitary aspects of a large 
number of public buildings and private enterprises. 


13. Water Supply.—Routine laboratory examinations of pub- 
lic water supplies, in the various municipalities, were carried out 
by the department. Recommendations were made for the im- 
povenet of main supplies in the towns of Hebron, Acre, Tul- 

arm and Majdal. An additional bore and pumping plant were 
constructed in Jaffa. These will serve the southern section of 
the town and will be incorporated in the scheme prepared by 
consulting engineers for the complete supply. 


The programme of work for the improvement of village water 
supplies was suspended owing to financial stringency and the 
disturbed conditions. 


14. Medical Supervision of Maritime and Air Traffic.—There 
was a Slight increase in the number of ships arriving at Palestine 
pore during the year, and air traffic expanded very consider- 
ably. 

The construction of buildings at Tel Aviv port for dealing with 
passenger and immigrant traffic was completed, and the port 
was opened for all classes of arrival except those necessitating 
quarantine observation. 


During the year, 1,777 steamships and 457 sailing vessels 
called at Haifa port, 794 steamships and 504 sailing vessels at 
Jaffa port, 769 steamships and 30 sailing vessels at Tel Aviv 
port, one steamship and 42 sailing vessels at Gaza, and 314 
sailing vessels at Acre. 


Quarantine surveillance of air traffic was carried out at the 
various ports. The number of aircraft dealt with was as 
follows: Lydda (1,722), Haifa (591), Tiberias (362), and Gaza 
(9). The total number of aircraft was 949 in excess of the 
number dealt with in the previous year. 


The’ usual sanitary supervision of the Hejaz pilgrim traffic 
was carried out. Six hundred and _ ninety-nine Palestinian 
and 28 Trans-Jordan pilgrims proceeded to Mecca. All were 
required to undergo medical examination and vaccination 
against smallpox and cholera before departure. Seventy-seven 
foreign pilgrims passed through Palestine on their way to the 
Hejaz. The health of the pilgrimage was declared satisfactory 
by the International Quarantine Board. Three Palestinians 
died from non-infectious diseases in the Hejaz and one shortly 
after return. 

In addition to Palestinians returning from the Hejaz, 250 
foreigners entered Palestine in transit to their respective coun- 
tries. All were kept under medical surveillance for five days 
after arrival or during their period of transit though the coun- 


170 


15. The Practice of Medicine, Dentistry, etc.—During the 
ear 68 new licences to practise medicine were granted and 46 
icences were cancelled on account of death or loss of residential 

qualification of the holder. A further 50 licences were in process 
of cancellation for the latter reason at the end of the year. 

The proportion of licensed practitioners to the settled popula- 
tion (excluding nomadic bedouin) is approximately one to 670 
persons. 

There were 51 new licences granted to practise dentistry and 
5 were cancelled or withdrawn. 

In the profession of dentistry there is one dentist to 2,000 of 


the population. 

Thitty-three pharmacists’ licences were issued and: five were 
cancelled. The number of licensed pharmacists is 424 or one 
to 3,180 persons of the settled population. All these professions 
are seriously overcrowded. 

Twenty-eight new licences to practise midwifery were granted 
and 9 withdrawn. 

The number of persons holding licences at the end of the year 
are shown in the following table :— 


Licences of Doctors, Dentists, Pharmacists and Midwives, 1938. 








Licensed | Licensed | Cancelled 
_ until end | during during 
of 1937. 1938. 1938. 
Doctors ue 2,206 68 46 
Dentists aS 593 51 4 
Dental _Practi- 
tioners aes 28 _ 2 
Pharmacists... 393 36 5 
Asst. Pharmacists 45 I _ 
Midwives wea 513 28 9 











16. Hospitals and Dispensaries.—The new hospital at Haifa 
comprising 220 beds was opened in October, 1938, and patients 
from the old leased buildings were transferred to it. The hos- 
pital is situated close to the sea, and is sited and constructed with 
special reference to the prevailing wind in the summer. Its 
installations and equipment are well up to the standard of 
modern European hospitals. 

The Government Hospital at Jerusalem was extended to allow 


for additional beds for *:: ives and families of British police 
and soldiers. 

The construction fectious hospital at Jerusalem, 
was delayed owin: ~ulties and disturbances, but 


it will be complet: irly in 1939. 


171 

The disturbances resulted in a great increase of surgical ad- 
missions to Government and other hospitals, but this was offset 
by a necessary restriction in the number of admissions of medical 
casgs and a smaller incidence of infectious disease. 

All Government hospitals and clinics continued to be main- 
tained throughout the country and were not molested. Private 
and voluntary hospitals also continued their activities. 

The construction of the Hebrew University Hadassah Hospital 
on Mount Scopus, Jerusalem, was completed during the year. 
The building will accommodate 300 patients as well as the offices 
of the Hadassah medical organization. 

The out-patient departments and clinics throughout the coun- 
try whether Government or voluntary, worked at full pressure. 
The poverty of the people drove them to attend at hospitals and 
Government clinics, rather than at the clinics of private doctors 
who suffered in consequence. 

The Government ophthalmic clinics and first-aid posts were 
fully attended and did much good work in the campaign against 
acute ophthalmia and trachoma. Liaison with the Ophthalmic 
Hospital of the Order of St. John was maintained. 

There was an increase of admissions to Government hospitals, 
which were 20,525 as compared with 20,091 in 1937. There 
was, however, a decrease in the number of admissions to volun- 
tary general hospitals which were 32,067 as compared with 
35,025 In 1937. 

Outpatients attending at all institutions, Government, muni- 
cipal and voluntary, were 939,183, compared with 879,907 
in 1937. 


17. The following is a classified summary of new patients ad- 
ree to hospitals or attending dispensaries and clinics during 
e year :— 























: Unclassi- 
es Moslems.| CMS | Jews. | fied and | Totals. 
; others. 
In-patients : 
Government and 
Municipal Hospi- 
tals as ae 9,183 2,687 8,605 5° 20,525 
Voluntary Hospitals 8,874 4,465 18,703 25 32,067 
Out-patients : 
Government and 
Municipal Dispen- 
saries... vee | 137,341 17,182 25,601 67,613 | 247,737 
Voluntary Organiza- 
tions vs 85,818 33,709 | 571,814 105 | 691,446 








172 
18. The following tables provide more detailed information of 
the activities of: 
A. Government and municipal hospitals. 
B. Voluntary general hospitals. g 
C. Special hospitals: 
(a) voluntary, 
(b) Government. 









































SZ €.122 | 06z‘61 | Sgz‘r eZ 6S Loz | off | sypjor 
Got G.06z | €Lg‘9 Sgr z _ — jiumyq redrorany ‘atay-1aL 
Sr €.L1 | bgb lz _ — | 9€ — | ct yueuIaA0y ‘beiog rug 
61 S.Lr | zgv zy z > bz oy “* JuauTMIaAOy ‘ezed) 
s Lg zz Lz _ _ —ls “+ ua@UTMIAAOy ‘eqaysseog, 
€g 9-46 | Lrr'z Zr + 61 6s “5S qusUIMIVAOy ‘sniqeN 
sz 0-16 | SrS'z | zdr Z €Z Lg wn + queummIeA0y ‘egef 
61 G.bz €oL 6€ _ — | gz _ 3 *** JUBUIUIAAOS) ‘peyes 
of! G.€€r | gzo'e ger gz of of 88 ayy: *** JUBUIMIBAOY ‘EpTeP] 
oor £-06 | 96g‘ ver gor gr Ir €Z “  QuauTmIeAOy ‘urofesniof 
ee [-———— 

| el giz 
caval fo |"pasdno20 y E & H 
pus yw | spoq fo | . evil ieee coil es 
pesdnss0| soquinu | *24°4? | -sysnoq ¢ 3 “sondson 
spaq fo | a3vsaan meg 
soquinn | Mx0q 

‘suossssuepy “ytFuaaS-pag Tousmon 











*g€6I—STVLIdSOH] TVdIOINQW] GNV LNEMNUBACD (y) 


g-1€ 
z.9 
€-€L 


+.61 


g-oS 


9-1 


0.0€ 
z.gb 
+.gt 
o-€h 
I-b1 
0-gz 
Z-O1 
0-96 


Z+1Q1 








of seyoqrl 
2 rngy 
g PZ10N 
oz uf 

ozr fs 

v€ =| wayesniof 
ol seLoqry, 
zl yyorezeN 
ze woiqayH 
oL wayesnisf 
Sb sniqen 
£9, ezey 
Zs eye 
8s Peyes 
061 | weresniof 





* guysajeq ut mnoqey ystmof 
Jo uoHelapet [e1aU9D Jo puny AIS 

“ Cvs'n poe 

wopsury paztugQ Apsour ‘peoiqe 
Pue spuny [e0o]) WHOH INO PIO 

“ Cy's'n pue 

wops8uryy payug Apsour ‘peroiqe 
puy spans Teoo]) WOH Nog MaNy 

(peoqe pue [eso] 
‘suopeuop ayeaug) qoepey qessrypy 
Pury}OIs Jo yornyD 
Ajo100g uorssT [eOIpaW YSNquIpy 
UOISSI 3Seq 94} pue waresniaf 
smof 0} uoIsstW Ys 








Agayoog Areuorsstw yomny9 





‘ ns eolIsury JO uOT}EZ 
TUBSIC }SIUOIZ S,UITIOMA TeSSepeT 








tava fo pua qv pardna90 
spaq fo aaqunn 


*pardna90 spaq fo 
aaquinu aSvasav Ajwwq 


“saSanyasiqy 





SU01dYyaA 494J0 
pun payfissnjquy) 








“suOssssup 





“ypduans-paq 10U1u0 NT 


*g€6I—STVLIdSOH] AUVINATOA (gq) 





“ApyoUoyDN 








*uorpziunsso yojrsoH] 








bigiized by GOOgle 
Cc 











| 


C) 

















mmnort 


ee 








£oL‘g1| Sob'h| tZg‘g| SEg'r gee “*  $p}0 TT, 

96 Szz | 10z | of eyreyy © a ” ‘s 

Lz g9S | zS€ | 09 urapesniof ueyeqyT |" ald ass *  oULIOy, 
Ip BUeTTe}] BfeUOeN sUOIZEIDOSSy 

6g gof | LEE | oF eyreyy ~ “oe sapeqa 4S JO S19}SI1S JO OPI, 

z €Sr | gt oz eyel “ ad “+ Ayaroog ajduray, 

€x €tg | 469 | og “ “ tee ase vas “ “urIy 


We ypeauaste yy IO(] UleIaA Uesso 
-uoyRIG JeyostTeydzsany YOstuTSyYT 
6Lo'r| ZI b €¢ | woresniof ueuey | ‘urepsrojsury ‘pue’y AfoH oy} ut 
Ayrunurmo0g ystmef ay} JO 810399} 
ig Poe: SSL ‘Nepez ereeqs 











cos | ZZ | oS: | wayesniof youorg | ** : “ peydsopy qouery 











ZI 
L6L't| 6 I e¢ eyreyy “ ‘+ eprepy yo Aqrunururog ystol 
vabrL “ounsoped ut moqey ystmof jo 


ogh'€| $1 1 99 qeqog | uvTUNso[eg | UoTFRIepe.y TeJOUSD JO PUNT HS 


200gle 


C 


Digitized by 





















































2 ‘ON reydeoqy peyuey 
Sor maqemog 1 ‘ON Tendsopy pequopy 
—sreardsont Teeds jueuruzeaoy (9) 
vor 
19 so[qeinouy pue ouesuy 105 
suoH ‘Ajepog uUTYSeN qIeIZy 
s 7 — |z _ 09 “+ gopuoyy ‘AZa1I00g TWeLlAeIO;W 
kes eal $ ; . | Teuoreuszozuy = ‘Teytdsozyy = soda] 
61 L.0€ | zgZ — | gol —|s 6br | t1g | Sb wajesniof ysnug | *" oe “ puepsuq ur 
weresniaf jo uyof “3S Jo JapIO, 
. ayy jo yeqdsopy ormpeqiqdo 
‘speyidsopyy =peroedg = Arzequnjo, (p) 
ds iv] 4 qq] > Q & 2 
er lef] Z/ 2] 8) 88) FP) eg] e/g 
eg i/S2] es) & ] = $ a 3 
Relies | F | F] P| ge Fla | 
Re = g 3 ee 5 ; oe | '$4013090T | “Aprypuotn Ay ‘uouvriundsc poitdsopy 
Rg | 88 28 x 
gh | S2 $ 
gf | 8 ts S 











*g€61—sTvLldsoy TviIoads (5) 





177 

19. Ophthalmic service:—Ophthalmic clinics worked very 
satisfactorily during the hing Main centres are now stabilized 
in eleven towns, while first aid units operated in 23 villages. 
Three additional village centres functioned for short periods to 
deal with localized epidemics. 

The mobile ophthalmic unit worked throughout the season 
in 12 villages not served by the more permanent centres. 

The following figures indicate how little the dangers attending 
medical work in rural areas affected the control, by the Depart- 
ment of Health, of one of the most important diseases in the 


country : 
New cases. Total attendances. 
1936. 1937. 1938. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
63,480 72,673 66,173 864,647 990,837 952,203 


In schools the medical service carried out a considerable 
amount of eye disease treatment as a part of its normal routine, 
and dealt with 13,757 new cases. A total of 1,115,788 and 
1,688,754 attendances were recorded in town and village schools 
respectively. ‘ 

The ophthalmic hospital of the Order of St. John in Jerusalem 
dealt with 768 inpatients and 14,115 outpatients during the year 
under review. 


20. Nutrition.—Nutrition problems received attention during 
the year and a scheme has now been introduced for the collection 
of certain statistics on a family visitation and infant welfare 
basis. 


21. Grants in aid by Government to Jewish Medical Services 
and Institutions.—The annually recurrent grants were: 


£P. 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Service ... enn ae 2,041 
Infant Welfare Services ooh, wee ee we eee 1,771 
Contribution to Tuberculosis Hospital, Safad Bie a 1,700 
Contribution to Tel Aviv Municipal Hospital aaa eas 6,841 





Total £P.12,353 





Owing to lack of funds no provision was made for any non- 
recurrent grants of assistance to voluntary institutions. A sum 
of £P.3,100 was, however, paid towards the cost of a radio- 
logical section of the new Hebrew University Hospital. This 
amount constitutes the second instalment of a total grant to the 
Hebrew University Hospital of £P.6,200 approved by Govern- 
ment in 1937, and is payable on completion of the buildings. 


22. Maternity and Infant Welfare Services.—In spite of the 
conditions in the country these services were maintained and 
developed. Three new Government village infant welfare 
centres were opened and in Jewish settlements six were opened 


178 


by Jewish medical organizations. There are now 36 infant 
welfare centres operating mainly for Arab children and 49 for 
Jewish children. The number of children recorded on the 
Tegisters of these centres as attending regularly was 18,200 at 
the close of the year. At certain of the centres, thé staff under- 
took the administration of relief to women and children suffering 
from distress arising out of the disturbed conditions. 


Sixteen pupils graduated from the Government training school 
for midwives in Jerusalem during the year. 


The work of the gynaecological clinics which are held by the 
women medical officers in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Ramleh, Nablus 
and Acre and Haifa was continued. Owing to insecurity on 
roads, however, the visits of medical officers to these clinics were 
interrupted, but at the end of the year the majority of them 
were again working normally. 2 


23. Laboratory Services.—The Department of Health con- 
tinued, as in previous years, to afford the requisite facilities 
for the laboratory diagnosis of disease and for the scientific 
investigation of epidemiological conditions. Its laboratory 
services also undertake the analytical examination of foods, 
waters, drugs and the like and provide for bio-chemical, 
chemico-legal and medico-legal investigations, agricultural 
analyses and the verification of weights and measures. The 
central laboratories include bacteriological, chemical, entomo- 
logical, agricultural, forensic, physical and bio-chemical 
divisions as well as the central anti-rabies manufacturing 
Pasteur Institute and the calf-lymph establishment. These 
laboratories prepare for Palestine and Trans-Jordan smallpox 
lymph, anti-rabies vaccine and all prophylactic and curative 
vaccine required, including anti-enterica, anti-cholera, and anti- 
plague; in addition they undertake the histo-pathological 
examination of morbid material and all kinds of bio-chemical 
studies. Port and quarantine laboratories are also established 
at Haifa and Jaffa and these cater for the diagnostic needs 
of the adjacent towns too. During 1938 additional laboratory 
facilities were provided at the infectious diseases hospital at 
Bnei Beraq near Tel Aviv. The department continues to 
exercise a strict control over other laboratories and scientific 
institutes maintained by private funds and annually renewable 
licences are issued to approved persons considered qualified 
to conduct public pathological Sad bacteriological laboratories. 


During 1938 bacteriological examinations and investigations 
have totalled approximately 241,000—a number which, though 
somewhat lower than the figure for 1937 owing to traffic restric- 
tions, exceeds the 1936 total by over 20,000. In addition, the 
bacteriological division of the central laboratories prepared 
159,200 doses of calf-lymph, 159,600 c.c. of killed carbolised 


179 

anti-rabic vaccine, 85,710 c.c. of anti-enterica, 3,570 c.c. of anti- 
cholera, and 1,320 c.c. of anti-plague prophylactics. Vaccine 
issues included 177,690 doses of-calf-lymph, 197, pe c.c. of anti- 
rabic vaccine, 78,288 c.c. of T.A.B., 20,024 c.c. of T., 144 c.c. 
of anti-cholera and 108 c.c. of anti-plague vaccines. The issues 
of anti-enterica prophylactics and of carbolised virus were con- 
siderably less than in 1937, due to a lower incidence of the 
typhoid-paratyphoid group of fevers and to a diminished 
activity among biting animals respectively. Anti-rabic vaccine 
was distributed to 40 towns and provincial treatment centres 
where 2,170 patients, bitten and at-risk, have received advice 
and specific treatment. Canine prophylactic also has been issued 
on demand by the veterinary authorities. The success rate 
among those receiving primary vaccinations exceeded 95 per 
cent. As a result of several years study and investigation, the 
method of preparation of anti-enterica vaccines has undergone 
considerable modification and the technique evolved embodies 
the latest ideas in this branch of bacteriology. Other activities 
include the performance of nearly 12,000 Wassermann reactions 
with, where necessary, Kahn tests in parallel series, the 
bi-weekly control of the Jerusalem water supply and Young 
Men’s Christian Association swimming pool and the preparation 
of 170 autogenous vaccines. 


In the entomological division, the identification and classifi- 
cation of insets of medical importance continued. Routine ex- 
amination of mosquitoes in their adult and larval stages and of 
the several species of fleas parasitic on port rats was carried out. 


In the chemical division, some 14,700 samples of all kinds 
were dealt with—an increase of 20 per cent. over last year’s 
figure in spite of a certain curtailment in food sampling due to 
unsettled local conditions. 


Under the Public Health (Rules as to Food) Ordinance, 9,196 
samples were taken, of which 5 per cent. were either below stan- 
dard or improperly labelled. An intensive sampling of butter 
in local peng establishments and retailers was undertaken, 
and of the 547 samples 14 per cent. failed to conform to the 
requirements of the Ordinance. Of 75 samples of new seasons 
olive oil, 20 per cent. contained more than ro per cent. of acidity, 
while 6 per cent. were adulterated. 


The bio-chemical branch dealt with 2,027 specimens, the agri- 
cultural branch with 1,568 samples of soil, water, fertilizers and 
agricultural products. Suitable accommodation is now available 
in the latter branch for ‘‘ pot experiments ’’ on soils and ferti- 
lizers. Time was found also for investigations on local organic 
manure and the effect of irrigation with saline water. 


Exhibits examined in connection with criminal investigation 
numbered 309. 


180 


Town Planning and Housing. 


24. During the year consideration continued to be given to 
town planning schemes throughout the country, but owing to 
disturbed conditions there was a noticeable decrease in the num- 
ber of schemes executed. A new Town Planning Commission 
was set up for the Galilee and Acre administrative district which 
was constituted during 1937 (see paragraph 15 page 7 of Annual 
Report for 1937). 


25. At the end of the year, the position was as follows with 
regard to the number of town planning areas :— 





Haifa and Samaria District. Year declared. 
Haifa 1921 and 1931 
Nablus Side age mt 1921 
Tulkarm ... ie ers Sie wee 1929 
Nathanya ... ees aw as wee 1934 
Hadera.... oes ase Sa ss 1937 
Jenin wes tive ies see 1938 

Galilee and Acre District. 

Tiberias... a8 a0 wae «+» 1922, 1929 and 1937 
Beisan fa oe ee see vee 1924 

Affuleh os wie wah aoe wee 1926 

Acre as oes ae is ++ 1933 and 1936 

Jerusalem District. 

Jerusalem ... aa aie ste 236 Ig2r and 1929 
Hebron ___.... “we ry ane ase 1936 
Ramallah ... ree ite ee nine 1937 
Al Bireh ... cis ees eis Ge 1937 
Jericho... me aoe ue ait 1937 
Southern District. 
Jaffa are i So ey 23s 1921 and 1937 
Tel Aviv... Wes aie 3 des 1921 and 1937 
Lydda See a ar uae eae 1922 and 1937 
Ramle nies eee wee tes cee 1922 and 1937 
Petah Tiqva Sete au poe: its 1937 
Lydda Air Port ... ee dee ae 1937 
Beersheba ... 23% =e saa eae 1922 
Gaza ren ans one ee os 1923 
Bat Yam ... aos cea Be zs 1938 
Yahudiya ... mee re see, oe 1938 
Bnei Braq ... wae roa nan oe 1938 
Ramat Gan 2a agrees as oe 1938 
Sheikh Muwannis .. 1937 
State Domain (North of ‘Anja River) - 1937 


It will be seen that during 1938 new areas were declared for 
Jenin in the Haifa and Samaria District and for Bat Yam, 
ahudiya, Bnei Braq and Ramat Gan in the Southern District. 


26. An important feature of the administration of town plan- 
ning during the year was the declaration of regional areas. The 
Town Planning Ordinance is being amended to provide for the 


181 


declaration of such areas throughout the country. Two such 
areas have already been declared and the declaration of the re- 
maining areas was under consideration at the close of the year. 
It is anticipated that with the declaration of such regional areas 
covering in extent the four administrative districts of Palestine 
a loose control on building development in and around urban 
areas throughout the country will be obtained. The existing 
system regarding the separate declaration of areas for urban 
centres continues as hitherto. 


27. Both the Legal Draftsman and the Town Planning Adviser 
continued to serve as members on all district town planning com- 
missions in order to ensure a unified policy in matters relating 
to building by-laws and other town planning principles. 


28. Draft schemes for various areas were in course of prepara- 
tion during the year and in cases where local authorities needed 
assistance the schemes were prepared by the town planning ad- 
viser in direct consultation with them. 


29. Twelve district town planning meetings were held in the 
Jerusalem District, ten in the Haifa and Samaria District, seven 
in the Southern District and two in the Galilee and Acre District. 
In addition to these, monthly meetings of the Local Commissions 
were held in Jerusalem, Haifa, Tel Aviv and other centres. 


30. A further measure of decentralization will be introduced 
by the proposed amendment of the Ordinance in regard to the 
final approval of schemes. Under the new amendment District 
Commissioners will be enabled to give final approval of detailed 
schemes. The authority of the High Commissioner will still be 
necessary, however, for the declaration of new areas and the 
approval of outline schemes. 


31. A scheme for road widening and general improvement of 
road alignments for the town of Jenin was prepared following 
certain demolitions undertaken there. 


32. As a result of the demolition of insanitary hutments in an 
industrial zone in Haifa, a re-housing scheme was under con- 
sideration by Government and a site was selected near Balad 
Es Sheikh village for housing those persons who were displaced. 


Free plots in the new housing area were offered and an access 
road within the area of the new settlement was completed during 
the year. The site was also surveyed and pegged out into 
separate building plots and it is anticipated that with the return 
of normal conditions individual plot holders will be in a position 
to replace their temporary houses with structures built of more 
permanent material. 


15774 G 


182 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from the 
Ist July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Govern- 
ment), to the 31st March, 1938, are set out below: — 











Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P. £P. 
1st July, 1920, to ater March, 1921.. 1,136,951 1,259,587 
1921-2 ote 2,371,531 1,929,341 
1922-3 an eas a3 ese 1,809,831 1,884,280 
1923-4 Ss se Boe #5 1,675,788 1,675,105 
1924-5 Se uy a cee 2,154,946 1,852,985 
1925-6 ose nie oo tes 2,809,324 2,092,647 
1926-7 see eee 2,451,365 2,123,568 
1927 (April to » December) ase eee 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 ... vey He 2,584,317 3,381,993 
1929... uae Est es es 2,323,572 2,140,032 
1930 ... a Ree ee see 2,389,546 2,536,504 
193I ... ies ose 2,333,895 2,374,867 
1932 (January t to March) 8 wae 657,289 511,656 
1932-3 oo on 3,015,917 2,516,394 
1933-4 3,985,492 2,704,856 
1934-5 * alee tt wee 5,452,633 3,230,010 
1935-6 ats aes eae aoa 5:779.457 4,236,202 
1936-7 aoe, ee sé aes 4,640,821 6,073,502 
1937-8 Sie. oe Aas aes 4,897,356 7,297,088 
£P.54,200,411 51,765,614 
Add :— 

Depreciation of Investments at 31st 
March, 1938 ae one = 33,958 
51,799,572 

General Revenue Balance Account 
at 31st March, 1938 sa ete 2,400,839 
£P.54,200,411 


2. Summaries of the Revenue and Expenditure under Heads 
for the years 1933-4 to 1937-8 inclusive are contained in 
Appendices I and II of this section. 


3. The revenue for the financial year 1937-8 aggregated 
£P.4,897,356 and the expenditure amounted to £P.7,297,688, 
or an excess of expenditure over revenue of £P.2,400,332. 

The revenue under Head I, Customs, amounted to 
£P.1,999,697 in 1937-8 as compared with £P.2,019,479 in 
1936-7 or a decrease of £P.19,782. In 1937-8 the total value of 
imports for home consumption increased to £P.15,251,300, or 
an increase of £P.802,600 only over 1936-7, despite the fact that 
imports for home consumption in that year were affected by a 
six-months Arab strike. The total tonnage of cargo discharged 
at Haifa, Jaffa and Tel Aviv showed, however, a slight decline 


183 


from 745,703 tons in 1936-7 to 677,416 tons in 1937-8. Although 
the value of imports in 1937-8 were £P.802,600 in excess of that 
of the previous year the receipts from import duties were less, 
as shown above, owing to the decrease generally in the volume 
of imported commodities on which specific rates of duty are 
charged. The commodities which showed the greatest decline in 
yield of customs revenue were wheat, flour, rice, sugar and 
tobacco. The imposition of an import duty of 25 mils per bird 
on live poultry, with effect from the 21st April, 1937, though for 
a_protective purpose, resulted in a yield to revenue of 
£P.14,010. Exports, with the exception of antiquities, are not 
subject to export duty. It is noteworthy that the value of export 
of Palestine products rose from £P.4,425,000 in 1936-7 to 
£P.5,593,000 in 1937-8, or an increase of £P.1,168,000. The 
main increases were, however, in oranges, potash, barley, dura 
and cakes for feeding animals. : 


The revenue under Head II, Port and Marine, amounted to 
£P.129,120 which shows an increase of £P.18,914 over the 
tevenue collected under this Head in 1936-7. With effect from 
the rst April, 1937, wharfage dues were imposed at Jaffa, and 
later at Tel Aviv, at Haifa rates for goods which cannot be 
loaded or unloaded direct from and on the wharf, namely half 
tates. The Oil Dock at Haifa was completed and handed over 
for use on the 1st January, 1938, from which date the minimum 
payment of £P.30,000 per annum, under the contract with the 
Iraq Petroleum Company, became operative. The operation 
of this contract in the last three months of 1937-8 resulted in an 
increase of £P.2,565 in the oil dues in that year over the receipts 
in 1936-7. The number of tons of oil loaded fell, however, from 
2,002,875 in 1936-7 to 1,987,653 in 1937-8. 


The revenue from Head III, Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted 
to £P.982,032 as compared with £P.852,948 received in 1936-7, 
or an increase of £P.129,084. 


The main increases occur under the following subheads:— 
Rural Property Tax (4P.44,233); and Urban Property Tax 
(£P.63,979). This increase was partly due to the difficulty 
experienced in the previous year of collecting taxes in the areas 
affected by the strike and disturbances of 1936. The remissions 
in respect of the Rural Property Tax on citrus land which it was 
found necessary to make in 1936-7 applied also to 1937-8, the 
Tate of the tax being reduced for these two years from 410 mils 
to 50 mils per dunum in the Acre Sub-District and from 825 to 
500 mils in other areas. Other increases occurred under Stamp 
Duties (4P.9,409); and Tobacco Excise Duties (4P.13,641). 
The latter duty was, however, £P.19,664 below the receipts from 
this source in 1935-6 despite the fact that the rate of the tax on 
manufactured tobacco was increased from 250 mils to 300 mils 


15774 G2 


184 
per kilogramme with effect from the 1st October, 1937. On the 
other hand there was a decrease of £P.7,111 under Intoxicating 
Liquors Excise Duties owing to the appreciable decrease in the 
production of local beer, wines and methylated spirits. 


The revenue from Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
amounted to £P.750,666 in 1937-8 as compared with £P.703,129 
teceived in 1936-7, or an increase of £P.47,537. The principal 
increases occurred under Court Fees (£P.29,522), the number of 
civil cases entered rising from 84,344 in 1936-7 to 124,064 in 
1937-8; Citrus Advertisement Fund (£P.6,622), due to increased 
exportation of citrus fruits; Passport Fees (£P.4,788); Registra- 
tion of Companies and Partnerships Fees (4P.5,137); Registra- 
tion of Banks Fees (£P.5,500), which was collected for the first 
time in the year 1937-8 under the Banking (Amendment and 
Further Provisions) Ordinance, 1937; Reimbursements—road 
contributions (£P.5,825); Sale of departmental _ stores 
(4P.5,482); and sale of water to the Jerusalem Municipality 
(4P.14,013) On the other hand decreases have occurred under 
Porterage Fees, Haifa Harbour (4P.5,398); Registration of 
Immigrants Fees (£P.14,213), the number of immigrants having 
decreased from 25,709 in 1936-7 to 13,210 in 1937-8; and Ware- 
house rent (£P.14,917) the fall in receipts being due to the 
decline in tonnage discharged from 745,703 tons in 1936-7 to 
677,416 tons in 1937-8. 


The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphs, amounted 
to £P.508,887 and was £P.31,394 in excess of the receipts in 
1936-7. The main increases occurred under Telephones 
(£P.32,587), telephone installations rising from 12,480 in 1936 
to 14,848 in 1937; and Broadcast Licence Fees (£P.4,164), the 
number of licences held at the 31st March, 1938, being 31,218 
as compared with 22,568 at the 31st March, 1937. There was, 
however, a decrease of £P.5,672 under Telegraphs. Despite the 
increase in receipts under this head, the ‘otal events earned by 
the Department of Posts and Telegraphs in 1937-8 was less by 
a sum of £P.185,635 than the total expenditure incurred by or 
on account of the department, exclusive of debt charges in 
respect of capital expenditure, amounting to £P.188,126 and 
met from loan funds, and on capital works carried out from 
provision made under Public Works Extraordinary votes. It 
should be mentioned, however, that the sum of £P.185,635 
includes a sum of £P.89,262 spent prior to the rst April, 1937, 
in respect of the construction of the Jerusalem post office, which 
was previously charged to advances in anticipation of the raising 
of a new loan, but which was transferred during the year under 
review to expenditure in accordance with the change in the 
Satin accounting procedure as prescribed by the Secretary 
of State. 


185 


The revenue under Head VI, Revenue from Government 
property, amounted to £P.50,363 as compared with £P.50,317 
in 1936-7. 

The revenue under Head VII, Interest, amounted to 
£P.130,284 in 1937-8 as compared with £P.150,730 in 1936-7 
showing a decrease of £P.20,446. The book value of investments 
in stock, which was £P.4,415,993 on the 31st March, 1937, was 
reduced to £P.2,636,606 on the 31st March, 1938, it having 
become necessary during the year to realize securities, the 
nominal value of which amounted to £P.1,741,772, in order to 
meet current liabilities. This resulted in a decrease of £P.31,778 
under Interest on Investments by Crown Agents. On the other 
hand an increase of £P.11,315 1s recorded under interest from 
other sources of which the sum of £P.10,213 is on account of 
interest on advances made by Government to the Jerusalem 
Municipality for the construction of the Jerusalem Water Supply 
and the Jerusalem Drainage Schemes. 


The revenue from Head VIII, Miscellaneous, amounted to 
£P.184,128 as compared with £P.128,020 in 1936-7, showing an 
increase of 4P.56,108. The main increase under this Head 
(£P.74,870) is due to an adjustment to Loan Account of amounts 
previously charged to surplus balances in connection with 
expenditure incurred on the Jaffa Port improvements. Other 
increases are due to the sale of a Government tug, which was 
replaced id a larger and more powerful vessel (£P.6,500); 
Pees ‘ (4P.3,884); and profits on sale of investments 

6,544 

On the other hand decreases occurred under Profits from 
Currency (£P.20,000) owing to a decrease in the currency in 
Soon and to losses on investments realized; and under 
ov yyments recovered in respect of expenditure incurred in 
pienons years (£P.15,692). The receipts under this latter item 
included, in 1936-7, ‘£P.22, ooo refunded by the Jerusalem 
Munici; ality out of grants made in previous years towards the 
cost of certain works which for various reasons had not been 
carried out in the year of payment. 

The revenue from Head IX, Land Sales, amounted to 
£P.9,234 as compared with £P.2,441 in 1936-7. The increase 
1s mainly due to sale of Beisan lands (£P.6,288). 

The revenue from Head X, Grants-in-Aid, consisted of :— 


(a) Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. £P. 

Three-quarters of the Expenditure under 

Head XXI, Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, 

during the year 1937-8 (£P.175,182) ... 131,386 
Whole of Expenditure on capital works in 

Trans- Jordan under Head XXIX, Trans- 

Jordan Frontier Force Eee: 

during the year, 1937-8 : an 6,363 


£P.137,749 


15774 G3 


186 


The total receipts amounted to £P.142,333, being 4P.139,000 
from the Parliamentary grant-in-aid for the year 1937-8 and 
4P.3,333_ in respect of an over-issue of the grant-in-aid in 
1936-7. The actual amount due was £P.137,749 only, the un- 
expended balance, together with local receipts, amounting to 
4P.5,098, was transferred to the Grant-in-Aid Deposit Account 
for adjustment of the grant in 1938-9. 


(b) Hydrographic Survey £P.2,783. 
This represents a moiety of the expenditure incurred on the 
hydrographic survey of Southern Palestine contributed by His 
ajesty’s Government. The total expenditure on this service 
was charged to Expenditure Head XXVIII, Public Works 
Extraordinary... 


The receipts under Head XI, amounting to £P.12,413, repre- 
sent assistance grants given by the Colonial Development Fund 
in respect of interest charges on the capital cost of certain 
schemes. The increase in receipts under this Head over those 
received in 1936-7 is in respect of the assistance granted towards 
the Jerusalem Drainage Scheme (£P.5,865) for which no grant 
was received in 1936-7. 


Expenditure. 


4. Expenditure in 1937-8 aggregated £P.7,297,688 as com- 
pared with £P.6,073,502 in 1936-7 or an increase of 
£P.1,224,186. This excess is, however, more apparent than real 
as it was due to the introduction of a new system of colonial 
accounting designed to show more clearly the financial position 
of the country and,in particular, the cash available to meet voted 
expenditure. According to the new system sums amounting to 
4P.1,591,939 previously debited to advances and unallocated 
stores suspense accounts were transferred to expenditure so that 
in point of fact the actual expenditure in 1937-8 was smaller 
than that incurred in 1936-7. 


The variations in expenditure in 1937-8 as compared with the 
expenditure in 1936-7 are due to the following causes: — 


I. Pensions.—The expenditure under this head amounted in 
1937-8 to £P.50,588 as compared with £P.37,040 in 1936-7. 
The excess occurred under Pensions and Gratuities (£P.13,707) 
and is due partly to the amendment, in 1937, of the Pensions 
Ordinance (1925). This amendment provided for a more favour- 
able basis for the calculation of pensions and gratuities and the 
lowering of the voluntary and compulsory ages of retirement of 
officers in receipt of expatriation allowances. The excess is also 
partly due to the increase in the number of pensions: and 
gratuities paid to dependents of officers killed in the execution 
of their duty. 


187 


II. Public Debt and Loan Charges.—Expenditure under this 
head amounted in 1937-8 to £P.158,896 as compared with 
4P.126,449 expended in 1936-7. The increase of £P.32,448 
represents the contribution to the sinking fund in respect of the 
Railway share of the Palestine Guaranteed Loan, which was 
included in the Railway expenditure prior to the 1st April, 1937. 


IV. Secretariat.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
£P.76,651 as compared with £P.69,463 in the previous year. 
An increase of £P.7,813 occurred in the expenditure of the Civil 
Aviation Section which was not fully established in 1936-7. 


V. District Administration.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.165,055 as compared with £P.156,931 in 1936-7. The 
principal increase is recorded under Personal Emoluments 
(4£P.6,468) which is mainly due to the division, for administra- 
tive reasons, during the year, of the old Northern District into 
two, namely the ‘“‘ Haifa and Samaria ’’ District and the 
“* Galilee and Acre ’’ District. The headquarters of the former 
Temained at Haifa and the headquarters of the latter were estab- 
lished at Nazareth. There was also an increase of £P.915 under 
Passages. 

It should be pointed out, however, that provision for the 
payment of passages was transferred from the “‘ Miscellaneous ”’ 
Head to the departmental votes. 


VI. Legal Department.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
£P.18,112 as compared with £P.14,011 in 1936-7. The main 
increase occurred under Personal Emoluments (£P.2,549) due 
to the strengthening of the staff of the Attorney-General’s office 
during the year by the appointment of two British Crown 
Counsels which involved concomitant increases in the votes for 
extra clerical assistance, messengers and cleaners; and to the 
temporary employment of professional and clerical staff to assist 
the Official Receiver while acting as Liquidator of Companies. 
There was also an increase of £P.678 under Transport and 
Travelling, which was mainly due to unforeseen expenditure 
consequent upon an increase in the number of land settlement 
cases. ° 


VII. Judicial Depariment.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.110,567 as compared with £P.100,882 in 1936-7. The 

rincipal increase occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.6,648) largely as a result of the expansion of the depart- 
ment, which was designed to expedite the disposal of accumu- 
lated arrears of court cases. _New Magistrates Courts were 
established during the year at Rehovot and Petah-Tiqvah, the 
administration of which entailed additional recurrent expendi- 
ture on clerks and process servers. The other increases were in 
respect of Transport and Travelling (£P.946) due to the re- 
organization of the courts; and in respect of Passages (£P.939). 


15774 G4 


188 


X. Customs, Excise and Trade—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.250,530 as compared with £P.277,477 in 
1936-7. The decreases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.5,755) as a result of vacancies occurring during the year 
and of the delay in filling new posts; and under Drawbacks of 
Customs Duty (£P.20,676). 


XI. Department of Health—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted 
to £P.215,448 as compared with £P.204,350 in 1936-7. The 

rincipal increases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
Pep. 5,755) due to the expansion of the services of this depart- 
ment, especially by taking over of the a aes at Gaza, which 
was formerly administered by the Gaza Municipality, and by 
the establishment at Tel Aviv of a clinic for the inoculation 
and medical examination of immigrants; under Transport and 
Travelling (£P.2,365); Hospital Diets (£P.1,583); Anti- 
malarial Measures (£P.1,223) ; and Passages (£P.1,353). 

There was, however, a decrease of £P.2,846 in the Contri- 


butions to Jewish health services. The contribution amounted, 
in 1937-8, to £P.12,353, and was in respect of the following : — 


£P. 
Grant to Municipal Hospital, Tel Aviv. ... 6,841 
Maintenance grant to Tuberculosis Hospital, 

Safad as avs tee ae a 1,700 
School Hygiene and Ophthalmic Services ... 2,041 
Infant Welfare Work dae ies Ne 1,771 

£P.12,353 


XII. Department of Education Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.300,742 as compared with £P.243,243 in 
1936-7. The principal increase was in respect of Personal 
Emoluments (£P.11,048) due to the general expansion and 
development of urban and rural education and to.the inclusion 
of the Probation Service, which was previously included under 
Judicial Department. Other increases were in respect of grants- 
In-aid to the schools of the Va’ad Leumi (£P.7,013); Books, 
stationery, scientific equipment, etc., for schools (£P.1,042); 
Rations for boarders (£P.3,259); Grants to local authorities for 
school buildings (£P.6,745) ; School furniture (£P.2,583) ; Pro- 
duction of Arabic text books (£P.1,960); Tools and equipment 
for school gardens and agricultural education in schools 
(£P.1,418). In comparing the expenditure of this department 
in 1937-8 with that of 1936-7 it must be remembered that edu- 
cational conditions were abnormal in the latter year as, owing 
to the disturbances, schools were closed during the greater part 
of the year and when they were eventually re-opened the services 
were restricted to those approved in 1935-6. This, together with 
the general expansion of the department, accounts for the 


189 


increased expenditure during the year under review. A sub- 
stantial increase was, however, due to the inclusion in expendi- 
ture of a sum of £P.17,843 in respect of capital grants to Jewish 
Institutions which was previously debited to Advances in Antici- 
pation of a New Loan. This sum was transferred in 1937-8 to 
expenditure in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure. Of this amount a sum of £P.16,625 was actually 
spent before the 1st April, 1937. 


XIII. Department of Agriculture and Fisheries —Expenditure 
in 1937-8 amounted to £P.321,676 as compared with £P.177,387 
in 1936-7. The principal increases occurred under agricultural 
and beehive loans, etc. (£P.91,115) the major portion of which 
was expended prior to 1st April, 1937, when the loans were 
accounted for under Advances, but were transferred to expendi- 
ture in 1937-8 in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure; and under long-term loans for hill areas (£P.30,666) 
also transferred to expenditure from Advances in Anticipation of 
a New Loan for the same reason. The object of these loans is 
to enable cultivators and settlers in the hill districts to develop 
and improve their lands. These loans are repayable within 
periods ranging between 3 and 17 years and the interest 
charged thereon is 8 per cent. per annum to individual culti- 
vators and 6 per cent. per annum to co-operative societies, with 
an additional charge of 1 per cent. per annum on arrears. 


Other increases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.2,901) ; Transport and Travelling (£P.1,386) ; Agricultural 
Demonstrations and Experiments (4P.3,042); Citrus Advertising 
Fund (£P.6,622); Fruit Inspection Service (£P.1,822); and 
Purchase of Motor Fishing Boat (£P.1,032). 


The citrus advertising campaign was continued during the 
year and a sum of £P.33,209 was expended as compared with 
£P.34,325 expended in 1936-7. 

During the year the following grants were made to Jewish 
Institutions for research and experimental work : — 


£P. 

(a) Grants for citrus research by the experimental station 
of the Jewish Agency : oe age «se 3,000 

(b) Grant to Jewish Agency experimental fruit-growing at 
hillside station, Kirvath Anavim ee me avs 300 

(c) Grant to Jewish Agency for intensive farming experi- 
ments on ees aes ses vee aes oes 300 
(d) Grant to Jewish Agency for research Me as wes 2,950 
(e) Grant to Hebrew University for field-mice investigations 200 
(f) Grant to Hebrew University for spirochaetosis research 180 





£P.6.930 





190 
XVI. Department of Lands and Surveys.—Expenditure in 
1937-8 amounted to £P.130,334 as compared with £P.124,878 
in 1936-7. Increases were recorded under Personal Emoluments 
(4P.2,511); Transport and Travelling (£P.1,015); and Marks 
and Beacons (£P.1,516). 


XVII. Department of Development.—Expenditure in 1937. 
amounted to £P.98,197 as compared with £P.17,244 in 1936-7. 
This excess of expenditure is, however, apparent rather than 
real. Of a sum of £P.85,796 in respect of expenditure incurred 
on the resettlement of displaced Arabs, the sum of £P.84,614 
was expended prior to the 1st April, 1937. This sum which was 
previously debited to advances in anticipation of a new loan was 
transferred to expenditure during the year in accordance with 
the new colonial accounting procedure, so that the expenditure 
under this Head was in fact £P.3,661 smaller than in the 
previous year. 


XVIII. Police and Prisons.—The significant feature of the 
estimates and expenditure of this department is the progressive 
annual increase necessitated by continued disturbances in the 
country. The expenditure has risen from £P.527,467 in 19356 
to £P.744,619 in 1936-7 and to £P.941,975 in 1937-8. The pmn- 
cipal increases occurred under Personal Emoluments 
(£P.100,058); Uniforms, Clothing and Equipment (£P.18,946); 
Criminal Investigation (£P.10,137) ; Forage and Forage Allow- 
ances (£P.1,472); Rations (£P.8,186); Lighting, Heating and 
Power (£P.1,596); Upkeep of Mechanical Transport 
(4P.7,496); Telegrams, Telephones and Postage (£P.1,195); 
Arms (£P.32,561); Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony sets 
and Searchlights (£4P.22,675). The major increases are divisible 
into two categories, namely (a) additional expenditure directly 
attributable to the disturbances, and (b) expansion of normal 
services. The expenditure incurred under (a) above amounted 
to approximately £P.127,910 of which £P.87,132 was in respect 
of Personal Emoluments, and £P.40,778 in respect of other 
charges and special expenditure. As regards (b) there was a 
considerable increase in Police personnel in view of the estab- 
lishment of an additional wireless section and of the expansion 
of the activities of the department generally. 

Decreases, however, occurred under Transport and Travelling 
(4P.35,654) due to the strengthening of the mechanical 
transport section; and under Purchase of 65 Ford cars 
(£P.5,642). : ; ; 

The increased expenditure eurics 1937-8 included also a sum 
of £P.16,029 for advances to village ghaffirs and a sum of 
4P.3,094 for advances for purchase of police horses previously 
accounted for under Advances but transferred to Expenditure 
during the year in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure. 


IQI 


XXII. Defence.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
£P.789,738 as compared with £P.1,297,000 in 1936-7. The 
details of the actual expenditure of £P.789,738 (which includes 
a sum of £P.134,450 in respect of an under-estimate of the 
excess cost of Army troops in 1936-7) is made up as under: — 





P. 
Excess cost of Army troops ° Pa ee 
One-half of excess cost of Hoya A ‘Air Force in Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan ‘ee iste 19,000 
Army works services oe ae se wae 175,600 
Royal Air Force works services a hae ees aee 25,000 
Purchase of land _... nn as ee aes wis 6,738 
£P.789,738 





XXIII. Posts and Telegraphs——Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.429,127 as compared with £P.351,943 in 
1936-7. The aeetae was mainly in respect of Personal Emolu- 
ments (£P.20,321), the increase in personnel being necessitated 
by the increased quantity of postal matter handled by the 
department, the extended use of the telegraph service aid the 
heavy demand for new telephones; and of Conveyance of Mails 
(£P.20,321) due to the settlement of outstanding international 
accounts. The expenditure which was incurred as a direct result 
of the disturbances amounted to £P.2,779 and was mainly in 
respect of maintenance stores for repairing telephone services 
damaged by sabotage. 


The transfer to Expenditure of amounts previously charged 
to Advances in accordance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure is responsible for excesses of £P.35,645 in respect of 
Unallocated Stores and £P.244 in respect of advances to officers 
for the purchase of various means of transport. 


XXIV. Public Works Department.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.132,497 as compared with £P.76,396 in 1936-7. 
The increase under this Head is mainly attributable to expendi- 
ture on the Jerusalem Water Supply Section, which was not 
fully established (and partly included under Head XXV. 
Public Works Recurrent) in 1936-7. The increases occurred 
chiefly under Personal Emoluments (£P.2,323) ; Fuel, Oils and 
Chemicals (£P.8,937); Spares and Tools (£P.1,118); and con- 
tribution to a renewals fund. The expenditure directly 
attributable to the disturbances under this section amounted to 
£P.1,113 and was chiefly for the employment of supernumerary 
police to guard the pipe-line. 


In addition to the excesses recorded above, a sum of 
£P.27,094, being the value of unallocated stores held by the 
department, was Phranktered to Expenditure during the year in 
aeortancs with the new colonial accounting procedure. 


192 


XXV. Public Works Recurrent.—Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.333,849 as compared with £P.320,350 in 
1936-7. The principal increases occurred under the following 
items, Minor Works (£P.1,184); Water Supply and Con- 
servancy (£4P.2,824); Rent of Offices and Quarters (£4P.18,404); 
Maintenance of Quays, Piers and Harbours (£P.2,340); and 
Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (4P.4,186). The increase 
under Rent of Offices and Quarters is mainly due to the payment 
of rent, in advance, to the Russian Ecclesiastical Mission 
(4P.7,500) to meet the cost of construction of an additional 
storey to the building leased for the Law Courts, Jerusalem; to 
the provision of additional accommodation, mainly for Police 
and the C.I.D., in consequence of the disturbances (£P.5,638); 
and to payment of new rentals for various buildings leased by 
Government (£P.3,166). The increase under Maintenance of 
Quays, Piers and Harbours was necessitated by the carrying out 
of essential dredging work at Haifa harbour. The expenditure 
under this head directly attributable to the disturbances 
amounted to £P.5,918 and represented cost of hiring of 
additional accommodation for the Police, the C.I.D. and other 
departments. 

On the other hand a decrease of £P.19,830 is recorded under 
Maintenance of Jerusalem Water Supply which was included 
under Head XXIV. Public Works Department, in 1937-8, 
as mentioned above. 


XXVI. Miscellaneous.—Expenditure in 1937-8 amounted to 
£P.466,683 as compared with £P.502,160 in 1936-7. The 
principal decreases occurred under Housing Allowances 
(4P.14,864); Passages (£P.14,930) owing to the inclusion of 
these two items under departmental votes in 1937-8; Sundries 
(4P.7,206) ; Emergency Relief Measures (£P.22,095) ; Depre- 
ciation on Investments (£P.165,704); and the write-off of 
irrecoverable advances of agricultural, seed, fodder and earth- 
quake reconstruction loans. 


Increases on the other hand have occurred in the expenditure 
on the following items:—Crown Agents’ Expenses, etc., 
(£P.2,741) due mainly to outstanding charges from the previous 
year; Contribution to Trans-Jordan Government on account of 
share in profits from currency (£P.5,948) due to the change in 
the basis of apportionment of profits; Hutting Zone, Haifa 
(4P.3,847) for the clearance of insanitary hutments within the 
municipal boundaries of Haifa and in the reconstruction of 
housing accommodation in a new area; Interest on monies 
borrowed from the Joint Colonial Fund (£P.2,748); Expenses 
in connection with the printing of the report of the Royal 
Commission (£P.2,349); Compensation for loss of life and 
property during the disturbances (£P.50,663); Relief to 
Beersheba cultivators (£P.4,000); and Grants to Municipalities 


193 


.27 ,867), due to the necessity for providing revotes mainly 
for the Jerusalem Municipality. The details of the actual grants 
paid in 1937-8 were :— 








£P. 

Jerusalem 32,296 
Hebron 75° 
75° 

Bethlehem . 493 
Beit Jala . 400 
Jaffa 15,000 
Tel Aviv 25,000 
leh 750 
Gaza 750 
Beersheba ais oi ecb es 250 
Majdal is see ae oon aie 250 
Khan Yunis ia ae Aa aise 1,000 
Petah Tiqva ase wee ioe aus 500 
Haifa os vee Es se Soe 20,383 
Acre OH ae Ay aA rs 742 
Beisan ee ads et A wa 325 
Jenin nee eo eee 400 
Nablus 4,500 
Nazareth ... 750 
Shefa ’Amr 188 
Safad ae Bee ES 110 
Tiberias... ar ne oes eS 188 
£P.105,775 





The expenditure under this Head resulting directly from the 
disturbances amounted to £P.61,828, the principal items of 
which being Compensation for Loss of Life and Property 
(4P.50,663) ; and Compensation for Loss of Property caused 
by the demolition of buildings at Jaffa (£P.6,088). 

To give effect to the new colonial accounting procedure the 
following items, which were previously accounted for under 
Advances in anticipation of the raising of a new loan or under 
Advances proper, were transferred to expenditure under this 
Head:— 











Investment in Land Mortgage Company ... a +s. 150,000 
Earthquake and flood reconstruction loans 6,853 
Loan to the Augusta Viktoria Stiftung : see 40,000 
Advances for purchase of various means of transport 5,365 
Sundry minor items ... ere Bee wee eee 1,277 

£P.203,495 





The whole amount of the first two items and a portion of the 
last two were expended, however, before the 1st April, 1937. 
XXVII. Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary.—Expenditure 
in 1937-8 amounted to £P.112,031 as compared with £P.129,002 
in 1936-7, or a decrease of £P.16,971. The following summary 
shows the variations in the works during 1936-7 and 1937-8: — 


194 
1936-7 1937-8 
(a) Additional trunk lines, reconstruction of routes, £P. £P. 
trunk and distribution cables and underground 





cables 46,973 32,675 

(6) Additional subscribers’ circuits and additional 
exchange switchboards_... 36,346 27,310 

(c) Development of underground cables and ducts, 
Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa and Tel Aviv ... me 28,130 14,874 

(@) Installations of automatic exchanges and conver- 
sion of subscribers to automatic apparatus... 12,596 34,449 
(e) Broadcasting Station, pJernselent eis sa ass 3,305 673 
(f) Other works an one ae 1,652 2,050 
£P.129,002 112,031 





The decrease is explained by the completion of certain of 
the works commenced in the preceding year and partly by 
unexpected balances which were carried over to 1938-9. The 
increases under (d) are in respect of the new telephone exchange, 
Jerusalem, Ist extension (£P.14,299) and Tel Aviv automatic 
exchange (4P.13,693). 


XXVIII. Public Works Extraordinary.—Expenditure in 
1937-8 amounted to £P.1,614,885 as compared with £P.705,004 
in 1936-7, or an increase of £P.g09,791. This amount includes, 
however, in accordance with the new colonial accounting pro- 
cedure sums previously charged to Advances in anticipation of 
the raising of a new loan or to Advances proper. These 
transfers aggregated £P.1,079,845, which included expenditure 
of £P.948,413 incurred prior to the 1st April, 1937, so that the 
expenditure on the years working was actually £P.38,622 less 
than the expenditure incurred in 1936-37. A summary is given 
below of the works so adjusted showing the amounts expended 
thereon prior to the rst April, 1937, Sond the total amounts 
which were accounted for under expenditure in 1937-8:— 

Expenditure Expenditure 


prior to accounted 
Ist April, for in 
1937. 1937-8. 
£P. £P. 

Government Trade and Technical School, Haifa 37,712 40,000 

Construction of town schools... ie et 59,531 71,396 

Government Arab College Gti : ae 24,096 24,096 

Construction of Post Office, Jerusalem aes 89,262 144,313 

Jerusalem Water Supply ase vee ses 370,000 370,000 

Hebron Water Supply ... oes 10,000 10,000 

Haifa Oil Dock and East Reclamation. ‘Area «ss 210,000 210,000 

Haifa Main Drainage Scheme ... ree 4.438 15,415 

Jerusalem Main Drainage Scheme ae 7 51,875 93,987 

Improvements to village water supply schemes 60,990 70,129 

Haifa Water Supply Scheme... 3,698 3,608 
Haifa Municipality, road construction | in oil 

storage area... sees 9.143 9.143 

Tiberias Municipality, construction of roads see 6,297 6,297 
Jerusalem Mi: ality, slaughter house and 

incinerat:~ na an we vee 10,737 10,737 

Minor ite’ : ee eat dee 634 634 


£P.948,413 1,079,845 


195 

The approved provision in 1937-8 aggregated £P.639,053 and 
this was supplemented by further provision under Special 
Warrants to the amount of £P.1,241,188 (chiefly to provide for 
the adjustments referred to above), thus raising the total pro- 
vision to £P.1,880,841 of which the sum of £P.1,614,885 was 
expended or brought to account under expenditure, and falls 
into the following categories :— 


£P. 
(1) Works and buildings... ae oe 418,921 
(2) Construction of roads and bridges... 226,195 
(3) Miscellaneous... ase zee one 969,769 
£P.1,614,885 


The increase of £P.909,791 is made up as follows:—Works 
and Buildings (increase £P.331,699); Construction of Roads 
and Bridges (decrease £P.7,513); and Miscellaneous (increase 
4P.585,605). The major services carried out under Works 
and Buildings were the Construction of Town Schools 
(£P.71,399); Government Trade and Technical School, Haifa 
(£P.42,822); Government Arab College (£P.24,096); Govern- 
ment Hospital, Haifa (£P.60,000); Construction of Police 
Station, Tel Aviv (£P.5,719); Construction of Urban Police 
Married Quarters (£P.15,275); Construction of semi-permanent 
buildings for Northern Frontier Division (£P.9,738); Additions 
and Improvements to Detention Camp, Acre (£P.5,996); Con- 
struction of Post Office, Jerusalem (£144,313); Construction 
of Post Office, Tel Aviv (£P.7,151). The major road works 
carried out were the Widening of Tel Aviv-Petah Tiqva Road 
£P.8,009); Construction of section of Affula-Beisan Road 
(£P.13,842); Construction of a section of the road from the 
Haifa-Nazareth Road to Jinujar through Nahalal (£P.10,990); 
Construction of Jaffa-Haifa Road (£P.87,058); Transfer of 
Allenby Bridge to and erection at Damiya and construction of 
a new bridge in lieu of present Allenby Bridge (£P.6,210); 
Construction of Northern Frontier Road (4P.61,573); Haifa 
Municipality—Construction of road in oil storage area 
(4P.9,143); and Tiberias Municipality—Construction of roads 
(£P.6,297). 


Under Miscellaneous, the continuation of the construction of 
the Lydda and Haifa airports accounted for £P.59,825; the 
Jerusalem Water sep 4£P.375,907; the Hebron Water Sup- 
ply £P.10,343; the Cargo Jetty and Ancillary Works at Haifa 
Harbour £P.50,390; the Jaffa Port Improvements £P.6,324; 
the Haifa Oil Dock and East Reclamation Area £P.214,375; 
the Jaffa Housing Scheme £P.5,412; Investigations, Haifa 
Water Supply £P.11,779; Haifa Main Drainage £P.15,415; 
Jerusalem Main Drainage £P.93,987; Improvements to Village 


196 
Water Supplies (including the resources survey and the under- 
ground water investigations) £P.70,142; Jerusalem Munici- 
pality—Slaughter-house and Incinerator £P.10,737; Hydro- 
graphic Survey of Southern Palestine £P.5,566; and Relief 
Works £P.9,866. 

Of the total expenditure of £P.1,614,885 under this Head 
it is estimated that expenditure amounting to £P.146,654 may 
be regarded as directly attributable to the disturbances. This 
includes the Construction of Jaffa-Haifa Road, and Construc- 
tion of Northern Frontier Road (£P.118,587); and the Accom- 
modation for Northern Frontier Division of Police (£P.9,738). 

XXIX Trans-Jordan Frontier Force Extraordinary.—-Ex- 
penditure in 1937-8 amounted to £P.12,828 as compared with 
£P.9,944 in 1936-7. Apart from the reconstruction of Zerka 
Camp (4P.2,060) two other camps—namely the Jisr Majamie 
and Beisan—were reconstructed and accounted for the major 
part of the increased expenditure. 

XXXI. Colonial Development. — Expenditure in 1937-8 
amounted to £P.18,919 as compared with £P.32 in 1936-7. 
The increase is due to the transfer to the credit of the Jeru- 
salem Municipality of its share in the assistance grants received 
from the Colonial Development Fund in respect of the Jeru- 
salem Drainage Scheme (£P.16,365); and the Jerusalem Water 
Supply Scheme (£P.2,525). 


Railways. 


5. The Railway deficit charged to Government expenditure 
in 1937-8 was 4P.230,123, as compared with £P.69,631 in 


1936-7. 
The final results in 19378 of the four Railway systems, 
operated by the General Manager, Palestine Railways, were 


as under:— 
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
Palestine Railway ees 478,953 669,836 _— 190,883 
Kantara-Rafa Railway... 109,507 109,435 72 _— 
Hejaz Railway ... + 80,930 120,170 _ 39,240 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... 3,637 840 2,797 _ 


In order to arrive at the deficit charged to Revenue the 
accounts of the Kantara-Rafa Railway and the Petah Tiqva 
Railway are excluded, as the surpluses are subject to special 
arrangement. In the case of the latter Railway there is an 
obligation to pay interest to the colonists and to Government 
on their respective advances for the construction of the line. 
The surpluses in previous years have been insufficient to pay 
the interest in full and at the 31st March, 1938, after distribu- 
tion of the year’s surplus, there was an outstanding debt of 
£P.10,905 due to the Petah Tiqva colonists. 


197 

The agreement provides for the repayment to the colonists 
of the amount advanced (£E.20,000) with interest at the rate 
of 6 per cent. per annum, but a prior charge exists in favour 
of the Government of Palestine in respect of interest on the 
excess cost of the line met by Government over the contribu- 
tion by the colonists. That excess was £P.33,846. Any de- 
ficiency in the payment of interest to Government, together 
with interest at 5 per cent. thereon, has first to be met before 
the claim of the colonists is due for payment and any deficiency 
in respect of such payment also bears interest at the rate of 
5 per cent. per annum. The agreement also provides that after 
meeting the charges for interest the net surplus shall be set 
aside to repay the loan of £E.20,000 made by the colonists. 
In 1923-4 £P.568 was repaid to the colonists and £P.267 in 
the year 1924-5. An amount of £P.1,692 of the net surplus 
of £P.2,797 in 1937-8 was absorbed in the repayment of interest 
to Government and is included in the revenue of the Palestine 
Railway. 

Special arrangements were entered into regarding the 
Kantara-Rafa Railway with effect from the 1st April, 1933, 
whereby a commuted annual payment of £P.4,000 by way of 
rental is made by the Palestine Railway for the use of this 
section of the line. The profits (£P.144) resulting from the 
operation of the Kantara-Rafa Railway were divided equally 
between the Kantara-Rafa Railway Special Fund and Palestine 
Railway revenue. 

The net deficit charged to Government expenditure under 
this Head was, therefore, £P.230,123 consisting of the deficits 
on the Palestine and Hejaz Railways, which were £P.190,883 
and £P.39,240 respectively. 

The following comparison is afforded between the revenue 
of the four sections of the line in 1937-8 and 1936-7:— 





Kantara- Petah 

Palestine Rafa Hejas Tiqva Total. 

Railway. Railway. Railway. Railway. 
Coaching : £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
1937-8... eee 128,144 68,913 30,394 _ 227,451 
1936-7... ee 201,872 79,103 37,138 _— 318,113 
Goods : 
1937-8 ... ses 314,372 38,416 43,833 3,641 400,262 
1936-7... ses 434,507 99.437 56,732 6,209 596,885 
Miscellaneous : 
1937-8... see 36,437 2,178 6,703 4 45,314 
1936-7... + 80,375 2,405 7,530 205 90,515 
Total : 
1937-8... £P.478,953 109,507 80,930 3,637 673,027 
1936-7 ... £P.716,754 180,945 TOI,400 6,414 1,005,513 





Decrease during 
1937-8 compared 
with 1936-7... 33°2% «= 39°5% = 20°2% «= 433% 33% 


198 
It should be pointed out that the revenue in respect of goods 
traffic during the year 1936-7 was considerably in excess of 
the normal revenue owing to military traffic and to the diversion 
of Jaffa cargoes to Haifa. 

e serious economic crisis following the disturbances of 1936 
was the primary cause of the fall in railway receipts during 
1937-8. Other contributory factors were the opening of the new 
road between Haifa and Jaffa-Tel Aviv and the development 
of the Tel Aviv port. 

The following table affords a comparison between the expendi- 
ture of the Railways on all sections in 1937-8 and 1936-7: — 
Kantava- Petah 


Palestine Rafa Hejas Tiqva Total. 
Railway. Railway. Railway. Ratlway. 





£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Maintenance and 
Renewal of Ways 
and Works : 
1937-8 se 64,459 33,072 26,478 214 124,223 
1936-7 s+ 79,980 34,573 27,175 214 141,942 
Maintenance and 
Renewal of Loco- 
~motives and 
Rolling Stock : 
1937-8 «ee IOI,324 22,005 35,512 140 158,981 
1936-7 we. 87,217 18,250 31,104 140 136,711 
Transportation Ex- 
penses :— 
1937-8 ++ 160,919 26,428 43,189 377 230,913, 
1936-7 +++ 153,973 26,086 39,309 377 219,745 
General Charges : 
1937-8 see 59,229 27,858 14,408 109 101,604 
1936-7 «61,288 29,348 15,555 109 106,300 
Debt Charges : 
1937-8 ses 124,705 = 5° = 124,755 
1936-7 see 157,140 _ 63 _ 157,203 
Extraordinary Ex- 
penditure : 
1937-8 ++ 85,200 _ 533 os 85,733 
1936-7 see 152,992 _ 7,989 _ 160,981 
Contribution to 
Palestine Railway 
Renewals Fund : 
1937-8 ses 74,000 _ —_ _ 74,000 
1936-7 ses 74,000 _ _ _ 74,000 
Contribution to Kan- 
tara-Rafa Railway 
Special Fund : 
1937-8 te _ 72 aaa oe 72 
1936-7 wy Se 36,344 = = 36,344 
Total :— 
1937-8 £P.669,836 109,435 120,170 840 900,281 


1936-7 £P.766,590 144,601 121,195 840 1,033,226 





199 

The increases in expenditure on the maintenance and renewal 
of locomotives and rolling stock and transportation expenses 
are due to increased overhauls of locomotives and rolling stock 
to cover arrears of maintenance in the previous years, and 
to the higher cost of coal and other materials in the United 
Kingdom. 

The financial position of the four sections of the Railway 
for the two years under review is summarised below: — 


1936-7. 1937-8. 

Surplus (+) Surplus (+) 

Deficit (—) Deficit (—) 

P. P. 

Palestine Railway — 49,836 —190,883 
Kantara-Rafa Railway + 36,344 + 72 
Hejaz Railway... — 19,795 — 39,240 
Petah Tiqva Railway + 5,574 + 2,797 


The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 
for the period rst April, 1937, to 31st March, 1938, were as 








under : — 
Revenue. £P. £P. 
Coaching and Goods 442,516 
Miscellaneous 30,437 
478,953 
Expenditure. 
Operation Expenses 385,931 
Debt Charges 124,705 
Capital Improvements 85,200 
Renewals ... es 74,000 
669,836 
Deficit... eee wes oy see BG £P.190,883 


It will be observed from the comparative table of the Railway 
expenditure that there has been a net decrease of £P.96,754 
in Palestine Railway expenditure in 1937-8 as compared with 
that of the previous year. The net decrease is made up as 
under : — 





Decreases: £P. £P. 
Debt Charges aes aoe Bee ach eee 32,435 
Capital Improvements ... ee oe «es 67,792 
100,227 
Increase : 
Operation Expenses see MES sas 3,473 





Net Decrease... £P.96,754 





The decrease in Debt Charges is accounted for by the fact 
that in the year under review, railway expenditure was relieved 
of Sinking Fund Charges in respect of Loan Funds, following 
the recommendations made by Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and 
Company. This payment is now being met from general 
revenue under Head II, Public Debt and Loan Charges. 


200 


There is a decrease of £P.67,792 in capital expenditure, and 
the main works and services carried out in 1937-8 were: — 


(a) Purchase of and improvements to Locomotives and 


Rolling Stock ... a, 60,624 
(b) Construction of Sheds and Station Alterations and 
Improvements ... Bae ee 10,020 
(c) Water Supply at Lydda ... 4,355 
(2) Construction of new crossing loop between Athlit and 
Zikbron Ya’akov (Tantura) ... sas 2,377 
(e) Extension of dual gauge to Huryar Motzkin Se es 1,639 
-(f) Minor New Works 5 se 3 3.387 
(g) Other Works and Services ak ae Bea aL 2,798 
£P.85,200 


In addition to the above expenditure the following amounts 
were disbursed from the Renewals Fund:— 


(a) Permanent Way Renewals (Sleepers, etc.) oa ue 25,405 
(b) Renewals of Locomotives and Rolling Stock ... or 18,460 
(ce) Maintenance of Kishon Workshops ant we sae 1,491 

£P.45,416 


6. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railway proper 
to the 31st March, 1938, is appended : — 


From Loan Funds. £P. £P. 
Purchase of Assets from His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment (included in Item II of Appendix VI) 784,854 
Other Expenditure (see Item I of Appendix VI) 1,639,021 
———__2.423,875 
From Revenue. 
Capital Improvements to 31st March, 1937... 938,792 
Capital Improvements in 1937-8 eae oom 85,200 
——_ 1,023,992 
£P.3,447,867 


7. The revenue and expenditure of the Kantara-Rafa Railway 
for the year ended the 31st March, 1938, were as under: — 





£P. 

Revenue. 

Coaching and Goods bag a Bees Ney 107,329 

Miscellaneous = anes oe ane Wee 2,178 

109,507 

Expenditure. 

Operation Expenses wee 25% ane 33% 109,363 
Net Earnings a 138 we ict ee £P. 144 





These earnings were apportioned as under, in accordance 
with the special arrangement regarding this Railway :— 


£P. 
Renewals Fund ses eo Anes as 72 
Palestine Railway ... wee wid itd 72 


wn 


201 
There has been a decrease of £P.72,544 in the net earnings 
as compared with the previous year’s figure due mainly to 
the decreased military traffic on this section of the Railways. 
8. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway for 
the year 1937-8 were as under:— 











Revenue. ee ct 
Coaching and Goods es bes Ree Kae 74,227 
‘Miscellaneous ae Ae oes ren aris 6,703 

80,930 

Expenditure. 

Operation Expenses oe oe ues 24 119,587 
Capital Improvements ... a8 pad See 533 
Debt Charges se) wits ahs roe ete 50 
120,170 
Deficit i tae tet Bae i es £P.39,240 





The decrease in revenue is primarily due to the serious 
economic crisis following the disturbances of 1936. 

The capital expenditure of £P.533 represents improvements 
to stations and erection of gang posts (£P.300) and minor 
new works (£P.233). 

Qg. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah Tiqva Railway 
for the year under review were as under:— 





£P. £P. 
Revenue. 
see 3,637 
Miscellaneous _ 
= S 3,637 

Expenditure. 

Operation Expenses bet or he 840 
Net Earnings... ae oa ids wes £P.2,797 





Defence. 


to. A sum of £P.351,250 was provided in the estimates for 
1937-8 to cover the contribution to His Majesty’s Government 
towards the excess cost of the Royal Air Force Units and Army 
Units stationed in Palestine and Trans-Jordan and the cost of 
Army and Royal Air Force works services in Palestine. The 
amount due is usually paid quarterly on the basis of one-fourth 
of the sum provided in the United Kingdom Estimates in re- 
spect of Palestine’s contribution towards the cost of Defence; 
and the amount due for the last quarter is adjusted so as to 
allow for the latest estimate of excess cost received from the 
War Office and Air Ministry and such contribution is then 
demanded as is sufficient to cover the balance of the excess 
according to those Estimates. In the year under review, how- 
ever, the contribution for the two first quarters only was paid 
on approximately the basis of one-fourth of the sum provided 
in the Estimates, namely £P.86,000 for each quarter; but in 
November, 1937, the sum of £P.161,000 was claimed and paid 
and in March, 1938, the sum of £P.450,000, which included 


202 


an adjustment of £P.134,450 in respect of an under-estimate 
of the excess cost in 1936-7. In addition to the above pay- 
ments to His Majesty’s Government certain payments, amount- 
ing to £P.6,738, were made locally, in respect of purchase and 
rent of land, etc., for the Army. The total payments made, 
therefore, in respect of 1937-8 amounted to ee 655,288. 


The following contributions have been made during the years 
1928 to 1937-8 inclusive: — 


Financial 
period in Financial year in which 
which payment Amount. liability ts incurred. Amount. 
was made. 
£P. £P. 
1928 ... aes 53,500 1927-8 (I year) ban a sae 31,000 
1928-9 (9 months) ... tee se 22,500 
1929 ... os 30,375 1928-9 (3 months) ... we af 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) . a ats 22,875 
1930 ... wee 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) . 7,625 
1930-1 (payment for. 6 months at 
the original rate of £P.33,500 p.a., 
which was subsequently revised 
to £P.. 75,250 p.a.) .. 16,750 
1931... See 86,000 1930-1 ‘(payment of balance of 
contribution for the year at the 
revised rate Of $F -75:250 Pa.) a 58,500 
1931-2 (6 months) ... wee 27,500 
1932 (January 
to March) ... 27,500 1931-2 (6 months) ... aes wae 27,500 
1932-3 wee 90,000 1932-3 (I year) ase ee ues 90,000 
1933-4 oes IOI,000 1933-4 (I year) au rds Wed 101,000 
1934-5 sss 103,875 1934-5 (1 year) oe see s+ 103,875 
1935-6 wise 145,289 1935-6 (1 year) ses 28 vee 145,289 
1936-7 +++ 1,297,000 1936-7 (1 year) los oe sss 1,297,000 
1937-8 ae 783,000 1937-8 (1 year) ate ae wi 783,000 


Total £P.2,741,914 


Assets and Liabilities. 
11. The Assets and Liabilities are set out in Appendix III. 
At the 31st March, 1938, the surplus balance amounted to 
4P.2,400,839 as under: — 


&P. £P. 
Surplus Balance at rst April, 1937 ... 4,835,129 
Revenue for the period rst April, 1937, to 
31st March, 1938... 4,897,356 
Expenditure for the period ist April, 1937, 
to 31st March, 1938 7,297,688 
Deficit for the period rst April, 1937, | to 
31st March, 1938... : 2,400,332 
2,434,797 
Deduct: Depreciation of investments on 31st 
March, 1938 ae Bale Ss 33,958 


General Revenue Balance Account at 31st 
March, 1938 ... hes ase ite ae £P.2,400,839 


203 


ASSETS. 


1z. The outstanding Advances which figured on the state- 
ment of Assets and Liabilities at the 31st March, 1937, namely 
(i) Municipalities, (ii) Agricultural Loans, and (iii) Earth- 
quake Reconstruction Loans were adjusted in 1937-8 in com- 
pliance with the new colonial accounting procedure and trans- 
ferred to Heads XXVIII. Public Works Extraordinary; XIII. 
Department of Agriculture and Fisheries; and XXVI. Miscel- 
laneous, respectively, as shown in the relevant sub-paragraphs 
of paragra ok 4. Recoveries of these advances are accounted 
for as aera revenue. 


Investments. 


13. The value of stocks held by the Crown Agents for the 
Colonies on account of Government surplus balances at the 
31st March, 1938, was as under: — 


Value of stocks held on ast March, 1937. at middle 


market price ave ses 4,415,993 
Stocks sold during the year 1937- 3 des ene ees 1,745,429 
2,670,564 

Depreciation of book values of investments held on 31st 


March, 1938 ane aes oS ase 33,958 


Value of stocks held on mata March, 1938: at middle 
market price ... oa £P.2,636,606 


Investments sold during the year realized £P.1,745,429. 
Realization was necessary to meet the deficit for the year and 
to reduce the debt to the Joint Colonial Fund, which, standing 
at £P.675,000 on the 1st April, 1937, was reduced to £P.30,000 
on the 31st March, 1938. Investments held on behalf of funds 
in the custody of Government consist of stocks forming the 
Endowment Fund of the Palestine Archaeological Museum 
valued at £P.263,968; and the investment of the surplus balance 
of the Police Fines Fund, valued at £P.3,382. The total invest- 
ments, therefore, at the mean market value on the 31st March, 
1938, amount to £P.2,903,956 as shown in Appendix V, as 
compared with total investments amounting to £P.4,683,207 
held on the 31st March, 1937. 


Advances in anticipation of the New Loan. 


14. The balances which were shown under this account in 
the Report for the year 1937, have also been transferred to 
Expenditure in compliance with the new colonial accounting 
procedure. A statement is appended showing the provision in 
the proposed loan schedule, the total expenditure to the 31st 
March, 1938, on the works included therein and the Head of 
Expenditure to which the balances were transferred :— 


204 


Total Total 
Provision Expendi- 
bed cure ee Transferred to 


Work. proposed grist . 
Foam March, Expenditure Head. 


Schedule. 1938. 


£P. £P. 
1. Resettlement of Pispieces a. 
Arabs ae +» 250,000 85,796 XVII. Department 
of Development 
2. Water Supply and Drainage 
Schemes, etc. :— 
(i) Jerusalem Water Supply 370,000 370,000 XXVIII. Public 
Works Extraordinary 
(ii) Jerusalem Drainage 


Scheme ie 150,000 93,987 do. 
(iii) Haifa Drainage Scheme 130,000 15,415 do, 
(iv) Haifa Water Supply ... 200,000 3,698 do. 
(v) Hebron Water Supply 10,000 10,000 do. 
(vi) Water Resources Survey 6,000 5,936 do. 
(vii) Underground Water In- 
vestigations... 22,000 = 22,000 do. 
(viii) Improvements of Village 
Water Supplies... 45,000 = 42,193 do. 


3. Agricultural Credits :— 
(i) Investment in Land 
Mortgage Company 150,000 150,000 XXVI. Miscellaneous 
(ii) Long-Term Loans for 
Hill Areas ... 50,000 30,666 XIII. Department of 
Agriculture and 
Fisheries 
4. Construction of Oil Berth and 
Reclamation Scheme at 
Haifa :-— 
(i) Haifa Oil Dock s+ 150,000 155,565 XXVIII. Public 
Works Extraordinary 
(ii) Haifa East Reclamation 
Area... axe ae 60,000 54,435 do. 


5. Public Buildings, including 
Jerusalem Post Office and 
various Educational Build- 
ings and purposes incidental 
to, or connected with, any of 
the purposes mentioned in 
this Schedule, including the 
raising of the Loan :— 


(i) GovernmentArab College 27,000 24,006 do. 
(ii) Government Schools in 
Towns ee +s. 106,000 71,396 do. 
(iii) Government Technical 
and Trade School . 40,000 40,000 do. 
(iv) Capital Grants to Jewish 
Institutions... «20,000 ~=—- 17,843 XII. Department of 
Education 


(v) Jerusalem Post Office... 156,000 144,313 XXVIII. Public 
Works Extraordinary 
(vi) Cost of Raising of Loan — 56,000 _ 
(vii) Unallocated... a 2,000 —_- 


£P.2,000,000 1,337,339 


205 


LIABILITIES. 
Deposits. 


15. Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund.—The balance in this 
account represents the difference between the amount received 
by way of fees on exported citrus fruit and the amount expended 
on advertising. The gross amounts appearing in the account 
during the year under review were as under: — 








; £P. £P. 
Balance of the fund at rst April, 1937... wee 14,319 
Fees collected during 1937-38 ae ae wes 40,947 
55,266 
Advertising expenditure during 1937-38... eet 33,209 
Balance of the fund at 31st March, 1938... ag £P.22,057 





16. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.— 
The balance of the account is now made up as under: — 








£P. 
Amount of the fund at the 31st March, 1937 oe vee 263,754 
lus : 
Profit on investments realized during the year 1937-38 ... 1,308 
265,062 
Less: 
Depreciation of investments held at the 31st March, 1938, 
based on the mean market value ruling at that date... 1,094 
£P.263,968 





17. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Fund.— 
When Mr. John Rockefeller, Junior, undertook to provide 
$2,000,000 for the cost of construction and endowment of this 
Museum, it was estimated that the building would be completed 
in 1930, and the gift was promised on the understanding that 
the last payment would be called for not later than the Ist 
January, 1931. Owing, however, to unforeseen difficulties, 
construction did not proceed according to schedule and the 
building had not been completed at the 31st March, 1935. 
Nevertheless, a sum of $1,000,000 was received in November, 
1929, and an endowment fund created. Subsequent building 
grants, on a dollar basis, were also made from time to time 
with an extension of the period of call to the 1st January, 1933. 

Owing, however, to the fall in the value of sterling, the dollar 
values of the building grants were considerably in excess of the 
original sterling equivalents, while the enactment of the United 
States Gift Tax Law in Ae 1932, increased by almost 100 
per cent. the cost to Mr. Rockefeller of his benefaction. More- 
over, the delay in construction of the Museum had postponed 
the eee for maintenance, and interest thereby accrued 
on the Endowment Fund, although certain expenditure was 
inevitably incurred on staff and research work in connection 
with the classification and arrangement of archaeological 
material, records, and library. 


206 


In view of these changes, it was suggested that the original 
pledge should be tea by a new arrangement which ulti- 
mately took the following form:— 

(a) The cost of construction of the Museum estimated 
at £P.200,000 should be reduced to £P.193,000. This was 
made possible by economies on certain items of equipment 
and fittings. 

(b) £P.14,000 of the unexpended balance of income 
derived from the Endowment Fund at 31st March, 1934, 
should be transferred to the construction account. 

(c) The Endowment Fund should be reduced by the 
amount required to complete construction (this reduction 
was effected in 1934-5) after taking into account the sum 
of £P.149,308 already paid by Mr. Rockefeller and the 
transfer of £P.14,000 from the balance of the current 
account. 


The amount of £P.2,683, shown in the Statement of Assets 
and Liabilities, is made up as under:— 








£P. 

Amounts received from Mr. Rockefeller to 31st March, 
1935 at se ase eo wes vee Son 149,308 

Amount transferred from accumulated interest in 
current account on ose one ee see 14,000 
Amount transferred from the Endowment Fund ee 29,692 
Less: 193,000 
Amount expended to 31st March, 1938 aoe sale 190,317 
£P.2,683 





18. Moslem University of Palestine —In March, 1935, His 
Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad donated a sum of £P.7,543 
to form an Endowment Fund for the maintenance of a Moslem 
University in Palestine. This sum is now on sight deposit with 
Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.), Jerusalem, bearing interest at 
4 per cent. per annum. 


19. Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest.—The uest was made to 
His Majesty 8 Government, who appointed the Officer Adminis- 
tering the Government of Palestine to be the local representative 
for the administration of the trust. 


The bequest is for the construction and the endowment of 
Agricultural Training Schools at Tulkarm and Mt. Tabor. The 
total amount received was £P.121,551, but the bequest was 
enhanced in value by transactions on investments and by 
accumulation of interest to a total of £P.179,321. Of this total 
the sum of £P.93,084 had been remitted by the Crown Agents 
for the Colonies at the 31st March, 1938, for the construction and 


207 
equipment of the schools, leaving an amount of £P.86,237 in 


the d, which was held partly on deposit at call (£P.427) and 
partly in Trustee Securities (£P.85,810). 


Prior to the year 1934-5, interest from the Endowment Fund, 
together with school and farm receipts supplemented by a 
Government grant-in-aid, were utilized both for construction and 
maintenance. With effect, however, from the rst April, 1934, 
these receipts were credited to Revenue, and recurrent expendi- 
ture on the schools was provided for in the Estimates of the 
Department of Agriculture and Forests. There remained, how- 
ever, a balance of £P.4,756 in the current account at the rst 
April, 1935, which was utilized during 1935-6 and 1936-7 for 
capital work on school construction, with the result that a 
balance of £P.1,299 only remained in the account at the 31st 
March, 1938. The estimated cost of construction and equip- 
ment of the two schools is £P.80,148, of which the sum of 
£P.. i beso had been expended to the 31st March, 1938. A 

er sum of £P.1,724 is, therefore, required to complete the 
work. Of this a a balance of 4P.1,299 remains in the cur- 
rent account, and it may be necessary, therefore, to draw on 
the Endowment Fund in the hands of the Crown Agents for 
the Colonies to the extent of £P.425 in order to complete the 
construction and equipment of the schools. 


Loan Expenditure. 


20. The expenditure from Loan Funds is shown in Appen- 
dix VI. The Palestine 5 per cent. Guaranteed Loan of 
44,475,000, issued at £100 Ios. per cent., realized £P.4,497,375.- 

The net charge to expenditure during the year amounted to ~ 
£P.74,703 and was incurred on the following works:— 








£P. 
Jaffa Port Improvements... one AN 74,870 
Government Printing Press ... ste Nes 592 
75,462 
Less: 

Credits received in sah ig of Haifa Harbour 
Construction .. 3 on 759 
£P.74,703 





The charge oA £P. he 870 to the Jaffa Port Im proven: 
was in respect of works carried out prior to 1st April, 1937, 
and met from funds provided from surplus balances under 
the vote for Public Works Extraordinary. Owing to savings 
on the estimated cost of the construction of Haifa harbour it 
has been found possible to re-allocate the expenditure on items 
in the loan schedule by utilizing the savings on the Haifa har- 
bour construction to cover part of the excess expenditure on 


208 


the Jaffa port improvements, with the corresponding credit to 
surplus balances through revenue under Head VIII. Miscel- 
laneous. 


21. The total expenditure from Loan Funds at the 31st March, 
1938, amounted to £P.4,497,124, leaving a balance of £P.25r. 


Currency. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual 
Report for 1929.) 


22. During the year under review the Currency Board paid 
a contribution of £P.80,000 to the revenues of the Government 
of Palestine in respect of the year ended the 31st March, 1937. 


23. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the 
total value of currency in circulation at the 31st March, 1938, 
amounted to £P.5,009,134, or a decrease of £P.617,000 as com- 

ared with the value of currency in circulation at the 31st 

arch, 1937:— 

Coins and Notes in Circulation at 















































Denomination. 31st March, 31st March, 
Coins :— 1937. 1938. 

Silver coins :— £P. £P. 

100 mils ee ek oe oes 232,400 206,000 

50 mils ee Ss fis das 213,000 205,100 
Face value of silver coins ey ws £P.445,400 £P.411,100 
Nickel-bronze coins :— 

20 mils st er eh aor 24,100 22,000 

ro mils ass nee eee 33,300 33,600 

5 mils... wag a eis ae 21,700 22,100 
Face value of nickel-bronze coins... £P. 79,100 £P. 77,700 
Bronze coins :— 

2 mils... on sae es ee 2,896 2,892 

Imil ... os see ‘es ae 5,104 5,608 
Face value of bronze coins... «. £P. 8,000 £P. 8,500 
Face value of all coins ad vee £P.532,500 £P.497,300 

Notes :— 

£P.100 ... on aes tee one 20,600 14,700 
£P.50 Gad ae oes eae 76,200 53,400 
£P.10 or sa a wae 962,340 734,340 
£P.5 Pape ate 1,701,355 1,484,355 
£P.1 wes ae oe wee : 2,031,230 1,926,530 
£P.4 (500 mils) ... ies see nee 301,909 298,509 
Face value of notes... a8 . £P.5,093,634 £P.4,511,834 


Face value of coins and notes - £P.5,626,134 £P.5,009,134 


209 


Monopolies. 
24. (See paragraphs 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual 
Report for 1929 and paragraph 29 on page 165 of the Annual 
Report for 1933). 


Banks. 


25. In the Annual Report for 1937 reference was made to 
the provisions in the Banking (Amendment and Further 
Provisions) Ordinance, 1937, relating to minimum capital of 
banks. During 1938 the first effects of these provisions became 
apparent. It will be recalled that the minimum capital of 
local banks was fixed at £P.50,000 subscribed, of which not 
less than £P.25,000 had to be paid up in cash. Local banks 
which at the date of enactment of the Ordinance were not 
complying with this requirement and whose paid-up capital 
was less than £P.10,000 were, within nine months from the 
date of enactment, required to raise their subscribed capital 
to £P.20,000, of which £P.10,000 should be paid up in cash. 


On the termination of this first period of grace, 32 local 
banks had ceased to function as banks. The combined resources 
of these 32 banks were unimportant, and the reduction in the 
number of banks was effected without detriment to the economic 
life of the country. 


The number of banks operating in the country is now 43 of 
which six are incorporated abroad. Each of the six foreign 
banks has a paid-up capital in excess of £P.100,000 which is 
the minimum fixed by the Ordinance for such banks. Of the 
7, surviving local banks, 20 are not as yet complying with the 

1 capital requirements of the Ordinance and it is provided that 
these banks must raise the minimum paid-up capital by 
October, 1939. 


Appendices IX and X contain tables compiled from the 
statutory returns submitted to Government by banks. 


210 


APPENDIX I. 
Summary of Revenue for the years 1933-34 to 1937-38. 





1 
| 
1933-34 | 1934-35 | 1935-36 | 1936-37 | 1937-35 © 
(rst April,(rst April,|(rst April,|(rst April,|(rst April, | 
1933, to | 1934, to | 1935, to | 1936, to | 1937, 
Heads of Revenue. 31st gist gist 3rst gist 
March, March, March, March, March, 
1934). | 1935). | 1936). | 1937.) | 1938). 


£P. éP. £P. £P. £P. 





1. Customs «++ 11,868,598 |2,600,370 |2,751,246 |2,019,479 |1,999,697 
2. Port and Marine or 56,488 90,701 | 107,597 | 110,206 | 129,120 
3. Licences, Taxes, etc. ... | 857,180 |1,075,295 |1,082,427 | 852,948 | 982,032 
4. Fees of Court or Office, 

etc. s+ | 534,355 | 845,923 | 913,027 | 703,129 | 750,666 
5. Posts and “Telegraphs «+ | 287,843 | 355,817 | 418,896 | 477,493 | 508,887 
6. Revenue from Govern- 

ment Property wee 14,420 21,618 23,952 50,317 50,363 
7. Interest ave 56,896 97,102 | 141,279 | 150,730 | 130,284 
8. Miscellaneous ... «+» | 121,337 | 177,886 | 154,021 | 128,021 | 184,128 
g. Land Sales Sue oa 26,609 31,640 18,874 2,441 9,234 
to. Grant-in-Aid... 137,760 | 141,368 | 140,345 | 139,686 | 140,532 
11. Colonial _ Development 

Grants .. 24,006 14,913 18,793 6,371 12,413 

















£P./3,985,492 |5,452,633 |5,770,457 |4,640,821 14,897,356 


t 





2i1 


APPENDIX II. 
Summary of Expenditure for the years 1933-34 to 1937-38. 








Public Debt and Loan 
Charges of 

His Excellency the 
High Commissioner ... 

Secretariat wee 

District Administration 

Legal Department 

udicial Department 


Treasury 
| Audit Department i 
. Customs, Excise and 
Trade ... 
. Department of. "Health 
; Department of Education 
ent of Agri- 
culture and Fisheries.. 
Department of Agri- 
culture and Forests ... 
. Department of Forests... 
. Antiquities Department 
». Department of Lands and 
Surv 
Land Settlement _ 


, Department of Develop 


ment ... 
\. Police and Prisons eee 
). Department of Migration 
», Office of Statistics e 
!, Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force ... an 3 
1. Defence ... ave 
3. Posts and Telegraphs sua 
}. Public Works Department 
j. Public Works Recurrent 
5. Miscellaneous... 
1. Posts and Telegraphs 
Extraordinary 
3. Public Works Extra- 


ordinary : 
)- Trans - Jordan ‘Frontier 

Force Extraordinary... 
>. Railways (excess of Ex- 


penditure over itevenue) 59,259 
t, Colonial Development .. 24,003 





1933-34 


1934-35 


(rst April,|(rst A tian 


127,198 


9,313 
25,433 
97,712 
10,451 
89,534 
15,746 
12,181 


94,395 
135,838 
179,635 


115,076 


8,359 


27,298 
20,024 
60,007 


7,822 
486,605 
21,392 


172,318 
110,125 
167,245 

49,496 
189,369 
189,908 


27,487 
134,359 
13,075 


12,704,856 


1934 to 
gist 
March, 


£. 
28,747 


126,904 


10,694 
24,735 
108,790 
10,294 
91,545 
16,553 
12,793 


147,620 
166,311 
201,498 


147,286 


17,197 


26,541 


21,455 
62,810 


6,901 
506,712 
29,437 


165,165 
144,118 
225,048 

48,944 
228,875 
257,868 


71,623 


262,878 














1935). 


1935-36 
1935 to 
grist 
March, 
1936). 


£P. 
34,243 


126,449 
9,103 





39,487 
154,840 
11,000 
94,151 
17,095 
13,628 


243,449 
194,032 
221,087 


181,003 


18,340 
115,823 


8,304 
527,467 
32,424 
1,499 


171,187 
145,289 
310,778 

58,694 
288,086 
297,473 
132,301 
645,044 

18,477 


124,159 
690 





1936-37 


(rst April,|(rst Agril, 


1936 to 


gist 
March, 
1937). 


£P. 
37,040 


126,449 


10,254 
69,463 
156,931 
14,011 
100,882 
20,495 
17,998 





277.477 
204,350 
243,243 


177,387 


24,322 
23,920 


124,878 


17,244 
744,619 
36,965 
4,765 


179,257 
1,297,000 
351,943 
76,396 
320,350 
502,160 


129,002 
705,094 
9,944 


69,631 
32 





4,236,202 16,073,502 








1937-38 


(rst April, 


oI 


7,297,688 


1937 to 
31st 
March, 
1938). 


50,588 
158,896 


10,552 
76,651 
165,055 
18,112 
110,567 
22,762 
16,746 


250,530 
215,448 
300,742 


321,676 


25,201 


22,150 
130,334 


98,197 
941,975 
39,226 
6,418 


175,182 
789,738 
429,127 
132,497 
333.849 
466,683 


112,031 
614,885 
12,828 


230,123 
18,919 





212 














APPEND 
Statement of Assets a 
Liabilities. £P. Mus. £P. M 
Jomnt Cotontat Funp ... Was wes ies ea 30.000, 
Dzposirs— 
Citrus Fruit Advertisement Fund ae 22,056.602 
Command Paymaster Calevers: Barracks Drainage 
Scheme) 4,606.904 
Contractors’ Deposits see eas ane Ca roe 8,606.131 
Court Deposits... oat aes eta ta ae 74,066.980 
Customs Deposits... di ous es 12,008.863 
Grants-in-Aid (unspent balances) 
ene Development Fund 9.379 
phic Survey .. AN 7.216.974 
ea ordan Frontier Force ane 5,097.716 
Gaza Development Scheme wee ms 2,027.693 
Haifa Harbour Reclaimed Area, Building Deposits on 950.000 
Immigrants’ Guarantees eas 8,639.057 
Insurance Companies’ Guarantees ees eae wae 14,736.205 
Land Registry Deposits ... awe see #0 bee 7,016.484 
Local Education Committees... so aa ate 13,267.009 
Mecca Pilgrims’ Deposits 879.901 
Moslem University of Palestine (contribution by HH. 
the Nizam of Hyderabad) ae 7,600.401 
Municipalities ... see a os aed 12,514.311 
Other Governments ase wn aS es wee 2,630.176 
Orthodox Patriarchate ... ere ses ate See 1,189.392 
Ottoman Agricultural Bank... ise ees “i3 25,394.66 
Official Receiver ... 14,130.409 
Palestine Archaelogical Museum (Endowment Fund)... 263,968.121 
Palestine Archaeological Museum (Construction Fand) 2,682.956 
Police Fines Fund oss 4.754.078 
Posts and Telegraphs Deposits A ‘Account BS Fas 59,088.010 
Private Waqfs_... oe oe 417.542 
Renewal Funds 
Posts and Telegraphs ... AM ats oe Aa 82,718.000 
Jerusalem Water Supply ie ae ae ae 12,323.000 
Russian State Property ees 7.705.019 
Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest (Construction Fund) . 1,299.337 
Special Police Posts 7 1,823.815 
Supreme Moslem Sharia Council - 1,199.442 
Trans-Desert motor route, Palestine- Iraq (ecurity 
lodged by Haim Nathaniel) 10,000.000 
Unclaimed Property Me wee 148.622 
Undistributed Assets of Companies i in Liquidation aes 18.957 
Village Water Supplies a and Roads_... ie 8,443.889 
Sundry Accounts aes ad Aint 6,944.221 
708, 180.2 
DraFts AND REMITTANCES or on on one 605.2! 
Loan Account < : ot ers 251.5 
GENERAL REVENUE BALANCE ACCOUNT : one 
Balance on 1st April, 1937 4,835,129.154 
Deduct Balance of Surplus xe and Deficit ‘Account, 
1937-38 (Deficit) ae 2,400, 332.121 
2,434,797 .033 
Deduct Depreciation of Investments at 31st March, 1938 33,958.260 
Balance of General Revenue Balance Account as at re 
31st March, 1938 ome ae aie “ol Bis 2,400,838.7; 
£P.3,1 39,875.84 
FunpEp Dest. £P. 
Palestine Loan Stockholders BS 4,475,000 


The amount of the Sinking Fund at the 31st March, 1938, 
for the redemption of the Stock was £483,566 88. 2d. 


213 


bilities at 31st March, 1938, 


Eaeatees 
are ae a are ee oe . 
7ANCES— 
tank Deposits— 


Trans-Desert motor route, pareeune laa (eecarity: 
lodged by Haim Nathaniel)... ee 
Insurance Companies’ Guarantees 
Moslem University of Palestine (contribution by 
HH. the Nizam of Hyderabad) 
Undéistributed Assets of Companies in n Liquidation 
crown Agents _... re Rr 
sovernment Officers”... tee oor a a 
dther Governments aes oe on 
?ostmaster-General . 
?osts and Telegraphs Advance Accounts 
Railways . 
Sundry Accounts” as oe see 


PRESTS eee wee wee wee eee eee ee 


VESTMENTS AT MIDDLE MARKET PRICE ON 
31ST MARCH, 1938— 


Available Balances . 
Palestine urchesiogicel Museum Endowment Fund... 
Police Fines Fund “ one 


15774 


£P. Mils. 


10,000.000 
14,736.205 


7,600.401 
18.957 
4:575-000 
1,494.658 
962.643 
6,936.159 
21,645.162 
61,168.649 
710.987 


2,636,606.124 
263,968.12 
3,381.680 


129,848.821 


21,571.074 


2,903,955-925, 


£P.3,139,875.843 


214. 


i: g91'19'gF** oes . oes ete ee see one eee (11 xtpueddy) segmqery 
PUE sJoSsY Jo UOMTOZe}S OY} UI UMOYS SE JUNODDY soMeAPY sleseUeW [eIoUeD jo souLTeg 


¥of-Lg6'r 28 act aS sense ne8 “ ay phy “+ pagsn[pe 3a jou surez] : ssaT 
ES6SS1'fg tt Pas sue #5 sty ey oe @AOQe }USTIOZE}G UI UMOYS Se JUNO S,JoINseel] 
sim ‘qf 


dpieeady, em Uy 
yUNOdy eduBAPY &,JeSuuBAL [e1aUSD ey} WM szUNODy ABmTTeY Oy} UT JUNODY &,JoINSvOT] JO UOPEP]PUOIZY 


g9z Sot ‘61z'qF i 992° So€'61z'qF 
ES6SS1'fg °° Et oo ate _Fanoooy 8,romnsearL "9 
ogg €LL'1 oR Ras ne 2H * puny sour “¢ 
6oz'Lzg'E61 *** S52 sTeuaye Hy pue ‘821035 pozeooyeuy, “b SEqLS1'g Es ce “ sysodaq ‘¥ 
6g6z7zeSr te pe “+ sgoueapy °“& 1g6°LL9‘61 ‘ss  gunosoy pen sear eabty yejog “€ 
bEz165'b aa a8 Pee _ Shemred aS uendAsy ‘z Sgl-gzz‘bg Pung sjemauey Aemprey (eyey-erequeyy) reuts *z 
gfgEgl'S 33% si oPh yse ‘1 bec ere zy a pung spemouoy Aemprey ounsareg ‘1 
sim ‘af sy “AF 
“spassy “SasitttqurT 


"SE6I ‘PIB ISTE JB JUOUTUIOAODH sUpSeIBG eM Aq payesedo ShUMTTeY Bm) JO SOMPIGSY] pu syessy oy} Jo JUEUTIOWTI<S 


‘AI XIGNAddv 


215, 


_ APPENDIX V. 
_ Statement of Investments. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS. 


Nominal Cost Priceon 
Value. Price. 31st 
March, 
1938. 
Available Balances— £° 8s. da £P. Mils. 
British Guiana 1959/69 3 per cent. 

Stock ... 23,000 0 0 22,253.500 94 
Ceylon 1959 3 per cent. “Stock :: 123,236 8 1 124,345-757 98 
Ceylon 1959/64 3 per cent. Stock 75,000 0 O 75,000.000 94 
Federated Malay States 1960/70 

3 per cent. Stock . 250,000 0 O 250,000,000 94 
Trinidad 1965/70 3 per cent. Stock 50,000 0 O 50,000,000 92 
Uganda 1955/65 3$ percent.Stock 19,727 7 8 21,017.350 102° 
Commonwealth of Australia 

1939/41 3 percent. Stock ... 121,579 3 1 122,867.657 100° 
Commonwealth of Australia 

1955/58 3 percent. Stock ... 82,581 3 11 77,655.964 88 
Commonwealth of Australia 

1943/48 4 per cent. Stock ... 17,000 0 0 17,486.538 101° 

mmonwealth of Australia 

1946/49 32 per cent. Stock ... 21,184 13 9 21,666.125 100 
Commonwealth of Australia 

1941/43 23 per cent. Stock ... 12,500 0 0 12,625.000 98 
Bradford 1940/60 43 Per cent. 

Stock ... 14,126 10 2 15,492.996 105 
Brighton, 1940/60 ‘a per cent. 

7,007 6 9 7.543.634 104 

Seow 1953 3 per cent. Stock | 35,000 0 O 33.445-192 95 
Canada 1940/60 4 per cent. Stock 74,310 13 5 77,400.944 102 
Canada North. Ontario Railway 

1961 3} per cent. Stock + §,037 13, 5 5:173-703 98} 
Cardiff 1914/54 3 per cent. Stock 34,000 0 0 34,383.471  94t 
Cardiff 1952/55 3 per cent. Stock 10,238 16 7 10,268.149 96 
oleye Bay 1953/55 3 per cent. 

tock 24,000 0 0 23,640,000 95 

Ses “Loan ‘1944/64 5 per 

cent. Stock ” 40,828 15 1 47,667.570 112} 
Conversion Loan 1948/53 3 per 

cent. Stock s+. 222,482 2 7 236,388.035 101 
Conversion Loan 1944/49 2} per 

cent. Stoc! «s+ 303,616 6 10 302,119.897 97} 
Edinborely Faisiee 4t per cent. 

tock 18,800 0 0 20,233.500 105% 

Pending Lean 1956/61 a per 

cent. Si 121,327 2 It 112,812.633 88} 
Hetordhie 948) 533 per cent. 

Stocl 12,061 3 5 12,450.458 100 
Hull ae 5 per cent. Stock .. 50,000 0 0 55,039.100 106} 
Hull 1921/51 3 per cent. Stock . 7oo 0 0 702.725 97 
India 1954/59 3} per cent. Stock... 24,065 13 0 25,449.758 103% 
Liverpool 1955/58 3 per cent. 

Stock 45,200 0 0 44,974.000 96 
London “Electric Transport 

1950/55 24 per cent. Stock ... 118,200 0 o 114,654.000 92 
Middlesex 1948/53 3 per cent. 

Stock  ... oy am «+ 66,846 17 9 68,594.755 99 


15774 


Middle 


Market 
Value on 


market 31st March, 


1938 
(at middle 
market 
price on 
that date). 
£P. Mils. 
21,620,000 
120,771.676 
70, 500.000 
235,000.000 
46,000.000 
20,121.931 
121,579-154 
72,671.452 
17,170,000 
21,184,688 
12,250.000 
14,832.833 
7.287.632 
33,250.000 
75»796.884 
4,962.106 
32,130,000 
9,829.276 
22,800.000 
46,034.420 
224,706.950 
296,025.933 
19,834.000 
107,374.524 
12,061.171 


53,250.000 
679.000 


24,907.948 
43,392,000 
108,744.000 


66,178.419 
Hz 


216 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTS—conid. 








Market 
Middle Value on 
market 31st March, 

Nominal Cost Priceon 1938 
Value. Price. gist (at middle 

March, market 

1938. price on 
that date). 
s. d. £P. Mils. £P. Mils. 

New Zealand 1945 4} Per cent. 

Stock .. 4.446 8 7 4.768.796 102 4535-358 
New Zealand 1943/63 4 per cent. 

Stock .. + 10,000 0 0 10,325.600 100 10,000,000 
New Zealand 1955/60 341 Per cent. 

Stock . 1,506 17 10 1,537-029 96 1,446.616 
New Zealand 1949/54 341 Per cent. 

Stock .. + 71,351 0 8 70,807.396 96 68, 496.992 
New Zealand 1945 3 per cent. 

Stock ... 102,639 18 7 100,801.334 95 97.507 -933 
New Zealand 1952/55 3 per cent. 

Stock ... «+ 193,881 3 10 191,988.774 88  170,615.449 
Nuneaton 1953/56 3 per cent. 

Stock s+ $1,259 13 8 5°,499-459 93 = 47,671.505 
Palestine 1942/67 § per cent. Stock 9,518 17 7 11,268.571 IIIf  10,613.550 
Plymouth (Devonport), 1920/60 

3 per cent. Stock A 8,500 0 0 8.574.875 93% 7.947.500 
Salford 1954/56 3 per cent. Stock 35,680 18 7 35,432-375 95 33,896.883 
St. Helens 1915/55 3 per cent. 

Stock .. 600 0 9 604.608 95 570.036 
Stoke 1955/65 3t per cent. Stock 18,681 15 I 19,150.248 98 18, 308.119 
Stretford 1955/65 3} per cent. 

Stock .. 10,000 0 O 10,031.450 97%¢ 9, 750.000 
Swansea 1955 3 per cent. ‘Stock .. 4.017 3°11 4.107.200 94 3.870.164 
Union of South Africa 1954/64 

3 per cent. Stock ae s+» 140,000 0 0 140,417.871 95 —133,000.000 
Victoria 1929/49 3% per cent. 

Stock ae 6,000 0 oO 6,056.004 96 5.760.000 
Victoria 1929/49 3 per cent. Stock 12,880 6 4 12,466.256 94 12,107.498 
Wakefield 1955 3 per cent. Stock 23,262 18 7 23,645.030 96 22.332.412 
Western Australia + 1935/55 3 per 

cent. Stock ve 15,701 2 11 15,937.046 97 15,230.112 

Total £2,743,686 5 4 £P.2,761,772.333 £P.2,636,606.124 
(2) Securities held in trust on behalf 
of the Palestine Archaeological 
Museum. 
Birmingham 1946 or after 3} per 

cent. Stock 22,477 I I 23,849.804 100 22,477-054 
British Guiana Demerara. Railway 

Perpetual 4 per cent. Stock ... 2,653 0 oO 2,756.134 99 2,626.470 
Bristol Perpetual Debenture 3} 

per cent. Stock i 7,079 2 6 7.124.738 99 7,008.334 
Commonwealth of Australia 

1948/53 3} per cent. Stock 10,000 0 O 9,921.975 100 10,000.000 
Canada 1953/58 4 per cent. Stock 193 I 3 203.762 108 208.508 
Consolidated 1957 or after 4 per 

cent. Stock aa + 22,177 0 9 18,462.827 109 24,172.971 
Croydon Irredeemable at per cent. 

Stock... 2,355 12 4 2,466.242 or 2,379-173 


217 


APPENDIX V—contd. 
Statement of Investments—conid. 
SECURITIES HELD BY CROWN AGENTs—conid. 


lasgow Irredeemable 3} ‘Per cent. 
Stock... 

(all Irredeemable| “3h per cent. 
Stock ie Bs 

odia 1948 or after 3 Per cent, 
Stock 


iverpool ‘Jrredeemable s 
cent. Stock .. per 
ondon County Consolidated 1920 
or after 3 percent. Stock ... 
fanchester Irredeemable 4 per 
cent. Stock 2 

iwansea Irredeemable 3h per cent. 
stock 

Nest Australia 1935/55 at per 
cent. Stock 


Total 


Securities held in trust on behalf . 


of the Police Fines Fund— 


commonwealth of Australia 
1946/49 33 per cent. Stock ... 

Commonwealth of Australia 
1964/74 3% per cent. Stock ... 

New Zealand 1955/60 3 per cent. 
Stock ... Bs 


15774 


21,550 

7,803 
37.718 
51,083 
24,914 
32,722 
13,817 
15,158 


++ £271,703 


1,800 
497 
1,181 


£3,478 


13 


w 





Market 
Middle Value on 
market 31st March, 
Cost Priceon 1938 
Price. gist (at middle 
March, market 
1938. price on 
that date). 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
22,880.506 100 21,550.000 
8,298.430 99 75725-5093 
29,636.958 77 29,043.165 
53,535-436 100 51,083.254 
20,927.025 85 21,177.431 
37,053-482 110 35,994-274 
14,631.226 100 13,817.883 
15,386.62% 97 14,704,101 


£P.267,135.166 £P.263,968.121 





1,755,000 100 1,800,000 

504-770 90 447-664 

1,204.892 96 1,134.016 

£P.3,464.662 £P.3,381.680 
H3 


Date. 


1938 
31st Maich 


218: 


Receipts. 


Proceeds of 5 per cent. Loan 
of £4,475,000Stock, issued 
at £100 ros. od. per cent. 


Revised ‘Allocation of Loan 
as approved by the Secre- 
tary of State in his tele- 
gram No. 187 of roth 
May, 1938. 


Item I. 

Railways :— 
1. Railway Workshops 
2. Other Railway Works 


Item II. 

Purchase of Railway and 
other capital assets 
from His Mojesty:e 
Government . 


Item III. . 
Harbour Construction and 
Port Improvements :— 
1. Jaffa Port Improve- 
ments 
2. Haifa Harbour Con- 
struction 


Item IV. 
Telegraphs and Telephones 
Government Offices and 
Construction and 
Equipment | of Priatng 
Office ... 
Cost of raising Loan 


Be. 


245,042 


1,393,979 


278,870 


1,210,413 


188,126 


60,642 
120,303 








APPENDIX 

Loan Account Statemeat 

Amount, 

£P. Mik 

4+497,375.000 
£P. 
1,639,021 
1,000,000 
1,489,283 
369,071 
£P.4,497,375 

£P.4,497,375-000 


——__—_— 


219 


V1. 
Eat 3ist March, 1938. ' 
* Date. Expenditure. : Amount. 
£P. Mils. £P. Mils. 
| 1938 Item I. Railways :-— 
gistMarch 1, Railway Workshops... 245,041.458 
. 2. Other Railway Works (com- ig 
pleted)... ... ase see 1,393,979.057 1,639,020.515 
Item II. Purchase of Railway and 
other capital assets from His 
Majesty’s Government I,000,000.000 
Item III. Harbour Construction and : 
Port Improvements :— 
1. Jaffa Port Improvements ... 278,870.000 - 
2. Haifa Harbour Construction 1,210,161.984 
___ 1,489,031.984 
Item IV. Telegraphs and Telephones 188,126.494 
Government Buildings :— 
Acquisition of site eee ses 21,300,000 
Government Printing Press... 39,342.000 
Cost of raising Loan ... Nae 120, 302.458 
7 369,070.952 
; 4.497,123.451 
Balance ay asa ee aa 251.549 
£P. 4,497,375-000 
15774 H4 





1L0'69£'gF 














£of‘ozr 2 os UeOT] Butsrer Jo 80D, 
z¥g‘09 2080 summa 5 7 yuomdinba pur woRons3su0) pure sooyeO JUaMINIAA0S) 
gzr'ggt souoydeay, pue sydei3ojoy, 
‘at —: Jepun se dn opeyy (v) 
bz1‘Lob'y SLE‘LObY 000‘00S ‘t 000‘00S‘b 
(v) 1L0‘69€ (v) rL0‘69€ 969‘1LE o000'Shl UeOT 94} JO Sutster 9y} Surpnyour 
‘gInpayps sty} ul pauonueu sasodind 04} jo 
Aue y3IM pazoeuU0d JO 0} [e}Ueprour sesodind 
pue ‘jueudofeasp jo syIOM souTU ‘shoains 
‘souoydejaz pue sydeisejo, ‘sZurpyimq oyqng ‘¥ 
z£o'6gh'r Egz‘6gh'r €gz‘6gh'1 oo0‘Sr1‘T __ uomeaosd any Hog pue uononsysuoD smoqiepyy *£ 
000‘000'T 000‘000'T 000‘000‘T 000‘000‘T “  queurmraA0y s,Aysaley STEHT 
toy} syasse Teydeo saq7o pue Aveajrer jo oseyoing ‘z 
1z0‘6£9'1 1z0‘6£9'1 1z0'6£9'1 000‘obg‘r s+ skemyreyy “1 
‘at ‘at ‘at F 
“gO ‘uvoT fo “9g fo “gZz6r ‘Yay suvo7| 
aounjyg ‘youn SIE spaa20ad AavjaazaS ay, | voiafy jsvq puv 
pepuadxaun |7 sanprpuadxg | — ponyov fo 4q panosddn auyseod "Sy4oM 
tony worvoon yy 4094090]10-34 04 ainpayrS 

















“SE61 ‘WOIB ISTE 3B sedUL[Eg UBOT Jo JUEUIE}IS 
‘IIA XIGNHddV 


a 





fgS ‘over aF 








6£6'90r'r vee nee nee oes gum onan (mm) 
apes "+ gqsau0J pus sopegqey ‘ammspsy ® 
€ et oe dene eee aoneonPH 


—! smomos se pornggnstp oxe yoy ‘ampooord Suy;En000" 
frees 40d 043 G3} oOUeTduCD uy gf-LE61 oy amyfpuedxe 0} poUojsmes} 3nq 
‘tor ‘Tpdy 38x 03 ropd soomeapy 03 poszeqo syEnoure jo yOouNRSN{pe sopnpou] (3) 


samoqns 
eSeuzerq waesnref oq} pue souteqes soyddng mye oSeTTA pue vorgeH ‘woresni0/ 
2q3 JO y00dser uy pony yourdojoAog ) 9G} Toy sjUBB gouEsssse Er¥'zI-gh 


uy emNyppuadxe oy} 


pus ‘ounsoeg areqynog jo Aoams 074 iq 943 GO 
fgé‘eaF sopnpouy (/) 


Fo £j2]001 Of} Jo yUouTa22A0y ¢,AysofeRY STH TOs pye-U]-30' 























‘Koamg pue somaqos sonddng 303e M4 ofeTTTA 


up puny yueudozeaaq 


pue woiqoH 94} pue s 
uy puny wawudopacq 





Avmpres aiqissod v jo ‘sraony8ugq 








AL Jo 47 
0} pang yuoudojeaag [vruojo> 94} Wosy ysaz0;Uy § 



















































1Ez‘1go'z ghr‘Siz (a) LLg‘ov€ | (8)zbL‘oo€ Ip Hel | (f)SbO'zSr 

obg‘ror‘r oOS€‘boz 60L‘10z Ebz'ebz bgl'v6b'h | (2)LSo'oh1 _— 

$zg‘166 z£9‘b61 €oo'rgr Lgo'rzz 61€'119'S | (p)g€1‘6S1 — 

969‘0rS 11€‘991 ggz‘Lbr g6b‘10z zSE‘96z" (9) 1gz‘oSt — 

bzz'€Le geg'SEr gLo‘Si1 S€9'6L1 “zL'€zg'€ | (q)g9Z'191 | — “+ bE-€L61 

rSbLZre zSO'rrr G1S‘9g ozS‘6Sr 6z1‘ggg'z gglidzr _ nee ad  €€-zE6r 

1£0'Sg 1gt‘9z €gb‘oz zzt'o£ GSS‘6z9 | vEL‘dz _ Z€61 ‘yore 07 Arenue[ 

SEES gr6‘Sor Lzz'1g gg6‘orr gg6‘orr‘z 606‘zzz _ ae a ay 1£61 

zZgQ6‘zgE 1gh‘Sor giS‘zor Soo'ebr ogz‘gtf'z ogz'ib — of61 

L¥6‘o0€ vgg‘101 p1L'gl 6gL‘6Er 6b0'66z'‘z EzS‘bz — a 6z61 

orLizve 1gS‘g6 og ‘zl Srr‘L€r ozS'gbS‘z LOL‘SE — Ee gz61 
(v)gzg‘zoS gSg'tZ o6b'zS 6£0‘0or S€0'60L'1 SPE‘OE _ ooo'SLb'b | L761 ‘xaquiasaqy 0} [Udy 

r€r‘rr€ 949‘16 z1€‘Sq Org’orr 6gg‘bol‘z oLt‘og | _ a ++ Lz-9z61 

vlo'liz r1b'Sg 6g0'LE z66'€or gbb‘boo'z gZg‘boz - — **+ gz—Sz61 

HSE'bSr obb'tg 169'SE 999‘zor 0zg‘6S6'r gzr‘S61 — _— +++ Oz—bz61 

g9S‘Lbr g69‘€6 O€S‘g€ zLl‘66 ggZ‘Slo'r zzg‘obz — a + bz-£z61 

Sge‘6r1z vlo'lir o1g‘gt 0zS'16 1£g‘609‘r 000‘S6z —_— _ . €v-zz61 

v6E'vor 96S‘gb1 LEE‘gb grv‘06 rS‘1LE‘z - ci Zz—-1Z61 

IZ61 ‘Wore 
009'LS1 zle‘1z1 gbo'r€ 6Lo‘oS vggSEr'r yst€ 03 ‘oz61 ‘Ajnf{ 4sr 
‘at ‘at ‘at ‘a ‘at ‘ay ‘at ‘at 
“SJUDAD) “saouvappy 

. S38940.7 “saoanos 

SYAOM YHOO EL : aqp4anores pun “(saan 

Md Md ben nal si rd uoswonpT ates ei ~uON SUDOT 4s2}0}) savak anyvasiusup py 

i 199 40 1D19UDUILT 
“nyt 49430 
onuanoy "S8IANOS JOUAMX AT PHM 
#0 puss sunomy moaf mmusnay 











~ 222 


*A[WO SATE [BOC] « 








1Sz‘€Lg‘oz | 606‘vr10'zz ISz‘€Lg‘oz | 606‘F10'rz 








6g1‘SES 
6LLgbz'1 


g€g‘b6S 
Lg6‘Lov'r 


***g19I0JSNS Jo JUNODIe UO sUOTeSTIGO 
1aq}O ~pue sjuomesIOpuy ‘soozUBIENS) 
*'* gIgUI0}SNd Jo JUNODIE UO sa0uE}daD0y 
** sapred 700, io syqueg Woy ssoueApy 
*  aqedeg sing 









€r1‘Sgr 6Lg‘bSz 
6LLigbz't | Lg6‘Lob‘r 


Lex‘zz 
296‘Loz 
6g2‘bEz 


1vg‘gt 
660'12z 
bLL‘ogz 


s}yUNOdy 10730 
(e000 10d se) 
eee 10430 pue s}usuIasIOpuy 
























‘soopmereny 105 ‘sxomi0}sn) josonmiqery | SbS‘19€Ex | 1g0‘116'€1 sysodag je}0L 
1bg‘gr Lgr‘zz (exyU009 sed se) 
seouedeose 303 sroui0}6nD jo sarmiqery | gz6‘ggt‘€ | gol‘toh‘e s}isodaq ouny 
€6F‘6Sz zlg‘ozz t sostmeig queg | Z19‘zZ6‘6 | ELE‘gbb‘o1 s}isodeq puewaq 
Ezg'SSb'h | Lle‘ogi’S | °° 238 ee “+ $qUeTIASeAT] 
So€‘Lgr'g | gfE‘obL‘Z | °° a8 aoe nD sooueapy | 9gS‘Eho'E | gbE'bEr1'b __ Soe 20} Pleq ssouereg: 
z6gigoz‘z | Sbo'vbliz | °° a aco pezunoosiq stig | ZoZ‘gSr fglizbr #S80InjzUeqoq 
bLlivbo'€ | LSLizLL'€ | °° “+ sHUeg GyM pioq ssouereg | 26z‘Egr g909‘9gr sPUnJ sarasayy 
1fb‘gLr'r | 692‘¥o9 oe pueg uo uonng pue Aouarzing | PZE‘Zor'1 | ze€‘zd1'r edn pred jepdea 
‘at ‘aft . . 
*ge6r *LE61 *LE61 
‘soquaaydas | ‘raquiaydag “s88y ‘requieydag ‘sonmaery 
OE Tot Wok 





‘E61 ‘soquIe}deag TOE om) puE ‘ZE6T ‘sequiagdag TOE 
eq} Je SB OUPSeV_ UT sseuteNnq UO BupAIIED syUB_ [IO] pus UByJoI0 Jo sePATAeY] pus syassy jo Arwurumg 


“XI XIGNAddV 









































€.1 Sco'zEx tg 1-1 €b1 ozr 6zg Sig “a syonpoid painzoerynueu 10430 
I-t blo'zi1 zee vr ggo'zhr 609 are see ‘+ syoliq pure yuaura. ‘au0}S 
b.o zoe‘ br Coz £.0 Lig'ze Lgr paid #38 ast “+ sjyonpoid [eormey9 
S.r L60'zg1 zo Let Lev‘elr oSg = ace (Aaouqoet Surpnypout) szonpoid ezayW 
L.o 6EL‘zZ cet 9-0 C1'Sg ozb ats <8 aes iayeU payuug 
O-r 1Z0‘QOI gor go 069‘€g gbr — ro ans ses sjio pue deog 
O-r gbi‘tor €ZZ O-r €gl‘Cor ob6 a _(sarzojo8y einzuINy Zurpnypour) syonpoad zeded pur poo, > 
G.1 gz6'091r 1z0'r ber ogS‘bhr z66 ses s see ate nee aes SuryzO[D pue sojyxoL 2 
L.z zho‘ogz gol Lez tig'Lgz L£z6 sf ae cai ese syonpoid o99eq0} pue AUP ‘poo.t s 
fo aanjovfnuv py 40.7 a 
8-8 £or'Sz6 ELE'gr L.6 LolS1o'1 | tgo‘gt hig “  sSurproy yeinqjnouSe oj 10 uD 
£.0 LE6‘Lz tor £.0 ZEb HE 1gt aes sd she 4904S SAT] IOJ IO UG 
€.S1 | L6z‘66S'1 | zzg'z g-St | €Lr'rbg't | Lr9‘z ae a she INIT $}1 IO BAOIT sn4sz19 Vy} IOF 10 UD 
BANYNIVAS YAO 
g-0 Egh'gl 06 t.o 196'Ib 6g was : ied aa Be : ase di *** saTpoq 
A31T4N Te19Uss 19y}0 pue yop ‘mmoqrey ‘19zeM ‘ABOLQOAIA ‘seS OF 
1-€ SEz‘EzE zl S.z irL‘toz £9 ‘say NY ase[[tA pue sjounog woo] ‘sayyedioruny OL 
‘at ‘ay 
7 
‘sromloysng | “Te}O], “sIouIO}sNg 
jo “qunouy jo jo “qunowy jo 
*3U99 194) Joquinyy |"}u99 194] Joaquin 
*g€6r ‘xoquiajdag y}0£ *LE61 ‘requiezdag yo 





EEUU IEEE GREE ooo 


"£61 ‘requiezdeg MOE PUY ‘ZE6T ‘requIeides MoE 
38 su (ss0UI0}SND 0} ssoUBAPY PUB PozUNODs|q SII) SUBOT YUL_ JO UOPNGTNISIG 


*X XIGNHddvV 





L61'ggh'or 





1g6‘¥gv'or 

















zg gfg'oss Sor'y 
gy gvS'10S €lg 
4 €Lz'1€L toz't 
£.0 €LlSz gor 
6.6 zg9‘obo'r SgS‘bz 
LL 1b€'11g Ses 
L.o €gr1‘gl zgi 
9-0 III‘'zg 68S 
0-% zSS‘€1z 





££0'96¢ 
€Lo‘61S‘1 


€61'1zE 


*srouI0}SNZ 
jo 





*g€61 ‘1equiezdog q}0F 
























9°$ LEz'6gS one _ ae ose ++ gutaqt 228110 
tv Err‘ghy see - (sa3e3z10uz) sdutpying 
$.¢ bzS‘glS oye oes ore “*  pue’y jo sseqoing 
Z-0 6gl‘zz 8 e+ sUIa0U0D JUSUIUTE}IEzUq 
¥.or | Sgg'ggo‘r so oc ‘STENLArpUr azeatid pue jeuorssayorg 
$.¢ 1L6'zl¢ on o37 ae ae ‘039 ‘setzaroos aaye1edo-00 
zparo ‘squeq ‘satueduroo soueINsUI BUIPN{OUI ‘sUII.UOD [EIOUeULT 
L-o vor'rl rs oie oe SUONZHSUt s[qepIeYo pus sNorsIxy 
9:0 092‘6S sasnoy ZuIpivog pue szueInejsal ‘s[a}0}{ 
G.z 1oo0‘€gz oe oe saotares Podsuel] pu sapsIqaa JOO 











40f 40 0} 2 SnoauDa2s$ Wr 








SLz‘geS 


+++ gymeqozour [reqar OL, 
1€9‘bgQ'r 


a cs ee t+ syreWorIeUr ayesajoqM OL 
a04aumoy jv4aUaL 


w01}9aI0 JO BsINOD Ut SBuIpINg 10,7 
uouymnssu0y 





*LE6r ‘1oquiazdag qyof 





‘pruos— ge6I ‘tequaeides GIVE puE ‘ZE6T ‘zequIe;deg MOE 


38 sv (sI9MI0}sND 0} seoUBAPY PUB poJUNODS{ S]IIq) sUBO]T _UBY Jo UOANGLDSIG 


“piwoo—"X  XIGNAddV 


225 


XXII.—DEMOGRAPHIC, VITAL AND MIGRATION 
STATISTICS AND OFFICE OF STATISTICS. 


Demographic Statistics. 


Note.—For the latest full account of the population, its 
development up to 1931 and tts geographical distribution, refer- 
ence should be made to Chapters I and II of Volume I of the 
Census of Palestine, 1931. 

The de facto population of Palestine, exclusive of members of 
His Majesty’s Boreas, was estimated to be 1,435,328 at 31st 
December, 1938, the division by religions being as follows :— 





Moslems... ade ove 900,260 
Jews ose To ave 411,253 
Christians 25 ue 111,976 
Others ... aa ee 11,839 

Total aoe ws 1,435,328 





The classification by religion has been adhered to in popula- 
tion statistics since the beginning of the British Occupation. This 
classification of vital occurrences is socially necessary because 
the law of personal status in Palestine is the law of the particular 
religious community to which a person belongs. 


2. It was recognized at the census of 1931 that classification 
by ‘“‘ race’’ or “ maponally, ”’ into the broad groups, Arabs, 
Jews, and Others, is a political necessity. At that census, 

sons were asked to state to which of the three groups (Arabs, 
Wee and Others) they belonged. The following table shows 
the inter-connection between the religious communities and the 
‘racial ’’ groups that the census revealed among the settled 
population. Nomads, who numbered 66,553 at the census and 
were practically all Moslems, are omitted :— 


Religion. 





. Jews. | Christians.) Others. 





274G10 1ort98 

7 9,11 

174,378 385 
145 600 





Out of a total of 693,159 Moslems, 690,420 or 99-6 per cent. 
described themselves as Arabs. The remainder were principally 
Egyptians and Turks. Out of a total of 91,398 Christians, 73,281 
or 80-2 per cent. were Arabs, while the remainder were prin- 
cipally members of European races and Armenians. The mem- 
bers of other non-Jewish religions in the population, who are 


principally Druze by ag a numbered 10,10r of whom 9,116 
described themselves as Arabs. 


226 


3. If it be assumed that now, as in 1931, the Arab population 
is made up of 99-6 per cent. of all settled Moslems, 80-2 per 
cent. of all Christians, 90 per cent. of all other settled non-Jews, 
and the whole Beduin population, the following rough estimate 
of the pepenes at 31st December, 1938, classified by ‘‘ race,’’ 


is reached :— ° 
Arabs aH 997,000 
Jews ... eat 411,000 
Others rat 27,000 


Total ... 1,435,000 


4. A census of population was taken on 23rd October, 1922, 
and again on 18th November, 1931. In the intervening years 
statistics of births and deaths and of migration were used to 
estimate mid-year populations. The adjusted series of estimated 
as diag for inter-censal and post-censal years are as 
‘ollows:— 

POPULATION OF PALESTINE (EXCLUDING MEMBERS OF His Mayjzsty's 


ForcEs) AT THE CENSUS OF 1922, AND AS ESTIMATED AT 30TH JUNE 
IN EACH OF THE YEARS 1923-38, BY RELIGIONS. 


Year. All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Christians. Others. 
1922... oe 752,048 = 589,177 83,790 71,464 7,617 
1923... we 778,989 609,331 89,660 72,090 7,908 
1924... oe 804,962 627,660 94,945 74,094 8,263 
TQZ5 renee 847,238 641,494 =: 121,725 75.512 8,507 
1926... ai 898,362 663,613 149,500 76,467 8,782 
1927)... ane 917,315 680,725 149,789 77,880 8,921 
1928... ae 935,951 695,280 151,656 79,812 9,203 
19290, we 960,043 712,343 156,481 81,776 9.443 
1930... oe 992,559 733149 164,796 84,986 9,628 
193I... vee 1,023,734 753,812 172,028 87,870 10,024 
1932... vee 1,052,872 771,174 180,793 90,624 10,281 
1933: we 1,104,884 789,980 209,207 95,165 10,532 
1934. vee 1,171,158 807,180 253,700 99,532 10,746 
1935. «se s»-1,261,082 826,457 320,358 103,371 10,896 
1936... we 1,336,518 848,342 370,483 106,474 11,219 
1937... «+ 1,383,307 + 875,951 386,074 109,762 11,520 


1938 1,418,619 895,159 399,808 += 111,796 11,856 


5. There has been unrecorded illegal immigration both of 
Jews and of Arabs in the period since the census of 1931, but no 
estimate of its volume will be possible until the next census is 
taken. 


6. The estimated total population has increased in the 16 
years from the census of 1922 to the end of 1938, by 683,293 
persons or oI per cent. The increase is due to immigration and 
to the excess of births over deaths, the allocation of the total 
increases between these two factors being estimated to be as 
follows:— 

All Religions. Moslems. Jews. Chyistians. Others. 
Total increase of 


population ... 683,293 311,079 327,473 40,519 4,222 
Increase bv 
gration ~ III 18,281 259,371 9,208 251 


Natural 182 292,798 68,102 31,311 3,971 


227 


The precision ‘of these figures is not great, but they indicate 
that all three religions have gained by migration, the smallest 
proportional gain being among the Moslems. It is of interest 
that the Jewish increase by migration in the 16-year period was 
less than the Moslem natural increase in the same period and 
that the total increase of the Jewish population was only slightly 
larger than the total increase of the Moslem population. 


The figures of increase by migration include about 10,000 
peorte, who: were added to Palestine by an alteration of the 

tundary with Syria in 1923. The Jewish settlements of Tel 
Hai, Kfar Giladi and Metulla are in this area and had a total 
Jewish population of about 300, the remaining inhabitants of 
the area being Moslems. 


Vital Statistics. 


7. Records of vital occurrences are compiled for the settled 
population, statistics being available, classified by religion, from 
the year 1922. ; 

The nomadic population, among which vital occurrences are 
not recorded, numbered 66,553 at the census of 1931. 


The accompanying tables give the average number of births 
and deaths, as well as the average crude birth and death rates 
and infant mortality rates, in the quinquennial periods since 1922 
and in the individual years 1935, 1936, 1937 and 1938: — 











Year. All Religion| Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 
Births. 

1922-25 \ 

average 32,338 25,976 | 3,388 2,669 406* 
1926-30 

“average 41,831 33,023 5,296 3,089, | 423 

1931-35 

average 47,096 36,319 6,893 3.413 471 
1935 + a 53,940 39,918 9,867 3,688 467 
1936. we 56,993 41,543 11,009 3,869 572 
1937 «- Ess 54,749 40,261 10,297 3,683 508 
1938 ... oo 53,928 39,048 10,563 3,818 499 

Deaths. 
1922-25 | 
average 16,612 13,950 1,340 1,185 183* 

1926-30 

average 20,930 17,472 1,796 1,433 229 
1931-35 | | 

average 22,066 18,306 2,101 | 1,433 226 
1935 --- as 22,249 17,823 2,748 | 1,449 229 
1936 ... we 20,465 15,624 3,271 1,345 225 
1397 ... dos 24,884 20,091 3,003 1,527 | 263 
1938 ... oes 20,268 15,449 3,231 1,391 197 

















* Average 1423-25. 


228 


. 
ANNUAL RaTE of BirTHS AND DEATHS PER THOUSAND OF SETTLED 
PoPULATION BY COMMUNITIES, 1922-38. 

















i 
Year. All Religions.| Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 
Birth rate. 

1922-25 

average 46°34 50°09 34°81 36°37 49° 36° 
1926-30 

average 48°58 53°45 34°29 38°55 40°17 
1931-35 

average 44°66 50°24 30°33 35°84 44°92 
1935 «- aus 45°16 52°54 30°80 35°61 42°86 
1936... 44°88 53°14 29°71 36°34 50°98 
1937 ex) sas 41°59 49°74 26°67 33°55 | 44:10 
1938 ... bas 39°89 47°12 26°42 34°15 42°09 

Death vate. 

1922-25 

average 23°73 26-83 13°62 16-13 22-10% 
1926-30 

average 24°34 28-31 11-66 17°91 25°06 
1931-35 

average 20°98 25°34 9°32 15*04 21-48 
1935 ti ate 18-63 23°46 8-58 13°99 21-02 
1936 ... ae: 16-11 19°98 8-83 12:63 20°05 
OFM ax a5 18-90 24°82 | 7°78 13°91 22°83 
1938 ... BS 14°99 18-64 8-08 12°44 16-61 

if 

















* Average 1923-25. 


InFANT Mortatity: DeatHs OF INFANTS UNDER ONE YEAR OF AGE 
PER THOUSAND LIvE BIRTHS, 1922-38. 


Year. All Religions.| Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 
KS jj qqy 
1922-25 

average 178-70 19039 122-90 144°35 115-92* 
1926-30 

average | 178-09 193°46 95°83 158°56 | 146°73 
1931-35 

average 151°35 166+ 41 77°99 13628 161-05 
1935 «+ Sa 131°48 148-10 64°15 125°81 177°73 
1936 ... ose 121°57 136°17 68-85 113°72 129°37 
1937 ++ aes t5en85 17930 57°20 127°34 | 179°13 
1938 ... “aa 112-00 127+58 58-22 103-98 90-18 




















* Average 1923-25. 


biatized ty GOORTe 
Cc 


229 


8. The very high birth-rate of Palestine is established by the 
preponderance of the Moslems, who show the highest birth-rate 
of all the religions. The Moslem settled population rose by 
natural increase at an average rate of 18,000 per annum, or 
about 2} per cent. per annum in the five years 1931-5. The 

ewish birth-rate is considerably lower than the Moslem, but 
it was higher for the same quinquennium than in any European 
country except Rumania. 


g. A very great disproportion is evident between the Moslems 
and Jewish death-rates and has been accentuated by a steady 
decline in the Jewish death-rate over the period under review. 
While it is undoubted that the difference reflects a greater 
expectation of life, particularly in infancy, among Jews than 
among Moslems, it must be noted that the Jewish population is 
made 7 largely of young adult immigrants who are in those 
years of life when the risk of dying is at its lowest, and the 
smaller proportion of infants and old people which this immigra- 
tion has produced is itself a cause of a low crude death-rate. 


ro. The celebration of marriages in Palestine, together with 
the granting of divorces, is governed by the law of the religious 
community to which the parties belong. The Government 
requires only that every marriage celebrated and every divorce 
granted be registered by the religious authority and that copies 
of all registrations be sent to the office of the District Commis- 
sioner. The numbers of marriages celebrated and divorces 
granted in 1936, 1937 and the first nine months of 1938, together 
with the corresponding rates, are shown in the following 
tables : — 

















Year, Reigoons, Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 
Number of Marriages. 
19350 + see | 13,777 8,923 4,408 446 = 
3936. oy 10,780 5,968 4,445 367 _— 
1937s ees 13,461 8,072 4,805 504 80 
1938 (9 months) 8,025 4.295 3,406 282 42 
Number of Divorces. 
1935+ oes 2,938 1,183 1,755 = eas 
1936... eee 3,167 goo 2,261 6 —_ 
1937 «se zee 3,891 1,105 2,781 I 4 
1938 (9 months) 2,433 634 1,794 5 Fs 











bigiized by GOOgle 
Cc 


230 








Year. aie 5, | Moslems. Jews. |Christians.| Others. 
Marriage Rate (Per Thousand of Population). 
1935) + oe I1-53 11-74 13°76 4-31 — 
1936... ane 8-49 7°63 12:00 3°45 —_ 
1937. - ee 10-21 10-00 12°38 4°59 _ 
1938 (9 months) 7°93 6-92 11'40 3°37 = 





Divorce Rate (Per Thousand of Population). 


1935 2-46 1°56 5°48 otal = 
1936 2°49 I+I5 6-10 0-06 —_— 
1937 ww ae 2°75 1°37 7°16 O-or —_— 
1938 (9 months) 2°40 1-02 6-00 0:06 —_ 











Divorce Rate (Per Thousand Marriages). 


1935+ on 213 133 398 — _ 
1936... aia 294 151 509 16 —_— 
1937 + oe 289 137 579 2 _ 
1938 (9 months) 342 148 527 18 _— 




















The high marriage-rate among the Jewish community is 
largely explained by the age composition of that community, 
the proportion of young adults being very much higher than 
among Moslems or Christians. The Christian marriage-rate is 
too low as registration of marriages has been incomplete. 
Divorce-rates among Moslems are high, though not so high as 
in Egypt. Divorce-rates among Jews are very high indeed and 
both in 1936 and 1937 there were more than 500 divorces to 
every I,000 marriages. 


Migration. 


11. De facto population records are kept, the increase by 
migration being taken as the excess of arrivals over departures. 
However, no person is allowed to stay indefinitely in Palestine 
unless he falls into one of the categories of immigrants, and over 
a long period the excess of authorized immigrants over emi- 
grants gives approximately the same result as the de facto excess 
of arrivals over departures, which takes account of the move- 
ments of travellers and of residents making trips abroad. 


The followi~:: ‘-ble shows the recorded immigration and 
emigration " others in the years since 1920: — 


231 




















Recorded Immigration. Recorded Emigration. 
Year. 
Jews. Others. Jews. Others, 
1920 (part) sas | 5,514 202 — = 
1921-25... ee 71,071 2,581 7.575 5,382" 
1926-30... ae 28,165 5.425 18,029* 7,338" 
1931-35... ees 148,168 8,921 1,062 1,067 
1933 aa Sats 30,327 1,650 —_ = 
1934 os oe 42,359 1,784 | _ = 
1935 me Ge 61,854 2,293 396 387 
1936 Gin Se 29,727 1,944 773 495 
1937 see ae 10,536 1,939 | 889 639 
1938 ess wae 12,868 2,305 | 1,095 716 
1 








* Incomplete. 


Emigration statistics by race were not compiled prior to 1922 
nor in the years 1932-4 inclusive. After 1934, the figures of 
emigrants are those of ‘‘ residents departing for a period of more 
than one year ’’. 


12. According to the records of the Department of Migration— 
supplemented by figures supplied by the Jewish Agency in 
respect of early post-War migration and the classification of 
migrants by citizenship in the years prior to 1935—the total 
number of Jewish immigrants authorized to enter and to remain 
in Palestine in the years 1919-37, inclusive, was 313,030. Of 
these immigrants, 131,289 were of Polish citizenship, 30,718 of 
Russian, 15,528 of Rumanian, 9,642 of Lithuanian, 9,181 of 
Yemenite and 7,909 of United States citizenship. The number 
of German citizens (not including persons of Austrian citizen- 
ship) was 35,346. Many persons migrating to Palestine from 
Germany are of other citizenship than German. In the same 
period the total number of Jewish migrants whose previous 
residence was in Germany (not including Austria) was 43,764. 


Office of Statistics. 


13. The Office of Statistics was set up in accordance with the 
Statistics Ordinance of 1935. It operates under the general 
supervision of the Commissioner for Migration and Statistics, 
but is directly administered by the Government Statistician. 


14. The duties of the Office are defined in the Statistics 
Ordinance as follows: — 


(a) to collect, compile, abstract and publish statistical 
information relative to the commercial, industrial, social, 
economic and general activities and condition of the people; 


digtizea y GOOgle 


232 


(b) to collaborate with all other departments of the 
Government in the compilation and publication of statistical 
records of administration according to the rules; 

(c) to take any census in Palestine. 


15. In certain spheres of operation, notably those of whole- 
sale and retail prices, wage rates and employment, the Office 
collects information directly from the public on a voluntary 
basis. In making these collections the Office has received 
cordial co-operation from municipal corporations, chambers of 
commerce and manufacturers’ associations, from the Jewish 
Agency and from merchants, employers and trade unions, both 
Arab and Jewish. 

Other groups of statistics are compiled and tabulated from 
primary data supplied by other departments of Government. 

n particular, trade statistics, migration statistics, vital statistics, 
shipping statistics and judicial statistics are compiled on the 
card-punching, sorting and tabulating machines installed in the 
Office and much detail on these subjects which was not 
previously available has been brought to light and published. 


16. The Office publishes statistics prepared by other depart- 
ments, which would not otherwise fe made public until the 
appearance of annual departmental reports. Statistics of banks 
and credit co-operative societies supplied by the Treasurer and 
the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, statistics of the produc- 
tion of fisheries, statistics of land transfers and of mortgages 
registered, railway statistics, postal, telephone and wireless 
statistics, and statistics of ‘‘ true ’’ offences, furnished by the 
appropriate departments, are published monthly. 


17. The printed publications of the Office consist of the general 
monthly bulletin of current statistics, in which is incorporated 
the Palestine commercial bulletin formerly issued by the Depart- 
ment of Customs, Excise and Trade; an annual statistical 
abstract, the second edition of which appeared in August, 1938; 
and the Palestine Blue Book, the latest two issues of which have 
been prepared by the Government Statistician. 

The general monthly bulletin includes the latest statistical 
material available under the headings of demography, produc- 
tion, trade, transport and communication, prices, employment, 
finance, general business, police and judicial activities, and 
labour. 


18. Other publications, issued in mimeographed form, include 
special monthly bulletins on trade, wholesale and retail prices, 
employment, banking and security prices. Quarterly bulletins 
are published dealing with vital statistics, judicial statistics and 
labour disputes, half-yearly bulletins dealing with wage rates, 
and annual bulletins dealing with real wages and industrial 
accidents. 


233 


1g. All statistical material published is issued originally in the 
English language; monthly summaries of retail prices and 
employment bulletins, and a quarterly general summary of cur- 
rent statistics are, however, issued in Arabic and in Hebrew. 


20. Printed publications are on sale to the public, through 
the medium of the Government Printer; stencilled publications 
are issued only by the Office and no charge is made for them. 
Free distribution of publications is made under three heads:— 


(a) to Government Offices for the general guidance and 
information of officers in the course of their work. Under 
this head are included consular and commercial representa- 
tives of other governments in Palestine and also British 
Covered institutions and British Consular Offices 
abroad; 


(6) for educational and publicity purposes, to certain 
recognized libraries abroad and to some local libraries. 
Stencilled bulletins are distributed locally to interested 

ersons and surplus copies of the 1936 Statistical Abstract 
ave been issued to secondary schools; 


(c) in return for the supply of regular statistical informa- 
tion or in exchange for publications of an economic or 
statistical nature. By this means the Office receives free 
copies of many economic and statistical publications and of 
local periodicals, while the issue of stencilled bulletins to 
merchants’ manufacturers, etc., provides a quid pro quo in 
respect of the information which they voluntarily contribute. 


21. The library of the Office is an essential part of its equip- 
ment, not only on account of the valuable information which it 
contains but also because of its usefulness as a guide to statis- 
tical method. Though at present small, it is steadily growing, 
mainly as the result of the exchange of publications with corre- 
sponding institutions and scientific societies in other countries. 
Its resources are at the disposal of all departments of the Govern- 
ment and of members of the public. 


XXI11.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 


1. The political uncertainty in Palestine during the year under 
review is reflected in the decrease in the volume and value of 
trade, which became particularly marked in the months of 
July, August and September. Towards the end of the year, 
however, there was an improvement as illustrated by the follow- 
ing figures of imports into Palestine (excluding imports by His 
pare Forces and the Navy, Army and Air Force Insti- 
tutes) : 


234 


£P. 

January... ove ses os a 1,071, 
February ... side Sie me sé 1,092,476 
March mise ae Sie hate Se 1,089,542 
April ase mae aia wen a 980,970 
May... aes aig ae¢ ins <a 956,941 
June Phe Sed ee oi tae 826,892 
July... ane ane ser ta ose 778,455 
August Eee 8 Ae: ea dhe 879,997 
September ... ae aes ee a 705,527 
October... aus a se et 879,244 
November ... Pom wed ae Me 905,024 
December ... ay a Xe aa 1,190,286 
Total... sad «- £P.11,356,963 


The normal working of the department was considerably ham- 
pered by considerations of security and the disorganization of 
rail and road traffic. 


2. At Haifa a new cargo jetty, designed chiefly with a view 
to the direct landing of coal and shipping of potash, was com- 
pleted and put into use during the year. A transit shed was 
removed from Jaffa during the year and re-erected at Haifa 
in time for the citrus export season. 


3. Traffic at the Jaffa port has been reduced owing to the 
increasing use made of Tel Aviv lighter basin, and the decline 
in passenger traffic has led to the laying up of a number of 
lighters. A new tobacco store was acquired in the port during 
the year. 


_ 4. Traffic at Tel Aviv port showed an increase and construc- 
tional work is still in progress. Passengers of all categories are 
now landed there. 


5. The tonnage of import and export cargo handled at the 
ports of Haifa, Jaffa and at Tel Aviv jetty and lighter basin 
during 1934-8 was:— 








Tel Aviv jetty 
and lighter 
basin. 







Jaffa. 


Year. 












ischarged*) Loaded.* |Discharged.| Ioaded. |Discharged.| Loaded. 




























Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons, Tons. Tons. 
1934 589,203 99,756 | 486,974 120,967 _— = 
1935 787,307 138,427 | 402,263 171,819 = = 
1936 756,723 165,029 | 135,493 115,302 27,514 1,854 
1937 698,430 296,492 126,842 152,427 97,304 26,795 
502,853 | 291,438 | 113,041 149,766 | 139,448 | 57,049 









* Exclusive of crude oil. 


oiaizes y GOOLE 


235 
6. The net revenue collected by the department in the last five 
years was: 1934, £P.2,936,513; 1935, 4P.3,459,164; 1936, 
Z£P.2,589,544; 1937, &P.2,720,719; 1938, £P.2,289,819. 
7. The principal articles imported, from which the bulk of 


the import duty is derived, and the amount of import duty re- 
ceived from each in 1938 are set out below: — 


236 









106'E1 
zLL'Sr 
1GL‘61 
1gg‘St 
zbSrr 


OSS'bh 
ELS‘ 
€€z‘z1 


gzz‘Li 
zfg'br 
I1z‘oz 
zgb‘iot 
LrL‘gz 
10g‘zz 
ooh tt 
biz‘6e 
ghz'sb 
oLo'rh 
or L‘6€ 
Cr1E‘SE 
olz'1Z 
006‘LE 
ZIZ‘€rr 
Sz6‘zS1 


SSz‘Eor" 


‘at 


*paq921]09 


Ang 














* goqer snoue A, 
oyPy sod sjrur € pue 1 
ane “+ oppy aad syprur or 

OIL Jad strum $€ pur of 
x + sajer snore A 









































* ep aad syrur SSE 
“*madolva po ‘yuad red ZI 
see “+ sayer snoLIeA 


“* oppy tod sprur € pue 1 
orry sad sjrur g-o pue $-0 
o[ry rod strum $.1 pue ¢-0 
=v *** Ta tod strut oof 
*** ory rod strut or pue ¢ 
fe “*  sayer snore, 
so}eI SNOLIe A, 
oe *** ory tad syrur oz 
o[ry Jed sim oF pue of 
aes opr] Jed stu 000'r 
o[ry tod syru oo$ pue ooF 
so}eI SNOLIEA 
*  sayer snore, 
ead ++ gaqex snouea, 
ary rod sim €0.z pue SL.1 
ory ted stu §.2 pue ¢ 
aaj] tod sprur zr pue 11 













6z1'o1 
$16'gg 
rrr'tZ 
611'0g 
€1g‘og 


giL'zlg 
o6L‘Ibr 


o9g'9gr 


zl€'blr 
gol‘liz 
$Sb‘ofz 
zzu‘Loe 
EvE'€or 
€Sz‘1€1 
gt ‘96z 
ozb‘€oz 
€1g'62z 
1zb'Sz 

z09‘6z 

Lr9'SEE 
zlg‘zze 
zblizbz 
LLP zgr 
SLE‘goz 
zhe'ely 
‘at 


069'Sz9 
€1€‘62e‘gr 
6gE‘zZ6'r 
9g6'0SS 






€1z‘6z1 
Lgl'Szz 


gbZ‘ooS ‘zr 
6Sb‘oLb‘oz 
96g'bSbizz 
8gg‘zir 
og‘ go's 
Lgl'€re 
099‘T1z‘6E 
goz‘go6‘r 
€Lz'r 
toz'ib 
€g1‘6g 


gS6'ble'z 

zLg‘S6S‘gr 
LEL‘6bb'gS 
ghb‘Zer‘oz 
06S‘1g6'Sr 





“ yeag 
$20}8}0g 
“““sueaq valor 
eee ""* saqny pue sar4} 1oqqnyy 
oes are a syn 





soe pure sired 1ojJOUI JO Saliossa99e pue seq 





pue 








sorper 





* sasevo snaqzio 10y paredaid poo, 
ge “+ sansst} WaTTOOAA, 
sioyesastuyar 

‘spoo3 = eoLijzo0[y 

ysosy ‘szIM1.y 
siopi1g3 pue spor ‘sa[3ue ‘sreq uoly 
ae es aoe “ gony 
*** BUIP[ING JOF POoAy 





wey} 10970 


pouuy pue yseyy ‘pozyes ‘Arp ‘outiq UT YsLy 


“ (ga8uod Burpnoxe) sansst} AIS 


Roya, 
qoyqng 


(sisseqo Suxpayou) syony Jojour pur sievo 10j;0/q 


sayaresig 
*painjzorsnuewun ‘saava] Oo9eqo], 

(sz1os [[2) jeredde Surrea jy 
see ***spoo8 asard 03309 
: “IMOB yea MA 
ois ae “* guasolay 

resns 
aulzuog 





“Ain fo avy yuasaag 


‘ano 


“Apyuonds 





# SUOGuUsy 1010 J, 


Ed 


237 


Jeqjo pue Auedwog wns[ojeq beiq, 





iad so}el SNOLIe A 


“++ waaopva py “yus0 rod ZI pue g 


“+ ony ted sir z pue 1 
opry tad sprur oor 


see ae "OTF sod sjtur o£ pure oz 


So}U1 SNOLIG A, 
** oppy rod spr oz 
+paiq sod syrar Sz 
ss saqer snore, 
“maaoqva pp ~yu99 sod z1 
“s+ so7e1 SNOLIEA 





zbg‘oz 
691‘LII 
£6L‘g9 
6ge'b 
glsiib 
LSz'6 
1eE'L€ 
€gL‘ob 
098'99 
goz‘or 
vLi'gh 


LLL‘€09'S 
zSg‘bor'h 
goz'zb 
tog‘ glz 
Erg LE 
zES‘ges 
9So'gzl 
LGo‘ggz'€ 


LE'Sgz'L 


-uoydurexe 0} pay}i}ue suoTyNzI7SUT 


4uoumurea05 Aq syzoduit sepnpout 3nq “TW'V'N pue Arey Aq syiodurt sapnpoxy «+ 


suoyeiedaid jap107 pue Aroumnjiog 
++ Sunund pue Suryoed 10) zedeg 
_Postueaed pur yor]q ‘syooys UOIT 

“ pamngoeynuewWun ‘soavo] oequioy, 
eee os Bal, 
surg UT aseoqo wey? 19930 ‘9s0049) 
Ayinog 

‘+ To Suryeouqn’y 





are aa * syed pue SOIPEY 
eee aoe ” oe oA 


J by Google 


Digit 





238: 


8. The value of exemptions (excluding Military and 
N.A.A.F.I.) granted during the year 1938 was : — 





Exemptions Exemptions 
under the under the 
Customs Tariff Syria-Palestine Total, 
and Exemption Customs 
Ordinance, Agreement. 
Food, drink and tobacco cae 534,000 474,000 1,008,000 
Goods mainly unmanufactured 781,000 2,000 783,000 
Goods mainly manufactured ... 2,672,000 423,000 = 3,095,000 
Animals living, not for food ... 31,000 _— 31,000 
Totals « £P.4,018,000 899,000 = 4,917,000 





These exemptions do not include benzine and other oils sup- 
plied free of duty from bonded installations in Palestine to 
certain undertakings. 


g. The value of goods imported by charitable and religious 
institutions, consuls and archaeological societies during the past 
five years is shown below : — 








Under the Customs Tariff and 
Under the Exemption Ordinance. 
Vis Ottoman Law 
F Religious Total. 
Orders. Charitable 
and other Consuls.* 
Institutions. 
Ze. Bp. 2. B. 
19340 39,779 16,331 6,574 53,68. 
193500 + 31,492 23,330 8,167 63,439 
1936... 27,905 26,409 4,910 59,224 
1937) 27,198 25,675 9,467 62,340 
1938 sas 28,822 43,039 11,778 83,639 














* Including benzine, etc., delivered to consuls from bonded oil installations. 


to. In addition to the importation duty free of all articles 
consigned to them direct, the following goods were also sup- 
lied from bonded oil installations to His Majesty’s Forces, the 
avy, Army and Air Force Institutes, the Iraq Petroleum 
Company, and other institutions entitled to exemption : — 


Supplied in 1938 free of duty to: — 


Amount of 
Duty 
Benzine. Kerosene, involved. 
Litres. Litres. £P. 
His Majesty’s Forces +s 9,783,678 720,436 117,590 
Navy, Army and Air Force 
Institutes ... ie see 322,134 108,944 4,030 
Iraq Petroleum Company ... 925,112 81,897 10,986 
Other institutions ... sss 1,917,082 48,010 22,709 


oiaizes y GOOLE 


239: 
11. The following are analyses of Customs taxation and of im- 
ports into Palestine for the years 1934-8. 


ANALYSIS OF CusToMS TAXATION. 

Imports into Palestine are subject either to specific or ad 
valorem rates of duty, or are exempt from duty. In the case 
of exempted goods, ere are three main groups :— 

A. Government: Military; N.A.A.F.I. and Iraq Petro- 
leum Company stores. (Of which Military and N.A.A.F.I. 
imports are now excluded from statistical compilations.) 

B. Goods exempted under the Customs Tariff and Ex- 
emption Ordinance, other than imports at ‘‘ A ’’. 

C. Goods, otherwise dutiable, exempted under the Syria- 
Palestine Customs Agreement. 


Taking the total import duty collected for each of the last five 
years as a basis, the equivalent ad valorem rates of duty, cal- 
culated in respect of the value of the Total Imports for Home 
Consumption less the value of goods imported free of duty under 
the three groups A, B and C, are shown in the following table: — 


*paragy sem Aynp gory uo sziodurt qe Jo anyea on} squasaidar styJ—a}0N | 


TA'V'V'N pure Arey Aq sjrodunt sapnpoxg » 


=a 









































1-Lz 6.bz L.gz 9-92 S.9z (um) 3@ syrodury 107 Aynp jo a7e1 wasozva py yuspeamby 
‘quad tag | quaor0g | ‘yuoo 10g | ‘yue0 10g | “yU90 0g 
ooo'obt'g | oo0'bgS‘g | ooo‘or0'Z | ooo‘bzZ‘or | 000'Sg1‘'6 se © i Diep POE 6 Bis. Wis 
S89] uondunsuog Sumo} Oy ee TejO], Jo onpea (1m)} 
000‘66g ooo'gg1't | ooo'bZz‘r | ooo‘ror‘r | 000'1z6 “'  quaulsaI3y suojsng sulysaleg 
-erAg ay} Japun pojdurexa ‘aqerjnp astmszeyjzo ‘spooy jo anjea “9D 
g-€z 6.12 €.bz €.bz tz (1) e syrodury 3107 Aqnp Jo aye waaozva py yuopeainby 
‘quad tag | ‘yua0 10g | ‘Jus0 10g | “JUeDI0g | “yU90 Jag 
o00'6£E'L | ooo0'0€Z‘6 | ooo'bgz‘g | o00'Szg‘r1 | Coo’gor‘or | * ee «>» pue 
“ vi * S89] 21 worrdwsnsu0. OUIOFY 10F ean Te}OL yoonye, (1) 
oo0‘Lgz‘€ | oo0'£z6‘b | co0'Ffo'h | o00‘6EL‘b | oo0'bSg‘E «V,, 38 SHodwy] wey} 19y}0 ‘sourulpi9Q, 
ee ee pur yey suojsnD ay} Japun po}duiaxea spoo3 jo anrea “_ 
bor g-b1 €.o1 €.Lr G.Lr (1) 3@ syaodwy 10; Aynp yo oze1 was0jp0 pv yuapeaInby 
‘quedo iag | Jusosag | qua. 10g | JUad 10g | *yUO0 0g 
000‘9zg‘or | 000‘LSg‘br | o00gIE‘zI | O00‘FOS‘gI | 000‘096'EI | ,,¥,, SSA] WOTWduINsUOD sWIOFY 10z s}10dw] Te}O], Jo onyeA (1) 
ooo'r £2 o00‘gZZ o00'S6g 000‘L66 000‘96g ast s01038 Aurdwoy wumnsjoyeg beay pue ‘yuouruszaa0y jo ane “y 
oo00‘LSE‘rr | ooo0'SE‘S1 | ooo'€1z‘Er | ooo‘1gS‘Zr | o0‘gSg‘hr “+ uoydumsuog owofy 10F sz10dw] [e}O], yo anjeAy 
ooo'Ztl't | oo0‘€£1‘'z | ooo'z10'z | o00'oZg‘z | oo0‘of bz ae oat " paqoayjoo Aynp prodwy 
‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at 
"gf6I “LE6r “gf6r | “SE6r | “PEOI 











ed by Google 


Digit 


‘TAV'V'N pure Arq Aq syroduir sepnjoxy—'oj0N + 


“Ss 



































+.6€ g-1b 1-€+ z.G€ ve * TI Aq pozuasoidar ,, q ,, JO a8ezUI0I0g 
oo0’ggi'b | o00'f60'9 | oo0'gof'S | ooo‘otg'S | o00'SLL‘b II pue 7 3e Aynp woy pozduiaxa syiodurt jo onyea “] I] 
S.g 8 £-o1 9-9 S.9 II 4q pazuasaidar ,, q ,, JO o8ezUI010g 
000‘66g o00'ggi‘t_ | ooo'FZz'r | ooo'ro1't | 000'1z6 yusmseIsy suojsny eLIAS-aulysayeg 
ay} Jepun i paaditiones ‘a1qetynp astmioy}0 ‘spooS jo anjeA “]] 
6.0€ 9-€€ L.z€ 9-8z G.Lz Bg 4q pazuasaida ,, q ,, JO a8eyUa0I0g 
ooo'lgz‘€ | o00'lz6'b | coo'b£o'b | o00'6EL'b | ooo'bSg'f | °° Sa se103s Auedwog winaoaq 
beay_ pue zuamu19A05 uvy} J04}0 ‘aouvUIpIO UOduIEx zy 
pue guey stwojsnD 94} Japun poyduiexa spoos jo onte,a “T 
000'9z9'01 | 000‘LSg'b1 | oo0'gi£‘z1 | oo0'bgS‘g1 | 000'096‘E1 acy ane saaoys Kundmoy tinajoajag 
bvay puv yuaumuasaoy ssay uoydunsuoy amozy sof saoduy fo any, “g 
Nr ee ee ee 
€.€¢ CS. bb 6-90F 6-gf z-gt age Ke Pa III 4q pazuasaidar ,.y,, Jo a8eyuaoIeg 
000'Z16'F | o00'1Zg‘9 | o00'£oz'g | oo0'L€g'g | ooo'rZg'S | * oss Aynp wo paydurexa szioduit jo anyea “]1T 
6.2 z-9 I1*4q_ pozuasaidar ,,y,, Jo oBezuac10g 
000‘66g 000'I1Z6 








JuatmMscISYy smOoysND vIIAS-auTyseTeg 
ayy Jepun yetiees ‘aIQeIyNp astm1ay}O ‘spoos jo anjeA “T] 








+.S€ 


a Aq paquasaidar _,y,, Jo o8ezUa010g 
SF aouruIplg uoydwexq 
pue Yue] suojsnd oy} Japun pazdurexa spoos jo anjea ‘] 





uoydunsuon amozy sof sysoduy fo anjyvy -y 





Google 


Digitized by 


242 
12. Excise duties are leviable on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, 
lst five ye spirits, salt and matches. The receipts during the 
last five years were: — ; 
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
sep. £P. . fp. £P. 





Tobacco : 
Duty ... nee ss 255,588 246,677 230,582 223,367 219,568 
Licence Fees . ise 7,420 8,437 8,707 8,893 8,650 
Intoxicating Liquors : 
Duty . tee nee 42,260 49,586 66,337 61,734 52,363, 
Licence Fees . SG 3.753 3,819 3,797 4,009 4,135 
Methylated Spirits, Duty 7,406 8,900 9,066 7,980 7,571 
Salt, Duty as ae 14,300 15,550 13,500 14,900 11,671 
Matches: 
Duty . vee vee 21,785 29,173 27,459 30,604 25,221 
Licence Fees . ods 50 50 50 50 150 
Totals ... + £P.352,562 362,192 359,498 351,537 329,329 


13. The number of licensed tobacco, tombac and snuff fac- 
tories during 1934-8 was :— 
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


Tobacco and Cigarettes 10 10 12 12 _ Io 
Cigars... ve See “2 2 2 2 2 
Tombac ... ee ees I I I I I 
Snuff... as eae I I I I bd 

Totals... te 14 14 16 16 14 





Their output in. kilogrammes was :— 





B Heisheh. 
: Cut Cigar- |. 
Year. Cigars. Tobacco. settee Tombac.| Snuff. eee 
: Tobacco.) cites, 





Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. | Kilos. 


1934... 1,032 | 15,852 | 636,832 | 75,204 | 6,848 | 4,021 | 7,766 
1935+ 1,748 | 18,095 | 791,264 | 89,392 7,819 672 604 
1936... 2,142 | 16,480 | 815,196 | 77,883 8,471 102 205 
1937 «+ 1,937 | 14,192 1756,907 | 74,671 8,612 _— 30 
1938... | 1,742 | 13,872 | 619,259 | 51,631 | 7,649 = ar? 























The number of tobacco growers in Palestine in 1938 was 
2,962, as compared with 4,198 in the previous year. 


The annual crops for 1933-7, in kilogrammes, were: — 


Tobacco. Tombac. 
1933 ree a cea 402,623 17,905 
1934 aes ee ee 958,344 52,829 
1935 eae sae nee 956,248 43,594 
1936 vie wee sda 1,232,689 4.178 


1937 oi ehh Oi 2,486,588 17,615 


243 


14. The production of salt at Athlit (by sea evaporation) and 
at Jebel Usdum (rock formation) and of methylated spirits and 
matches during the last five years was as follows: — 


Unit.” . 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937- 1938. 

Salt :+ Kilo 9,389,040 10,375,700 9,148,399 9,855,780 7,888,000 

mee yiasee ” 493,712 593,307 604,398 += 532,032 504,743 
pirits. 


Matches ... Gross of 175,758 221,275 217,433 237,220 208,047. 
boxes. 


Commerce and Industry. 


15. Disturbed conditions adversely affected trade and industry 
during 1938. Despite a continued influx of capital, there was a 
general reluctance to invest money in commercial enterprises 
which was clearly expressed in the curtailment of building 
activity and in the sharp drop in the number of new companies 
sued: As a result, considerable reserves of capital are lying 
idle. : 

Banks generally pursued a policy of caution and reduced the 
amount of credit given. Credit co-operative societies continued to 
develop, however, and now cover many aspects of the economic 
life of the country. There were until recently no Arab co- 
operative societies, but in the year under review a number of 
Arab agricultural co-operative societies were formed with the 
assistance of Government. 

During the year, 163 new Palestinian companies, as compared 
with 207 in 1937, were registered with an authorised capital of 
£P.1,173,597, and 52 companies increased their authorized 
share capital from £P.1,384,579 to £P.2,258,251, while two 
teduced their capital from £P.13,064 to £P.11,056. The net 
total new capital during 1938 was 4P.2,045,261. 

Foreign buying was considerably restricted during the year, 
and imports showed a decrease of over £P.4,000,000. There 
was a tendency to meet current demand by the selling of stocks 
acquired during the Freon year; these stocks are now rapidly 
nearing depletion. ‘The export trade faced additional difficulties 
in the form of trade and currency restrictions imposed by various 
countries. 

16. Negotiations were begun for the revision of the Palestine- 
Syria Customs Agreement which was due to expire on Ist March, 
1939; and reciprocal trade agreements, with the object of 
obtaining increased citrus import quotas, were made by the 
Citrus Industry with Poland and Roumania. The latter 
eney, supplies some 50 per cent. of Palestine’s requirements 
of wood. 


17. Palestine participated in trade fairs at Izmir and Bari 
luring 1938 ane extensive preparations have been made by 
private enterprises for participation at the world fairs of New 
York and San Francisco in 1939. 


244 


18. Where local enterprises were concerned, appreciable pro- 
gress was made in several cases, in spite of the general curtail- 
ment of trade. Consumption of electricity continued to increase, 
and potash production expanded considerably. 

Local pharmaceutical products, perfumery and toilet prepara. 
tions, and plastics are being sold in increasing quantities in the 
home market. Another growing industry is that of women’s 
ready-made dresses and coats. The standard of quality has 
risen, and the local trade now supplies 50 per cent. of the home 
demand. 

There were encouraging results in the expansion of the expori 
trade, resulting in increased production of rice milling and in the 
manufacture of chocolate, razor blades, electrical goods and 


apparatus, cotton piece goods and books. 
The manufacture of textile articles, hosiery and knitted wear- 














ing apparel continued on a more restricted scale. The follow. 
ing were the imports of yarn during 1937 and 1938:— 
1937. 1938. 
Imports. 
Kilos. Value. Kilos. Value. 
£P. &. 
Silk and artificial silk 
yarn : 165,641 60,741 119,541 43,519 

Cotton yarn* 558,317 80,833 557,039 78,872 
Woollen yarn 118,971 63,505 120,838 67,931 
Cotton, raw and waste... 820,075 44,501 655,783 29,712 
‘Wool, raw and waste ... 24,137 1,525 35,125 2,076 

Totals ... 1,687,141 251,105 | 1,488,426 222,110 















ee ee 
* Exports of locally manufactured cotton yarn and thread decreased i 


value by £P.13,273. 


The extraction of oil, however, was considerably diminished 
as the decline in imports of the raw materials illustrates: — 


























1937. | 1938. 
Imports. | 

f = | 

Tons Value. | Tons. 

he | 

Copra 44,872 2,754 | 
Sesame and gi 24,407 375 
Linseed 2 13,963 | 620 
Sunflower seed 78,840 957 
Groundnuts, shelled 226,382 15,560 

30,303 20,266 | 238,761 


383,464 | 
| 





245 


Ig. The construction of an oil refinery by the Anglo-Iranian 
Jil Company was begun towards the end of the year and is 
fiving employment to some 2,000 workers. Other new enter- 
yrises include a flour mill, two additional match factories, fac- 
ories for the manufacture of electrical apparatus, tapestry work, 
extile printing, and margarine. An attempt has also been made 
‘© encourage the diamond trade in Palestine where cutting and 
dolishing has already begun on a small scale. 


Building Activity. 

20. There was a further decline in building activity during 1938. 
The figures given below show the approximate cost of private, 
commercial and industrial buildings in the four principal towns 
during 1937 and 1938:— 


1937. 1938. 
Value. Value. 
£P. £P. 
Jerusalem se ate a 844,000 412,000 
Haifa ... vee ee ++ 1,757,000 * 543,000 
Jaffa... on oe ons 126,00 64,000 
Tel Aviv ved ae «++ 1,034,000 793,000 


Production of cement fell from 160,869 tons in 1937 to 


98,445 tons in 1938 and imports of building materials showed 
the following trend: — 


Imports. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Timber and wood for building | 460,410 | 500,137 | 202,569 | 403,181 | 357,122 
Iron bars, angles, rods and 

girders... See ++» | 520,604 | 614,407 | 289,707 | 384,985 | 217,706 
Sanitary ware aes ++» |177,999 | 130,199 | 119,350 | 127,166 | 41,618 
Electrical fittings and in- 

sulated tubes and pipes ... | 100,609 | 133,457 | 91,581 {114,884 | 53,461 
Cement ae ice «+» | 267,624 | 288,968 | 133,328 | 145,753 | 83,220 
Paints and colours ... se» | 57,664 | 64,150 | 41,257 | 61,487 | 34,765 
Plate glass and window glass | 58,419 | 68,041 | 32,831 | 46,569 | 19,845 
Tiles and bricks... «+ | 88,334 | 125,483 | 61,752 | 83,334 | 38,709 
Door and window fittings* ... | 60,000 | 69,510 | 32,172 | 39,979 | 16,853 





























* Figures in respect 1934 are approximate. 


Citrus Trade. 


21. The date of the beginning of the export season 1938-9 for 
oranges was 20th November, 1938. During the year 1938, 
9,765,159 cases of oranges and 1,798,485 cases of grapefruit 
were paponet as compared with 10,156,078 and 1,747,790 re- 
spectively during 1937. Exports of citrus fruit comprised over 
70 per cent. of the total exports from Palestine. 


15774 I 


246 

Palestine is now the principal single supplier of citrus fruit to 
the United Kingdom market, to which some 60 per cent. of the 
exports were despatched. 

Intensive research on the utilization of citrus fruit waste con- 
tinues. Citrus oils are manufactured commercially by one com- 
pany in Palestine. 

The manufacture of citrus juices expanded considerably, and 
exports of fruit juices, of which 80-90 per cent. are citrus fruit 
juices, increased from £P.9,924 in 1937 to 4P.17,220 in 1938. 


Imports. 


22. The value of imports for home consumption in 1938, ex- 
cluding imports by Military and N.A.A.F.I., was £P.11,356,963, 
a decrease of £P.4,077,744 as compared with 1937. This de 
crease is principally accounted for by the uncertainty prevailing 
as a result of the political situation. Traders were in general 
unwilling to take risks and disposed of stocks remaining from 
the previous year to meet the restricted current demand. 

The only increase of importance amounted to £P.110,138 for 
wood for citrus cases. Imports of paper for packing citrus fruit 
rose by £P.10,619. 

Decreases were shown for nearly every other commodity. 
Depreciation in prices accounted for the decrease in the value of 
barley and wheat. The drop of £P.52,883 in the value of cattle 
was due to an increase in the number of imports of the small 
lower-priced animals from ‘Iraq. The heavy crop of the 1937-8 
season and the development in local flour milling found a reflec- 
tion in the reduction of £P.173,180 in the imports of wheat 
flour; while the drop of £P.120,157 shown in the imports of 
eggs, poultry, butter and fruit was in part an indication of the 
development of dairy farming and horticulture. Imports of 
sheep and goats, which for the most et are consigned for the 

ered a decrease of some 






were in part offset by the extension of the corresponding local 
industries. 












Barley 
Rice 
Wheat... 
Wheat flour 
Cattle for 


Sheep and goats ... 


Fish in brine, dry, salted, 


slaughtering 
(oxen, cows, and calves) 


247 


The following table shows the principal commodities imported 
into Palestine during 1937 and 1938:— 








12,143 
20,104 
37,164 
27,285 


26,443 
305,144 
92,909 


fresh, and tinned 5,236 
Poultry, alive 1,261 
Butter... 2,364 
Fruits, fresh 13,961 
Coffee 1,745 
Sugar 24,072 
Potatoes 17,681 
Coal 96,123 
Wood for building 138,988 


















Seeds, beans and nuts for 


expressing oils .. 30,313 
Fuel oil wee 87,922 
Paving tiles 334,958 
Sanitary ware - 
Cement. 69,877 


Iron bars, angles, rods, 
and girders a 

Tron and cast iron pipes, 
and fittings thereof 3 

Dental, medical, surgical, 
and optical instruments 
and appliances... 

Radios and parts ‘thereof 

Refrigerators and parts 
thereof . 

Electrical goods “and fit- 
tings... 

Agricultural machinery .. 

Industrial machinery... 

Wood merneren i for citrus 


40,500 


19,808 


cases... 105,988 
Plywood ... 3,283 
Yarn, cotton, silk and 

woollen .. oH 842,910 
Cotton piece goods 13,023,488 
Woollen tissues 411,554 

. Silk tissues aS 565,592 
Apparel, all sorts.. —_— 
Drugs We mys _— 





15774 





£P. 
80,015 
202,088 
364,844 
415,922 


329,574 
275,045 
182,529 


177,460 
89,070 
229,390 
184,514 
83,272 
201,060 
85,320 
141,368 
403,111 


388,629 
258,699 

79,394 
127,166 
145,753 


384,985 
336,106 


76,609 
79,271 


54/545 


333,300 
49,715 
710,688 


462,578 
65,679 


205,069 
443,886 
265,945 
245,697 
521,257 
133,400 


11,419 
22,455 
39,212 
18,596 


28,104 
106,658 
76,391 


5,082 
729 
1,968 
12,501 
1,972 
26,137 
18,879 
56,935 
112,888 


20,269 
66,457 
137,594 


42,037; 


20,470 


10,133 


129,213 
1,845 


797,518 
2,374,958 
225,787 
343,787 








51,036 
230,454 
296,386 
242,742 


276,691 
89,292 
140,791 


163,343 
46,763 
203,420 
174,372 
73,111 
206,375 
88,915 
91,343 
357,122 


238,784 
196,735 
30,824 
41,618 
83,229 


217,706 


214,351 


50,218 
46,208 


29,393 


186,860 
26,907 
524,684 


572,716 
34.341 


190,322 
322,672 
141,790 
131,253 
335,617 
103,016 


I2 


248 











1937. 1938. 
Commodity. 
Quantity.| Value. | Quantity.| Value. 
fp. £P. 

Benzine ... eee i 56,506 | 231,529 45,982 | 173,342 
Kerosene ... ive { 60,841 | 189,409 58,450 | 182,477 
Lubricating oil ... hiss 4,018 71,064 3,266 66,860 
Upper leather... i 185,816 96,517 | 146,181 51,921 
Motor cars and motor 279,813 

trucks ... is 1,547 | 319,468 1,273 
Parts and ‘accessories ‘of 80,813 

motor cars and motor 

trucks ... _— 95,019 _ 
Rubber tyres and “tubes... i 698,591 | 104,196 | 550,986 80,119 
Chemical fertilizers hive 14,698 | 128,719 10,243 86,819 
Maize ia vee oe 14,514 90,807 6,498 37.295 
Asphalt ... 14,771 89,228 9,708 55.649 
Iron sheets, black and 

galvanised ed 6,211 | 120,369 4,105 68,793 
Paints, colours, varnishes, 

lacquers and ochre... 1,731 61,487 1,065 34,765 
Tanned hides and sole 

leather ... S i 550,951 69,677 | 381,257 41,572 
Paper for packing citrus 

fruit... 3,387 91,018 3,959 | 101,637 
Paper, PHRHPE and a pack- 

ing oe 9,721 | 196,573 5,604 | 117,169 
Stationery... wee —_— 64,554 _— 36,714 
Used personal effects |. 318,056 _ 340,615 








Note.—This table includes figures of imports by Government, I.P.C. and 
other institutions entitled to exemption, with the exception of Military and 
N.A.A.F.I. 


Exports. 


23. The value of exports of Palestine produce during 1938 
amounted to £P.5,020,368, a decrease of £P.793,168 under the 
preceding year. 

Few commodities showed appreciable increases, the only im- 
pe item being potash, exports of which rose by £P.110,304. 

xports of cotton piece goods rose by £P.10,234, of books by 
£P.8,548, of fruit juices by £P.7,296, and of chocolate by 
£P.6,729. 

The most serious decrease in the exports was that of citrus 
fruit, not so much in the quantity as in the value which fell by 
£P548,000. Exports of barley and maize dropped by 
£P.100,838 as a result of poor crops. The drop of <P. IOI,503 
shown in the exports of hides and skins is not in fact so great 
as it appears, since the export statistics for previous years in- 
cluded re-exports. There were decreases amounting to 
£P.62,033 for metal scrap and £P.55,417 for olive and other 


249 


oils. Other reductions were £P.18,411 for paper and card- 
board manufactures, £P.17,150 for cake and meal for feeding 
animals, and £P.13,273 for cotton yarn and thread. 

A table showing the principal exports of local produce and 
manufacture during the last five years is given below:— 























Commodity. 1934. 1935: 1936. 1937. 1938. 
£P. £P. £P: £P. £P. 
Barley ... ees bas 19,270 421 I 56,650 1,887 
ntils... oe 744 3,384 566 5,954 2,729 
Maize ... ose aoe 4,734 14,792 6,448 53.317 7,238 
Rice see soe — -- 4,288 57,573 60,779 
Wheat .. 1,857 1,000 57 9,762 49 
Cake and meal of meat, 
fish, etc., for feeding 
animals até basi 14,637 9,630 2,205 37,937 20,787 
Citrus fruit ... wee [2,672,603 |3,550,735 |2,853,946 |4,329,703 |3,781,103 
Grapes... 2,346 1,368 697 2,098 3,832 
Melons and watermelons 30,003 30,869 20,138 16,065 17,115 
Almonds, unshelled . 1,584 2,278 2,875 3.459 458 
Vegetables, fresh... 6,031 5,589 9,600 6,413 3,702 
Fruit juices... eee 6,751 9,145 8,589 9,924 17,220 
ad and cognac ... 5,721 852 2,671 1,842 3.525 
Win: as 23,214 20,551 20,000 18,689 21,131 
Biscuits and cakes one 1,256 1,007 1,143 1,219 874 
Passover bread sae 1,903 1,924 1,636 1,909 2,320 
Chocolate... 266 548 941 4,594 11,323 
Fish, fresh and frozen 2,538 5,277 4,500 3,574 309 
Olive oil, edible wee 18,687 32,787 26,223 91,067 77;733 
Oil, edible, other... 35,978 23,808 51,129 | 112,400 70,317 
Olive oil, other than 
edible ES _ 570 3,482 8,501 12,530 
Olives, fresh and pre- 
served a 555 2,008 1,208 1,870 1,828 
Confectionery and 
sweets abe Per) 1,489 7117 15,147 21,895 17,374 
Sulphur ais, 8 377 1,582 2,585 6,122 
Metalliferous ores and 
Scrap see eee 6,762 4,993 9,388 | 95,349 | 33,316 
Wool, raw... as 1,088 1,961 6,323 12,767 3.452 
Animal grease ses 221 696 2,417 3,325 3,574 
Sesame seed ... 8,455 | 16,827 4,877 | 28,321 23,315 
Hides and skins, un- 
dressed ae iss 22,845 48,466 | 108,524 | 189,712 88,209 
Bones and horns ase 76 178 255 1,563 1,528 
Fenugreek (hilbeh) ... 2,287 1,666 864 1,703 110 
Animal hair ... ans 129 192 1,329 1,405 1,625 
Intestines ite sae 13,326 24,531 17,943 24,031 17,458 
Seeds, egecaltnral aes 466 396 346 1,171 927 
Cement se or 1,700 2,650 765 1,640 7,726 
Mirrors ae 1,973 2,775 1,311 1,907 665 
Tron wire, all kinds ae 267 103 464 3,176 979 
Aluminium domestic 
wee 2,053 2,665 3,186 4,820 6,563 
Rar blades . 23 21 — 977 4,339 
Electrical goods and 
apparatus ... nee 510 384 202 | 1,152 4,972 
15774 13 


oigtzea ey GOOgle 


250 








Commodity. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
oer OS 
z £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Furniture oA 624 1,062 997 2,025 1,264 
Olive wood manufac- 
tures ” 1,691 3,435 1,928 3,952 4,999 
Cotton yarn and thread 1,931 1,678 19,298 40,574 27,301 
Cotton piece goods ... 45 49 177 |. 4.145 14,379 
Artificial silk crepe and 
tissues 3 30 4,668 4,299 8,254 7,949 
Socks and stockings «. 8,920 11,095 7,533 10,378 3.554 
All other wearing 
apparel... ++ | 38,124 | 63,459 | 47.449 | 34,460] 26,147 
Bromine oe aye 22,600 18,751 35,097 42,026 37,958 
Potash.. see o's 56,724 80,231 | 132,857 | 174,672 | 284,976 
Drugs ... oe 632 531 816 1,743 1,161 
Chemicals, other nis 994 737 3,194 4,505 1,247 


Flavouring essences 
and other essential 
oils ... eee eee 1447 6,360 13,685 20,003 17,902 

Soap ... 71,532 | 79,311 | 53,798 | 76,296 | 68,532 

Leather handbags, 
purses, wallets, port- 
folios, and belts... 6,035 6,731 4,006 5:724 4,382 

Paper and cardboard 
and manufactures 


thereof wae a 4,142 5,011 4,430 26,810 8,399 
ane ers aes qo 1,240 492 1,660 693 
Books . ez aa 3,217 9,609 8,543 | 11,086 | 19,634 
Buttons | on 162 187 1,126 2,308 3,559 
Curios and articles of 

piety eee 5,742 6,993 5,852 5,602 5,513 
Jewellery, all kinds Boe 1,819 2,000 1,205 1,996 2,632 


Mother of pearl goods 6,877 3,778 5,310 6,513 4,759 
Pictures, albums, and 





postcards ... ee 645 833 1,442 3,414 2,797 
Stationery... es 989 1,066 330 1,320 2,201 
Straw mats ... aed 530 982 2,007 1,476 1,07: 
Artificial teeth 635; 28,585 33,762 32,200 34.431 30,732 
Dentifrices... 46 390 277 1,008 1,018 
Perfumery and toilet 

preparations ees 740 1,998 2,303 3,654 3.713 
Works of art ... sie 654 398 403 1,360 2,087 

















The increase in exports of undressed hides and skins from 
Palestine during recent years was mainly due to the fact that 
Palestine was {until April, 1938) on Turkey’s list of free ex- 
change countries. Large consignments of foreign hides and 
skins were imported into Palestine and re-exported to Turkey as 
goods of Palestinian origin. 


This practice has now ceased as a result of the adoption by the 
Palestine Government at the beginning of 1938 of the require 
ment that local hides and skins should be sealed before being 
granted certificates of Palestinian origin. Exports consequently 
declined from £P.189,712 in 1937 to £P.88,209 in 1938. 


“Arey Aq poytodxe-a1 Auonbesqns pue peziodun spoo8 jo ystsuoo aseq} jo *}u90 Jed og 1049 ft 


‘ayNoYy 10,0W Heseq-suy, LL 043 Aq beiy, Woy psuery ul spooy opnjour gf61 03 S61 sreaf on} 10; sendy ogy { 
TAV'V'N pue Arer Aq szrodur sopntoxg « 


996‘o000‘T 
‘L€61 sapun 
esevaroop gf61 JON 
Sto'f9 _ 
—_ ber‘lz 
€bq'S1 _ 
bEz‘gS1 —_ 
gor‘'e6l _ 
‘at ‘at 
“LE6r “LE6I 
A spun 4000 
Wl gsvascaq =| «aSnIANUT 
g66‘Lor'> 
‘L€61 zapun 

asearep gf61 ION, 

_ 0g6'S9 

vEz‘oS1 _ 

beL‘Llo'y _— 
‘at ‘av 
*LE6I *LE6X 
4opun 4900 


esvesmq =: BSWAAIUT. 


€bg‘1zg‘9 6gg‘orr'S 


z1L‘gg€ 
giz‘€99 
z£b'66 
$16‘1L9 
g9£‘ozo'S 
‘af 
“gE6I 


Sgl‘g6b'z1 


609‘zzg‘Z 


LSL‘6zb 
260‘9£9 
SLo‘SIr 
6b1'gzg 
GES*EIg'S 
‘at 
LE6I 


Loz‘1Sz 
€6z‘zbo 
bo6‘tg 
zSz‘ers 
€€z'Szg'E 
‘at 
‘9f6r 


o0S6‘Egg‘Er 


6r'bLg'S 


¥oS‘gqh 
1Z9‘00€ 
Sb'go 
ggo‘tzg 
gogh‘Siz‘b 
‘af 
“SE6I 


ELE‘obg'F 


ogz‘oSg 
gb6‘Egz 
Lro‘6h 
gSS‘6Ez 
zgG‘Liz'€ 
‘at 
“bE6I 


986‘ggf'St1 


$16'tL9 
£96‘QSE'1r 
‘at 
*"gE6I 


Lz6‘€or 
6br‘gzg 
LoL‘vEr'S1 
‘at 
“LE6I 


goz‘erz‘€x 
‘at 
*9f6r 


006'1zS 
ggo‘tzg 
9Z9'19S‘Lr 
‘a 
“SE6x 


ofbELz 
gSS‘6Ez 
966'SSg‘br 
‘at 
bE6I 


‘at 


“g-PEOI ‘SLUOdXY ANV SLUOW] IVLO] JO AN IVA “bz 


$1010. 


eroeds jo spiodxq 
faioon usre10,J Jo sy10dxe-ayy 
“ puog wor sHodxq-oy 
i. + dyrsuery ul spoon 


“spogxgy 


SIPIOL 


aroeds jo syiodury 
491saezy ur spoosy 


see sacndanieces awloyy Joy syoduiy 


*syaogusy 


14 


15774 


252 


*SOT}IPOUIUIOD 0} SuTp10I9" SOSSETD 19Y4}0 94} UIYIIM PopNqIystp-o oIOM ‘AT SSVTD UI pepnyour 
Ajsnotaaid ‘uoydurexe 0} poy}1jue suoynz sur 19430 pue Auvdwio0g wnaorjeg besy, ‘yuowureacy Aq sziodut gf61 pue LE61 uy } 
TA'V'W'N pur Areqt Aq sjrodun sopnjoxy » 























trliLlo'y 
‘L€61 Jopun €q6'9SE'11| LoL‘bEb'S1| goz‘€1z‘E1| gLg‘19S‘Z1| g66‘SSg‘h1| -** sas “SMO T, 
aseaisap gf61 ON 
= ro 
SEerlz _ bgo‘of 610‘gS pooy IO; JOU ‘Buray ‘speumuy 
—: gf61 pue ZE6r 
_— _ _ _ Lzr‘Lro't | gbS‘Lol'1 | gbL'b19'1 Jay}O ‘payissepoun pur snosur][sostpy 
6z1‘€or 1Lb‘'b6 zg6'E6 oa “+ poof oF jou ‘Buraqy ‘speuruy 
—: L€61 0} snotaarg 
— 4AT ssv19g 
gog‘o1l'z _ L19‘gZ6‘9 | Egb‘S69'6 | Ggb‘1SS‘q | FE6‘6gL‘o1| Igz‘gor'6 | * as mam me Bee peiny 
-oeynueur ATuTeur Jo AToyM sapyIV : TIT ssv79 
10Ll‘g9b —_— SLE‘gEI‘I | gLo‘Sog‘r | €1g‘1Z6 obg‘zzE'1 | F6g‘gZo‘r | ° oes ae <8 paimjorynuemun 
Ajureur sapoyjre pue s[eveyeur Mey TT Ssv19 
zhg‘ogg a Lgz‘6oz‘€ | 6z1‘gLo‘b | oSE6E6‘'E | LZg‘obg'€ | E60'z06‘z | * aes oo9eq0} puke ‘YULIp ‘poo : ] ssv19 
‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘ay ‘at 
“LEGIT “LE6I 
4apun 4ano0 *g£6r “LEOI “9£61 “CLOT KEI a SAOGUT 
asvaavaq, | aswasouy 























“Q-PEOI ‘SASSVID AM ‘SLUOdXY ANV SINOdN] AO AN IVA “Sz 


bigiized by GOOgle 
Cc 


“sorjTpourM0o 
Burpioose soss"]D Joy}O OY} UIGFIM PoyNqlystp-ar oom ‘pooy Joy JOU ‘Zuraq] ‘speuuy wey} Isyj0 sz10dxa gf6r pue LE61 uy ¢ 





gor‘e6L 
‘L€61 ropun 


ogh‘Srz‘b | zoS‘Lriz‘€ | - i “* sqpj0 T. 
esvaisep gf6r 4aN 


“** poog Joy jou ‘Surat ‘speuruy 
—: g£61 pue Lf61 
of +l6 6Lz we “14930. ‘pegtsseyoun pur snooueyjaostyy 








Iya) €SL't SLg'r 1z'z eee : pooy IoF you ‘Zurayy ‘spewmruy 
a —: LE6r 0} snorasig 
—! eAI Ssv19 
_ ECLigSS glo‘Lib bgt'ole Ebz'b6z As pain 
souynirenr x Sure 0 “Sous sapniy <I ssvi9 
1L€‘691 Egz‘Zle rbS‘gStr FrI0‘IOr Sob'Ss “* pamngouynuearun 
Ayureur SopHre pue seuayeur MEY: II SSv7) 
661‘fo0L LLz'SLgb | r€g‘Lbo'€ | 6EbIHL‘E | H1E‘Sog‘z 


0008q0} puUe ‘HUIIP ‘pooy : [ SSVID 


‘a ‘at 











LE6r 
4900 
asvaAuUy 





“EOI *syaogxy 








oiaizes y GOOLE 


254 


26. IMPORTS, BY COUNTRIES, DURING 1937 AND 1938. 























































































Country of Origin. 
£P. 

United Kingdom 2,518,669 15°84 13°17 
British Rossernions::: 731,331 4°60 726,417 6°40 
Austria 151,907 0-95 125,914 I-Ir 
Belgium 495,372 3°11 338,568 2°98 
Bulgaria 193,275 1+22 75,699 0-67 
China . 117,304 0°74 29,811 0-26 
Czechoslovakia 473,527 2°98 347,298 3°06 
Denmark ... 83,710 0°53 63,186 0°56 
Dutch East Indies .. 90,556 0°57 160,258 I-41 
Egypt es 630,520 3°96 405,249 3°57 
France 270,099 I*70 207,774 1°83 
Germany 2,628,226 16°53 | 1,644,838 14°48 
Holland 229,779 1°45 232,011 2°04 
Hungary 116,438 0°73 76,355 0°67 
Tran ... 223,358 140 114,864 I‘or 
‘Iraq... 361,160 2°27 172,835 1°52 
Italy... 320,503 2-01 236,242 2-08 
Japan 494,013 3°11 303,402 2-67 
Lithuania 131,682 0-83 100,321 0°88 
Poland 475,269 2°99 419,478 3°69 
Roumania 1,372,044 8-63 | 1,253,021 II-03 
Russia 98,921 0-62 89,785 0-79 
Sweden in 125,646 0'79 106,212 0-94 
Switzerland... 148,674 0°93 107,720 0°95 
Syria... 1,374,450 8-64 | 1,014,953 8-04 
Turkey : we | 254,159 1:60 78,535 0°69 
United States of America... 1,099,061 6-91 969,573 8-54 
Yugoslavia .. as 189,074 1°19 110,861 0-98 
Other Countries 504,939 3° 349,983 3°08 

Totals 100° 11,356,963 100-00 











* Excludes imports by Military and N.A.A.F.I. 


Diatized ty GOORTe 
c 


255 


27. EXPORTS, BY COUNTRIES, DURING 1937 AND 1938. 


















1938. 

Destination. Percentage 

of total - 

Value. Exports, 

1938. 
£P. £P. 

United Kingdom ... wee | 3,150,283 4° 2,468,854 49°18 
British Possessions .... ..: |” 105,670 I: 144,921 2:8 
Belgium ws vse | 1770344 3 229,539 4°57 
Czechoslovakia ate cos 76,825 I: 90,318 1-80 
Denmark... aes ads 58,709 I- 43,001 0°86 
Egypt... ae a3 Ree 99,243 I: 101,725 2:03 
France nee aa as 139,422 2: 82,413 1°64 
Germany ris mee ei 106,094 I- 73.837 1°47 
Holland hes eae wee 324,825 5° 402,040 8-o1 
Italy ... ae a ails 70,402 I 54,897 I'09 
Japan... Sie aes ave 35,847 Oo: 35,680 0-71 
Norway ae oa nae 80,153 I- 124,144 2°47 
Poland Ses ae ies 157,384 2: 133,981 2:67 
Roumania.... as a 112,784 I 115,966 2:31 
Sweden oe oe hae 155,447 2: 171,881 3°42 
Syria ... aes ane na 625,258 Io: 412,825 8-22 
Turkey aes a4 Oe 114,656 I° 44,073 0:88 
United States of America ... 35,223 o- 108,541 2°16 
Other Countries... fee 187,967 3: 181,732 3°62 
Total... «++ | 5,813,536 | r00- 5,020,368 | 100-00 








256 
Re-exports. 


28. In compliance with the request of the Permanent Mar 
dates Commission at its thirty-fourth session, a table showing 
the principal commodities re-exported from Palestine during 
1938 is appended: — 





Serial 
No. of 
Customs 


Tariff. 


210 
226 
227 
239 


334 
348 
349 
360 
412 


419 


423 
425 
433 
435 
436 
437/46 
470 
482 


490 


Commodity. 


Crass I: Foop, DRINK AND 
Tosacco. 

Rice... 

Goats and kids.. 

Sheep and lambs 

Butter ... 

Cheese, other ... 

Eggs... 

Semneh.. 

Apples ... 

Fruits fresh, ne e. 3. : 

Fish dry, salted or smoked ... 

All other Articles of Crass I... 


Total Crass I 


Crass II: Raw MATERIALS AND 
ARTICLES MAINLY UNMANUFACTURED. 
Felspar .. 

Wood and timber, other 
Cotton, raw st 
Groundauts, decorticated 
All other articles of Cass II 


Total Crass II 


Crass III: ARTICLES WHOLLY OR 
MaInLty MANUFACTURED. 
Tron bars, rods and angles 
Iron pipes, other ss 
Iron pipe fittings and drawn ‘tubes | 
Iron and steel manufactures .. 
Cinema film, synchronised with sound 
on film 
Medical, o tical and. ‘veterinary, in- 
struthent ae 
Other tools and implements ... 
Welding machines, 
Electric refrigerators and parts 
Electric apparatus, n.e.s, 
Electrical 800ds, » other 
Mach’: -- i ee 
ve 


‘ 





grey, bleached, 






M® 
Kilo 


” 













24,350 
139 

220 
2,773 
9,811 
511,480 
9,062 
151,376 
20,799 
15,862 


n 

~ 

3 
ry 














755 
758 





257 


Commodity. 


Crass II1I—(conid.). 
Silk and artificial silk yarn ... 
Other carpets of cotton, silk, wool or 
a mixture thereof ... 
Sacks and bags empty 
Wearing apparel of wool, n.e. 3. . 
Other wearing apparel of materials, 
nes. : 
Drugs, raw and ‘prepared 
Paints and colours... 
Lubricating oil and grease... 
Aeroplanes and aerial gliders 
Motor cars, omnibuses, lorries, and 
Chassis and tractors ... 
Parts of motor vehicles and ‘tractors 
Motor cycles and motor tricycles... 
Ships and boats and parts thereof ... 
Vehicles and parts, nes. ... 
Rubber tyres and tubes, for mechani- 
cally-propelled vehicles 
Arms, nes. ... 
Books ... 
Used personal effects - 
Jewellery and imitation jewellery 
Goods, manufactured, n.e.s. 
All other articles of CLass III 


Total Crass III 
Crass IV: Anrmats, LivinG, 
N.E.S. 
Camels ... 
Horses ... 
All other animals, living, ne.s, 
Total Crass IV 


Total Merchandise 





Unit. 


” 





Quantity.| Value. 
£P. 
6,831 1,807 
4377 3,403 
54,600 1,002 
_— 1,553 
- 2,724 
oe 5,972 
50,561 1,700 
63,473 2,541 
— 49,486 
164 | 29,483 
23 9,278 
30,782 7.578 
iat 2. 
— 1,698 
- 21,329 
26,989 4,365 
_ 20,540 
- 1,951 
—_ 92,241 
—_ 1,270 
a 183,559 
= 39,105 
592,232 
5,346 | 37,422 
290 3,749 
44 426 








41,597 
_- 663,217 





Note.—Over 50 per cent. of these re-exports are comprised of Military 


goods. 





‘TA'V'V'N pue Arey Aq syioduy sopnpox” » 





ziL'ggt 
LSL‘6zb 
Loz'1$z 
boS‘gqh 
ogz‘oSg 
glg'rhg 
‘at 


g9£‘ozo'S 
QES‘EIg'S 
€€z'Sz9'E 
ggh'Siz'b 
zoS‘Liz' 
L19‘16S‘z 
‘at 








“asp 


“aod -Uny4a 





“astp 
-uny24a 








-UDYyI4a “asad 














“wiaks moss ssuD4sT 








“weak 0f SUBST 


*(,"wry 600‘2z) sau ‘bs 6zb‘or :aunsareg jo valy ‘62 





6Sz‘ozb'r 
oz€‘Egl'r 
QIS‘gfE'r 
ZQO'Igz‘I 
gSriZi'1 
bggbor'r 









savah-piu 
w 

onvindod | 4 

payouesss 7 








259 


Price Movements. 


30. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 
living are shown below:— 





Wholesale prices. Cost of living. 
(Basis, June, (Basis, January, 
1938. 1936 = 100 per cent.) 1922 = 100 per cent.) 

January... wee ae 107°3 58-2 
February ... ee wae 107'I 58-2 
March aye ate aes 104°3 58°4 
April eee Be Ha 104°8 56°4 
May... nie Sy a 103°5 55°9 
June ive te Ba 100°8 56°3 
July. 99°8 56°7 
August 98-8 56°4 
September 99°4 57°1 
October ey he ane 100°9 58-1 
November ... ob Ee 101-2 61°4 
December ... 98-6 58°3 

Average 102°2 57°6 





The average index-number of cost of living in 1938 was 57-6 
as compared with 59-1 in 1937. 


‘Ta'V'W'N pue Areqm Aq syodun sapnyoxg « 



























£ 

giz‘t99 z1L'ggE | go€‘ozo'S | Lo6‘6gb | Eg6‘QSE‘11] 6Sz‘ozh'1 * gt6r 
—_- z60‘9£9 LSL‘6zb | OES‘EIg‘S | Lz6‘Eob | LoL'bEb‘S1] ozE‘EgE'I | -** LE6I 
_ €6z‘zbo Loz‘1Sz | €€z‘Szg‘€ | o6‘2ZS1 | goz‘Erz‘€1] giS‘gfE‘1 | -** o€6r 
_ 1Z9‘o0€ boS‘g9h | ogh‘S1z‘b | o06'1zS | gZo‘19S‘Z1] zgo‘1gz‘r S€6r1 
_ gb6'Egz ogz‘oSg | zoS‘Liz‘€ | o€ b'ELz | 966'SSg‘b1] gSx‘1Z1'1 £61 
_— zo€‘6r€ gZgiihg | Lr19‘16S‘z | go€‘Sbr bgg‘vor'r €€61 
dF ‘af ‘aF ‘at ‘af 











DLs Of SUBST 





“weaks woaf Suns] 





*(,"ury 600‘Lz) sop “bs 6zb‘or :auysareg jo vary *6z 


259 
Price Movements. 


30. Monthly index-numbers of wholesale prices and cost of 
living are shown below:— 





Wholesale prices. Cost of living. 
(Basis, June, (Basts, January, 
1938. 1936 = 100 per cent.) 1922 = 100 per cent.) 

January ... ete ae 107°3 58°2 
February ... oe ues 107° 58-2 
March oes eee oes 104°3 58°4 
April 104°8 56°4 
May... 103°5 55°9 
June 100°8 56°3 
July... 99°8 56-7 
August 98-8 56°4 
September 99°4 57% 
October 100'9 58-1 
November IOI+2 61°4 
December 98:6 58°3 

Average... we 102'2 57°6 





The average index-number of cost of living in 1938 was 57-6 
as compared with 59-1 in 1937. 








. a, I 
ourueasorpat sod s[t 000"r -moyo Burpnqout ‘poangowsnuwus eonvory 


eurUreZ0[y 10d syyur OSL 
owweis0Iy 10d strar ooS a pl 


ourmesZ0[Iy 19d strut cot 


oumumeis0[ry tad sprur $ «2 
qduioxy 


sayozeul 0oo‘or sed sp obz 


eure sory 19d strut ¢ 
masojva po *yuaD Jod Z1 


sayozeul Oo0‘Or Jad s[rur ooz 





pernjoeyNuvurun ‘soAwey 
—: oo0eqoy, 
‘xeZns Suro pue 
zeains Joa! ‘reBns mei Surpnyjour ‘redng 
Cpa 7 “vaaqy a[de3s 4IIs TerogHIty 
“uorqtust yo Jutod suo Jo soyozyeur 
bz uey3 aiou SurluTe}UOD s}a]400q 
url poyoduit aie sayoyeur ory (p) 
“uorTust yo yutod 


auo jo sayozeur #z ueyz o10Ur = 

3OU SUTE}UOD YapyOod yea sroyM a 
syopjoog of sad s[ru 9 syopjooq or sod sprur § | sayozeur Jo s}9]400q ua} Araaa 10q (9) = 
“sayozeul O0O‘OL rs 4 
Surpssoxe §(uontas: jo yutod Y 


sayoyeur ooo‘or sod situ ofz 


ssoi8 iad sjrut obz 
aaqy] rod sprur zr 
yora stu 61z 


eazy iad strut £o.z 


sayozeur 000‘or sad spiut ooz 


ssoi3 iad s[rum ooz 
aay] tod syrur 11 
yore sur 00z 
aay tad spur $2.1 


yore Jo) saxoq jo ssois Araaa 10.5 (9) 
“soyo} BUI OOO‘OT 
Sutpesoxe jou (uorust yo yutod 
yore Jo) saxoq jo ssoi3d Arana 10.4 (v) 
—! sayozeyy 
*** y[nq UI puke si9uTezUOD IJs9y}O UT (9) 
*(suoyyesd +) sarzI] z- gr 
Buipssoxa9 =30u = sioureju0d-—s uy () 
—: squids 10j0]q 
IN Ul Io sIoure}UOD I9y}0 Uy (q) 
*(suoyjes +) sary] z- gr 


yoro strut LE yora sim z£ | Surpasoxa jou suimip Jo sul} uy (») 
— auasolayy 

“MOIZNQLIASIp aary 10} Jou 

pue winjAse 10 jeyIdsoy & UTYzIM asn 

Joy papuazur Suryzo[9 ,szuayed pue 
qdurexy Saze1 snore, | sfamo} ‘saseo Moid ‘syaays ‘szayur[sT 
eWW tod sprur SSE eI Jad spru o$z | ** *** saseo snizI0 I0y poiredaid poo 





“ang man 





“AINC AdUAO LT 





‘mayay fo uoydraasaqy 





—gf6r 3uump epeur Aynp jrodurt jo saye1 ay} UT sadueYp ay} ere SuImoyfoy oy, 
"BE6L Sung Aynq ysoduyy yo sayey u! sesueYyD “If 


Digitize 


w 
Ne} 
a 








sf ooo stu o$z" s ‘af zepuy, 
“ oSL€ o0S'S oSzs 
oY 00S" oSL's * ooS'S 
e oSz€e 000'9 es oss 
ie oo0'f oSz'9 me 000°9 
ee oSLz 00$'9 s o$z'9 
2 00S°z oSl9 a 00$'9 
of oSz'z oo00'L “ oSl9 
“ 000°% oSzL “f ooo0'L 
“s oSlt o0S'L “ oSzL 
if 00S" oSL-L ae oo" 
te oSz't 000'g Japun Jo o$Z:L 
03 000°! 19A0 JO 000°g 

nun “WAFS ‘at ‘SHIN ‘at 
“Ang fo avy 


— 81 


‘ullq ul pajsea siamod ay} Jopun opely 
pue osioxy 
Aq peuluiisazap se u0z Jad anyea 943 s104 


‘sWIO}SND JO 103901Iq 9y3 


suasopva po *yuad Jad Z1 
saasoqpa py *yuad Jad ZI 
wasopva po “yuad Jad ZI 


waa0jva py *yuad Jad ZI 
masojva po *yuUa0 Jod ZI 
wMéasojva py ‘yuad Jod zr 


tasofvn py ‘yued 10d zr 











re oSz'¥ *** spur ooo'S ‘gF 1apun, 
a oooh =) OSz'S " 00'S 
uf oSL€ - ooSs a oSz°S 
fe ooS'€ ++ OSL a 00S" 
“ oSz€ ** ooo'9g BY oSZL'S 
“ 000°€ oS$z'9 ss 000'9 
se oSL:z 00S"9 ul o$z'9 
sf o00S'z oslgq .“ 00S"9 
a oSzz ooo L oe oSl'9 
ee 000° oSz-L “ o00'L 
“4 oSl'1 00S" ef oSzL 
od ooS't oSL:Z iv o00S‘2 
a oSz'1 *"* ooo'g “s oSL:2 
a ooo'r * OSz'g ss 000°g 
‘s oSl: ooS"g fe o$zg 
" oo oSZ'g eg 00$'g 
uo} oSz: 000°6 Japun Jo oSZ"g 
yduiaxy 12A0 10 000°6 
un “st at “sttly ‘AF ‘st ‘at 
“Ang fo avy 


—: st 


‘ulIq UI po3saa siamod ay} Jopun opely 
pue osioxy 
Aq poeututiajep se uo} 10d anpea ay} a70y AA, 


‘SUIOJSND JO 10}901Iq ay 


qduiexq 
qduiexq 
yduiexq 


qdwexq 
ourmreZ01y Jod sruz oS -0 
zduiexq 


adarexay 





*(wininp 
uano19139) yeoym psey ueyy J0y30 “‘qeouM 
ee 3 AS $}UB}D9J UISICT 
uggered pinby TeoIpayw 
uqouey 

*paytoads asym 

-as[a Jou snip pue ‘ydurexe urewes 

yoy ‘sdnip eueyeu - Yue uatez199 
uey} Jeyj30 ‘posredaid pue mei ‘sdniqg 
siaulezuoo JouU! Surpnyjour ‘syyes wosdy 
““sSulssoip [@o131ns U0}30D 

*s}U0UT 

-nijsur Areutio30A «= { snjeiedde pure 
soounrdds yeoipaur puw [eorsins ‘Te3u9q 








qdwoxa 
euUerZ0]1y 10d syrur g 


ae oS e[nu o$t'9 ‘dF s0pun 
te oszL o0S'9 t oS$z'9 
“ ooo'L * o$L'9 ae 00$'9 
se o$Z'9 * cool ee o$Z‘9 
a 00$"9 * o$z£ “ e00'L 
ae o0$z'9 oo0S'2 se oSz'L 
oe 000°9 oS LL we 00S'Z 
a oS * e00°g x oSL-L 
“ o0$°S * oSzg se 000°g 
fe oSzS + ooS'g i oSz-g 
e o00'S oSZ-g we o0$"g 
a oSL+ *** 0006 oSL'g 
“ ooS"> 0$z'6 ss 000°6 
oSz'b 00S°6 “s 0$z'6 
ee ooo'h oSL'6 ce 00S"6 
ss oSZ€ * 000'0I1 es 0SL°6 
oo" oSz'or a 000'01 
a oSz'— *** ooS-or « oSz‘or 
ie ooo'€ oSLo1 oe o0S‘o1 
a OSZ:z *** COO'IT < oSL‘or 
KS ooS'z * OSz11 ss 000'IT 
SY oSz'z =*** OoS'II JepuN JO OSz'I1 
0} 000°z I9A0 IO OOS*IT 
un ‘sn ‘at ‘st ‘at ‘St ‘aT 
‘Ainq fo avy 


—! st 
‘wIq UT paqsea siamod ay} Jopun opeiy 
pue esoxy ‘swiojsnd JO 10;001IqQ 9q} 
Aq pouturisjep se uo} sed onypea 0g} o10G\ 


taaozva po *yu0D 10d Sx 
wmasorva py "yu00 10d ZI 


ae o00'L gir oSZ'S ‘qf sepuyn 
7 oSZ'9 000°9 ge oSZl's 
st 00$"9 oSz'9 ee 000°9 
i oSz'9 00$'9 sf oSz'9 
ee 000°9 oS$L'9 ae o00S"9 
as oSL'¢ * e00'L re o$L'9 
ie 00'S oSz'£ oe ooo'L 
“e oSz'S 00S" a oSz-L 
“e 00'S oSl:L ys 0S" 
ee oSZb * 000°g cg oSZ:L 
se ooS'b +" oSz'g a 000'g 
“ oSz' ** ooS'g ss oSz'g 
sf ooo'+ oSZ-g ee 00S"g 
8 oSL€ *** 000°6 1 oSl'g 
3 ooS'€ +" 0$z'6 s 000°6 
*f oSz'e 00S°6 ay 0Sz'6 
Ky o00°f oSL'6 “ 00S°6 
“f oSL-z * o00'or an oSL6 
s ooS'z = *** OSz‘or We 00°01 
iS oSzz *** ooSor Japun Jo oSz‘or 
uo} 000'% IaA0 10 00S‘or 
un ‘st ‘at ‘st ‘at “SW ‘at 
“ting fo vy 
—! St 


‘waIy Url pozsea siamod oy} 16pun epely, 
pue sIoxy ‘surojsng jo 103001Iq] 94} 
Aq pourarisjep se a0} tod anyea 943 s104,. 


ao8un ‘MrOg 
= rarqe, 


“yeaqm punoid 10 
paysn.io pue (aynowles Zurpnyout) eutjoulss 
pur ‘mop }eom 





“Ang man 





“An 4auso.7 





‘money fo uondrassaq 





263 


aulureiZo[Ty ed 


9€ Ly 
gt 6+ 
ob zs 
fag oS 
bad Lg 
by Ls 
Ly Ly 
s¢ s¢ 
oor oor 
OIL orl 
S11 S11 
oSt oSt 
“SILT “SIN 
“aajauuny.y 
‘ pajusad pun § ‘ayjqjauunyz 
4n0j09 2u0 pun 49019 
unyy asour us patp 
us pokp Surpnyoxa 
5 y901q 4nojoo 
us poh auo us poh 


44240190 pov *yUa0 Jad Oz 
soe Z0]TY Jed situ og 


eomMeZ0TY Jed strut o£ 


srumureso]Iy Jod strut oF 


88018 Jod situ g 
eulurergony sod sur $.Z 





wmasopva po ‘yaad 1sd zZ1 
wsasozva po “yaa. Jod Z1 


masoqva py “yua0 Jad ZI 


wmeaaoqvn py *yuad Jed ZI 


wmasopva py *3U90 Jed ZI 
ourureiZ0]Iy 10d sir + 





sowurel3 
ogz = (1) 
Bi ogz obz (4) 
sv obz ooz (f) 
ss st ooz ofr (2) 
sW y oft or (4) 
sN obr o1r (8) 
WW “— orr 06 (f) 
W ; 06 of (a) 
3 oL oS  (p) 
sW a oS of = (9) 
sW e of Sz (9) 
sWW tod sourures3 Sz (v) 
*Burpasoxa JON SaUMUDAT 
Suspaaax 


— peg 
-fpeds alaymaste 30u ‘spoo3 avard 103305 


“sanssty 
zeus pue ariueyo ‘uljeqos 
‘yseulep JO sopoizie poinjzoeynuey (7) 
*erjZour 
oxenbs sod soumures3 oS Butpecoxq (2) 
‘exjour arenbs 
aed soururer3 oSb Sutpacoxe 
you pue soururer3 oof Surpesoxq (9) 
‘axjour orenbs 
ted saururei3 oof Suipesoxe iON (¥) 
— peg 
-toods orsymasyo JOU ‘sonsst} IepIUIIS 
pue oyruayqo ‘uyeqoS ‘yseurep 103309 
os oi see ie sy109 UMOID 
SJOAIL UCIT 


264 


c0o-e ose£ c0o-e ‘ 
oslr cd oos'Z oseL t 
oos'r tte OGLL ms oos'Z 
oSz1 ‘''  o00'g zepun 10 o$Z:Z 
m0} ooo’! 4IsA0 10 000'g 
UA “SILI “ay “nw ‘at “SILT “at 
“nq fo yoy 
—: 81 


“wIq UI po}sea * promod 94} Jopun opery 
pue ssioxq ‘stuojsnd jo 10z001Iq 94} ; 
Aq peuturiezep se woz Jad onfea 04} e10q, aurureiso]TY rod spur € | °° e (uminp wndI310}) prey ‘peo 
yduexq *peoiqe uoljeursep 
2 AOJ aunsaeq Ul swoIpoIse 
sulojsno & Woy oinzredap uo 
yesoire yons Aq asn 10 pepuszuy (q) 
Jo ‘outyseqeg qsno1q} 
Jo 0} Surze1edo yye101re Aue ut 






perreysur syue, oy} UT poutezuo) (2) 

owmureZ0ty 10d stra € to 

exqy] Jad spram zx pure jong 

ammssoid o1raydsounze 32 gj od strut oz aizt] 10d strum € soy uasAxO 

“pagtosds araymasyo 

wmasopoan po *yu99 Jad Z1 you ‘z0}0 ‘seanjoeynoeul 103307 (p) 

eurureiZoj1y tod sprux SE Worm 003307 (9) 
‘a1jzau orenbs iad sauure13 
009 SuIpasoxa jou 3nq oS 

ourureis0[Ty Jod stra Sz Butpesoxa ‘sIainoos aysem 0309 (9) 
‘Jooray} seinz 

fourmesZ0[1y 10d spiu oF ~oenmenr pue Buryjomoz ystyiny (v) 

Mmasozon po *yu90 Isd ZI oe peygtoads aiayn 


-asja jou ‘19q}0 ‘soinzoeynueuL 103309, 


“Ang man “KIN, 40ULsO-T ‘mousy fo woudraasaq 














265 


*19}e013 04} SI IaASOIyM ‘usa40700 py *yUV0 Jed oz 10 } *1978018 94} SI IOASTONYA ‘wasopva py *yu90 red Sz 10 » 








yore spur o§ ydurexq ‘+ squrey pue desys 
yore spur of qduiexg | °° ‘+ Spry pue s}e05 
yore stra oSZ yduiexgq | °° SiGate pure ‘smoo ‘Wex0) 9133%9 
-£xy[nod pue 
aurureiZ0[ty 10d spra 9 qduexy | sure? Zurpnpoxe ‘parry pue uezory ‘eoyW 
“pay Aueduiop 
TO weruesy - ofsuy 943 jo BuryzEy 
-Iapun oy} JO Hom oy} Joy Aressevou 
qduiexy sazel snoue, | “930 ‘spetzoyeur 9 ‘quawidmba = ‘sa103¢ 
*priq sod sprux Sz ‘ounf{ q30€ 03 Areniqa,q 381 
‘priq red siti s ‘Arenue f yst€ 03 Aqnf 3s piq sod sjiu Sz | ** PN pessoip pue aaqy ‘Ax3[nNog 
sttur oSz'S "gF sopup, 
st ee “7 o0S'S fe oSzS 
ss ooS'€ ++ oSLS o0$'S 
ey oSz'E ++ ocoDg “ oSL-S 
a oeo0'E +" OSz'g se 000'9 
A oSlz ** ooSg =6 oS 29 
oe oos'z wee ofL9 o 00S'9 
“ oSzz ‘* ool “ o$L'9 





266 


Shipping. 
32. The number and tonnage of steam and sailing vessels 
entered and cleared in the foreign trade of Palestine during the 
years 1937 and 1938 were:— 














Entered. Cleaved. 
1937. 1938. 1937. 
Steam... «5 Number | 1,992 1,971 2,001 
a Tonnage | 4,817,829 | 5,201,473 | 4,849,637 | 5,171,275 
Sailing ... +. Number 1,545 1,169 1,509 1,174 


Tonnage 44,291 40,336 43,218 40,961 


Totals ... .»» Number 3,537 3,510 3,128 
Tonnage | 4,862,120 | 5,241,809 | 4,892,855 | 5,212,236 








ying ! : 1937- 1938. 
Total shipping dealt with in foreign Number ... 7,047 6,268 
trade. Tonnage ... 9,754,975 10,454,045 


Business Names, 

33. During 1938, 236 applications under the Registration of 
Business Names Ordinance, 1935, were received, thus bringing 
the total number of applications to 2,384. The sum of 
£P.98,975 mils was paid in fees. 


Trade Marks. 


34. Applications for registration of trade marks numbered 
380 during 1938, bringing the number of applications filed to 
£P.98.975 mils was paid in fees. ; 

The following table shows the countries of origin of applica- 
tions in the last five years: — 

Number of applications. 


Country. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Palestine che one sis 137 145 114 147 119 
United Kingdom _... wee = «144 255 107 63 35 
Germany ais ois ae 44 206 68 66 114 
United States of America ... 25 64 36 33 37 
Switzerland ... ave ESA 39 30 5 15 24 
France wide see oe 12 2r 32 10 24 
Holland ptt Be Po II 12 6 7 12 
Hungary ae A oz 11 4 I 4 I 
Austria ‘ aes Se 9 13 4 I — 
Poland 6 9 4 I — 
Sweden 6 5 I I _ 
Italy ... eae 6 5 3 I _- 
Egypt ase 5 46 Io 2 - 
Czechoslovakia 5 5 7 3 - 
Portugal 4 I 2 I _ 
India ... 4 I _ _ I 
Japan... 3 17 6 I - 
Denmark 2 5 2 1 4 
Spain ... 2 = I _ _ 
Syria . 2 8 2 3 _- 


g 


Number of applications. 


Country. 1935. 
Ceylon : _— 
‘Trans-Jordan... 
Belgium 
Australia 
South Africa ... 
Finland 
Trinidad 
Norway 
Tunis ... 
Lebanon 
Turkey 
Luxembourg ... 
Canada 
Bahamas Islands 


[Retsiisatel Gomes | 


Totals ... 


e 
sale eases Un Pa rere 
ao 
an 
w 
> 
nN 
° 


Patents. 


1936. 


1937. 1938. 


pe aad joe ea Pea 


35. During 1938, 164 applications for patents (of which 65 
were from local residents) were received, as compared with 230 
in 1937. The total number of applications now filed amounted 
to 1,446. Receipts from fees were £P.1,468. The main in- 
terest lies, as in previous years, in the chemical and building 


industries. 
CLASSIFICATION OF PATENTS. 


Subject Matter. 


Chemical processes and apparatus ... 
Manufacture of fuel ... os 

Oil wells - 

Purification of liquids 

Insecticides fs 

Building 

Pipe manufacture 

Water supply .. 

Washing floors, “device. for és 
Heating apparatus, burners, fireboxes 
Matches, tobacco a 

Electric apparatus and lamps 


Radio, sound recording, ‘telephone, we cinema systems ae 


Signals and alarms 

Advertising... 

Road vehicles ... 

Metal working... 

Wood working... 

Paper manufacture AM 

Containers, packing and wrapping . 

Food preparations... 

Cleaning, grading and preserving fruit ste 
Agriculture, irrigation, feeding of animals .. 
Air conditioning ‘eS ee 
Furniture 

Locking systems 

Sliding fasteners 


Number of 
applications 
received. 
25 
21 


P 


WORD WOHHNDWHAD 


o 


n 
WHUH HOW OND HWW 


268 


CLASSIFICATION OF PATENTS—conid. 





Number of 
Subject Matter. applications 
received, 
Wearing apparel, arch supports 3 
Dentistry 3 2 
Scientific instruments. . I 
Printing : s 3 
Accounting systems . I 
Games ... Ses I 
Total 164 
Designs. 


36. Eighteen applications for the registration of a, were 
received during 1938, bringing the total number of applications 
to 192. Fees amounting to iP 21,500 mils were collected. 

37. The costhieay are the numbers of detentions made during 
the last four years for contraventions of the Merchandise Marks 
Ordinance, together with the countries concerned : — 





Country. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Austria... dive ‘ies ces 42 27 10 4 
Belgium ate es at 14 7 8 8 
Bulgaria wee re awe I _ _ _ 
China ... Che wee _ I _ I 
Czechoslovakia ae as 79 37 4° 19 
Danzig .. cr ay ace I _ — _ 
Denmark i ate aes 2 I 3 _- 
Dutch East Indies ec, We _ _ I _ 
Egypt ... ae ae 8 1 7 21 8 
Estonia... be _ neh _ I _ _ 
Finland... sh vad oo _ _- I _— 
France ... wa ue 75 2 8 I 2 
Germany bt Fea ws = «156 75 114 99 
Great Britain ... sie ees 4 4 5 3 
Greece ... oe at see 2 4 —_— I 
Holland Rie aids ise 7 12 7 9 
Hungary oY, ies ne 15 9 8 7 
India... ele I I _ —_ 
Italy tec oa sae 27 3 8 17 
Japan ... aie ae sve, 199 116 144 87 
Luxembourg ... on ae 2 _ _- = 
Norway... ae ne wee 3 _ 1 
Lebanon ae nes wee 5 5 7 3 
Poland ... Se ve ees 2r 3 2 3 
Portugal a tes es —_ —_ 2 I 
Roumania a vee eee 2 3 _ I 
Russia ... a at ote I I — = 
Spain ... aA ae ae, _ = = I 
Sweden... see as Sie 7 2 = I 
Switzerland sa 2 I _ I 
Syria... os are SS 11 I 14 7 
Trans-Jordan ... Fe — 2 = = 
United States of America ons 2 2 _— _ 
West Indies... ele = I —_ _ _ 
Yugoslavia sae att wy _ 2 2 = 
Other countries ou ma 5 I <— = 
Totals ... ws 605 336 398 284 


| 
| 
| 
| 


269 
Mf these, the following related to wines and spirits: — 


Country. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 

Holland Ae eee _ I _— _ 
Italy... ae _ _ _— I 
Palestine out _— _ I — 
United Kingdom _— I _ - 
Syria... is _ _ 2 _ 
Totals ... _— 2 3 I 


CIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


[he year under review was important from the point of 
‘w of development of the services rendered to the public by 
: Department of Posts and Telegraphs. After some four 
ars of preliminary work the Empire air mail scheme by which 
first class mail for participating countries is conveyed by 
‘, was inaugurated; and arrangements for uniform rates on 
egrams to all countries in the British Empire via the system 
Cable and Wireless, Limited, were introduced. 


Two major telephone exchanges were converted from manual 
automatic working. 


The new General Post Office building in Jerusalem, accom- 
odating the headquarters administration and the local postal 
rvices, was completed and occupied in June. 
Overshadowing all activities, however, was the unsettled 
ate of the country and the continuation of the disturbances. 
rade and development were adversely affected and the 
‘epartment’s business did not escape the consequences. 


The arrival of a considerable number of British troops for 
‘curity purposes threw burdens on the Department which are 
ot wholly reflected in the financial returns. Comparison of the 
nancial results of the year’s workings with the revenue and 
xpenditure returns of previous years does not, therefore, present 
S accurate a den of the work performed as would normally 
'e the case. Nevertheless, there was a surplus of revenue over 
xpenditure of £P.75,158. In 1937 the surplus amounted to 
SP.112,650. 


2. Revenue.—Revenue amounted to £P.532,562 compared 
vith £P.507,586 in 1937, and £P.450,456 in 1936. 
The principal increases were as follows: — 


£P. 
Telephones... ee te oe a 23,646 
Sales of Stamps ey S28 Soa _ 3,816 
Wireless Receiving Licences an ua 3,555 
Decreases were : — 
£P. 
Telegraphs eee ie oh es Ree 3,659 


Parcel Post... ae ig eee sae 2,619 


270 
3. Expenditure —Expenditure amounted to £P.457,404 
compared with £P.394,936 in 1937 and £342,580 in 1930. 
The principal increases were :— 


£P. 
Unallocated Stores... au ae ee 40,687 
Restoration of Lines ... eae oe «18,332 
Personal Emoluments 3 mG ees 9,020 


The increase under unallocated stores was due to the fact that 
formerly the amount represented by these stores was not 
inserted in the departmental budget. Following a change in 
the system of colonial accounting introduced during the 
course of the year, this item had however to be included. It 
follows that no similar item of expenditure had appeared in 
the accounts of previous years. 

The increases for restoration of lines and personal emoluments 
were due respectively to extensive damage by sabotage to 
telephone lines and to normal increments. 

Extraordinary expenditure on capital works showed a 
decrease of £P.78,370 as compared with the previous year. 


4. The value of free services rendered to other Government 
departments was £P.12,021 compared with £P.13,553 in 1937. 


5. The total value of cash transactions was £P.1,786,600 
compared with £P.1,859,297 in 1937. 


Posts. 


6. Inland Mails—Due to the disturbed conditions in the 
country and the continuous sabotage of the railway, the 
Kantara-Haifa travelling post office was discontinued during 
the year. The interchange of mails between the settlements 
in the Sharon Plain and Haifa and Tel Aviv was effected hv 
a road mail service, whilst direct exchange of mails between 
the head post offices in Palestine and offices of exchange in other 
countries maintained the international mail services. The 
abolition of the travelling post office in July had thus no dis- 
advantageous effect upon the existing mail services. 

By September the insecurity of transit by road and rail had 
reached a point which necessitated a drastic reduction in postal 
services generally. The conveyance of mails by contractors 
ceased in many cases and a daily mail service by departmental 
road transport between Jerusalem and Haifa via Jaffa and Tel 
Aviv in each direction was introduced. Mail services by rail 
were correspondingly curtailed. 


7. Overseas Mails.—During October the train service be 
tween Kantara and Lydda was reduced from a daily frequency 
to three times a week, and the restricted service was still in force 
at the close of the year. The Adriatica Company resumed the 


271 


use of Jaffa as a port of call for its mail steamers and the disem- 
barkation of mails for Jaffa, Tel Aviv and Jerusalem was 
effected there. 


8. Air Mails.—The Empire air mail scheme, which had been 
in operation over the African section since the previous year, was 
extended to India in March and Palestine came within its scope. 
The frequency of the service was increased to provide for three 
flying boat services a week operating via Tiberias, and two land 
services a week via Lydda. 

Difficulties of road transport during the height of the dis- 
turbances seriously interfered with the forwarding of mails to and 
from Tiberias to meet the flying boat services. In consequence 
the mails, by special arrangement, were embarked and disem- 
barked at Alexandria during September, October and November 
and forwarded between Egypt and Palestine by alternative 
means. By the end of the year, however, the normal services 
had been resumed. 

The Polish air service ‘‘ Lot ’’ augmented its services to thrice 
weekly during the summer, but reduced them again in the winter 
to twice weekly. 

The summer air service to Cyprus by Misr Air Lines was in 
operation from the middle of June to the middle of September. 

Two machines carrying Palestine mails were wrecked during 
the year. In one accident the mails were totally destroyed, 
whilst in the other, part of the mail was salvaged and, after suit- 
able treatment, duly delivered. 

The total weight of surcharged air mails despatched to all 
destinations was 19,866 kilogrammes and that of “all up’”’ 
mails (i.e., mails carried under the Empire scheme without sur- 
charge) was 16,820 kilogrammes. 


g. Parcel Mails—The number of parcels to and from other 
countries showed a slight decrease as compared with the previous 
year. 

The number of inland parcels fell from 42,300 in 1937 to 38,600 
in 1938. 


to. Registered and Insured Correspondence.—f£P.24 was paid 
as compensation for loss or damage to registered and insured 
correspondence. 


11. Returned Letter Office—The number of undelivered 
articles amounted to 381,238, approximately 12,600 of which 
were registered. The value of articles found in undeliverable 
correspondence was £P.2,472.196 mils of which £P.2,192.015 
was represented by cheques and bills of exchange. The value 
of articles, other than cheques and bills of exchange, returned to 
senders amounted to £P.201.660 mils, and the balance of 
£P.78.565 remained unclaimed and undelivered owing to inade- 
quate address. 


272 


12. Post Offices and Postal Agencies—A departmental post 
office was opened at Sarafand, and postal agencies at Beer 
pags and Nahariya. A new branch office was also opened 
in Haifa. 

Nine departmental post offices, one branch office and two 
por agencies in various parts of the country had to be closed 

lown owing to the disturbed conditions. They remained closed 
at the end of the year. 

The number of licensed postage stamp vendors was 238 at 
the end of the year, a decrease of 20 as compared with 1937. 


Telegraphs. 

13. Traffic.—There was a decrease in the total number of 
telegrams transmitted during the year, namely 406,992 in 1937 
and 401,326 in 1938. 

Telegraph revenue also fell from £P.32,154 in 1937 to 
4P.28,495 but this is largely accounted for by delay in the 
settlement of certain international accounts. 

Greeting telegrams written on special ornamental forms for 
each of the three official languages, English, Arabic and Hebrew, 
were introduced during the year. These proved attractive and 
popular, particularly on festival occasions. 


14. A new central telegraph office was opened in the General 
Post Office at Jerusalem. The transfer was effected on the 
11th June without any interruption or fault. 

A telegraph office was also installed and brought into use 
at Tel Aviv. Formerly, telegrams to and from Tel Aviv were 
signalled through the Jaffa telegraph office. 


Telephones. 


15. The demand for telephone service was maintained at a 
fairly high rate and applications were received at the rate of 131 
a month during the first seven months of the year. Later, 
however, the demand fell to an average of 98 a month. The 
total number of applications received was 1,409. 


16. During the year 1,557 additional exchange lines were 
installed and 733 recovered, the net increase being 824 lines, 
or 9‘8 per cent. The large proportion of recoveries was due 
to unsettled conditions. The number of telephone stations was 
increased from 14,848 to 16,266. 

At the beginning of the year there was a long list of applicants 
waiting for telephone service at Tel Aviv, and a smaller, though 
increasing list, at Jerusalem. These waiting lists were due 
primarily to a shortage of exchange equipment, a condition 
which it would not have been economic to remedy because of 
the approaching replacement of the manual exchanges by auto- 
matic instruments. An early result of the opening of the 


273 


automatic exchanges was a considerable reduction in the waiting 
lists, the lowest level for many years being reached in 
September. 


17. Revenue and Traffic.—Telephone revenue increased from 
£P.205,461 in 1937 to £P.229,107 in 1938. 

The number of local telephone calls increased from 36,673,196 
in 1937 to 36,689,558 in 1938. The relatively small increase 
compared with that recorded in 1937 may be regarded as due in 
some measure to the introduction at Jerusalem of the message 
tate system. 


The number of trunk calls during 1938 was 2,122,531, an 
increase of 13:9 per cent. compared with the previous year. 
The trunk service was extensively used by the Government and 
His Majesty’s Forces. The use of the service by the public had 
to be restricted during the latter half of the year owing to official 
requirements for security purposes and the frequent and wide- 
spread sabotage of the trunk lines resulting in heavy delay. 

e disturbances also affected the number of trunk calls to 
places outside Palestine, the total for the year being 61,438 as 
compared with 73,750 in 1937. 


18. During the latter part of the year the manual exchanges 
at Hebron, Khan Yunis and Lydda and the automatic exchanges 
at Bethlehem and Jericho ceased working on account of their 
destruction by saboteurs, whilst the service was temporarily 
suspended at Bean, E] Majdal, Qalqilya, and Ramallah owing 
to the necessity for removing the exchange equipment as a 
precautionary measure. 


19. The hours of service at Beersheba and Kinneret were 
extended early in the year and the opening of automatic 
exchanges at Jenin and Nes Tsiyona resulted in continuous 
service at those places being provided for the first time. 


20. Telephone Kiosks.—The number of street kiosks affording 
call office service was increased from 17 to 27. 


21. Private Extensions.—During the year a private automatic 
exchange was installed for post office use at the new General 
Post Office headquarters, Jerusalem, ‘and a 30-line private 
automatic branch exchange was installed at Haifa Government 
Hospital under Post Office supervision. 


Commercial Wireless. 


22. The marine, aviation and police transmitters at Ramallah, 
together with associated equipment at Lydda and Jerusalem, 
were satisfactorily maintained during the year. ifficulties 
connected with the sabotaging of the land line communication 


272 


12. Post Offices and Postal Agencies.—A departmental 
office was opened at Sarafand, and postal agencies at 
Tuviya and Nahariya. A new branch office was also opened 
in Haifa. 

Nine departmental post offices, one branch office and two 

tal agencies in various parts of the country had to be closed 
own owing to the disturbed conditions. They remained closed 
at the end of the year. 

The number of licensed poeraes stamp vendors was 238 at 
the end of the year, a decrease of 20 as compared with 1937. 


Telegraphs. 

13. Traffic—There was a decrease in the total number of 
telegrams transmitted during the year, namely 406,992 in 1937 
and 401,326 in 1938. 

Telegraph revenue also fell from £P.32,154 in 1937 to 
4P.28,495 but this is largely accounted for by delay in the 
settlement of certain international accounts. 

Greeting telegrams written on special ornamental forms for 
each of the three official languages, English, Arabic and Hebrew, 
were introduced during the year. These proved attractive and 
popular, particularly on festival occasions. 


14. A new central telegraph office was opened in the General 
Post Office at Jerusalem. The transfer was effected on the 
11th June without any interruption or fault. 

A telegraph office was also installed and brought into use 
at Tel Aviv. Formerly, telegrams to and from Tel Aviv were 
signalled through the Jaffa telegraph office. 


Telephones. 


15. The demand for telephone service was maintained at a 
fairly high rate and applications were received at the rate of 131 
a month during the first seven months of the year. Later, 
however, the demand fell to an average of 98 a month. The 
total number of applications received was 1,409. 


16. During the year 1,557 additional exchange lines were 
installed and 733 recovered, the net increase being 824 lines, 
or 9°8 per cent. The large proportion of recoveries was due 
to unsettled conditions. The number of telephone stations was 
increased from 14,848 to 16,266. 

At the beginning of the year there was a long list of applicants 
waiting for telephone service at Tel Aviv, and a smaller, though 
increasing list, at Jerusalem. These waiting lists were due 
primarily to a shortage of exchange equipment, a condition 
which it would not have been economic to remedy because of 
the approaching replace: ‘ of the manual exchanges by auto- 
matic instruments. result of the opening of the 


273 


itomiatic exchanges was a considerable reduction in the waiting’ 
its, the lowest level for many years being reached in 
2ptember. 


17. Revenue and Traffic.—Telephone revenue increased from 
P.205,461 in 1937 to £P.229,107 in 1938. 

The number of local telephone calls increased from 36,673,196 
1937 to 36,689,558 in 1938. The relatively small increase 
ompared with that recorded in 1937 may be regarded as due in 
>me measure to the introduction at Jerusalem of the message 
ate system. 


The number of trunk calls ae 1938 was 2,122,531, an 
acrease of 13:9 per cent. compared with the previous year. 
‘he trunk service was extensively used by the Government and 
fis Majesty’s Forces. The use of the service by the public had 
o be restricted during the latter half of the year owing to official 
equirements for security purposes and the frequent and wide- 
pread sabotage of the trunk lines resulting in heavy delay. 

e disturbances also affected the number of trunk calls to 
dlaces outside Palestine, the total for the year being 61,438 as 
:ompared with 73,750 in 1937. 


18. During the latter part of the year the manual exchanges 
at Hebron, Khan Yunis and Lydda and the automatic exchanges 
at Bethlehem and Jericho ceased working on account of their 
destruction by saboteurs, whilst the service was temporarily 
suspended at Beisan, El Majdal, Pelaiya. and Ramallah owing 
to the necessity for removing 


e exchange equipment as a 
precautionary measure. 


19. The hours of. service at Beersheba and Kinneret were 
extended early in the year and the opening of automatic 
exchanges at Jenin and Nes Tsiyona resulted in continuous 
service at those places being provided for the first time. 


20. Telephone Kiosks.—The number of street kiosks affording 
office service was increased from 17 to 27. 


21. Private Extensions.—During the year a private automatic 
exchange was installed for post office use at the new General 
Post Office headquarters, Jerusalem, ‘and a 3o0-line private 
automatic branch exchange was installed at Haifa Government 
Hospital under Post Office supervision. 


Commercial Wireless. 


22. The marine, aviation and police transmitters at Ramallah, 
together with associated equipment at Lydda and Jerusalem, 
were satisfactorily maintained during ‘the year. Difficulties 
connected with the sabotaging of the land line communication 


274 


between Ramallah and Lydda (from which the aviation and 
marine services are remotely controlled) were successfully over- 
come by suitable technical devices which enabled the land lines 
to be dispensed with and a radio link substituted for them. 


Engineering. 


23. External Plant.—The principal trunk routes were main- 
tained in a satisfactory condition during the earlier months of 
the year and a great deal of work was done in improving them. 
Unfortunately, the summer witnessed repeated and extensive 
acts of sabotage to the lines to such an extent that towards the 
end of September 300 kilometres of damaged route had to be 
abandoned. In the last two months of the year the situation 
improved. The international circuits between Jerusalem and 
Amman were restored in December, while the work of restoring 
the railway and police circuits on the Jerusalem-Lydda railway 
route, which had been completely destroyed, was put in hand. 


The cost of the restoration of lines and plant wilfully damaged 
amounted to over £P.18,000. Much of the work was necessarily 
of a temporary nature and the cost of effecting permanent repairs 
will probably amount to a further £P.27,000. Extensive repair 
works, coupled with heavy demands by the security forces for 
telephone and telegraph communication, strained the resources 
of the department considerably. In spite of the abnormal 
conditions, however, it is gratifying to record that normal 
activities were not neglected although they were unavoidably 
curtailed or postponed in certain instances. 


The main telephone trunk routes between Jerusalem and 
Haifa, Jerusalem and Jaffa, and Jaffa and Haifa were fully 
loaded at the beginning of the year and, in order to augment 
the number of channels, six single channel carrier sets were 
installed, thereby providing two additional channels between 
each of the main centres. Transmission on these additional 
channels proved satisfactory and the installation of the equip- 
ment greatly increased the flexibility of the telephone trunk 
system as carrier equipment can be readily transferred from 
routes which are interrupted to alternative routes. The effects 
of breakdowns were thereby minimised and the carrier equip- 
ment proved invaluable in assisting the maintenance of com- 
munications at a time when routes were being repeatedly 
damaged. 


Main local cables and ducts were laid in Jerusalem, Haifa, 
Jaffa and Tel Aviv. 


24. Internal Plant.—During the year the manual telephone 
exchanges at Tel Aviv and Jerusalem were replaced by auto- 
matic exchanges. The Tel Aviv manual exchange was replaced 
in February bya 2,500 line automaticexchange, provision for the 


273 


trunk traffic being made at Jaffa as hitherto. The erection of 
the first extension of Tel Aviv automatic exchange of 1,000 lines 
was also put in hand. The extension will be brought into use 
early in 1939. The Jerusalem manual exchange was replaced 
ip June by an automatic exchange of 3,500 line capacity, with 
a line ‘satellite exchange at Bethlehem to serve Bethlehem 
and Beit Jala. The installation also comprised a trunk exchange 
with operating positions specially designed for trunk demand 
working and for the more accurate timing of calls. 


Automatic exchanges were also brought into service at Jenin, 
Rishon le Tsiyon and Nes Tsiyona. 


Extensions were provided to the existing equipment at affa, 
Ra’anana and Kefar Saba manual exchanges and at the Petah 
Tiqva and Haifa Bay automatic exchanges. 


The classes formed in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv in 1937 for 
the instruction of the staff in the principles and details of auto- 
matic telephony were continued during the year and were well 
attended. 


25. The broadcasting service continued to give programmes 
for five hours daily in the three official languages until October, 
when a mid-day programme was introduced. 


Minor alterations were made in the periods allotted to the 
three languages, English, Arabic and Hebrew, in which pro- 
grammes are emitted. These alterations afforded greater 
elasticity in programme building. 

Improvements were made in the local news service, and 
towards the end of the year arrangements were concluded for 
obtaining a still more extended news service from Reuters. 
As a result more comprehensive and up-to-date emissions will 
be given early in 1939. 

Recording equipment was installed in the studios and 
brought into service. This apparatus not only allows the 
recording of special events, etc., out of the normal hours of 
broadcasting, but is of value in the compilation of pro- 
grammes. Artists, moreover, may now hear “‘ play backs ”’ of 
their performances and have benefited considerably from the 
experience. 

Developments of special interest during the year included the 
formation of an orchestra and a choral society for the 
Palestine Broadcasting Service. The former gives occasional 
concerts from the studios but more frequently from an outside 
hall. Licensed listeners are granted facilities to attend these 
performances and are availing themselves in increasing 
numbers of the opportunity. 


276 

The choral society numbers eighty voices and comprise 
English, Arab and Jewish members. Concerts were broad- 
cast from the Young Men’s Christian Association and 
St. George’s Cathedral, and on both occasions drew large 
audiences. 

Programmes from the British Broadcasting Corporation and 
other broadcasting organizations were relayed on 30 occasions 
and outside broadcasts were successfully undertaken oa 
66 occasions. 

Village receiving sets were maintained in 88 villages. 

The number of licenced listeners increased from 28,516 in 


1937 to 35,708 in 1938. 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS AND FISHERIES. 


1. The agricultural year of 1938 was abnormal from several 
points of view. Wheat yields were the lowest obtained for many 
years. On the other hand barley and leguminous crop yields, 
with the exception of those in the Judean hills, were satisfactory 
and the summer crops were generally above the average as the 
result of favourable rains in the spring. 


2. The cultivation of potatoes continued to make steady 
progress. The area under cultivation showed a distinct increase 
over that planted during the previous year. The crop suffered 
severely from fungus diseases, but the autumn-sown crops 
gave farmers the good returns expected. The melon crop was 
good and the olive crop, which was much above the average, 
made up for losses on the wheat crop. 


3. Heavy and well distributed winter rains gave indications 
of favourable and satisfactory winter crop growth, but spells 
of dry weather early in the year caused appreciable damage 
to cereal crops in the Judean hills to the south and east of 
Jerusalem and in the Ramallah district. On the coastal plains, 
and even as far east as Beersheba, light showers, not experienced 
in the hills after the initial rains Sad germinated the crops, 
caused heavy and rapid growth, but the spring rains of early 
April, followed by a rise in temperature, brought on a universal 
attack of rust (puccinia graminis) which adversely affected the 
wheat crop from Dan to Beersheba. Such a disaster has not 
been known for twenty years. The wheat ee which in early 
spring gave prospect of being 20 per cent. higher than the high 
yields of 1937, realized only about 44,000 tons and unfortunately 
what little grain was harvested was of very poor quality. 


4. During the year there was no shortage of &bn (chaff) for 
feeding farm stock, nor of grain used for feeding with it. 
Following the onset of the winter rains in 1937, hill side grazing 
was abundant and there was little or no mortality amongst 
lambing c« “4d kidding goats. Both werlsing and domestic 
stock -ondition throughout the year. 


277 


5. The yields of the major crops in 1938, compared with 
Los of the preceding three years, are given in the following 
able: — 


1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. 
Wheat ... eee 104,353 76,059 127,420 44,435 
Barley ... ... 68,905 55,169 75,417 66,736 
Melons and Water 
Melons ate 68,799 81,335 102,859 114,805 
Leatils .. 0... 2,698 2,379 3,830 3,278 
Durra... wee 46,135 22,122 61,023 60,849 
Sesame ... ate 6,914 1,847 9,317 4,011 
Olives... Be 45,092 15,755 47,247 38,572 
1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 1937-38. 
Citrus Exports 
(cases)... 71330,846 5,897,310 10,790,110 11,415,490 


6. Unfortunately all agricultural and horticultural stations, 
except those at Acre and Sarafand, were subjected to attacks 
by armed bands, which took the form of the periodic destruction 
and burning of crops, the shooting of mules and the demolition 
of buildings. These attacks eventually brought operations to 
a standstill and entailed the evacuation and closing of all other 
stations. The old established station at Jericho continued to be 
worked in spite of the fact that the office buildings and stores 
had been destroyed by arson. As the result of the destruction 
of crops by saboteurs and the severe attack of rust on wheat, 
only 53 tons of cereals and two tons of legumes were reaped 
on Government agricultural stations. Of this quantity 33} tons 
were distributed to farmers and of the remainder some 14 tons 
were burnt in transit to distribution centres. Up to the time 
that agricultural stations were destroyed or closed, some 500,000 
vegetable and other seedlings had been distributed. Extension 
work in Arab villages became more and more difficult owing to 
the inability of the field staff to travel in safety: towards the 
end of the year field activities had to be suspended altogether. 


7. Syringopais temporatella (ed duda) caused little damage 
to cereal crops, but fungus diseases were responsible for 
appreciable losses in field crops of tomatoes and potatoes. The 
summer crops of durra, maize and sesame gave very satisfactory 
yields which was attributable to the excellent spring rain. An 
interval of fine weather, following the first rains which were 
exceptionally heavy, gave farmers the opportunity of turning 
over their land and sowing winter cereals, but it is anticipated 
that through shortage of seed wheat there will be an appreciable 
decrease in the area under this crop. It is anticipated, however, 
that the deficiency will be made good by an increase in the area 
sown to barley. No seed potatoes for sale to farmers at cost 
price were imported as had been the custom for some years, 

15774 K 


278 


but merchants are HOpOsting HatEe quantities of suitable varieties 
from the United Kingdom, Holland and Central Europe. There 
was no lack of vegetables on local markets throughout the 
year and prices, though showing a slight increase over normal, 
were not such as to cause any hardship. 


8. Extensive co-operative trials were continued in Jewish 
settlements. These trials have included demonstration work 
on forage crops and vegetables, and manurial and rotational 
tests on leguminous and cereal crops. The early rains of 
November, 1938, resulted in an ample and good supply of 
natural pasture for all stock. 


9. Loans for Development in the Hills.—Seventy five applica- 
tions totalling £P.2,342 were approved by the Hill Loan Board, 
for the development of hill areas. Most of the loans were under 
#P.1I00 and were approved for a period of five years each; 
but where the loans exceeded £P.100, the period of the loan 
was normally extended to Io years in order that the annual 
repayments should not be too onerous. So far, most of the 
loans have been for terracing hill sides, levelling rocky land 
and their planting with fruit trees and vines. Almost all the 
loans were made to individuals at 8 per cent. and in a few cases 
to co-operative societies at 6 per cent. Loans were usually paid 
to borrowers in three instalments. 


Having regard to the disturbed conditions in the country and 
the difficulty of obtaining adequate security, it was decided that 
a ie present no further loans should be approved by the 

oard. 


10. General Agricultural Council.—The General Agricu!- 
tural Council held only three meetings, all during the first 
six months of the year. The disturbed state of the country, 
coupled with curtailment of departmental activities, precluded 
any other meetings from being held. 


11. The Agricultural Economics and Marketing Committec 
held five meetings during the year and dealt with questions 
relating to the encouragement of vegetable growing, and 
the protection of locally canned fruits, vegetables, olive oil 
and oil seeds. 


12. The Citrus Fruit Committee held six meetings and dealt 
with a number of important subjects. The Rules relating to 
the export of citrus were amended to provide for a reduction 
in the number of sizes of boxes for oranges and grapefruit, 
restriction of packing to the ‘‘ American ’’ system and destruc- 
tion of fruit totally unfit for export. 


Other m°‘'»rs dealt with by this Committee included trade 
Telatior ‘gn countries. 


279 
13. The Animal Husbandry Committee held one meeting 
during the year and discussed, among other subjects, pasture 
improvement, grazing legislation, and the introduction into 
Palestine of the Guernsey breed of cattle with a view to 
increasing the fat content of milk. : 


14. The Agronomy Committee held two meetings and con- 
sidered proposals for the co-ordination of extension work carried 
out by the Department and other agricultural institutions. 

15. The Agricultural Education Committee held two meetings 
during the year, and submitted to Government recommenda- 
tions regarding the classification of agricultural schools. 

Arrangements have been made on the Committee’s recom- 
mendations for co-ordination in matters of rural broadcasting 
between the Committee and the Government Departments of 
Agriculture and Education. 


16. The Plant Protection Committee held one meeting during 
the year and submitted draft legislation to prohibit the import 
of certain vegetables on phyto-sanitary grounds from adjacent 
countries. 


17. The Agricultural Chemists Committee.—The Agricultural 
Fertilisers Ordinance and regulations thereunder, which were 
designed to protect farmers against adulteration of fertilisers 
and had been dealt with in detail in its early stages by this 
Committee, was enacted towards the end of the year. 


Agricultural Education and Research. 


18. The two Kadoorie Agricultural Schools were able to 
complete the school year in July, but the buildings at both 
schools had subsequently to be occupied by the security forces 
and thus remained closed to students up to the end of the 
year. Co-operation with the Department of Education on 
matters concerning agricultural education was, however, con- 
tinued. The Department continued to supply planting material 
and advice where necessary to school ee le but this service 
had to be suspended towards the end of the year because 
security conditions prevented further field activities. 


1g. The Agricultural Supplement to the Palestine Gazette 
continued to be published at regular intervals throughout the 
year. Weekly talks to farmers in the Arabic and Hebrew 
languages were broadcast throughout the year from the 
Jerusalem studio of the Palestine Broadcasting Service. The 
subjects dealt with were numerous and varied, and were selected 
to cater for all types of farmers and fruit growers. 

20. Kadoorie Agricultural School, Tulkarm.—The School 
re-opened in October, 1937, and continued until the end of July, 
1938, when it was occupied by the security forces. The second 
term began on the 17th January, 1938, and the numbers of 

15774 K2 


280 


students in residence were 21 second year pupils who had com- 
pleted their interrupted first year’s studies at the end of the 
previous term, and 29 newly selected first year students. This 
meant that both first and second year students had to complete 
their studies in two terms instead of the usual three terms. 
Certain modifications were made in the syllabus to suit the 
short, two term course, but the enthusiasm of staff and students 
enabled the work to proceed in a most satisfactory manner. 
Final examinations were held during the first week in July 
and 17 out of the 21 second year students passed and obtained 
their diplomas. The remaining four passed at a “ re-sit’”’ 
examination in certain subjects which was held at a later date. 
Of the 29 first year students, 25 passed their examinations. 


21. Practical work by students was continued in the labora- 
tory, the fruit canning section and on the school farm on 
approved lines. Scientific excursions were made during the 
year and proved of value. 


22. An armed band attacked the farm during the night of 
13th/ ae July, stole 33 head of cattle comprising almost the 
entire dairy herd, and abducted two watchmen. Eight of the 
cattle were found wandering in the vicinity five days later, but 
25 head have not been heard of since. 

The fruit canning building was later attacked and completely 
gutted by fire. 


23. Kadoorie Agricultural School, Mount Tabor.—The first six 
months of the year passed without incident and the staff and 
students worked peacefully and satisfactorily. There were 
42 students at the school during this period, 27 of whom were 
in their first year and 15 in their second and final year. All 
students underwent a thorough course, including theory and 
practice, in all branches of Palestinian agriculture to fit them 
for the farm work which they will perform later on the Jewish 
intensive farms. 


24. Thirteen out of fifteen second year students passed their 
examinations successfully and were awarded diplomas. It is 
gratifying to record that out of the fifteen boys thirteen have 
been already employed in agriculture. Eight of them joined an 
agricultural co-operative settlement, three cultivate their parents’ 
farms and two were employed by farmers. The school buildings 
were occupied by troops in the latter part of the year and on 
this account the beginning of the new school year had to be 
postponed indefinitely. Twenty-five new students were selected 
by examination and are ready to enter the school when it 
re-opens. 

25. All branches of the school farm have developed satis- 
factorily and a new water pump was installed to supply water 
for domestic and irrigation purposes. The area under crop 
cultivation is now 500 dunums. The production of the vegetable 


281 


garden amounted to 15 tons in all, of many varieties. The 
horticultural section gave promising results and good crops of 
plums, grapes and grapefruit were harvested. 


26. The dairy herd comprised about 4o head of cattle of 
different ages. It yielded 90,400 litres of milk during the year. 
The average yield per cow was 4,235 kilograms with a milk fat 
content of 4 per cent. The sheep flock consisted of 100 head, 
a number of which were destroyed by poisoning towards the 
end of the year. The poultry flock, consisting of white Leghorns, 
Rhode Island Reds and cross breeds, numbered 559 hens and 
48 cocks. The average egg production was approximately 
150 eggs per hen. The school apiary remained in good condition. 


27. Research.—Apart from the research work on entomo- 
logical problems carried out by the departmental plant protection 
service, grants-in-aid of the Jewish Agency for research work 
at the agricultural research station, Rehovot, and of the Hebrew 
University for similar purposes were continued. Work at the 
former institution has included research into citrus problems 
such as irrigation, manuring, inter-cropping, behaviour of root 
stocks and the utilization of citrus by-products. Other experi- 
ments in progress include field and garden crop trials, animal 
nutrition experiments, experimental farm units on the plains 
and in the hills. Grants to the Hebrew University were made 
for field-mice investigations and research into spirochaetosis 
in poultry. 

Veterinary Service. 

28. The year was particularly good for live stock. Rainfall 
was adequate and well distributed with the result that pasture 
was comparatively abundant. Both winter and summer crops 
were good and the stubbles provided a fair amount of grazing. 
No deaths due to starvation during late summer and autumn 
occurred. 


2g. As a result of the good early rains of last winter good 
grazing was available and there is every prospect that adequate 
grazing will be available until the early summer months of 1939. 


30. Owing to the disturbed state of the country and the lack 
of security, activities had to be considerably curtailed, especially 
as regards Arab stock raisers. Towards the end of 1938 it was 
eet to close the majority of the animal quarantine stations 
and poultry stations and apiaries. 

31. The following table gives a comparative statement of 
popes of various categories of stock for the years 1937 and 
1938: — 


1937. 1938. 
Cattle for slaughter iste hiss oak 28,500 29,500 
Sheep and goats ... oa eee ase 333,000 226,000 
Horses, mules, camels and donkeys Sek 22,300 16,500 
Poultry... Ch a5 pee 1,346,000 768,00c 


15774 K 3 


282 


32. No outbreaks of serious epizotic diseases occurred. 

33. The introduction of special measures for controlling bovine 
tuberculosis, which were under consideration in the previous 
year, could not be implemented as funds for the purpose were 
not available. 

34. Foot-and-mouth disease broke out towards the end of 
the previous year and gradually spread throughout the country. 
The local type of foot-and-mouth disease is mild and causes 
comparatively little damage. 

35. Precautionary measures were taken to reduce to a mini- 
mum the danger of the introduction of other types of foot-and- 
mouth disease through slaughter cattle imported chiefly from 
Europe. 

36. Until recently imports of slaughter cattle from any coun‘ 
in which foot-and-mouth disease appeared were prohibited. 
Imports of cattle had so to be prohibited during the year from 
Poland, Yugoslavia, Roumania and other countries. Towards 
the end of the period, however, the danger of a serious meat 
shortage was such that the importation of slaughter cattle by 
sea route from infected countries was permitted subject to 
stringent precautions at the port of entry. 


37. Further progress was made in the control and eradication 
of bovine contagious abortion. This disease is well under 
control and the activities of the Department have been of great 
value to stock raisers. 

Some 32,000 agglutination tests were carried out in connection 
with the control of bovine contagious abortion, while 2,400 
complement fixation tests were carried out in connection with the 
control of dourine. 

38. Thirty-two outbreaks of anthrax were reported involving 
5,390 animals of which 149 died. 


39. Mortality among village livestock owing to tick borne 
diseases was not considerable owing to the good condition of 
animals. With very few exceptions, dipping operations, were 
not, through lack of security, conducted in Arab villages as 
in previous years. 

40. For the same reason it was not possible to carry out 
tests for possible infection with dourine on as many horses as 
intended. Some 1,500 animals were, however, tested and the 
use of 46 diseased mares for breeding purposes was prohibited. 

41. Sixteen cases of epizotic lymphangitis and twenty-seven 
cases of glanders were detected and the affected animals were 
destroyed. 

42. Rabies is endemic in the country but every effort continues 
to be made to keep it under control. Ninety-three cases were 
confirmed as rabies by Government veterinary officers during 


283 


the year, of which fourteen were diagnosed by laboratory 
examination. Seventeen thousand dogs and cats were destroyed 
with the assistance of the police and local authorities. 


43. The development of the poultry industry continued to 
make satisfactory progress and no serious outbreak of disease 
came under notice. Government continued to render as much 
assistance as possible for the development of this industry on 
modern lines. 


The poultry industry in the Jewish farming community also 
showed progress and several new settlements where poultry 
farming is the main source of income were established. 


44. The distribution of hatching eggs and breeding stock 
was less than in Lees years owing to transport difficulties 
and the unsettled conditions. Government poultry stations 
were seriously affected: out of eleven stations, four were entirely 


eoyes by armed bands and five others had to be closed 
lown. 


45. Over 45,000 hatching eggs, 13,000 day-old chicks, 1,000 
cocks and cockerels, 1,000 hens and pullets, 300 ducks and 
turkeys, 150 rabbits and 150 swarms were sold by Government 
poultry stations at production cost. 


46. Bee-keeping continued to develop satisfactorily. The 
year’s yield of honey was Ioo tons in excess of that of 1937—an 
increase of 25 per cent. This increase was due to favourable 
weather conditions and to the efforts of bee-keepers who have 
become more proficient in this newly introduced industry. As 
in previous years, duty-free sugar was imported by Govern- 
ment and sold to bee-keepers at cost price in order further to 
assist this industry. 


47. The stock breeding section continued to extend its services 
to the public through different channels including the gratis 
service of animals brought to the stock farm at Acre, the 
sending of sires to different centres throughout the country 
during the breeding season, the issue on loan to villagers of first- 
class stud animals and the sale of selected sires of all classes 
of livestock to bona fide breeders at nominal prices. 


48. Government Stock Farm, Acre.—The establishment of 
breeding stock at this farm was increased. One Arab stallion, 
one Arab mare, eight Cyprian mares and jackasses, eighteen 
cows of the Lebanese breed, and forty-five Damascus goats were 
acquired during the year. 


49. Good use was made of the Government’s Arab and West 
Highland pony stallions. Six jackasses were at stud in different 
districts derive the breeding season. Forty-four bulls were 
issued on loan to villages. 

15774 K4 


284 


50. Sales of stock from the farm included 223 sheep and 
goats, 41 head of cattle and 57 pigs. 

51. Government continued to grant premiums to owners of 
selected village bulls and jackasses to be used for general stud 
purposes in the villages. 


Horticultural Service. 


52. There was an increase of 1,500 dunums at the end of 
1938 in the area under citrus cultivation. 

53. Citrus exports for the season which ended at the 30th 
June, 1938, amounted to 11,415,490 boxes as compared with 
10,790,110 boxes for the previous season. The general con- 
dition of arrivals of shipments on the markets abroad was on 
the whole much better than in the previous year. 

54. The United Kingdom continued to be the most important 
market, absorbing 6,908,985 boxes. This was, however, 
701,860 boxes less than in the previous season. Exports to 
continental countries were 1,326,411 boxes more than in the 
previous year. Norway, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Finland, 
Roumania and Switzerland were markets in which the expan- 
sion of the citrus trade was most marked. Exports to Germany 
and France declined as the result of import restrictions. 


55. The 1938-9 export season began on the 1st October for 
grapefruit and the 2oth November for oranges. Both grape- 
fruit and oranges were in better condition than at the beginning 
of the previous season. 

56. An export of 134 million boxes is expected this season 
and 4,436,173 boxes were exported by the 31st December, or 
476,400 more than for the same period last season, despite 
difficulties in road and rail transport due to the disturbed 
condition of the country. 

57. Prices for grapefruit were good at the beginning of the 
season but soon dropped. The sale of oranges on the United 
Kingdom market realized fair prices at the beginning of the 
season but soon after Christmas prices dropped also. 


58. The state of insecurity at the beginning of the 1938-9 
season seriously upset normal arrangements for picking the 
crop. There was a strike of Arab transport during the same 
period which also to some extent affected movement of the 
picking gangs in Arab areas. These factors caused a slight 
increase in cost of production, but fortunately this was offset 
by reduction in the costs of packing materials and ocean 
freights. 

59. The drawback on imported wood used in the inake-up of 
citrus cases was increased from 2} mils to 3} mils for every 
box exported as from the 1st October, 1938, and the Rural 


285 


Property Tax was further reduced from 410 to 50 mils per 
dunum in the Acre sub-district and from 825 to 500 mils in other 
parts of the country. These measures gave much needed relief 
to the citrus industry. 


60. The work of citrus fruit inspection continued without 
much difficulty. For reasons of security it was necessary to 
limit the places of inspection to the large railway stations and 
ports only as from the beginning of the 1938-9 export season. 


61. The citrus fruit advertising programme for the previous 
year, referred to on page 273 of tie Annual Report for 1937, 
was caltied out according to plan with satisfactory results. 
A similar programme for the 1938-9 season has been arranged 
and advertising is being conducted in the United Kingdom, 
and in fifteen other countries in Europe on the basis of a total 
estimated expenditure of £P.36,000. The campaign again 
includes films, radio advertising, press, and other means. 


62. The first year’s programme for an investigation into 
citrus fruit wastage, which was referred to on page 273 of the 
Annual Report for 1937, was carried out by the Department of 
Scientific and Industrial Research in the United Kingdom and 
the Jewish Agency Agricultural Research Station, Rehovot, 
Palestine, according to plan. The reports which have been 
received from these two institutions were given due considera- 
tion by Government and a further year’s programme of research 
for the 1938-9 season has been decided upon. The scheme is 
financed from the citrus fruit advertisement fund. The rate of 
fee collected under the Citrus Fruit Advertisement Ordinance 
was changed from 3} mils to 2} mils from the rst August, 1938. 


63. The maintenance of the nine horticultural stations in the 
country was seriously affected by continued disturbances and 
six had to be closed down and abandoned. The plantations 
and buildings at several stations were almost totally destroyed 
by armed bands. At the close of the year only three stations 
were operating. 

64. 100,000 vines and 91,000 fruit trees were raised in these 
stations during the year for distribution to the public in the 
1938-9 planting season. Some thousands of these were looted 
before the proper lifting time. Preparations for nursery work 
for the ensuing year were started on a much reduced scale. 


65. The plant protection service assumed control of private 
plant nurseries and inspection work was carried out by the 
horticultural staff. 


66. The olive crop was good in the Jerusalem and Samaria 
districts and normal in the Galilee district. Picking started 
later than usual, resulting in a higher percentage of better 
quality oil. 


286 


67. The vine crop was later than usual owing to cooler 
weather conditions which also favoured a heavy infection of 
mildew. The crop was, however, good in the Hebron sub- 
district, but in the Ramallah sub-district it was seriously 
damaged by heavy rain in November. The crop was marketed 
eeealy due to transport difficulties: this caused considerable 
price fluctuations. 


68. Banana plantations recovered from the damage caused 
by the 1937 frost but the yields were poor and the fruit of 
inferior quality. Banana plantations in the Beisan sub-district 
were neglected owing to the unsuitability of the area to this 
crop as well as to the unsettled conditions prevailing. 


Plant Protection Service. 


69. As in the case of other services of the Department exten- 
sion work of the plant protection service was greatly restricted 
by the disturbed conditions of the country. It was possible, 
however, during the first six months to carry out some pest 
control demonstrations in the hilly country against fig scale 
insects, vine pests and diseases and vegetable insect pests. 

70. Citrus Pests.—Investigations on the biology of the 
Mediterranean fruit fly in the hilly areas were continued. An 
inspection of fruit on the trees in citrus groves at Acre, in the 
third season after a double fumigation experiment against black 
scale, was carried out and the fruit found to be commercially 
clean. Investigations on black scale have also been continued 
in the Jaffa district. Considerable outbreaks of mealy bugs on 
oranges have been reported from the coastal plain. 

71. Deciduous Fruit Pests.—Spraying experiments against 
Mediterranean fruit fly, which were carried out on apples and 

uinces in the Emek, gave promising results. Aphelknus mali, 
the parasite of woolly aphis, survived the comparatively cold 
winter of 1937 at Hebron and established itself also in villages 
near Jerusalem. Studies on the biology of the woolly aphis have 
been continued and it is hoped to publish preliminary results 
in the near future. Research work on the biology and control 
of capnodis sp. was continued. 

72. Miscellaneous Pests and Diseases.—Investigations on pests 
attacking vegetables were continued. Studies on the bionomics 
of the grape berry moth were completed and methods of control 
advised. A biological study of ed duda (syringopais tempera- 
tella) and methods of control were begun. 


Fisheries Service. 

73. The number of fishing licences issued showed a slight 
decrease as compared with the previous year. Approximately 
5 per cent. of the total number of licences issued, however, 
were granted to new applicants who have taken up fishing as 


287 


a means of livelihood. There was an increase in the fishing 
craft, sixteen sailing and two motor boats having been newly 
registered. 

74. Eight permits to land fish in Palestine were granted to 
foreign trawlers as compared with eighteen last year. 


75. The following table shows the total production and value 
of sea and lake fisheries as compared with 1937: 





Sea Fish landed by 





; Total Fish 
Year Lake Fish landed 


Local Foreign 
Fishermen | Fishermen 





Quantity of Fish Landed 


(Kgs.) (Kgs.) (Kgs.) (Kgs.) 
1937 ass ve 277,496 1,012,584 758,068 2,048,148 
1938 ae ae 304,000 954.472 221,156 1,479,628 





Value of Fish Landed 


EPeedt {Phe  £P: £p. 
1937 oe oo 7,990 49,553 15,660 64,203 
1938 foe, Sige 8,358 37,678 7376 53,412 














76. A motor trawler was purchased by a local company and 
arrived in Palestine in the autumn. She was commissioned 
during the month of November with promising results. Two 
more locally-built vessels, fitted with imported marine engines, 
are being completed and will, it is expected, be put to work 
shortly. 


77. During the year the fisheries service carried out a full 
programme of investigations, in co-operation with local fisher- 
men,.for the expansion of the fishing industry. 


78. An exclusive fishing licence to take sponges off the 
Palestine coast was granted to a newly formed local company, 
and arrangements are being made by the company to begin 
sponge fishing in April, 1939. 

79. The pprperauen of the special fishermen’s charts which 
was started in 1937, was concluded during the year. Three 
sheets on a scale of I in 100,000 for the area from Ras en 
Naqura to Rafa are now available. A similar chart for Lake 
Tiberias is under preparation. 

80. Widespread interest in the raising of fish in ponds was 
displayed. A natural pond at Ein el Tina, near Tabgha, was 
selected and converted into an experimental pond for rearing 
carp. 


288 


81. There was a decrease in the number of persons convicted 
for contraventions under the Fisheries Ordinance. Most of the 
offences were of a minor nature, such as fishing in prohibited 
areas or fishing without licences. It is satisfactory to note 
that fishing by means of explosives and poisoned bait was 
negligible during the year. 


Meteorological Service. 


82. Towards the end of the year the Meteorological Service 
began to provide pilots of aircraft leaving Lydda Airport with 
forecasts of the weather conditions anticipated along their pro- 
posed routes. For this purpose, three synoptic weather maps 
are drawn up daily, in addition to special maps showing the 
upper air wind conditions. Upper wind currents are calculated 
from observations made with a theodolite of pilot balloons 
which are released from Lydda Airport twice daily. 

83. Observations of weather conditions in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan are made each hour, but are broadcast twice in 
each hour. The times and radio frequencies of these reports 
are those allocated for the regional system by the International 
Meteorological Organization. 

84. The development of the meteorological and climatological 
network was seriously hampered by the situation in the country. 
Two official stations at Beersheba and Jericho were totally 
destroyed, one station at Beisan had to be closed down, and 
about thirty other rainfall stations were destroyed. A number 
of the rainfall stations were re-erected and re-equipped. The 
unsettled state of the country also prevented the expansion of the 
system of observing stations, which it was intended to carry out 
during the year. 

85. A new average rainfall map for Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan, reduced to the international standard period 1go1-30, 
was constructed. The figures used were those relating to the 
period from the middle of last century up to the end of the 
rainfall season 1937-8: they were collected, checked and reduced 
to the above period. ; 

86. The rainfall at official meteorological stations up to the 
31st December, 1938, as compared with that for the same 
period last year, was: — 

Ist June, 1937, to rst June, 1938, to 


Station. 31st December, 1937. 31st December, 1938. 
Millimetres. Millimetres. 
Acre ... age sett 335°1 255°4 
Beit Gemal ... oS 137°7 216-4 
Gaza ... vee esr 173°2 272°4 
Haifa ... ie ie 348-1 335°0 
Jerusalem... ae 71-8 211°6 
Jenin ... bes BG 122-2 1784 
Tel-Aviv 5 An 235°0 469°8 


289 


Forest Service. 


87. The comprehensive forest policy was continued so far as 
the situation in the country senuilicd: More than 1? millions 
of plants were raised in ten forest nurseries. - Government 
plantations in forest reserves absorbed 1,152,000 plants and 
625 kilogrammes of pine seed. The total area which had been 
subjected to afforestation operations up to the end of the 1937-8 
planting season was 22,400 dunums. Fifty-four plantations on 
2,600 dunums were formed by private persons and institutions 
mainly Jewish. 767,000 plants were issued free from forest 
nurseries to the public during the year. 


88. In 1938, one new forest reserve was proclaimed, bringing 
the total to 278 reserves with a nominal area of 740,639 dunums, 


. An area of 3,950 dunums of State Domain lands disclosed 
by land settlement and land court decisions, were allocated to 
the State Forests during the year, bringing the total area to 
8,221 dunums. 


go. The reclamation of sand dunes was continued on a small 
scale at Gaza, but all experiments were hampered by the 
disturbances. 


ae Forest revenue totalled £P.3,030, mainly derived from 
felling fees collected from the owners of trees on private land. 


The estimated value of forest produce extracted from Forest 
Reserves by right-holders for their domestic needs was £P.2,290, 
and the value of forest produce, extracted from reserves under 
trade licences, for sale was £P.376. The estimated value of 
produce sold from privately-owned plantations and woods was 
£P.31,000. 


12,313 forest licences were issued by District Officers, 
including 1,954 to right-holders. 


20,871 animals were licensed to pase in Forest Reserves. 
Of these 19,323 belonged to right-holders. Estimating the value 
of grazing at I00 mils a head per annum, the value of forest 
grazing was £P.2,087. 

833 persons were convicted for forest contraventions. 


92. 14,000 wild olive suckers wera extracted from forest 
reserves at Government expense and planted at Government 
Horticultural Stations for budding and issue to cultivators. 


39,000 carob plants were issued from Government nurseries to 
the public, and for planting in forest reserves. 


Imports of forest produce, including manufactures, mounted 
in value to £P.1,226,537 and exports to £P.6,633. 


290 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS AND GEOLOGY. 


The total expenditure by the Public Works Department during 
the year was approximately £P.773,000 compared with 
4£P.1,070,000 in 1937. With the exception of the completion or 
continuation of a small number of major works begun before 
1938, and normal recurrent and maintenance services, almost 
the whole of the works executed by the department during the 
year were services connected, directly or indirectly, with public 
security. A number of these services, principally road works, 
will remain a permanent asset to the country after a return to 
normal conditions. 


2. Recurrent and maintenance services were generally carried 
out satisfactorily, although in view of the state of insecurity 
buildings and roads have unavoidably not received the full regu- 
lar attention given in normal times. In connection with road 
maintenance much work was undertaken in connection with the 
repair of damage caused by acts of sabotage. The most im- 
portant of the maintenance services was the upkeep of roads, the 
road mileage having increased as a result of extensive construc- 
tion undertaken on grounds of public security. Sections of main 
roads situated within municipal areas were maintained, as in 
the past, from funds provided jointly by Government and the 
municipalities concerned. 


3. Second to the vote for maintenance of roads and bridges, 
the largest annual recurrent vote of the department was that for 
rent of offices and quarters under which the total expenditure 
during the year was £P.99,000. As the result of insecurity, in- 
crease in the police force, curtailment of departmental activities, 
etc., there was an unusually large number of changes in tenancy, 
involving numerous leases of new premises and consequential 
adaptation and renovation works. Several Government offices 
and institutions were moved on grounds of public security from 
one town to another, or to premises situated in more central and 
less vulnerable localities of the same town. The latter include 
the central offices of Government in Jerusalem, which were 
moved at the end of December from the offices which they have 
occupied at the Damascus Gate since 1924. 


4. The continued disturbances in 1938 seriously affected the 
activities of the Department of Public Works, and most works 
were executed under difficult and strenuous circumstances. 


5. The execution of numerous works connected with military 
operations, especially new road construction and repair of 
damage caused by acts of sabotage, were carried out in close 
co-operation with the military authorities. 

The total length of security roads constructed by the depart- 
ment was about 165 kilometres representing an expenditure of 
approximately £P.go,000. 


291 


6. The construction of the General Post Office, Jerusalem, 
which was started in 1934, was completed and the building occu- 
pied and formally opened to the public in June 1938. 


7. The construction of three town schools at Jaffa, begun in 
1936 and interrupted owing to the disturbances, was resumed 
and the buildings were practically completed at the end of the 
year. : 


8. The construction of a police station and police married 
quarters at Tel Aviv was completed. The erection of similar 
buildings in Haifa is approaching completion. 


g. At Lydda Air Port the construction of the terminal build- 
ing was continued throughout the year and the construction of 
a power house and a guard house was started. 


to. Work began on the construction by contract of a Govern- 
ment isolation hospital near Jerusalem and on seven police posts 
of a special type on the northern frontier. Six of these were 
completed. 


11. Designs were prepared for, and work was also started on 
the temporary shoring and bracing of the Basilica of the Holy 
Sepulchre to render the structure safe from the danger of collapse 
until such time as permanent work of preservation of the ancient 
structure can be undertaken. 


12. Various projects and plans were completed for a number 
of buildings, the construction of which has been postponed for 
the present and for others projected in the near future. 


13. In view of the continued state of disorder the department 
was called upon to carry out throughout the country a wide 
range of services for the protection of persons, of public and 
private property, Government offices and institutions. Nume- 
Tous services of a protective nature were also undertaken for 
the police authorities in connection with the maintenance of 
public order. These services vary from small works such as 
fencing of Government offices and the strengthening of doors and 
windows, to works of considerable magnitude involving a large 
expenditure. 

A wide range of other security works carried out included the 
construction of watch towers and machine gun posts in various 
towns and the installation of searchlights on police posts and on 
buildings in various parts of the country, including in most 
cases the installation of generating sets for the supply of electric 
energy. 


14. Buildings to accommodate rural automatic telephone ex- 
changes were constructed at Rishon le Tsiyon, Ness Tsiyona 
and Tel Mond. A new lighthouse was erected and put into 
Operation at Jaffa, close to the existing lighthouse which was 


292 


later demolished. Schools were constructed in two villages in 
the Tulkarm Sub-District, and additional rooms were constructed 
at the girls’ school at. Tulkarm. 

15. The large triple-bay steel and corrugated iron shed of an 
area of 6,000 square metres, which was erected in Jaffa at the 
beginning of 1935 for the accommodation of goods exported and 
imported through the Jaffa Port, was dismantled and re-erected 
in the Haifa Harbour Area in the form of three separate sheds. 
One of these sheds is to be used exclusively for citrus fruits and 
the remainder for other mixed goods. These three new sheds 

rovide a valuable and much needed addition to the facilities 
or merchandise in transit through the port of Haifa. 

16. A “‘ dog unit ’’ was constructed at Affula. The buildings 
erected comprise accommodation for four dogs, a sick bay, 
quarters for dog masters and trail boys and a garage. 

17. One hundred and thiry-nine armoured cars for the use 
of the police force were manufactured in the workshops of the 
Public Works Department at Jerusalem and Haifa. 

18. Work was completed on the fencing, water supply and 
construction of road approaches to State land near Haifa allotted 
by Government for the accommodation of persons evicted from 
insanitary hutments in various parts of the town. (See Chapter 
XX, paragraph 32.) 

19. Towards the end of the year, work was started on the con- 
struction of a road from Gaza to Beersheba (38 kilometres), and 
from Gaza to Khan Yunis (25 kilometres). 

20. The construction of a road from the Hertsliya-Qalqiliya 
road near Ra’anana to Miske, begun in the previous year, was 
completed. This road serves an intensively cultivated area, 
mostly planted with citrus trees, and the Jewish bodies interested 
contributed half the cost. 

21. The Department of Public Works undertook, on behalf 
of and at the expense of the local Jewish settlements, the con- 
struction of a road at a cost of £P.6,000 from the Jaffa-Gaza 
road to Gan Yavneh in the Jaffa district. About half the work 
was completed at the end of the period under review. 

22. Work was completed on the construction of a new road 
from Kfar Sirkin to Petah Tiqva in the Jaffa district. The 
cost, £P.2,000, was met by the settlers. 

23. During the first quarter of the year work was started, 
and completed to the extent of funds available, on the con- 
struction and improvement of a number of secondary roads 
throughout the country. 

Altogether work was carried out on 25 roads, including the 
reconstruction of the road from the Zikhron Ya’aqov Settlement 
to the Zikhron Ya’aqov railway station, at a cost of £P.1,g00, 
towards which the settlement contributed £P.800. 


293 
24. The construction of a new bridge on the Tel Aviv-Petah 
Tiqva road in substitution of the existing narrow structure 
was completed. The new bridge forms part of a scheme for the 
widening of this road, which carries the heaviest traffic in 
Palestine, in order to reduce congestion. 


25. The erection of a new bridge over the Jordan near 
Jericho on the Jerusalem-Amman trunk road was completed 
and opened to traffic in May, 1938. It is intended to dismantle 
the old bridge and re-erect it further north at Jisr Damiya, 
in order to provide improved communications between Samaria 
and Dare toraat! 


26. The Jerusalem water supply was operated satisfactorily 
throughout the year and 410 million gallons of water were 
supplied. The pipeline was sabotaged on a number of occasions 
and three of the pumping stations were raided by armed men. 
The main pumping units were not interfered with, although 
slight damage was done. In November a section of the pipeline 
near Ras el Ain was carried away during an exceptionally 
severe storm and the supply to Jerusalem was interrupted for 
eight days. 

The Municipality of Jerusalem made further progress on 
improving the water supply articulation system within the town 
and about 5,000 metres of new piping were laid. 


27. Further progress was made on the Jerusalem drainage 
scheme which is being carried out by the Municipality under 
the supervision of the Public Works Department. 


28. Three village water supply schemes were completed, and 
work is now in progress on the only scheme remaining to be 
carried out. This brings the number of all schemes carried out 
under the programme of permanent aE POV SUIn to village 
water supplies to 204, Topi gecnno a total expenditure of about 
£P.56,300. Owing to the financial and security situation no 
new schemes were approved in 1938. 


2g. A chlorination plant has been purchased for the water 
supply of the town of Acre and will be installed as soon as 
public security conditions make it possible to undertake the 
work. This service forms part of the water supply scheme 
for the town of Acre: it provides for the substitution of a 12 
inch pipe for the existing old Turkish aqueduct which conveys 
water from the Kabri springs to the town. 


30. Work on the improvement of the water supply scheme 
for Nazareth proceeded during the year and resulted in an 
increase of the yield by 50 per cent. 


31. A section of the drainage scheme for the town of Haifa 
was completed. Consideration is being given to carrying out 
the detailed scheme. 


204 


32. Preliminary investigations were carried out and plans, 
specifications and contract documents were prepared in con- 
nection with the construction of the fence along the northem 
frontier. The actual construction was, however, carried out 
directly by contract under the control of the district administra- 
tion, technical supervision being supplied by the Department 
of Public Works. 

33. During the year compensation claimed under the Work- 
men’s Compensation Ordinance for accidents to labourers 
employed by the Public Works Department was paid in 53 cases 
including three cases of fatal accidents. 


34. Under the Steam Boilers Ordinance 44 boilers and four 
prime movers were examined and licensed. 


35. The district engineers, as inspectors under the owe) 
(Fencing) Ordinance, examined a number of factories in whi 
mechanical plant is installed. Several applications for oil 
storage installations for which licences are issued under the 
Petroleum Regulations (Trades and Industries (Regulation) 
Ordinance) were dealt with. 

36. The four Government drilling plants continued in opera- 
tion during the year and for the greater part of the time were 
crnployed on the hydrographic ey southern Palestine 
and the Jordan valley referred to in Chapter V, paragraph 82. 

One rig was employed until March on cleaning out operations 
at Faluja and Anebta wells, and was then used on the hydro- 
graphic survey. 

One rig was used on the borehole at Yabed which had reached 
a depth of 250 feet at the beginning of the year and was con- 
tinued to a depth of 320 feet in hard limestone. It had then 
to be temporarily closed down in March on account of security 
conditions and ihe rig was transferred ‘to the hydrographic sur- 


vey. 

Two rigs were employed on the hydrographic survey from 
the beginning of the year. 

A borehole at Sufta Adi, sunk by the Consulting Engineers 
in connection with the Haifa water supply scheme, was aban- 
doned at a depth of 390 metres on account of technical difficul- 
ties. At this depth it had still failed to reach the base of the 
bituminous limestone. No water was found. 


Geology. 


37. In the early part of the year geological mapping was 
carried out in the Jordan valley from the Dead Sea and north- 
wards beyond Jericho. Later in the year attention was con- 
centrated on the eastern portion of the Tel Aviv sheet of the 
contoured 1: 100,000 maps issued by the Survey Department. 

The deterioration in the security situation towards the end of 
August prevented field work after that date. 





295 

The geological mapping of the Haifa, Safad, Zikhron Ya’aqov, 
Tulkarm, and Nablus sheets of the contoured I:100,000 maps 
issued by the Survey Department has been completed. It has 
so far not been possible to publish these maps, but hand-coloured 
copies may be obtained by special arrangement. 

38. There was a production of 1,215 tons of refined sulphur 
from the sulphur mine south of Gaza, and 444 tons of rock salt 
from Jebel Usdum in the Dead Sea region. 

39. Quarries.—The number of quarry licences in force during 
the year were as follows : — 


Stone (limestone, sandstone and basalt) S28 Si 77 
Sand (including zifzif and clay) ... aon ae foc 36 
Gypsum oes on a Fe . 2 


4o. An Ordinance to regulate the mining of oil was enacted 
during the year. 

This Ordinance repeals, and re-enacts with considerable 
amendments and additions, the law relating to prospecting and 
mining for oil which was included in the Mining Ordinance, 
1925. That Ordinance is now concerned with prospecting and 
mining for minerals other than oil only. The regulation of oil 
prospecting and mining operations by an Ordinance independent 
of that dealing with operations in respect of other minerals 
conforms with the legislation of most other countries where oil is 
mined, and is desirable since the operations in respect of oil and 
the development of oil fields differ radically from those of other 
minerals. 

The amendments and new provisions include provision for 
the grant of oil prospecting licences covering the operations 
hitherto dealt with separately under exploration permits, pros- 
pecting permits and prospecting licences; and include amend- 
ments in respect of the areas which may be granted under oil 
prospecting licences or oil mining leases, the periods for which 
such licences or leases may be granted, and the fees, 
dead rents and royalties payable. Provision has also been 
made for the right of pre-emption of oil by the Government in 
the event of grave emergency. 

Several applications have been received for oil prospecting 
licences under the new Ordinance and these are at present re- 
ceiving consideration. 


Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) Estate. 


41. The development of the Haifa Harbour (Reclaimed Area) 
Estate continued during the year. 

42. The unsettled and economically depressed conditions exist- 
ing in Palestine were not favourable for the inauguration of new 
development. The first stage of the building on the site leased 
by the Jewish Agency was completed during the year and large 
extensions to three warehouse buildings are in progress. 


296 


43. Eleven certificates of completion and two certificates for- 
additions to existing buildings were issued during the year, 
making, with those previously issued, a total of 67 buildings. 


44. Two applications by lessees for leave to assign and five for 
permission to mortgage their interests were approved. A large 
number of applications for permission to sublet were received and. 
225 subleases were approved. 


45. The total amount collected in rent during the year was 
£P.16,845.500 mils, while £P.18,468.038 mils was outstanding 
on 31st December, 1938. This amount includes £P.887.538 mils 
outstanding on 31st December, 1937. The large volume of 
arrears was due to non-collection of the rents of shop and office 
sites, penne a decision of representations submitted to Govern- 
ment by the Harbour Estate Lessees Union in regard to the re- 
duction of rents payable and other kindred matters. 


46. Fires suspected of being due to incendiarism occurred in 
certain buildings in the reclaimed area. The losses have been 
agreed in all cases on behalf of the lessor with the insurance 
companies concerned. One of the most serious fires in Pales- 
tine for many years occurred when the Levant Bonded Ware- 
house within the customs enclosure, the site of which is leased 
from the Government, was destroyed on the 6th November. 


47. A composite town planning scheme was prepared by the 
local town planning authorities involving the land to the west 
of Plumer Square which will be available for development when 
the Harbour is completed. 


Haifa Harbour Development. 


48. The construction of the cargo jetty and ancillary and 
shoreworks was completed towards the end of the year. 


49. Remedial works to the main quay wall in the harbour are 
being carried out by the Public Works Department. 


50. The construction of concrete fire walls around the Iraq 
Petroleum Company’s oil tanks on the 2o-acre reclaimed area 
and a reinforced concrete boundary wall enclosing the whole 
a which was begun in April, 1937, was completed early in 
1938. 


51. The expenditure on works carried out by the Harbour 
Development Works Department during the year was approxi- 
mately £P.50,000. 


52. Owing to the completion of all works in connection with 
the development of Haifa Harbour, the Harbour Development 
Works Department is being closed down and all works handed 
over to the Public Works Department. 


207 


XXVII—RAILWAYS. 


The system known as the Palestine Railways and Operated 
Lines is divided as follows:— 
(a) In Palestine: — 
Standard Gauge —_105 cm. Gauge 
(4 ft. 84 inches). (Hejaz Railway) 
Kilometres (excluding sidings). 








Rafah—Haifa... ee aa 229°5 _— 
Jaffa—Jerusalem wr oo 87 _ 
Ras el Ein—Petah Tiqva eee 6-5 -- 
Sarafand Line... rH ike 4°5 _— 
Beit Nabala Line a5 oe 5°5 _ 
Haifa—Samakh ... oo ils _ 88 
Haifa—Acre #26 oA no _ 18 
Nablus—Tulkarm* ass eee _ 38 
333 144 





(b) In Sinat:— 








El Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafah 203 _ 
(c) In Trans-Jordan:— 
Nassib—Amman—Ma’ant we —_ 323 
Total length of system (exclusive 
of sidings) ey vee eae 536 407 








2. The lines operated by the Palestine Railways administra- 
tion traverse three States—Egypt, Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
—and serve country of widely differing character, namely, the 
long stretch of dune sand desert in Sinai, one of the most diffi- 
cult, as regards maintenance, with which any railway has to 
contend; the alluvial plains of Palestine where the foundation 
consists of treacherous clays and black cotton soil; the moun- 
tainous country of the Judean hills through which Jerusalem, at 
2,468 feet above sea level, is approached by steep and narrow 
valleys; the valleys of the western slopes of the Jordan cleft 
through which the line of the Hejaz Railway descends to 824 





* The section of the Hejaz Railway from Affula, on the Haifa—Samakh 
line to El Mas’udiya near Nablus, a length of 60 kilometres, was closed in 
1932 for economy and owing to the lack of traffic, but the rails have not yet 
been removed. 

¢ The connecting link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans- 
Jordan runs through Syria as part of the line from Haifa to Damascus and 
from Damascus to Trans-Jordan. This is administered and operated by the 
Syrian Authorities. The Trans-Jordan line formerly continued southwards 
from Ma’an to Mudawara (113 kilometres south of Ma’an) on the border of 
Trans- Jordan and the Hejaz, and thence to Medina; but this section of the 
line has not been reconditioned since the War and is not in use. 


298 
feet below sea-level; the rocky highlands and plateaux of Trans- 
Jordan on the way to Amman and Ma’an; and the desolate 
sandy clay wastes through which the line runs along the western 
fringes of the desert of Arabia. 


3. The system which serves Palestine comprises three lines 
of separate and distinct origin: — 
(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(6) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line. 
(c) The Palestine Railways. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder line from the port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed principally to 
carry pilgrim traffic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its 

igin was a length of standard gauge line starting from Haifa 
which an English company had built, but had not completed, 
under an Ottoman concession. The original concessionaires 
were bought out by the Hejaz Railway administration and the 
Io5 centimetre gauge Hejaz Railway system was laid out of 
Haifa on the formation completed or partly completed by the 
English company. 

(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem line was laid originally as a metre 
gauge railway by a French company, also under an Ottoman 
concession. At the outbreak of the War it was taken over by 
the Turkish army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to 
serve as part of the projected extension southwards of the Hejaz 
Railway as a military track. Subsequently the line was con- 
verted by the British army to standard gauge and incorporated 
in the line of that gauge built during the War from the Suez 
Canal to Palestine and referred to in (c) below. 

(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge sys- 
tem in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British 
Army in 1918 as the northern extension of the line which had 
followed the Army during the advance from Egypt. 

At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre 
gauge lines come together and at Haifa, in order to use the space 
available for shunting to the best advantage, it is necessary to 
make use of many dual gauge tracks. 


4. In 1938 the railway suffered severely from the effects of 
the political situation and the disturbed state of the country. 
There was a great decrease in practically all commercial and 
industrial activites, particularly in the building trade. 


5. Frequent acts of sabotage necessitated a constant patrol of 
the line in front of and between trains by armoured motor 
trolleys, whilst train movement had to be restricted to hours of 


daylight. 


299 


A summary of the principal and statistical results compared 


with 1937 is given below:— 


Gross Revenue. 


Working Expenses. 


1938. 1937. 1938. 1937. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. 
(a) Palestine Railway 321,514 592,442 543,014 609,022 
(6) Sinai (El Kantara— 
Rafah) Railway 94,474 120,436 95,225 116,330 
(c) Hejaz Railway ... 71,804 88,390 103,155 122,924 
(d) Petah Tiqva Railway ... 2,741 4.335 840 840 
Notes. 


The figures are for the calendar year. 


Working expenses of the Palestine Railway (include interest and 
management charges on loan) and annual contribution to Palestine 


Railway Renewals Fund. 


The Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway pays rental charges for the 
use of Palestine Railway engines and rolling stock. 


The working expenses for the Petah Tiqva Railway Line represent a flat 


annual charge for maintenance. 


Passengers carried (exciuding Season 
Tickets) oe 


Freight Handled 
Trains run 


Engine Mileage (including “Sentinel 
Cammell Cars) 2 


Total Staff (as at 31st December) 
Total Salaries and Wages 


Passenger Traffic. 
Palestine Railway 


Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway ae 


Hejaz Railway ue 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... 


Goods Traffic. 
Palestine Railway 


Sinai (El Kantara—Rafah) Railway... 


Hejaz Railway ... . 
Petah Tiqva Railway ... 





Year ended 31st December, 
1938. 1937. 
810,249 1,945,000 
765,762 1,102,194 

23,955 32,613 
1,428,273 1,930,105 
4357 4510 
360,125 396,987 
1938. 1937. 
£P. £P. 
59,877 153,736 
55,076 72,148 
21,909 32,473 
£P.136,862 258,357 
230,734 359,536 
36,956 45,012 
44,514 48,493 
2,711 4.463 
£P.314,915 458,104 


300 
The principal commodities carried during the year were: — 


Commodity. Tons. 
1. Barley... ats ae eee a3s 16,453 
2. Wheat... ae wes Bee see 37,513 
3. Maize... on ase on aie 6,600 
4 Other cereals... ae at ote 11,605 
5. Tibben ... we ay see is 8,862 
6. Oil cakes eat ous a5 a3 1,228 
7. Flour... aes aie ohn ees 9,144 
8. Rice oe Wee ane AEs ist 21,998 
9g. Sugar... ays tes af ese 12,360 
1o. Groceries and Provisions eae ae 30,680 
11. Sand eee 36 as ies we 2,770 
12. Stone pan ae Eas wis or 7,192 
13. Lime eis 38 AX oe mie 4,359 
14. Cement ... eee me ae sie 65,117 
15. Asphalt ... wee eee ose ase 4,545 
16. Other building materials Sats Jed 27,686 
17. Wooden planks for boxes Bes eae 18,332 
18. Manure ... wad ay a mee 6,980 
Ig. Oranges ... Sed oat e3% eae 228,527 
20. Grape-fruit ae ah aay aa 5,644 
21. Lemons ise ond fi es 373 
22. Melons ... sD os ae bee 11,984 
23. Grapes ... aa ws ee eae 447 
24. Kerosene oe nee dee ee 77,954 
25. Coal a one ae a2 4 33,859 
26. Petrol... ee wee ee ri 10,246 
27. Firewood Da Ry Bay ve 1,508 
28. Soap ae whe ore Be, see * 1,532 
2g. Salt tds is sae one ts 5,774 
30. Potash ... Bs. nee nae Ba 44,200 
31. Bromine aes isle a8 se 1,402 
32. Chlorine ... or a a cho 354 
33. Caustic soda... ee ee Rea 122 
34. Nitrate of soda ... or mis En 501 
35. Magnesium chloride... See ae 54 
36. Sulphur ... oe en a ee 946 
37. Empties ... aes ua ane Ses 2,845 
38. Machinery wes aus ae ses 935 
39. Miscellaneous... ose one ase 43,131 


Total an ats 765,762 


301 


The principal increases and decreases in goods traffic in 1938 
compared with 1937 were as follows: — 
Commodity. Increases. 
Tons. 
Wheat... dae sae se OG bee 3,074 
Rice ... ai8 as Sts ans ah 5,667 
Grapes wee ake ae ee x 139 
Soap ... wea as ase cee see 531 
Potash aes aes aoe me “25 15,492 
Bromine wa ies aes és san 20 
Chlorine es Ary wae ee ise 100 
Nitrate of soda oes a ve, aa 422 
Sulphur ate wee Rae ee oe, 378 





Total A ee 25,823 





Commodity. Decreases. 
Tons. 


Barley... eee dee Ses a mee 2,190 
Maize ane ar a5 ees or 8,765 
Other cereals... Ses ai wae Loe 2,557 
Tibben ee th ee wee ba 3,819 
Oil Cakes... oe ade ihe a 1,734 
Flour ... et whe ke ree ee 12,793 
Sugar see oe oa a 4,200 
Groceries and Provisions Mee ies oa 8,141 
Sand ... See oe woe Mee tse 13,471 
Stone ... ies od ise aoe aot 10,702 
Lime ... Ana Dis ee wae ies 1,801 
Cement ee ee ae Bb ae 61,377 
Asphalt ae Ae wie ae 7,783 
Other building materials nae ae aa 58,588 
Wooden planks for boxes ... oes sa 8,432 
Manure se we o8e Ate 13,149 
Oranges wed vee woe Pe a 51,060 
Grape-fruit ... ee noe ane BRA II,Q15 
Lemons mee an ned as a 579 
Melons sat tee “eo ae se 1,826 
Kerosene re oie ate moh or 12,569 
Coal ... ee ee as A eas 11,786 
Petrol vat ae med or ats 2,016 
Firewood aes ‘eae ie ove dine 951 
Salt ... a se ie aan aoe 51430 
Caustic soda ... ae tee co Bae 211 
Magnesium chloride ... whe Ae os 376 
Empties ta oH the sae a 2,081 
Machinery... oe Bie Ae vee 1,427 
Miscellaneous... one 302 ai ts 40,526 





Total soe ses 362,255 





302 


XXVIII.—CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES. 


1. New legislation to amend the Co-operative Societies 
Ordinance, 1933, and the Regulations made thereunder is under 
consideration by Government. 


2. A comprehensive report on the development of co-operative 
societies in Palestine covering the period of 1921-37 was 
published by the Department towards the end of 1938. 


Arab Movement. 


3. Owing to the disturbed conditions no new credit and thrift 
societies were formed in Arab villages during the year. This, 
coupled with poor crops and difficulties in disposing of their 
crops, resulted in all but six of the existing Arab village societies 
failing to meet their liabilities to Barclays Bank in due time 
and arrangements had to be made to postpone payments until 
next season. 

Four village societies which acted in bad faith were ordered 
into liquidation and attachments were placed on the properties 
of their members. 


4. In the towns two Arab societies were registered, six were 
ordered into liquidation and one was declared defunct. One 
of the societies registered is a society of citrus shippers whose 
object is to organize collective shipping of fruit. is society 
entered into contracts with steamship companies for the shipment 
of 1,500,000 cases during the 1938-9 season. 

The other society is a co-partnership of labourers employed 
in the slaughter house at Haifa. 


5. An application for the registration of a society of Arab 
banana growers in the Jordan valley was received and con- 
sidered, but registration had to be deferred until the retum 
of more normal conditions. 


6. The citrus marketing society, the formation of which was 
referred to on page 291 of the Annual Report for 1937, did not 
come into existence owing to the inability of the growers to 
reach agreement on essential conditions. 


Jewish Movement. 


7. The number of societies affiliated with Audit Unions rose 
during the year to 440 as compared with 396 at the end of 
1937 and 312 at the end of 1936. 


8. The number of new societies registered was 81, as com- 
pared with 151 during 1937 and 129 during 1936. During the 
same period the number of societies struck off the Register, 


303 
as a result of liquidation, amalgamation, conversion into com- 
Panies, or having been declared defunct, amounted to 71 as 
compared with 50 during 1937 and 53 during 1936. 


9. The following table shows the number of Jewish societies 
registered and struck off the Register during 1938 as compared 
with the previous two years: — 





Defunct, amal- 























Registered. Liquidated. gamated or 
— converted. 
1936. 1937.| 1938.] 1936.| 1937.| 1938.] 1936.| 1937.| 1938. 
Agricultural settle- 
ment societies ... 23 31 5 4 6 
General agricultural, 
miscellaneous ag- 
ricultural, market- 
ing and agricul- 
tural contractin; 
societies ... ae Io | 30 I 2 3 
Irrigation societies... Io 7 _— I 2 
Co-partnerships of 
labour ... aye 34 | 32 18 6| 13 
Housing societies ... 34] 33 9 _ 8 
Credit and _ thrift 
societies (urban 
and rural) ste 6 6 2 I 3 
Consumers’ societies 10 9 I — I 
Miscellaneous 
societies ... es 2 3 _ -—-j — 
Totals ws | 129] 151 36 14] 36 
l 























to. The above figures show that 39 societies, or 48 per cent. 
of the total societies registered during 1938, are societies for 
agricultural purposes. This high proportion is due mainly to 
the establishment of new agricultural settlements on lands 
acquired by the Jewish colonizing agencies. 


11. Negotiations for the joint shipping and marketing of 
citrus fruit and for the joint purchase of packing materials by 
all Jewish citrus marketing societies were concluded towards 
the end of the year. : 


12. Credit societies were put to great strain during the critical 
month of September owing to heavy withdrawals of deposits. 
To meet this emergency, co-operative credit societies had to 
reduce their balances with other banks and to obtain addi- 
tional funds by borrowing from commercial banks. By the 
end of the year a large part of the withdrawn deposits were 
returned, however, and the position of credit societies again 


304 


became normal. The following table shows assets and liabilities 
of Jewish co-operative credit societies as at the end of December, 


1938: — 
Liabilities. 
£P. 

Share capital ... s+ 377,620 
Reserve fund ... Ste 276,133 
Allocated reserves eer 119,754 
Unallocated reserves ... 57,858 
Debentures ox, a 90,824 

Balances for other finan- 
cial institutions ac 69,417 
Demand deposits we. 1,865,793 
Time deposits ... see 1,264,234 
Loans received ... bee 663,511 
Other accounts ... wae 197,092 
£P.4,982,236 


Assets. 
£P. 

Cash in hand... oe 135,359 

Balances with other 
financial institutions... 871,530 
Advances to members... 2,801,420 
Bills discounted... ane 621,144 
Investments... wee 155,809 
Premises and fixtures ... 191,744 
Other accounts ... a 205,230 
£P.4.982,236 


13. In addition to the 71 societies which were struck off the 
Register as stated in paragraph 8 above, 41 societies, which 
went into liquidation in previous years, completed their 


liquidation and were cancelled. 


General. 


14. The following statements show the position of the co 
operative movement at the end of 1938 as compared with the 


periods ending 1937 and 1936:— 


Total number of active socigties— 


Jewish 
Arab 
German ... 
Others 


Total 


Total number of societies in liquidation— 


Jewish 
Arab 


Total 





Total number of societies struck off the Register 
(not including societies in liquidation)— 


Jewish 
Arab 
Others 


Total 


1938. 1937. _ 1936. 
882 871 770 
123 127 4 

5 5 5 

2 3 3 
1,012 1,006 852 
82 86 64 
12 10 5 
94 96 69 
207 133 105 
13 8 6 


222 A 14! Ir 


305 
lassification of active societies— 
I. Credit and Thrift Societies— 


(a) Urban ... sa see ne 58 52 49 
(0) Rural ... ese fon oe 178 185 126 
Il. Agricultural Societies— 

(a) Settlement societies ... 3 208 + IQr 169 
(b) Marketing societies ... Bhs 59 55 34 
(c) Irrigation societies... ee 59 61 55 
(d) General agricultural societies 37 32 29 
(e) Agricultural insurance societies 5 5 3 

(f) Agricultural contracting 
societies ... as a 6 5 5 

(g) Miscellaneous agricultural 
societies 5 Sie Sa 12 15 14 

III. Diverse Socteties— 

(a) Ceepartnerships of labour ... 131 145 145 
(b) Contracting societies... we 10 Bee 9 
(c) Housing societies ae ave 172 177 153 
(2) Consumers’ societies ... oats 59 56 48 
(e) Mutual insurance societies ... 2 3 3 
(f) Audit Unions ... at as 6 6 5 
(g) Miscellaneous societies aes 10 7. 5 
Totals... vee 1,012 1,006 ' 852 


XXIX.—CIVIL AVIATION. 


The construction of the terminal building at Lydda Airport 
has been retarded by labour difficulties arising out of the dis- 
turbed condition of the country. Until this building is 
completed, the full facilities for aerial navigation which will 
be available when it is in use cannot be provided. These 
facilities will include wireless direction-finding, and lighting 
for night arrivals and departures by aircraft. The terminal 
building will include offices for the Departments of Immigration, 
Customs, Health, Police and Aviation. A _ fully-equipped 
meteorological section and weather-forecasting organization 
will also be accommodated in the building, and offices will be 
provided for the air transport companies. Lounges, bedrooms 
and dining-rooms will be included for the convenience of the 
passengers and crews of aircraft. A restaurant will be available 
for visitors to the Airport and for the Airport staff. 


2. Increased use of Haifa Airport has been made during the 
year by Misr Airlines, Palestine Airways and the aircraft of 
the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. The Ala Littoria Company 
propose in future to use land-machines instead of flying-boats 
on their existing service between Italy and Palestine, and their 
machines will use Haifa Airport, when the contemplated change 
is made. As a temporary measure, a camp of the Royal Air 
Force has been established at this Airport. 


306 


3. The regular air services operating in, to and through 
Palestine are as follows:— 

Imperial Airways, Lid.—Three services a week in each 
direction between Southampton and Singapore by flying-boats 
calling at Tiberias. 

Two services « week in each direction between Southampton 
and Alexandria by flying-boat, and thence to Calcutta by 
land-machines calling at Lydda. 


K.L.M.—Three services a week in each direction between 
Amsterdam and the Dutch East Indies. These services call 
ey Lysis rand are extended to Australia twice weekly by the 

.N.I.L.M. 


Lot.—Maintain a service between Lydda and Warsaw thrice 
weekly in each direction in summer and twice weekly in each 
direction in winter. 


Ala Littoria.—This company oper at present a service by 
seaplanes between Italy and Haifa thrice weekly in each 
direction. 


Misr Airlines —A daily service is maintained between E; 
and Palestine. In addition a service between Egypt and ‘Iraq 
via Lydda is run twice weekly, and for three months in the 
summer a connection with Cyprus is maintained once a week. 


Palestine Airways Lid.—This Company maintains a service 
between Tel Aviv, Haifa and Beirut. 


This route was opened on the 22nd Ge aera 1938, with 
a service thrice weekly in each direction. e frequency of the 
service was later increased to once daily and then to two services 
daily, in order to meet the volume of traffic resulting from the 
low fare charged and the insecurity of the roads caused by the 
disturbed condition of the country. 





307 
TRANS-JORDAN 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, Etc. 


1. Trans-Jordan is bounded on the west by Palestine, on 
the north by Syria and the Jebel Druze, on the north-east 
by ‘Iraq, and on the east and south by Saudi Arabia. It has 
a desert frontier of about goo kilometres. In length the country 
is some 380 kilometres from north to south and in breadth 
from east to west is 150 kilometres at its broadest. It has an 
area of some 90,000 square kilometres. 


Area and Climate. 


2. Trans-Jordan is divided into two natural zones, the culti- 
vated or rain-fed zone and the uncultivated or dry zone. The 
cultivated zone is that in which the rainfall, in a normal year, 
is sufficient for the raising of cereal crops. The heaviest rainfall 
occurs on the top of the Jordan escarpment, and the cultivated 
zone stretches eastward from this escarpment. The rainfall 
decreases rapidly towards the east, and the width of the culti- 
vated zone in its widest part, i.e., the north, is not more than 
30 miles. This width decreases rapidly towards the south, and 
the zone ultimately tapers a short distance south of Ma’an into 
the southern desert. The area of the cultivated zone is about 
7,700,000 dunums and that of the uncultivated zone about 
82,300,000 dunums. 

The fiscal survey of Trans-Jordan, which was completed 
about six years ago, was sufficiently extended, both to the east 
and the west, as to include land in the eastern desert and on 
the slopes of the Jordan valley which, though usually unculti- 
vated, may be cultivated in years of exceptionally good rainfall. 
The total area covered by the fiscal survey was 10,000,000 
dunums, and the cultivated zone of 7,700,000 dunums falls, 
within this larger area covered by the fiscal survey. The area 
to which the fiscal survey extended falls into the following 
classes : — 














(i) The cultivated zone Dunwmns 
(a) Irrigated he xi eK at 260,000 

(6) Vineyards os 80,000 

(c) Rain-fed cereals LE. ae ‘ 4,150,000 

(d) Uncultivable land including forests... 2,800,000 

(e) The Shera is ee fee wets 440,000 

Total 7,730,000 

(ii) Land bordering the eastern desert and land 2,270,000 


of the Jordan valley slopes. 





Total 10,000,000 





308 


Within the cultivated zone there is an area of 400,000 dunums 
which is in a class by itself. This area is situated at an average 
altitude of 900 metres (nearly 3,000 feet) and enjoys a rainfall 
adequate to ensure a good crop. The remainder of the rain-fed 
cereal area is not so favourably situated as regards rainfall 
and moisture. For instance, the crops in the Husn-Remtha 
plain, east of Irbid, and the Madaba plain, south of Amman, 
where the soil is very fertile, eany suffer from inadequate 
rain and high temperatures, and in some years these adverse 
factors have a disastrous effect on the crops. The Shera lies 
at the southern end of the cultivated zone and is used by the 
Howeitat tribe as their summer grazing ground. The land 
of the Shera rises from about 3,000 feet near Ma’an to nearly 
5,000 feet in the west and south, and it is only in the higher 
ground that the rainfall is at times enough for the gultivation of 
cereal crops. 

The land bordering the desert and along fe joan valley 
slopes only gives a crop in a year of exceptionally ample and 
reasonably well distributed rainfall, and the percentage of crop 
failures is exceedingly high. 

3. The desert area comprises some 72,000 square kilometres. 
There are oases at Azraq and Jafar which lie respeatively 80 
and 45 kilometres east of the railway line, but, apart from 
these, there are very few water points other than rain-pools. 
The grazing is sufficient, after a year of good rain, to support 
the camels, sheep and goats of the nomads who spend their 
time between the highlands to the west in summer and the 
Wadi Sirhan and the Ghor in winter. 


4. The climate generally is pleasant. In summer the shade 
temperature seldom reaches roo° F. and the nights are always 
cool. In winter it is cold in the uplands and the rain, which 
is often insufficient for the agricultural needs of the country, 
only falls from November to April. Between the rainy days 
sky is bright, and in the sun and out of the wind it is warm. 
The winter climate in the Ghor is mild and that of Aqaba is most 
attractive, although in both places it is hot and oppressive in 
summer. 

The High Commissioner. 


5. General Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., 
C.I.E., D.S.O., was succeeded as High Commissioner for Trans 
Jordan by Sir Harold Alfred MacMichael, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., 
with effect from the 3rd March. 


Changes in Personnel, 1938. 

6. A change of Government occurred in September with the 
resignation of the Chief Minister, Ibrahim Pasha Hashem, 
C.B.E., and the members of the Executive'Council. Tewfik 
Pasha Abul Huda, Director of the Agricultural Bank, was called 


309 


pon by the Amir to form a new Government. With the 
xception of the Chief Minister and the Qadhi el Qudha the 
aembers of the Executive Council are Trans-Jordanians by 
irth. 

Mr. R. S. Champion, O.B.E., Financial Adviser to the Trans- 
ordan Government, was appointed Assistant British Resident, 
nd was succeeded in the post of Financial Adviser by 
fr. G. H. Shelswell-White, formerly Chief Assistant Secretary, 
xibraltar. 


The Amir Jamil bin Naser, who had held the appointment 
‘f Rais el Diwan for several years, resigned in August and was 
eplaced by Mohamed Bey el Unsi. 


Public Security. 


7. Having regard to the identity of race, language and 
nterests between the people of Trans-Jordan and the Arabs of 
2alestine it is satisfactory to record that internal security in the 
:ountry showed no signs of deterioration in 1938 as compared 
vith previous years, except in the Ghor where the hydrographic 
survey had to be stopped. The schedule of principal crimes 
xecurring during the past five years which is given in 
Chapter VIII of this Report indicates that the conduct of the 
seople of Trans-Jordan was little affected by events in Palestine. 
The order and tranquillity in Trans-Jordan are in no small 
measure due to the wise rule of His Highness the Amir and to 
the determination of his Government to suppress every incipient 
lisorder. These happy results were not obtained without 
constant vigilance by the Administration against subversive 
2lements outside the country. It is probable that the Report 
of the Palestine Partition Commission and the renewed hope 
of a favourable solution of the Palestine problem which people 
saw in the abandonment of partition and in the summoning of 
ir Fonds Conferences also contributed to the maintenance 
of calm. 


8. There were twelve incursions by armed bands into Trans- 
Jordan from Palestine of which five occurred in November. 
The most serious were the wanton attack on a survey camp in 
the Jordan valley on the 22nd August when three surveyors 
were killed, and armed raids on police posts at Kreimeh in 
May, and at E] Rumman and Shunet Nimrin in November, in 
all of which police rifles and horses were stolen. 


The authorities have been at pains, and with some success, 
to instil into the people the conviction that such incursions must 
be actively resisted and that the peaceful conditions and relative 
prosperity which good administration has secured for Trans- 
Jordan during recent years must not be jeopardized by the 
spread of disorder from across the Jordan. 


15774 L 


310 


By these means active participation in disturbance in 
Palestine has been kept to a minimum; and while every Trans- 
rea is strongly sympathetic towards the Arab cause in 

alestine, prudence and wisdom have continued to prevail. For 
the same reason the sense of contentment with present condi- 
tions, which is daily strengthened by the visible contras: 
provided by Palestine and Syria, has proved an effective barner 
against the somewhat half-hearted attempts by Trans- Jordanian 
dissidents in Damascus to create disorders in the country. 


g. In addition to an economic strike of car and garage owners 
in August, which was called off immediately, there were a few 
political strikes in the principal towns, notably in June on the 
arrival of the Palestine Partition Commission, in July after 
bomb outrages in Haifa, and in November (in Amman) on the 
occasion of the funeral of a notable’s son who had joined the 
bandits and been killed in Palestine. None was accompanied 
by disturbance. 

The ‘Iraq Petroleum Company pipe-line was punctured on 
two occasions in the Jordan wales. there were five cases of 
sabotage to telephone lines and one of arson of a large quantity 
of asphalt for road surfacing. 


Io. Several changes were made during the course of the year 
in the disposition of security and military forces. In July the 
Jordan valley on both sides of the river was constituted a single 
military tactical area, and the headquarters of the Trans- Jordan 
Frontier Force were moved to Jisr el Majamie, a detachment 
being placed at Kreime, east of the river in Trans-Jordan. 

The Reserve of the Arab Legion was increased from 115 to 
160 of whom 8o are desert and 80 rural police; and a supple- 
mentary force consisting of 284 reserve police and 50 desert 
police was formed for temporary service in the Arab Legion 
during the disturbances. 


11. The international crisis in the autumn was watched with 
anxiety in Trans-Jordan, but had no direct repercussions on the 
security situation save still further to charge the atmosphere in 
which dispositions had to be made to meet developments in the 
local situation. 


12. The Explosives Law came into force on the 1st March: it 
provides : — 


(z) that with the exception of retail purchases from a 
licensed dealer no person shall import, transport, possess, 
purchase, sell or otherwise deal in any explosive substance 
except under a licence to do so; 

(2) that no person other than a licensed dealer shall 
purchase or otherwise obtain any explosive substance 
except from a licensed dealer and unless he has obtained 
from the licensing authority a permit to do so; 


311 


(3) that two months from the coming into force of the 
Taw all explosives in the possession of any person must be 
declared, when they will either be licensed or taken over 
by the Government at the market price; 


(4) that amongst the other penalties any person using 
any explosive substance with the intention of endangering 
life or of causing destruction of prepay shall be punished 
with hard labour for a term not exceeding 15 years. 


Constitution and Legislature. 


13. The Constitution of the Amirate of Trans-Jordan is 
2mbodied in the Organic Law of 1928. His Highness the Amir 
Abdulla Ibn Hussein, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., the second son of 
His late Majesty King Hussein (formerly King of the Hejaz) 
s the Amir of Trans-Jordan and exercises authority through an 
Executive Council composed of the Chief Minister, appointed 
by the Amir, who presides, and other members, not exceeding 
five in number, appointed by the Amir on the recommendation 
of the Chief Minister, either from among the principal officers 
of the Administration or the elected representatives of the people. 


The Mandatory responsibilities of His Majesty’s Government 
are discharged by means of the Agreement of 1928 between His 
Majesty the Hing and His Highness the Amir, as amended by 
the Agreement of 1934. (See pages 238 and 239 of the Report 
for 1934.) 


The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by a British 
Resident acting under the direction of the High Commissioner 
for Trans-Jordan (who is also the High Commissioner for 
Palestine). The British Resident lives at Amman and is assisted 
by two British officials and a small clerical staff. 


Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Council with 
His Highness the Amir. The Legislative Council consists of: — 


(a) sixteen representatives elected in accordance with the 
Electoral Law, which has regard to the proper representa- 
tion of minorities; and 

(b) the Chief Minister and other members of the Execu- 
tive Council not being elected representatives. 


The Electoral Law provides that the sixteen elected members 
shall comprise nine Moslem Arabs, three Christian Arabs, two 
Circassians, and two nomad Beduin. 


Normally the Council has one annual session which lasts for 
three months from the 1st November. - The duration of the 
Council is three years, but His Highness the Amir has power 
to prorogue or dissolve it in accordance with the law. 

15774 Le 


312 


The election of members is conducted by primary and 
secondary elections. Every male Trans-Jordanian, not being a 
Beduin, who has attained the age of 18 is entitled to vote at 
the primary elections, and any person may be elected as a 
secondary elector provided he is on the register of primary 
electors for his particular district. 


14. There are no Poe parties in Trans-Jordan within the 
ordinary meaning of the word, and elections are influenced less 
by clear-cut political ideas than by approbation or disapproba- 
tion of the conduct of members of the Government or of the 
Legislature. In this sense, the keenness of the elections for the 
present Legislative Council (to which reference was made on 
page 302 of the Report of 1937) represented the widespread per- 
sonal interest taken in candidates, rather than any awakening 
of political consciousness. 


15. The first ordinary session of the fourth Legislative Coun- 
cil terminated at the end of January, 1938. The second ordinary 
session was convened on the 1st November and after an adjourn- 
ment for the month of Ramadhan and the succeeding Feast, the 
Council re-assembled on the 1st December until the 31st of the 
month when it was prorogued on account of the departure of the 
Chief Minister to attend the London Conferences. 


16. The following important legislation was enacted during 
the year :— 


(a) The Organic Law (Amendment) Law, No. 21 of 1938 
(see paragraph 14 on page 301 of the Annual Report for 
1937), the most important provisions of which are as 
ollows : — 


(1) Article 41 of the Principal Law is repealed and 
the following substituted therefor : — 


“‘ ar, His Highness the Amir-in-Council shall have power when 
the Legislative Council is not sitting to enact such Ordinances as 
may be necessary on any subject. These Ordinances which shall 
not contravene the terms of the Organic Law shall have the force 
of law and shall be submitted to the Legislative Council at the 
beginning of its next session. Provided, however, that Ordinances 
passed for the purpose of securing the fulfilment of the treaty 
obligations of His Highness the Amir shall not be so submitted. 

“Tf the Legislative Council shall not pass at its said session 
any such Ordinance so submitted, the same shall, unless His 
Highness-in-Council shall decide to withdraw the same, again 
be submitted at the beginning of the subsequent session. In the 
event of an Ordinance being so withdrawn, or if at such subsequent 
session the Legislative Council shall again not pass the same, His 
Highness the Amir-in-Council shall forthwith notify the cessation 
thereof and from the date of such notification such Ordinance 
shall cease to be in force. 

‘« In the event of the Legislative Council proposing at any session 
amendments to an Ordinance and of His Highness the Amir-in- 
Council agreeing to such amendments, the Ordinance as amended 
shall have the force of law. 


313 

“In the event of the Legislative Council refusing to pass any 
Law placed before it with a view to securing the fulfilment of the 
treaty obligations of His Highness the Amir, His Highness-in- 
Council shall have the power to enact the necessary legislation in 
the form of an Ordinance which shall not be submitted to the 
Legislative Council. 

“Ordinances shall take effect in the same way as Laws as 
provided in Article 38 hereof.’’ 

(2) The following sentence has been added to the 
end of Article 48(1) of the Principal Law: — 

“‘ Matters regarding personal status are those matters which in 
the case of Moslems are assigned to the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
Moslem Courts.’’ 

_ (3) (a) The last paragraph of Article 50 of the Prin- 
cipal Law is repealed. 

(6) Articles 52, 53. and 54 of the Principal Law are 
repealed and the following Articles substituted there- 
for :— 

‘* 52. Religious Community Councils shall be the Councils of such 
non-Moslem Religious Communities as are or shall be recognized by 
the Government as being established in Trans-Jordan.”’ 

‘* 53. Religious Community Councils shall be composed in the 
manner provided in special Laws regulating the same. Such Laws 
shall define their jurisdiction whether exclusive or otherwise 
regarding such matters of personal status as may be assigned to 
them by the said Laws, and regarding wagqfs constituted for the 
exclusive benefit of the community concerned. Matters of personal 
status are matters which in the case of Moslems are assigned to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the Moslem Courts.’’ 

‘*'54. Such Laws shall also determine the procedure to be 
followed and the fees to be levied by the Religious Community 
Councils.’* 

(c) The Religious Community Councils Law, No. 
22 of 1938, amends and re-enacts a former law for rea- 
sons largely arising out of the amendments to the 
Organic Law. 

(d) The Municipal Law, No. 9 of 1938, amends and 
codifies previous municipal legislation. 

(e) The Explosives Law, No. 12 of 1938, regulates 
the possession, sale and purchase of explosives. 

(f) The Roads Law, No. 15 of 1938, deals with 
control over and encroachments upon public roads. 

Other notable legislation or administrative acts are referred 
to elsewhere in this Report. 


Administrative Affairs. 

17. The country is divided into the Desert Area, and four 
Districts, namely: Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, and Ma’an, with head- 
quarters respectively at Irbid, Amman, Kerak, and Ma’an. 

Ajlun, the ancient Gilead, is bounded on the north by the 
River Yarmuk and on the south by the Wadi Zerka, and is 
divided into the sub-districts of Ajlun, Irbid, Jerash, Deir Abu 
Said and Samar. 


15774 L3 


314 

Belga, the ancient Ammon, lies between the Wadi Zerka and 
the Wadi Mojib (the Arnon), and is divided into the sub-dis- 
tricts of Amman, Salt and Madaba. 

Kerak, the ancient Moab, lies to the south of the Belqga and 
includes the sub-district of Tafileh. 

Ma’an is the most southerly of the four districts, and includes 
ane villages of Shobek (Montreal) and Aqaba and the ruins of 

etra. 

District Administrative Officers have no magisterial powers 
except under the Tribal Courts Law of 1936, but it is on their 
recommendation that the Collective Punishment Law and the 
Prevention of Crime Law would be brought into operation. 

The duties of District Administrative Officers include the re- 
sponsibility for tax collection, the examination of demands for 
tax remission under the Land Tax Law and the application of 
relief so granted, and the execution of the provisions of the 
Protection of Crops and Plants Law. 

District Administrative Officers administer their districts with 
the help of an Administrative Council which sits under their 
presidency and is composed, in addition to the President, of two 
official and four non-official members, the latter being selected 
by a committee presided over by the Administrative Officer and 
composed of two Government officials, the President and Mem- 
bers of the Municipal Council, the Heads of religious communi- 
ties and the Mukhtars. When the male Christian population of 
the area exceeds 500 persons, one of the selected members must 
be a Christian, and when the number exceeds 1,000, two mem- 
bers must be Christians. 


18. The classified and unclassified officials of the Trans- Jordan 
Government other than British, including the officers of the Arab 
Legion, but excluding other ranks, number 927, are classified 
as follows: — 

539 Arabs born in Trans-Jordan. 
68 Circassians born in rae 
313 Arabs born outside Trans- Jordan. 
I Circassian born outside Trans-Jordan. 
1 Yugo-Slavian. 
3 Greeks. 
I Italian. 
I German. 
The 313 Arabs born outside Trans-Jordan include: — 
11 Tripolitanians. 
12 Hejazis. 
17 Turks. 
60 Syrians. 
130 Palestinians. 
75, Lebanese. 
8 Egyptians. 


315 
The British Staff of the Government is as follows: — 


The Judicial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, drafts all laws and regulations, and 
supervises their translation into English; advises the Gov- 
ernment in legal matters; advises the Minister of Justice; 
is a member of the Senior Judicial Council which is con- 
cerned in the appointment and discipline of officials of the 
Judicial Department, and is a member of the Diwan Khas 
which decides questions regarding the interpretation of laws 
or regulations. 

The Financial Adviser, who attends all meetings of the 
Executive Council, prepares the annual Estimates of 
Revenue and Expenditure, advises the Government on 
matters of revenue collection and expenditure, ensures com- 
pliance with the Financial Regulations, and is in close touch 
with the Treasurer. 

The Officer Commanding the Arab Legion, who is in 
executive command of the Arab Legion and is a member 
of the Tribal Court of Appeal. 

The Second in Command of the Arab Legion, who is in 
charge of the Desert Area wherein he has the powers of a 
Mutessarrif under the Tribal Courts Law, 1936, and the 
powers in regard to nomads granted to the Officer Com- 
oanding the Arab Legion under the Beduin Control Law, 
1936. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of motor 
transport. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion in charge of musketry. 

An Officer of the Arab Legion, who is Traffic Inspector 
and Registrar of Vehicles. 

The Director of Lands, who is in charge of Land 
Registry, Survey, Land Settlement and Partition and State 
Domains, and Forestry. 

The Assistant Director of Lands. 

The Director of Customs, Trade and Industry, who is also 
President of the Tenders Board. 

The Chief Curator of Antiquities, on whose advice the 
Director acts in all matters requiring expert technical 
knowledge. 

The Chief Audit Examiner, who audits the accounts of 
ie Soresunaty the Municipalities and the Agricultural 
B 


The Chief Forest Ranger, who is responsible under the 
Director of Lands for the conservation of forests. 

The Bacteriologist, who acts as Director of Health in the 
latter’s absence. 

The Medical Officer in charge of the desert mobile unit. 
15774 L4 


316 


In addition to the foregoing British Officers, there are the 
Director of Development, one English Driller, and a British 
Survey Officer of the Land Development, who are paid from 
a grant made by the Colonial Development Fund. 


19. A new Municipal Law, designed to consolidate and, where 
necessary, elucidate previous legislation was enacted at the 
beginning of the year and came into force on the 1st April. 
During the course of the year a number of regulations under 
the new law were issued, notably with regard to municipal 
elections, powers of municipal councils, control over streets and 
buildings, and collection of Octrol; and the preparation of other 
Regulations required to bring municipal legislation up to date, 
including those relating to finance, auctions, tenders and stores, 
was continued by the Government. 

Neither municipal councils under the new Law, nor existing 
village councils have judicial powers; nor have the latter any 
formal legal standing or jurisdiction, although their executive 
duties are considerable, extending to marking out the land in 
villages where it is held in Masha’ tenure, in dividing among 
individual taxpayers the tax assessed as payable by the whole 
village, and in assisting in the distribution amongst the different 
persons who own a block of land, according to the degree of 
loss suffered by each, of any remission of taxation which may 
have been granted in respect of that block on account of crop 
failure. These duties no longer exist in respect of villages in 
which land settlement has been completed. 


20. Trans-Jordan has maintained satisfactory relations with 
her neighbours and in the desert public security has been excel- 
lent. In only one instance was there risk of an incident, when 
a small section of the Beni Sakhr tribe threatened forcibly to 
disturb the course of the land settlement in the Madaba area. 
Prompt and sudden disciplinary action by security forces 
immediately restored order; and the result has been the enhance- 
ment of Government’s prestige. 


Tribal Affairs. 


21. The Tribal Courts Law, which was enacted in 1924, set 
up mixed Courts of officials and tribal sheikhs to deal, in first 
instance and on appeal, with the following matters: — 

(a) Cases of aggression and differences in regard to 
movable property and matters of ‘‘ blood ’’ and questions 
of compensation and guarantees relating thereto, arising 
between nomadic tribes and groups of members of non- 
nomadic tribes. 

(b) Cases of ‘‘ honour ’’ between nomadic tribes or their 
members. 


, 317 
(c) Cases of horse partnerships provided that, if the 
agreement of partnership between the parties was in a 


written document, the case should be decided by the Civil 
Courts. 


(d) Cases of compensation for blood when the defendant 
is a member of a nomadic tribe or a person who ordinarily 
follows the customs of nomadic tribes. 


22. This Law was never effectively operated and in 1929 
the Beduin Control Law was enacted. is set up a Beduin 
Control Board, with powers to hear actions within the jurisdic- 
tion of the Tribal Courts and to withdraw and deal with any 
action pending in a Tribal Court, and also powers:— 

(1) to determine the places in which nomads shall camp, 
and 
(2) to investigate any raids or other breaches of the peace 
in which nomads were concerned 
whether occurring before or after passing of the Law and 
wherever the same might have taken place. 


23. In 1931, the desert areas of Trans-Jordan were placed 
under the effective administrative control of an officer of the 
Arab Legion, and by the Tribal Offences (Settlement) Law, 
1933, the Beduin Control Board, of which this officer was a 
member, delegated to him the authority granted to the Board 
under (1) and (2) above, with powers of punishment not exceed- 
ing three months imprisonment or £P.5 fine. 

The former President of the Beduin Control Board, His 
Highness the Amir Shaker, who died in 1934 has not been 
replaced, and a new set of Tribal Laws was drawn up and 
enacted in February, 1936, in the form of— 

The Tribal Courts Law, 1936. 
The Tribal Court of Appeal Law, 1936. 
The Beduin Control Law, 1936. 


24. The first of these three Laws constituted a Tribal Court in 
each of the four administrative districts and in the desert area as 
well. A Tribal Court is composed of one or three judges selected 
by the parties to the case from a panel of Sheikhs drawn up by 
the Administrative Officer in charge of the District (the Mutes- 
sarrif) and approved by His Highness the Amir. 

Tribal Courts have jurisdiction : — 


(a) in all cases of whatever nature between members of 
the nomadic tribes with the exception of :— 
(1) cases relating to the ownership and possession of 
immovable property ; 
(2) cases which, in the opinion of the Mutessarrif, 
should be referred to the Civil Courts; 


318 


(b) in all cases of compensation for blood, honour and 
horse partnerships, except where the agreement has been 
reduced to writing, in circumstances where the Mutessarrif is 
of opinion that the parties by ancient custom follow tribal 
procedure, if such cases occur between members of nomadic 
and non-nomadic tribes or between members of non- 
nomadic tribes. 


25. The judgment of the court must be sent to the Mutessarrif 
who may order its execution by the Arab Legion or refer the 
matter back to the Court-for further examination or appeal to 
the Tribal Court of Appeal or, in a criminal case, order the 
guilty party to be punished with a fine not exceeding £P.20 or 
Imprisonment for a year. In cases where the value of the sub- 
ject matter is more than £P.50, or the sentence is imprisonment 
for more than three months or a fine of £P.10, the parties have 
the right to appeal to the Tribal Court of Appeal. 

Under this system, whereby a case is tried and decided by a 
court of Sheikhs, it is possible to administer justice in a manner 
which could not be achieved by a Court of which a Government 
official is a member since the tribal Sheikhs are intimately 
acquainted with the affairs of local litigants and are thus in a 
position readily to judge the truth or otherwise of the submis- 
sions made to them. 


26. The jurisdiction of the Court is now more strictly limited 
than before in dealing with cases of compensation for blood, 
honour and horse partnerships, and this is important as it would 
be improper, for example, to allow a townsman who had killed 
a man to appear before a Tribal Court and have the matter 
settled by the payment of blood money. 


27. The Beduin Control Law allows the officer of the Arab 
Legion in charge of the Desert Area to control the movements of 
the nomads and to deal summarily with cases of raiding, whether 
they occur in Trans-Jordan or elsewhere, and to arrest and 
impound the movable property of nomads suspected of 
preparing for a raid. 


28. The work of these Tribal Courts during the year is illus- 
trated by the following figures :— 
Ajlun Belqa Kerak Ma’an Desert 


Court. Court. Court, Court. Court. 
Cases brought forward 22 22 20 14 _ 
Cases heard ... a 31 34 32 48 352 
Cases finished rae 13 45 28 20 320 
Appeals ne ase 4 5 I _ _- 
Cases carried forward 40 Ir 23 42 32 


29. The progress made in encouraging nomads to take up 
cultivation has been considerable within the past two years. It 
is not the ultimate purpose of Government to transform the 
bedouin completely into settled cultivators, for while the breed- 
ing of livestock remains a necessary and useful occupation, 


319 

nomadism will continue to be essential to its profitable pursuit in 
such a country as eastern Trans-Jordan, with its sparse grazing 
and uncertain rainfall. Moreover the bedouin are experts in 
the breeding of livestock and form a class who afford a valuable 
contribution to the economic life of Trans-Jordan. The objects 
of the encouragement of bedouin cultivation are briefly (a) to 
broaden the basis of their economy and to prevent the whole 
of their livelihood depending upon one somewhat fickle form of 
capital, and (b) to give them a fixed stake in immovable property 
in the country, which will be not only an economic insurance but 
also a social anchorage. It is satisfactory that at the present 
time not only every tribe but every section of every tribe in 
Trans- Jordan has been put into possesion of a certain amount of 
cultivation. 


Economic Affairs. 


30. The agricultural season 1938 after a most hopeful begin- 
ning proved to be most bagel oats in respect of the winter 
cereal crops which provide the bulk of the country’s agricultural 

roduce. Wheat, and to a less extent barley, already affected 

y an unequal rainfall, suffered extensive damage by rust 
throughout the country; and remissions on account of crop 
failure, which afford a measure of harvest results generally, were 
in the neighbourhood of £P.16,000 as compared with approxi- 
mately £P.8,500 in the previous year. Cereal prices were, how- 
ever, maintained at a satisfactory level, and with this factor, and 
the excellent agricultural results of the previous year, the 
economic situation of the cultivators nowhere became serious, 
and no works were provided specifically for relief. _ Labour 
demanded by the Military Authorities on the Haifa—Baghdad 
Road Construction work in Trans-Jordan, and by the Depart- 
ment of Public Works on road construction in the Ajlun District - 
and at the Wadi Mojih has, however, provided welcome 
assistance. 


31. On the rst August car and garage owners in Trans-Jordan 
called a strike in protest against the disproportionately high 
burden of taxation borne by the industry. The strike was called 
off immediately on the issue of an undertaking by the Govern- 
ment that the grievances would be actively considered; and after 
negotiations which lasted during the remainder of the year, it 
was decided to grant a reduction of various fees which are 
estimated to afford relief of approximately £P.2,500 a year. 


32. With the great simplification of procedure for the appli- 
cation for, and issue of, agricultural loans which has Beat 
effected, the ces of the Agricultural Bank have been 
much improved. The preparation of a new Agricultural Bank 
Law and Regulations thereunder has continued to receive con- 
sideration but was not completed. A valuable report on the 
activities of the Bank, which contains a survey of its history 
from its initiation under the Ottoman régime up to the end of the 


320 


financial year 1937-8 was written by Tewfik Pasha Abul Huda 
(the former Director, now Chief Minister) and issued in August. 
The Report shows the capital of the Agricultural Bank to have 
increased from £P.15,500 in 1922-3 to £P.69,000 in 1937-8; and 
the benevolence of its operation appears from the fact that the 
value of lands in its possession amounts only to some £P.3,000, 
a considerable part of which represents land which is being 
Te-acquired by borrowers under easy terms provided by the law. 


33. It is indicated in the chapter of this Report relating to 
Customs, Trade and Industry that trade between Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan, which was much reduced in 1936 and revived 
somewhat in 1937, continued firm. Customs Revenue, which 
rose from £P.104,434 in 1936 to £P.118,405 in 1937, dropped to 

P.113,057, the decrease representing principally revenue on 

irect imports. Statistics for 1938 show that the sum payable by 
Palestine to Trans-Jordan on account of duty paid in Palestine 
on foreign goods re-exported for consumption in Trans-Jordan 
will not be less than that paid in 1937. 


34. The export of Trans-Jordan raisins for the European 
market, which began encouragingly in 1937 and of which much 
was expected, aid not substantially increase in 1938, owing to 
transport difficulties in Palestine. 


Agriculture, Forests and Lands. 


35. The Director of the Departments of Agriculture and 
Forests was formerly responsible for the care of all forest areas 
except those acquired by the Government in the course of settle- 
ment operations which were placed under the control of the 
Director of Lands and Survey immediately after they were regis- 
tered as State Domain. The area of forest land to which the 
Government had acquired a clear title during settlement 
amounted at the end of 1937 to 66,000 dunums, and was rapidly 
increasing as settlement proceeded. It was therefore arranged, 
as a logical consequence of the changing situation, to place the 
whole administration of forests owned or controlled by Govern- 
ment in the charge of the Director of Lands, in anticipation of 
the formation of a Sub-Department of Forests which would be 
in the charge of an expert Forest officer. The transfer of control 
was effected on the 1st April. By the end of 1938 the area of 
forest and scrub land owned by Government had risen to nearly 
II3,000 dunums. 

36. The question of soil erosion and its prevention has been 
actively pursued by the Government. District administrative 
and agricultural officers have done what was possible by warn- 
ing and advice to prevent harmful methods of cultivation and 
to encourage cultivators in anti-erosion practice. The British 
Director of Development prepared a series of lectures on the 


321 


subject which has been issued in pamphlet form and widely 
distributed; and the Department of Education has also 
co-operated by arranging periodical lectures for cultivators at 
village schools and by including the subject in its curriculum. 
There are signs that this campaign of education and propaganda 
is having some effect. 

37. The output of the Department of Lands continued at a 
highly satisfactory level, due to the further maintenance of low 
land values and to expansion in the Department provided both 
by assistance from the Colonial Development Fund and by an 
increase of the local vote which it was happily found possible 
to make in 1938. 


Official Languages. 


38. Under the terms of Article 15 of the Organic Law, Arabic 
is the official language of Trans-Jordan. 


Miscellaneous. 

39. The Palestine Partition Commission spent nine days in 
Trans-Jordan in June during which they made extensive tours 
through the cultivated areas of the country. The Commission’s 
Report was published in Trans-Jordan on the 9th November. 

40. His Excellency the High Commissioner paid his first 
formal visit to His Highness the Amir at Amman on the 15th 
March, on which day the Royal Commission was read with 
appropriate ceremony at the British Residency. 


Holy Days. 


41. The following is a list of the days which are recognized 
as holy days: — 


GENERAL. 

Waafet ‘id el Fitr ... ds 30 Ramadan. 
‘Id el Fitr (3 days) .. ae 1-3 Shawwal. 
Wagafet ‘id el Adha ... - 9 Dhil Hijja. 
‘Id el Adha Ga” a Io-13 Dhil Hijja. 
El Miraj el Sherif 27 Rajab. 
New Year’s Dy (Hijira) I Moharram. 
Mawlad en Nebi__... : 12 Rabi el Awwal. 
Anniversary of Arab Revolt | 9 Sha‘ban. 
Independence Day ... se 25 May. 

For CHRISTIANS. 
New Year’s Day. Ascension Day. 
Epiphany. Whit Monday. 
Good Friday. Christmas Day. 
Easter Monday. Boxing Day. 


Christians are also granted the day before and the first day 
of ‘Id el Fitr and the day before and the first day of ‘Id el Adha. 


322 


Weekly Day of Rest. 


Friday is the official day of rest for all officials of whatever 
creed. Christian officials are permitted to leave their work to 
attend their places of worship on Sundays, and on Feast Days 
not recognized as holidays. 


1.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


The Administration of Trans-Jordan is autonomous in its 
nature. 


2. There are Municipal Councils at Irbid, Jerash, Ajlun, 
Amman, Zerqa, Es Salt, Madaba, Kerak, Tafileh, and Ma’an. 


3. Under the terms of the new Municipal Law which came into 
force on the 1st April, each: Municipal Council contains a 
majority of elected members, the remainder, including the Presi- 
dent and certain persons having official status, such as the 
Medical Officer, the Engineer and the Veterinary Officer, being 
nominated by the Chief Minister. This procedure is made 
necessary by the dearth of prospective candidates for election 
who have adequate technical knowledge or experience in munici- 
pal administration, and by the consideration that the Presidents 
of the Councils, thus chosen, and being independent of the 
electorate, will be able to act more energetically in the perform- 
ance of their duties. 


4. One Municipal Council has so far been reconstituted under 
the new arrangements, the other Councils are to be dealt with 
as and when the necessity arises. 


5. Following the example of the Electoral Law for the Legis- 
lative Council, provision is made in the Municipal Law that the 
number of seats for elected members shall be allotted between 
Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems in proportion to the 
male adult population for each community. 


6. A general municipal rate was provided in the new Munici- 
ay Law in the form of a tax on land and buildings at a rate, to 

e fixed from time to time by the Executive Council, not exceed- 
ing 5 per cent. of the rental value of the property. The present 
rate adopted is 5 percent. This tax is the only municipal charge 
upon property owners under the law apart from those which by 
their nature concern only the individuals directly affected 
thereby. 


7. In 1937 a separate Law was enacted providing for the 
imposition of an education rate, not exceeding 3 per cent. on the 
rental value of immovable popeny in such municipal areas as 
should be selected by the Executive Council. The effect and 
results of the imposition of this rate are explained in the Chapter 
relating to Education. 


323 
11.—IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


The control of travel to and from Trans-Jordan is the duty of 
a special section of the Arab Legion. The following table indi- 
cates the work of this section during the years 1936, 1937 and 
1938:— 
1936. 1937. 1938. 


New passports issued an 25 7yo 715 1,156 
Emergency visas issued es cee 326 597 844 
Ordinary visas issued ... saat ey 94 7 174 
Return visas issued... aor ae 47 93 233 
Foreign passports registered ... vee 2,040 2,668 3,435 
Endorsements ... ae fer ane: 119 251 400 
Passport contraventions passed to 560 968 1,162 
court 
Trans-Jordan passports renewed... 424 434 452 
Temporary passports issued to ‘Iraq 300 250 250 


Petroleum Co. 


The notable increase in the number of passport transactions 
during 1938 was the result of stricter control of movement 
between Trans-Jordan and Palestine and necessitated the 
appointment of three additional passport control officers for 
duty at the bridges which cross the Jordan. 


2. The labour market which formerly existed in Palestine for 
men who were unable to find work in Trans-Jordan at the end 
of the harvest or the ploughing season, or in years of drought, 
remained closed as the result of the enforcement of rigid immi- 
gration control measures by the Palestine Government. Extra- 
ordinary travel restrictions imposed by the Military Authority 
in Palestine during 1938 have also reduced migration to a 
minimum. 


3. For the purpose of ensuring a closer control over persons 
entering Trans-Jordan, an order was made under the Passport 
Law, and came into force on the 17th September, requiring 
habitual residents of Palestine to obtain visas for direct entry 
into Trans-Jordan. Such visas are given by the Palestine 
Department of Migration in Jerusalem. 


111.—LANDS. 
General. 


1. The new offices of the Department of Lands and Surveys in 
course of erection last year were completed and occupied in 
August. The building includes special fireproof accommodation 
for land settlement records. 


324 


2. The expenditure of the Department of Lands and Surveys 
since the amalgamation of the Departments of Survey, Land 
Registry and State Domain in 1929 is shown below: — 


£P 
1929 BS fe os +» 10,937 
1930 ae oe eee oe 13,464 
1931 ie es mee see 14,402 
1932 or oe 308 vee 14,164 
1933 aes ees. aS vs 14,744 
1934 a nee see vee 15,718 
1935 Be see aes ss 16,331 
1936 ay a me «s. 20,600 
1937 ees oe ay vee 22,438 
1938 (Estimated) te wes 29,934 


Land Settlement. 

3. The Land Settlement Law enacted in 1933 has now been 
applied to 140 villages covering an area of 1,935,000 dunums. 

The cultivated zone of the country comprises 450 villages 
covering an area of 7,700,000 dunums. With the present rate of 
progress it is estimated that land settlement will be completed 
in 1947. 

The areas partitioned and settled annually are as follows: — 








Masha’s land. Mafruz land. Total. 

dunums. dunums. dunums. 

1933 (5 months)... 17,540 18,363 35,903 
1934 ... eco ses -155,070 39,139 194,209 
1935 «+ eee ae 268,954 31,006 299,960 
1936 ... ee ae 269,809 48,352 318,161 
1937 «.- ee soe 291,225 61,237 352,462 
1938 ... we se 334/735 74,685 409,420 
Totals 1,337,333 272,782 1,610,115 





In 1938 the cost of settlement and survey amounted to 41 mils 
per dunum, as compared with 42 mils in 1937. 


4. The following data have been compiled from records of 
work completed in 1938:— 


Villages settled ... oa a3e 36 
Claims recorded... sia os 14,737 
Number of appeals one one 218 
Appeals allowed oo sae 51 


There are no appeals outstanding. 

The attendance of the Land Settlement Court in public at each 
village minimises frivolous claims and facilitates their amicable 
settlement. During the year, the Court visited 23 villages, and 
the sittings occupied a total of 67 days. 


5. A grant from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.30,000 
to be spread over six years for the acceleration of land partition 
and settlement was approved in 1936. The expansion of the 


325 
Department has been completed and the staff finally trained. 
In view of the success of the scheme a sum of £P.3,960 was 
provided for additional staff in the current estimates to give 
effect to a further acceleration of land settlement. 


6. The Land Settlement Law provides for the settlement of all 
questions or differences in regard to any estate in land, or title 

ereto, or interest therein or any rights connected therewith. 
Such rights and interests are recorded in the schedule of rights 
and. subsequently transferred to the land registers. 

The system of registration is based on the Torrens system, and 
adequate provision is made for the accurate recording of subse- 
quent transactions and mutations. 

The total number and value of the properties recorded in the 
ner registers since the commencement of settlement is shown 
below :— 








Value 
Number 

1934 --- one ane 422 20,987 
1935 «-- te ws 634 51,810 
1936... or Zee 929 52,171 
1937 +. ae wendy 2,222 135,391 
1938 ... see s+ 2,040 137,436 
Totals. 6,247 £P 397,795 





7. The Land Settlement Law provides that land used for 
general purposes, with the exception of roads, shall be registered 
in the name of the Government on behalf of those who have 
interest therein. This procedure allows the administrative autho- 
rities to settle any dispute or encroachment in respect of public 
land and thus frivolous actions in the Court, often due to village 
intrigue, are avoided. 

The various categories of public land so registered since the 
beginning of settlement are shown below: — 


Categories. Dunums. 
Grazing grounds ... fe : 15,410 
Thrashing floors ... Br as ae see wes 175 
Springs and watering pools aes nes ae oie 330 
Cemeteries ... eee one Any tee aN wae 107 
Village school gardens... one aa wha ord 15 
Land assigned for upkeep of mosque or church ee 276 


8. The following regulation was made under Article 12 of the 
Land Settlement Law:— 


“All roads, whether public or private, which are aligned during land 
settlement shall be surveyed and shown on the cadastral maps which are 
prepared during settlement operations. The cadastral map shall be the 
sole document to which reference shall be made in the event of any 
dispute or encroachment affecting public or private roads”. 


This procedure obviates the inclusion of a mass of superfluous 
data in the land registers while safeguarding against encroach- 
ment by landowners on public and private roads. 


326 


g. Evidence of the importance attached to settlement and land 
registration is indicated by the record of transactions in para- 
graph 17 below. The peasant landowner who has suffered 
insecurity of title for so many years now realises the importance 
of a clear title and no case of unregistered disposition has yet 
come to notice in “‘ settled ’’ villages. 

Io. The people are rapidly learning the value of survey and 
demarcation resulting from settlement, and in order to avoid 
expensive litigation they are encouraged to apply for the inspec- 
tion of their properties in cases of encroachment. Inspection is 
carried out by the survey staff of the Land Registry on payment 
of a small fee; during the year 33 cases were referred to the 
yard Registry and of these only nine were eventually taken to 

ourt. 

11. As the land registers are indexed on a territorial basis, an 
auxiliary loose-leaf register which records the total property of 
each landowner is also maintained. 

The felowine cae have been compiled from these registers of 
proprietors. e figures are recorded to illustrate relative 
holdings and although land prices are at present stable the 
values shown are of course liable to fluctuate: — 

Number. Per cent. 


Holdings of value exceeding £P.300 ar 479 3 
Holdings of value between £P.200-300  ... 750 5 
Holdings of value between {P.100-200 ... 2,082 13 
Holdings of value under {P.100_ ... wes 12,649 79 


12. Landowning statistics are prepared on completion of settle- 
ment in each village. In view of the high rate of natural 
increase in the population these statistics are maintained up to 
date as changes are recorded in the land registers. The resulting 
figures of distribution of land at the time of settlement and in 
1938 are given below: — 


Number of Number of Number 
Villages land- Average land- Average having sold 
' settled owners at holding owners holding total 
during settlement. dunums. in 1938. dunums. property. 
1934 2,769 69 2,905 66 104 
1935 2,221 97 2,280 95 65 
1936 3,946 29 3,944 29 113 
1937 6,190 40 6,237 39 67 


13. In addition to landowning statistics a record of the num- 
ber of dependants of each landowner and the number of land- 
less persons are compiled by Settlement Officers during the 
preparation of the Schedule of Rights in the village. 

14. Satisfactory progress has been made in securing land for 
State Forest Reserve during settlement operations. During the 
year a further 46,444 dunums of forest and scrub land were 
recorded as State Domain, making a total of 112,814 dunums 
since the inception of land settlement. 


327 


Land Settlement Fees. 


15. Registration and Court fees arising out of settlement from 
the commencement of operations in 1933 to the end of December, 
1938, are as follows :—Payable £P.23,634; Collected £P.5,853; 
Outstanding £P.17,781. 

Registration fees are only collected as and when owners apply 
for certificates of repieucn or when they desire to effect further 
transactions in the Land Registry. The following is a compara- 
tive statement of the fees and collections thereof, to date, in 
respect of schedule of rights and of partition passed to the Land 
Registry in each successive year:— 


Villages 
settled during Payable {P. Collected {P. Per cent. 
1933 459 272 59 
1934 3,728 1,235 33 
1935 4.173 1,179 28 
1936 2,557 616 24 
1937 6,796 1,757 26 
1938 5,921 794 13 


Land Registry. 

16. Transactions passing through the Land Registry nuin- 
bered 10,016 and a sum of £P.5,894 was collected in fees, as 
compared with 9,499 and £P.6,296, respectively, in the previous 
year. 

17. The following is a comparative statement of Land Registry 
transactions in the Ajlun District where land settlement is in 
progress : — 


Number. Fee {P. 
1934 2,146 1,349 
1935 2,583 1,817 
1936 4,543 2.255 
1937 6,651 4,809 
1938 7275 4,998 


A duplicate register of rights recorded during settlement and in 
all subsequent transactions is maintained at a central registry 
at Amman as a precaution against loss by fire or otherwise of the 
registers in the districts. The total number of properties entered 
in the registers is 8,391 and the number of mutations and annota- 
tions recorded is 7,564. 


Land Tax. 


18. The Land Tax Law has been introduced throughout the 
country (454 villages), with the exception of 32 villages, where 
the variation between the amount of the old and new tax is 
small enough to allow postponement until the arrival of land 
settlement. The lands of these 32 villages are held in undivided 
ownership (Masha’a) and the method of distribution of the tax 
amongst individuals will not be affected by the new law, so that 
postponement does not adversely affect the owners concerned. 


328 


The Land Tax Law limits the increase in taxation to 
£P.10,000. The assessment of the tax amounts to £P.88,186- 
The assessment of the taxes it has replaced amounts to £P.78,641r 
a resulting increase of £P.9,545. 

The limitation of increase to £P.10,000 does not apply to 
State Domain which has been sold to the cultivators. The assess— 
ment of the tax on these lands is £P.3,076 so that the gross 
assessment of land tax amounts to £P.91,262. 


19. The loose-leaf register of proprietors referred to in para- 
graph 11 above also shows the tax assessment on each land- 
owner, and ensures an expeditious and economical compilation 
of the annual tax Collection Lists in respect of each settled 
village. The tax Collection Lists modified by the calculation of 
remissions on account of failure or partial failure of crops are 
compiled at the central archives at Amman. In “settled ’’ 
villages the remissions in the last three years were as follows : — 


1936 ane ve’ ase = £P.7,083 affecting 4,958 taxpayers 
1937 _ ve eis £P.703 affecting 1,124 taxpayers 
1938 aes ust .. £P.2,333 affecting 5,367 taxpayers 


The above figures show the effect of a disastrous agricultural 
season in 1936, an excellent harvest in 1937 and a poor harvest 
in 1938. 

The following data in regard to Land Tax have been com- 
piled from the record of taxpayers in villages where land settle- 
ment has been completed : — 


Number. Per cent. 
Owners paying under {P.1 ... eee 10,581 66 
Owners paying £P.1-2 or a 3,103 19 
Owners paying £P.2-3 ae en 1,047 7 
Owners paying £P.3-4 ass ane 567 4 
Owners paying over {P.4__... se 662 4 


Forests and State Domain. 


20. The Forestry Section of the Department of Agriculture 
was transferred to the Department of Lands and Surveys on 
1st April, 1938. Hitherto the Director of Agriculture was 
responsible for the control of private forests while State Forests 
to which Government had acquired title during land settlement 
were under the management of the Director of Lands and Sur- 
veys. With the rapidly increasing area of State Forests acquired 
during settlement it was evident that a comprehensive forest 
policy would be simplified by the inauguration of a Sub-Depart- 
ment of Forests of the Department of Lands and Surveys. 


21. Financial stringency made it impossible in previous years 
to exercise an efficient control of wood cutting with the result 
that the supply has always been greater than the demand. Trees 
have been considered valueless and the price of the produce has 
been determined solely by the cost of transport to the place of 


329 


consumption. _ Under such conditions the people have never 
realized the value of forest produce and landowners were mainly 
interested in converting forest land into cultivable land. The 
administration of forests has been decentralized and all forest 
staff have been attached to the six district offices of the Depart- 
ment of Lands and Surveys. The officials in charge of the 
various offices are responsible for the supervision of forest 
guards, issue of licences and prosecutions for forest offences. 


22. During the year strict control was exercised over all forest 
lands, with the result that fuel and timber prices have risen and 
the economic value of the tree is gradually being stabilised. The 
majority of landowners have been quick to realize that trees 
growing naturally on their properties are of greater benefit than 
inferior crops, and they are now intent on the preservation of 
trees in contrast to indiscriminate clearing for agricultural pur- 
poses. Even more encouraging is the activity of an appre- 
ciable number of landowners who have sown pine seeds and 
acorns in the waste patches within their properties. 


23. The number of prosecutions for forest offences amounted 
to 921 during the year as compared with 393 in 1937. 

24. Forest Revenues totalled £P.1,128 as compared with 
£P.822 in 1937. The estimated value of forest produce sold 
was £P.2,049. 

25. The following data have been compiled from the records 
of State Forests which have been secured to Government during 
settlement operations : — 








Number. Area, 

Reserves over 1,000 dunums aes ote 12 26,043 
Reserves 500—1,000 dunums was ee 27 18,375 
Reserves 1oo—500 dunums... ae tee BET; 50,686 
Reserves under reo dunums deg ven, Gf 7T 17,710 
Totals wee err eeeny P7 112,814 








The reserves classified according to density of trees are as 
follows: — 


Thick forests ood re ace 54 per cent. 
Well timbered... Hs ne 18 per cent. 
Scattered trees... dee 5 10 per cent. 
Scrub land oe Se 15 per cent. 


This figure of 112,814 dunums represents 7 per cent. of the 
total area settled to date. Excluding the plains, which com- 
prise an area of 81,700 dunums devoted to cereal cultivation 
and unsuitable for afforestation, the percentage of forest is 
14 per cent. 

26. A progressive policy was initiated for the re-afforestation 
of State Forests which have been despoiled in the past although 
a number of root stocks have survived. The total area fenced 
and re-afforestated to date is 2,983 dunums in which 30,000 


330 
trees have been planted. A further 2,000 dunums of scrub 
land have been selected for the planting of 250,000 two-year-old 
seedlings which are now available in the forest nurseries. 

An area of 3,427 dunums has been fenced to permit natural 
regeneration and in addition juniper and pistachio seeds and 
the seeds of indigenous scrub have been freely sown throughout 
the enclosure. 


27. Allirrigable State Domain has been sold to the cultivators 
who have sey the land. In all cases a reasonable pur- 
chase price has been fixed, the payment of which has been 
spread over a number of years. Instalments are being paid 
regularly and the lands are being further developed by the 
grantees. 

28. The low ground between the River Jordan and the Jordan 
Plain, which is State Domain, is being leased for development 
by irrigation by means of water pumped from the river. An 
annual rental of 50 mils per dunum is charged. The lessee 
has the right of purchase at 50 mils per dunum within the 
period of the lease as soon as 75 per cent. of the area is culti- 
vated by irrigation. Six contracts of lease have been concluded 
covering an area of 15,000 dunums. Three contracts have been 
terminated and the land has been finally sold; development is 
proceeding in the three other areas. 

29. During the year various holdings of State Domain, mostly 
uncultivated, comprising a total area of 22,819 dunums, were 
sold to encourage cultivation and facilitate building. Since the 
completion of survey the proceeds of the sale of State Domain 
are £P.33,102; the average annual rent from the properties sold 
was £P.1,571. As a result of disposal, the present owners have 
improved the methods of cultivation, and in many instances 
the revenue from land tax exceeds the tithe and rental tithe 
collected prior to disposal. 

Surveys. 

30. Ten students completed their training during the year 
and were appointed to classified posts. On an average 28 sur- 
veyors were engaged on cadastral survey, eight on land settle- 
ment and five in the Land Registries. 

The cadastral survey is carried out on the scale 1/2,500. 
The scale has been reduced to 1/10,000 for the survey of a few 
villages comprising large estates in order that land settlement 
may be further accelerated. During the year 512 cadastral plans 
were completed making a total of 1,824 plans since the incep- 
tion of land settlement, details of which are as follows: — 


Average 
Number — Number Area of Parcels. Marks 
Bie. Bana Deastieies: Exe, 
; *  Masha'a Mafrusz. 
Masha’a Land on 572 5.498 55 —_— 12,436 
Mafruz Land... be 99 3,181 a 24 8,835 


From commencement 
of settlement ws 1,919 33,398 61 23 79,590 


331 


In ‘‘ mafruz ’’ villages the work of settlement and survey is 
carried out simultaneously. This procedure allows settlement 
officers to delegate the recording of undisputed claims to the 
survey party, expedites the work, and in addition enables the 
surveyor to acquire experience in land settlement. Index maps 
on a scale 1/10,000 are made of each village by reduction from 
the 1/2,500 cadastral maps. These are primarily for use in the 
Land Registry but are also on sale to the public. 


31. A contour survey on a scale of 1/10,000 with a vertical 
interval of one metre is being carried out in the Rift Valley. 
The survey will cover all potentially irrigable land on the east 
side of the River Jordan and south-east of the Dead Sea. 


All field work has been suspended owing to continued un- 

settled conditions in the Jordan Valley. 

The following is a summary of the work completed : — 
Precise Levelling—78 kilometres: 31 bench marks. 
Secondary Levelling—673 kilometres: 66 bench marks. 
Contouring—165,792 dunums. 

Final plans—42,870 dunums. 
The total area to be contoured is estimated at 450,000 dunums. 


32. The Major Triangulation of Palestine has been extended 
across the Jordan Valley and both third and fourth Order 
triangulation work has been commenced to provide a closer 
control of the cadastral survey. The computation and plotting 
of points is carried out by the Survey of Palestine so that a 
satisfactory joint network of the two countries may be secured. 


33. Sales of maps amounted to £P.240 as compared with 
£P.71 in 1937. 

The third and final sheet of the 1/250,000 map series is in 
course of preparation and will be published early in 1939. The 
three sheets cover the whole country with the exception of the 
desert area east of longitude 36° 31’ E. 


IV.—NATIONALITY. 


Article I of the Trans-Jordan Nationality Law provided that 
all Ottoman subjects habitually resident in Trans-Jordan on 
the 6th August, 1924, were to be deemed to have acquired Trans- 
Jordan nationality. The term “‘ habitually resident in Trans- 
Jordan ’’ was deemed to include any person who had his usual 
place of residence in Trans-Jordan for the period of 12 months 
preceding the 6th day of August, 1924. 


2. Provision existed in the law permitting persons who had 
acquired Trans-Jordan nationality under Article I of the Law 
to opt for other nationality before the 6th day of August, 1926, 
but, in fact, no use was made of this permission. 


332 
3. Naturalization is granted at the discretion of the Chief 
Minister to applicants who fulfil the following conditions: — 
(a) two years’ residence in Trans-Jordan immediately 
prior to the application for naturalization ; 
(bd) that the applicant is of good character; 
(c) that the applicant intends to reside in Trans-Jordan; 
(d) that the applicant knows the Arabic language. 
In special circumstances the Chief Minister may, with the 


approval of His Highness the Amir, dispense with the condition 
of two years’ previous residence. 


The figures for the issue of Nationality and Naturalization 
Certificates during the last four years are as follows:— 
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 


Nationality certificates applied for 792 675 661 934 
Nationality certificates issued ... 578 537 588 893 
Naturalization certificates issued... 90 117 42 26 


No applications for Trans-Jordan nationality by naturalization 
were refused. 


4. In connection with a question asked at the thirty-fourth 
session of the Permanent Mandates Commission,* the previous 
nationality of the persons who acquired Trans-Jordan 
menonally. by naturalization during the past four years was as 
follows : — 


1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Syrian Les etme’ 7) 54 17 13 
‘Iraqi 5 3 _ 
Lebanese 6 4 
Palestinian ... 3 
Turkish 
Egyptian 
Russian 
Persian 
Greek 
Afghan 
American 
Saoudi Arabian 
Chinese 
Yemenite 
Italian 


Guan 
bl tb bala lauwe | 


Isiah eis Weed 
| 





[seb inte 1 


Totals... 90 7 


The issue of Nationality Certificates is, by Article I of the 
Nationality Law, confined to former Ottoman subjects. 





Minutes, page 68. 


333 


V.—JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 


Civil Courts. 

1. The Civil Courts consist of Courts of First Instance and 
Magistrates’ Courts. The present organization of the Courts 
largely follows the Turkish model, which was inherited from the 
former Ottoman system. The organization of the Ottoman 
Courts was based upon a Court of First Instance, which had 
jurisdiction to try all criminal matters where the maximum 
punishment which could be awarded exceeded one year and the 
fine £T.g0, and all civil cases the value of which exceeded £T.50. 

Criminal cases in which the maximum punishment which could 
be awarded was less than one vear and the maximum fine less 
than £T.90, and civil cases where the value of the subject matter 
of the action was less than £1.50, were triable by courts known 
as Magistrates’ Courts or Courts of the Justice of the Peace. 

Courts of First Instance were established in towns of any 
importance or size in the Ottoman Empire. Magistrates’ Courts 
were established in towns possessing Courts of First Instance and 
also in other smaller towns. 

Appeal from Magistrates’ Courts lay to Courts of First 
Instance, and appeal from Courts of First Instance lay to 
Regional Courts of Appeal. In certain cases appeal lay fiom 
Regional Courts of Appeal to the Court of Cassation in Con- 
stantinople. In addition to appeal, this Court had a jurisdiction 
by way of cassation from Courts below. These Courts were 
known generally as Civil Courts to distinguish them from the 
Sharia and other Religious Courts. 


2. The principal modifications of this system in Trans-Jordan 
consist in the substitution of one Central Court of Appeal for the 
Regional Courts of Appeal, and the transfer from Courts of 
First Instance to the Court of Appeal of the duty of hearing 
appeals from the Magistrates’ Courts. Appeal by way of cassa- 
tion has been abolished. 


Sharia Courts. 


3. Sharia Courts were those Courts which had exclusive juris- 
diction to deal with personal-status cases of Moslems. This 
jurisdiction was and still is in Trans-Jordan exercised in accord- 
ance with the provisions of the Ottoman Law of Procedure of 
the Moslem Religious Courts of the 25th of October, 1333 A.H. 
By personal status is meant matters concerning the personal and 
domestic relations of the parties, such as marriage, divorce, 
alimony, maintenance, guardianship, legitimization and adop- 
tion of minors, interdiction, succession, wills and legacies. These 
Courts also have jurisdiction in cases of ‘‘ Diya ’’ (blood money), 
this being a cash payment to the relatives of any person killed 
or injured as the result of the wrongful act of any other person; 


334 

it is additional to any penalty imposed by the Civil Courts under 
the terms of the criminal law. ‘‘ Diya ’’ is a part of Moham- 
medan Law and as such is administered by the Sharia Courts. 
The Sharia Courts also had jurisdiction to deal with cases of 
waqf, established by and belonging to Moslems. A waaf is a 
pious foundation instituted by the founder, in most cases, from 
pious and religious motives. 


Religious Community Council Courts. 


4. In addition to the Sharia Courts, there were certain Courts 
known as the Courts of the Religious Community Councils 
which exercised in respect of the various non-Moslem religious 
communities dwelling within the Ottoman Empire much the same 
jurisdiction as that exercised by the Sharia Courts. Each 
separate community had its own council, which had power to 
set up a Court with jurisdiction to hear personal-status cases 
arising between members of the particular religious community 
concerned. The jurisdiction of these Courts is now set out in 
the Non-Moslem Religious Community Councils Law passed 
in 1938. This law empowers five communities, and any others 
which may later be granted such powers, to establish Courts, 
and three, the Greek Orthodox, the Greek Catholic and the Latin 
have in fact done so. 


Courts at present established in Trans-Jordan. 
5. Civil Courts.—The Courts at present established in Trans- 
Jordan are as follows: — 

(r) A Court of Appeal at Amman having jurisdiction to 
hear appeals from all lower Courts in Trans-Jordan. 

(2) Courts of First Instance having jurisdiction in criminal 
matters where the maximum punishment which can be 
awarded is imprisonment for more than three years or a 
fine, and in civil matters where the value of the subject 
matter of the action exceeds £P.50. 

These Courts are established in Amman, Irbid and Kerak. 
Members of Courts of First Instance proceed to places where 
Magistrates’ Courts only are in existence in order, when 
necessary, to constitute Courts of First Instance in those 
places, thereby saving litigants and others concerned the 
trouble and expenses of coming to the headquarters of a 
Court of First Instance. 

(3) Magistrates’ Courts having jurisdiction in criminal 
cases where the maximum punishment which can be 
awarded is imprisonment up to three years or a fine, and in 
civil cases where the value of the subject matter of the action 
is not more than £P.50, although if the parties agree in 
writing, the Court has jurisdiction up to any amount. 


335 
Magistrates’ Courts are established in Amman, Irbid, 
Kerak, Es Salt, Jerash, Ajlun, Madeba, Tafileh, and 
Ma’an. 

Sharia Courts.—Sharia Courts having jurisdiction to hear 
personal-status cases of Moslems, cases relating to waqf (pious 
foundations) and ‘‘ Diya ’’ (blood money) are established in 
Amman, Kerak, Irbid, Es Salt, Ajlun, Tafileh, Jerash and 
Ma’an. 

Tribal Courts.—Tribal Courts are at present established in 
Amman, Irbid, Kerak, Ma’an and the Desert Area. 


Religious Community Council Courts.—Religious Community 
Council Courts are established in the following places: — 


Place. Community. 
Amman 338 ... Greek Orthodox, Greek Catholic and Latin. 
El-Husn as ... Greek Orthodox and Greek Catholic. 
Es Salt SE «+ Greek Orthodox. 
Kerak cee +. Greek Orthodox. 


Special Courts.—The only Special Court at present working 
in Trans-Jordan is the Land Settlement Court, which is a 
travelling court and is set up in districts which are declared to 
be land settlement areas under the terms of the Land Settlement 
Law, 1933. 


Nature of the Law in Force in Trans-Jordan. 


6. Article 58 of the Organic Law provides that Ottoman Laws 
esate ah before the Ist November, 1914, and laws promul- 
gated after that date and declared by public notice to be in force 
in Trans-Jordan, shall remain in force until repealed or 
amended. Thus Ottoman Law is the base of that of Trans- 
Jordan, though amending legislation, as well as the spirit 
which has been infused into the working of the administration 
and of the Courts, has effected very considerable changes. 


The Ottoman system itself has developed from several entirely 
different sources. 


Of these the principal is the Moslem Law, which in the early 
days of the Turkish State was practically the only law, and 
which at the present time suffices for the needs of the less 
advanced Arab States. This law had its origin in the precepts 
of the Koran as applied by the Prophet Mohammed himself, and 
was later developed into a formal legal system by Moslem 
jurists. In course of time this law was very considerably altered 
on many topics, and on some was entirely superseded. Little 
alteration, however, was made in the law governing the personal 
status of Moslems, and that concerning pious foundations 
(waqf), and in Trans-Jordan it is the Moslem law which governs 
these topics. 


336 


As the Ottoman Empire extended and relations with other 
countries increased, the Moslem system was found in some cases 
to be insufficient to meet modern conditions, and in others to be 
somewhat inaccessible, and in consequence it was decided to 
follow the lead of France which, after the Revolution, had 
codified the more important topics of French law. 

The most famous of the French codes is the ‘‘ Code Civil,” 
but as the Moslem law dealt very fully with the matters con- 
tained in that code, it was decided to codify the Moslem Law 
on such topics, rather than adopt a foreign code. A committee 
of Moslem jurists was therefore appointed, and a civil code, 
known as the “‘ Mejelle,’’ was the result of their labours. This 
codifies the Moslem Law dealing with the principal contracts 
such as sale, hire (including employment), pledge, rantee, 
gift, etc. It also covers civil injuries, the law of evidence, and 
certain parts of the law of procedure. 

On other topics, however, it was thought necessary to draw 
on foreign sources. The Moslem Criminal Law is primitive, the 
law of procedure both civil and criminal is fragmentary, whilst 
commercial law hardly exists. In consequence the French codes 
on these matters were translated, and passed with little change 
into the Ottoman system. 

In addition laws were enacted to suit Turkish local require- 
ments. This is especially the case in the ee of administra- 
tion, the Ottoman Wilayet Administrative Law being a typical 
example. 

It has been mentioned above that matters concerning the 
personal status of Moslems were governed by Moslem Law. As 
this law was unsuitable for Christians, Christian communities 
were allowed to establish their own Courts, and to deal with 
such matters affecting members of their communities in accord- 
ance with the religious law of the community. 

The foregoing is an outline of the system which by the terms 
of the Organic Law became, or rather remained, the law of 
Trans-Jordan. In addition, that law, promulgated in 1928, 
declared valid all legislative acts of the constituted authority in 
Trans-Jordan, during the previous ten years; and the legisla- 
tive authority constituted by the Organic Law was competent, 
within the limits of that law, to effect such changes as it thought 
proper. 

The basic change in the Ottoman system was effected by the 
Organic Law itself, and whole topics of the Ottoman Law were 
superseded by legislation based on British models. The fact that 
important laws are approved by the Mandatory Power, that a 
British Adviser is responsible for drafting all new legislation, and 
that he advises the Government generally on legal matters, 
naturally tends to favour the introduction of British legislation 
and methods. 


337 


The adapting of a system intended for the Ottoman Empire 
to a small country, combined with the introduction of entirely 
foreign ideas into the system has resulted in certain incon- 
venience which has been experienced principally in the sphere 
of procedure. Considerable local alterations have been made 
to the codes of civil and criminal procedure, with the result that 
these codes have become out of date, and the law of procedure 
uncertain. The question of the introduction of new codes is 
under consideration. 


The Diwan Khas for the Interpretation of Laws and Regulations. 


7. The Diwan Khas is a body established under the terms 
of an addendum to the Organic Law, and it is now regulated by 
the Organic Law (Amendment) Law of 1938. It meets at the 
request of the Chief Minister for the interpretation of points of 
law submitted to it, which have not been already interpreted 
by the Courts. It is composed of the Minister of Justice as 
President and two senior administrative officials and two senior 
Officials of the Ministry of Justice. Its decisions when published 
in the Official Gazette have the force of law; but decisions affect- 
ing any provision of the Organic Law are only valid after con- 
firmation by His Highness the Amir. 


Ministry of Justice. 


8. The general control and supervision of the Civil Courts 
is vested in the Ministry of Justice, presided over by a Minister 
who is a member of the Executive Council and ex-officio member 
of the Legislative Council. This Ministry has no control over 
the other Courts mentioned in paragraph 5, but its execution 
department is responsible for the execution of their judgments, 
with the exception of those of Tribal Courts. 

Following a change of Government in September, the Minister 
of Justice, Ibrahim Pasha Hashem, C.B.E., who was also 
Chief Minister and Supreme Judge of the Sharia Courts, was 
replaced by the new Chief Minister Tewfik Pasha Abul Huda 
as Minister of Justice, while Seyyid Ahmed es Saqqaf was 
appointed Supreme Judge of the Sharia Courts. Attached to the 

inister of Justice is a British Judicial Adviser who is respon- 
sible for the drafting of all new laws and regulations. As legal 
draftsman he attends meetings of the Executive and Legislative 
Councils and gives his advice on legal points at meetings of the 
former. In addition he is a member of the Diwan Khas for the 
interpretation of laws and regulations, and also of the Senior 
Judicial Council established for the appointment, transfer and 
Temoval of judicial officials, subject to confirmation by His 
Highness the Amir. Moreover he assists the Minister in con- 
ducting the routine work of the Ministry and examines petitions 
containing complaints with regard to specific cases, or cases in 


338 


which the Amir is asked to exercise his prerogative of pardo 
The majority of new laws have their origin in departments oth 
than the Ministry of Justice, and are sent to the Judicial Advis 
for drafting. 


g. Full statistics showing the activities of the Courts and t 
fines, fees and costs received by them are shown below. The 
has been a slight decrease in comparison with the previous ye 
in the number of cases of the most serious category of crime 
an increase of 118 in cases of the second category; and: 
increase of 1,429 of petty cases. The increase represents 
more stringent enforcement of the law, especially as regan 
petty cases, rather than a real increase in crime. There was 
slight increase in the number of civil cases. Revenue increax 
from all sources, being about £P.1,000 more than in 1937 ar 
about £P.100 more than in 1936. 


Io. The increased funds allotted to the Ministry of Justi 
have enabled all the Courts to be accommodated and equip 
in a more satisfactory manner, and the staff to be broughta 
to strength. As a result all avoidable delay has been elimint 
from the despatch of business. The Court of Appeal was broug 
up to its full strength of four. As all cases in Trans-Jordy 
are appealable, and the Court of Appeal hears appeals not oat 
from the Courts of First Instance, but also from the Magistrats 
Courts its business is considerable. It is satisfactory to reo 
that notwithstanding an increase of 346 appeals over 1° 
there were no appeals pending at the end of 1938. The num 
of appeals pending at the end of 1937 was I09. The po! 
Court Inspector in the Ministry has not yet been filled. | 


rz. Apart from what may be termed formal pardons, 
as those granted on account of the youth of a person sente 
in absentia, three pardons were granted by His Highnes 
Amir during the year. In Trans-Jordan the system o 
payment of blood money in cases of manslaughter under 
Sharia Law exists side by side with the punishment of 
offender by the Civil Courts, and pardons granted usual 
cern cases of manslaughter, where blood money has been 
to the family of the deceased. Such pardons however 
granted in as few cases as possible. The death penalty isa 
inflicted and usually only in cases of murder where there 
doubt that the killing was premeditated. There was 
execution during the year. 

12. One company and 11 partnerships were registet 
the Ministry of Justice. The absence of commercial 2 
and of commercial cases before the Courts continue to 
marked feature. 














339 





















































| 

Sig zzS‘z| oSl LS1 ogi Sor og zee1| ost gs S60 lz s[e}0L, 

Sgz gla S€x 61 ozo 6 os €Z 00g 6 00g 9 eqeay 2 ue,eyy 

og6 gzI Gog € 060 €1 Sob +6 ool ¢ og6 Ir qayel 

obo £6z Stg oz Sol 1z oS9 691 00g 1€ o0g6 gr eqopew 

Sto €1b G10 gz SSE gz oll €9z ozz i Sgz bz “Re * yseief 

$26 I1o‘r| 009 €z ogg rad oL6 off Szo Soe | oSb 6€1 “ unorly feqef 

096 gos oS€ zg oSo 7 So o1€ $06 ol 009 Iv ots “"¥TeS Sy 

—sHnoD ,sevensisey 

olg bgq'S| $16 6zg St6 ges obt 6bliz| Sgr gor‘r| Sgt ogt “  speqoy, 

Gli $6 SSE zh Sog bg Sof zol oSS gf oo gl yeloyy 

Sob €€z'1| o€z S61 ozl Sor 0z6 Sq oSz 6gr See 88 piqiy 

ofz LoS‘€| of€ z6S ozb gre GSr z6E'r| Sgt ogg oF6 €6z | °° : uewMy 

—-poulquios z1n0D s,a3;e.4SI3eYL 

pue souejsuy 38NX Jo pN0D 

ozt ozz Ooze oz _- _ _ _ Teaddy jo z1n0> 

‘sim | ‘a? | ‘stW | ‘ay | ‘sTW | ‘ay | ‘STM | ‘a¥ | ‘SEW | ‘at | ‘STW | ‘at 

uotnraxy SUu0HI ‘ 
ane UO Saag 40 Saag Sub $1809 
‘H0L pe rt “unog fo muon 
“1080 “pourMessd 








gf6I ‘SLUNOD ‘TLAID 40 AANTARY 

















338 


which the Amir is asked to exercise his prerogative of pardon. 
The majority of new laws have their origin in departments other 
than the Ministry of Justice, and are sent to the Judicial Adviser 
for drafting. 


g. Full statistics showing the activities of the Courts and the 
fines, fees and costs received by them are shown below. There 
has been a slight decrease in comparison with the previous year 
in the number of cases of the most serious category of crimes; 
an increase of 118 in cases of the second category; and an 
increase of 1,429 of petty cases. The increase represents a 
more stringent enforcement of the law, especially as regards 
petty cases, rather than a real increase in crime. There was a 
slight increase in the number of civil cases. Revenue increased 
from all sources, being about £P.1,000 more than in 1937 and 
about £P.100 more than in 1936. 


10. The increased funds allotted to the Ministry of Justice 
have enabled all the Courts to be accommodated and equipped 
in a more satisfactory manner, and the staff to be brought up 
to strength. Asa result all avoidable delay has been eliminated 
from the despatch of business. The Court of Appeal was brought 
up to its full strength of four. As all cases in Trans-Jordan 
are appealable, and the Court of Appeal hears appeals not only 
from the Courts of First Instance, but also from the Magistrates’ 
Courts its business is considerable. It is satisfactory to record 
that notwithstanding an increase of 346 appeals over 1937, 
there were no appeals pending at the end of 1938. The number 
of appeals pending at the end of 1937 was 109. The post of 
Court Inspector in the Ministry has not yet been filled. 


11. Apart from what may be termed formal pardons, such 
as those granted on account of the youth of a person sentenced 
in absentia, three pardons were granted by His Highness the 
Amir during the year. In Trans-Jordan the system of the 
payment of blood money in cases of manslaughter under the 
Sharia Law exists side by side with the punishment of the 
offender by the Civil Courts, and pardons granted usually con- 
cern cases of manslaughter, where blood money has been paid 
to the family of the deceased. Such pardons however are 
granted in as few cases as possible. The death penalty is rarely 
inflicted and usually only in cases of murder where there is no 
doubt that the killing was premeditated. There was one 
execution during the year. 

12. One company and 11 partnerships were registered at 
the Ministry of Justice. The absence of commercial activity 
and of commercial cases before the Courts continue to be a 
marked feature. 
































339 


Sig zzS‘z! oSZ “Lr og! Sol og€ ost bys ! C60 €Lz 
Sgz gl S€r 61 6 o1s oog | 6 00g 9 
o0g6 QzI Cog £ €1 Sot ool ¢ ogo i 
oto foz Stg oz 1Z oSa 00g 1€ 0g6 gh 
Stg rt | G10 gz yz oll o7z L Cyz tz 
$z6 I10'r' 009 tz zz oL6 Szo Sot os Or 
096 gs : ost zy zl So Goo | of | 009 1b 
i 1 i 
: { , 

olg tga i $16 o7g Sto gts ott oFlz| Sgr | gor'r| Sgt | oof 
sir | tte | sce | zh Sog | tg sof | zoe | oss | of oor | gl 

f€z'1, of Sor ol Sor ozo tq oSz | 6g1 Ste Re 
ott Los‘'f; otf 70S ozb grt Got zoe'r| Sg | ogg otO foz 








‘saagy 2NqnE 


TL | Boon 




















“ steaoL 


eqeyxy @ ue ew 

4 YaTyeL 

eqeprN 

“ yseiof 

unoffy jeqaf 

"4reS Sq 
—SHNOD ,sazeIqsisepy 










sTe}OL 


ye1sy 
Piqal 
uewuy 


— PdUIQUIOD 31NO7) F,3}BIBSISEW 
pue aouejzsuy 


4s Jo yanog 























_ _ ozt o7z —-— ort = jeaddy jo 31n09g 
stn | ‘dF | STN | a ‘af | “SUN | a? 
“MOtINIAX” “suotap " a 
uo Saag 40 Saat SoMtd aoe f 
*ynoy fo auvn 
' 
“18919 “pours 





*g£61 ‘sLUNOD TIAID 40 TANAATY 


340 


Court oF APPEAL. 
Particulars of Appeals entered in the four years 1935, 1936, 1937, and 1938. 











Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
From Courts From 
of First Magistrates’ 
Instance. Courts. 
1935 | 30 726 
1936 49 719 
1937 43 773 
1938 5° 953 

















Pending at New Pending at 
Year. beginning actions Actions end of 
of year. entered. decided. year, 
1935, 1,193 25,802 25,995 1,000 
1936 1,000 25,420 25,326 1,094 
1937 1,094 26,244 26,460 878 


1938 878 25,972 26,104 746 






































gz6 16 Le Li LE bre €lz 6€ ze 16¢ Lz gtor 
b6L og gh oL gz €zz 6z1 6+ Sb Ler oor LE61 
62 L6 1g vr ze 6zz gtr €¢ of gor rb gf6r 
Loo‘r GSr 16 6z s€ S6z goz €¢ ve LoS Ler S€61 
bi 
a ‘spanoy | TOL 1D | “1P0L “1tD | “1MI0L “1419 
ut ae IL “poUusMiAD “POUsMAAD “JoUsusD “407k 
“yosoyy “PHAT “unum 














“gE6I pun LEGI ‘9€6r ‘SE6I savak anof ay us pasoua sesv fo savjnoysng 


“HONVISN] ISULJ AO SLUNOD 





15774 


342 


















































zhlibz | ELz‘z1 | Gob'zi | 16S‘Ez | og‘or | LeLiz1 | bEQ'EZ | Exx‘zx | 11S'11 | oL6'zz | Lrb‘rr | ESS‘1r 
1gg g6E Sgr £12 €or $S¢ 996 Lr€é 1S9 $66 6th sss 
ber 6bz Sgr SoS glz Lez 689 LLE z1€ 106 bes LLE 
Qiz'r 96h zl ogt‘I gto zl $6z‘1 19S el ghr‘r zor gil 
6£9'1 906 €€Z LG9'1 gel 616 $gz'1 z99 zog 6601 gol £62 
gtg't LL6 19g zv6'r $06 gto'r €Zl'r gt6 S€g ggo'r ofg Sg 
zgQ‘z oL¥'t Zier Log'z Zier SES't vIEE 12l't €6S‘1r 6g0'€ 60€'T ogl't 
Sof‘z Log gSs'r GELiz zgl €S6'1 SShz 662 9S9'r gig'z ggo'r ofL't 
gous Sgbiz €Lo‘z o's €£6‘z 1£9‘z 16g'S ISh'€ obb'z Sigh zog‘z £102 
9z9'9 oS he gli'€ $gz'9 960'E gore Sg6's L6z‘E 839° gio'9 Lgz‘€ 1eL‘z 
“TOL [PUsMssD) "1201 | “IOL |jourwesy) “p20ID | “PJOT ousmssy| “pear | “JoHOL |wurwutsd|) “1:01D 
*gE6I “LE6I “of6r “CE6r 











“gE6T pun LE6I ‘ofr ‘SEGI savak anof ay3 us posaqua sasva fo sanjnayavg 


“‘SLUNOD ,SALVULSIOVN 














STRIOL 


yageL 
ue.Zy 
“* eqepelN 
“ ysesof 
unojfy jeqaf 
“ 4res sy 
‘ yelay 
aS Prqiy 
 URWWIY 





“ynod 
fo amon 





Crvit Actions, 1938. 





Pending | New Cases | Pending 
1/1/38. Entered. Decided. | 31/12/38. 
——————— ——E—— 
5 oe — Courts of First | 
oe 5 50 55 = 
Apes soa | Magistrates’ 
59 953 1,012 = 
Totals 64 1,003 1,067 _ 
Courts of First Instance— 
Amman ... oes oe 29 127 126 30 
Irbid 4 32 30 6 
Kerak 10 37 26 21 
Totals 43 196 182 57 
Magistrates’ Courts— 
Amman 139 3,176 3,170 145 
Irbid 55 2,673 2,694 34 
Kerak 73 1,558 1,594 37 
Es:Salt: <4: 36 1,212 1,221 27 
Jebel Ajloun 26 861 864 23 
Jerash as 7 733 722 18 
Madeba_... 49 722 77° I 
Ma’an and Akaba 5 185 188 2 
Tafileh ... i 12 485 487 10 
Totals 402 11,605 11,710 207 
15774 M2 

















oigtzea y GOOgle 


344 
CRIMINAL CASES, 1938. 





Pending | New Cases 
7.1.38. Entered. 










Appeals from Courts of First 
Instance ... 14 


Appeals from Magistrates’ 
Courts as en ee 31 





Totals 


Courts of First Instance :— 
Amman... eo 
Irbid 
Kerak 








Totals 


Magistrates’ Courts :— 
Irbid 
Kerak 
Es Salt... 
Jebel Ajloun 
Jerash oe 
Madeba 
Tafileh 
Ma’an 








Totals 











CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION MADE BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTORS 












































2 S Particulars of cases Decided. 
: : 
BS x z Ci ent 
ases St 2 
3 = 3 for trial. Cases Filed. 
Pole | ye as 
2) eae 18 § s| ey F § 
8 ela 8 
Sx 5 S 3 = $ $ 
PRS Sey gl elas i SS | 33/33 
S185) a | § 88) gla 8/93/53 a\at 
S [S| = |S [87] § [ss /s "282 S 5 
1935 66 | 1,771 | 1,791 | *46 | 103 4 
1936 46 | 1,738 | 1,728 | t56 | 107 
1937 | 56 |1,718 |1,727 | t47 | 93 36 
1938 47 |1,861 |1,874 | 34] 90 124 





* 11 cases amalgamated. 
+ 14 cases amalgamated. 
} 6 cases amalgamated. 












































345 

































































06 | Lro'S] oz1 | 614 | SLz | S11 | 6gS'S| bzb | L6S‘b] oSz | Gor | S61'S| Sof A gSE | 96 | 11b'S} 6€z | bos | + sTeIOL 
—}$ _——— 
L£ jlo |— |$ — |$ jozr |— |{€Z —les tg |— 1s |— | €or | — | € uve 
— |ft9 € 61 |— |or |€€1 | og |zor | — | 9 dir | €or |err | — | + 6L o9 |Z yaye 
— |€tr |}— jor zw z L7G | €g |1bb | gz z zlb | zq |6tk |b — |g6r | 1z g unoly 
g 69z | — | €& I 9 gs | of lolz | ir or |zt€ | €& |goz | or v Sgz | L ty ysesaf 
1 for |— |€ gt z biz | — l€lZz | t€ Jz Lz | — |Lbz | or I ofz | — | 6z | * eqapew_ 
oz |$1g | €11 | gt zt gt |S69 | re {ISS | It tr j/€eo | €6 |toS | Lor | zz {LLL | 19 Sz oh 4ypes say 
€ off | + dr 99 6 o6L | 06 'fgz | €f ¢ €zZ | + ogz | tg LZ €tg | 06 oz  yeley 
6 goo | — | eft | OF | bz [Ste | — [Sbz‘s} to | Ez | boH | — | Lri‘r| 6 or |6to | — | goz | piqiy 
ze [€gziz) — | ost | LL | re [Leds] — |oS€rl 6F | OE | Egd1] — | goer! bz1 | ee | Ltziz] — | zor! + uewuy 
2 12) 9 PS 3) = Ka 9 ny io) 2 g 9 a co) 2 <2) 9 a .o9) 
DEITEISE/SEIEE| SEPSIS (SE FEISS TS IEE CLI Es | SELES IEEE ES 
fF ~ =. = 3. ~ a = : ~ 3, =z} s a: ~ S.).23 
SIRS /E“/SE/RE/SS/RS RT EE ES/ RS SS (E/E IRE SSIES IESE /EE| 
Py] z 3 “g 2) p]s 2 “Pl PR| Sys = “BFR Py] z 3 Pigs be q4no) 
as 3 AY sa 3 Ay Sys bs | 8 x a ax & a x s fo 
2/2 [3 8/2 [2812 [2 R]/2 [2e/2 [2 8/2 |28]2 |2 g\2 
aE |e $ =) * eels s =| ° aS | S | 9 gE \e ¢ =| * auUoN 
“6£6r "9€61 “gf6r “LE6T 
0} pavm4sof parsavy ut fo pasodstp sasvp ut pasaqua sasvD worl pavmsof porssvd 
*gf61 ‘sNOILNDAXy—AOLNIASONg TANG 


M3 


15774 


346 


Tota REVENUE oF CiviL CouRTS FOR THE Four YEARS 1935, 1936, 
1937 AND 1938. 

















Criminal. Civil, 
Notary ; 
Year. Fees Fees sas Total. 
Fines. Costs. on on 4 
Actions. | Execution. 

£P. |Mils.| £P. |Mils.| £P. [Mils.| £P. [Mils.) £P. [Mils| £P. [Mi 
1935... [2,052 | 064 [1,408 | 525 [3,522 | 250 {1,303 | 410 |I,142 | 025 [9,428 | 274 
1936... |1,862 | 383 |1,372 | 936 [3.435 | 345| 713/450] 952) 445 |8,336| 559 
1937... |1,438) 918} 674 | 445 |3,765|090| 588/049] 975] 465 |7,441 | 967 
1938... |1,690| 635| 733] 480|4,319| 120] 704] 105| 987 | 665 |8,435 | 005 

















VI.~ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


The posts, telegraphs and telephones and the roads of Trans- 

ordan are in public ownership and are administered by the 
rans-Jordan Government... 

The town water supplies are administered, in all cases, by the 
municipal councils concerned. 

The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 

2. Articles 67 and 68 of the Organic Law, as amended by 
Articles 12 and 13 of the Organic Law (Amendment) Law, 
No. 21, of 1938, provide that all rights in State land, subject to 
other prior vested interests, and all rights in mines and minerals, 
subject to prior concessionary rights, shall vest in and may be 
exercised by His Highness the Amir in trust for the Trans- 
Jordan Government. 

Grants or leases for the exploitation of the mineral resources 
of the country are made under a Mining Law of 1926, the terms 
of which follow generally those of the Palestine Mining 
Ordinance, 1925. 

3. Article XVII of the Agreement between His Majesty the 
King and His Highness the Amir provides that His Highness 
shall be guided by the advice of His Britannic Majesty in all 
matters concerning the granting of concessions, the exploitation 
of natural resources, the construction and operation of railways 
and the raising of loans. 

4. There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime or 
in the customs laws of the Trans-Jordan Government. Certain 
exemptions from State and Municipal taxation and tithes which 
were enjoyed by certain foreign charitable, religious and educa- 
tional institutions under the Ottoman regime are maintained, 
but no new privileges of this type have been granted. 

Moreover, Trans-Jordanians are liable to the same taxation, 
State or Municipal, as are foreign nationals. 


347 


Vil.—FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religious obser- 
vance throughout Trans-Jordan. 


2. Articles 10 and 14 of the Organic Law read as follows: — 


** Article 10.—Islam shall be the religion of the State and there 
shall be insured to all dwellers in Trans-Jordan complete freedom of 
belief and freedom to practise forms of worship in accordance with 
their customs unless detrimental to public safety or order or contrary 
to morals.’’ 


‘* Article 14.—The various communities shall have the right to 
establish and maintain their schools for the teaching of their members 
in their own language provided that they conform to the general 
requirements prescribed by law.’’ 


3. Under the provisions of the Electoral Law, three of the 
16 elected representatives are Christians. The Law relating to 
the election of members of the Administrative Councils provides 
that the Heads of religious communities shall be members of 
the selection committees, and that where the Christian male 
population comprises 500 persons there shall be one, and where 
it comprises 1,000 there shall be two, Christians in the Council. 
The new Municipal Law which came into force on the 1st April 
provides that the elected members of Municipal Councils shall 
be composed of Moslems, Christians and Circassian Moslems 
in proportion to the number of males over 20 years of age in 
these communities. If this would not give the minorities repre- 
sentation, they will be given representation if their numbers are 
Io per cent. or more of the whole. 


4. Cases of personal status in non-Moslem religious com- 
munities are within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Religious 
Community Councils according to the provisions of the Non- 
Moslem Religious Community Councils Law, No. 22 of 1938. 
This Law, which replaces that of 1933, came into force on the 
2nd May concurrently with certain amendments of the Organic 
Law to which it relates. 


5. Community and private schools may be opened only after 
a licence has been obtained from the Department of Education. 
Before a licence is granted the applicant is required to satisfy 
the Health Authority of the suitability of the building to be 
used, and to submit details of the qualifications of the teachers 
to be appointed and copies of the syllabus to be used. After a 
school has been licensed and opened, the Department of Educa- 
tion has the right of inspection. Of recent years there have been 
no difficulties in regard to licensing or inspection, though this 
latter right is seldom exercised. 


6. Christians and Circassians are well represented in the 
Government services and hold some of the highest posts. 


15774 M4 


348 
7. The following is a list of missions—excluding recognized 
religious communities—operating in Trans- Jordan : — 
i. Christian Missionary Trust Association, Ltd. 
2. Jerusalem and the East Mission Trust, Ltd. 
. Custodian of the Terra Santa. 
. Societe Nazionali di Missionari Italiani. 
. Christian Missionary Alliance (Palestine) and Arabian 

Border Missions. 

. Bible Evangelistic Mission. 
. Seventh Day Adventists. 

The Institutions named under 1 and 2 are controlled by the 
Church of England, those under 3 and 4 by the Roman Catholic 
Church, and those under 5, 6 and 7 by various American 
Churches. The numbers of foreign adults in these missions are 
as follows:—Anglican 20, American Churches 8, and Roman 
Catholic 38, including 32 in the Italian Hospitals at Amman 
and Kerak. These figures do not include Trans-Jordanian 
workers or employees. 


There was no change in the number of missions in 1938, and 
the number of persons connected with them remained 
approximately the same as in the previous year. 


ND Uhw 


Vill.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 


1. The Arab Legion Duties and Responsibilities.—The Arab 
Legion is the Police Force of Trans-Jordan. It is responsible 
to the Government of Trans-Jordan for public security and the 
maintenance of law and order, the custody of prisoners, immigra- 
tion and passport control, and the licensing of vehicles. 

2. Strength and Composition.—The establishment of the Arab 
Legion comprises 44 officers (five of whom are British), three 
cadet officers, and 1,577 other ranks, who are disposed as 
follows :— 

Cadet Other 


Officers. Officers. Ranks. 

Mounted ete wee oe 25 3 680 
Dismounted__.... ao weer el 5. _ 381 
Desert Police ... ats Jeep a Xe —_ 299 
Prison Staff ozs bas 2: —_ 98 
Clerical Staff... ee = 40 
Paid for by the Iraq Petroleum — —_ 79 

Company, Royal Air Force, 

and Commanders, Royal 

Engineers. 





44 3. 1,577 

_ The total strength, numbering 1,624, comprises regular estab- 
lishment 1,130, reserve 160, and a supplementary force which 
amounted to 334 at the end of the year. 





349 
3. Organization and Command.—Trans-Jordan is divided 
normally into five Police Districts, corresponding with those used 
for administrative purposes, namely, Ajlun, Belqa, Kerak, 
Ma’an and the Desert Area. Towards the end of the year it 
was found advisable to create two more Police Districts in the 
Jordan Valley as a temporary measure. 
The Arab Legion is organized as follows, in accordance with 
these Administrative Districts : — 
In Amman, the capital of Trans-Jordan. 
Arab Legion Headquarters. 
Amman City Police. 
Arab Legion Depot for recuiting and training purposes. 
Arab Legion Motor Transport Garage and Repair Work- 


shops. 
The Central Jail. 
Ajlun District. 
Headquarters at Irbid, and 8 Police Stations. 
Jordan Valley District (North). 
Headquarters at Kreimeh, and 6 Police Stations. 


Belqa District. 
Headquarters at Es Salt, and 11 Police Stations. 


Jordan Valley District (South). 
Headquarters at Jisr Damieh, and 3 Police Stations. 


Kerak District. 
Headquarters at Kerak, and 11 Police Stations. 


Ma’an District. 
Headquarters at Ma’an, and 5 Police Stations. 


Desert Area. 
Headquarters and ro Police Stations. 
Motor Transport Repair Sub-Depot, Jaffer. 
The majority of Police Stations are in telephonic or wireless 
telegraphic communication with their District Headquarters. 


Wireless—The Arab Legion operates 14 wireless stations, of 
which 13 are fixed and one is a mobile set mounted on a Ford 
tender. During the year a class was started for training ten 
Bedouin boys in wireless telegraphy. 


Motor transport—The Arab Legion possesses 47 motor 
vehicles, distributed as follows: — 


Desert Area a BaD ent: 13 
Districts... a one bee 6 
Arab Legion Depot and Reserve 28 


Total... a3 47 


350 
The vehicles are generally repaired in the Arab Legion Work- 
ny in Amman; but facilities for minor repairs are available 
at the Jaffer Sub-Depot. 


4. Courses of Instruction.—Members of the Arab Legion 
attended the following courses of instruction during the year:— 


Subject. Place. 
Motor Mechanics ... se Ford Company, Alexandria. 
Wireless Operators ze Arab Legion Depot. 
First Aid ... Ge rr Royal Air Force, Amman. 
Veterinary and Shoeing ... Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, Zerga. 


Promotion to non-commissioned rank is based upon the results 
of annual examination, three classes of Certificate of.Education 
being obtainable. j 


5. Road Transport Licences—The Arab Legion is respon- 
sible for the testing and licensing of all motor drivers and 
vehicles; the following table indicates the progressive increase 
in this work during recent years:— 


Motor Pedal 
Year. Cavs, Buses. Lorvies. Cycles. Cycles. Totals. 
1926 we TIO 4 16 5 —_ 135 — 
1934 wee 269 19 109 7 —_— 464 
1937 ses 300 38 133 14 120 605 
1938 oe 335 24 230 18 193 800 


6. Criminal Investigation Depariment.—The following is a 
table of the principal crimes reported in each of the last five 
years : — 


Nature of Crime. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937. 1938. 
Murder es ss 47 19 29 ar 25 
Wounding ....... 444 346 308 260 133 
Abduction ... sae 45 43 29 55 36 
Theft... oe “ae 1,646 715 882 942 801 
Car Accident aes 118 pees 112 1o1r 83 
Smuggling ... act 37 7 13 20 25 
Drunkenness pee jo 60 55 77 80 


The following enquiries as to criminal antecedents were made 
during the last three years: — 


1936. 1937. 1938. 
Enquiries by Courts... ves 1,436 1,630 1,820. 
Enquiries traced ms aes 605 4273 700 


Enquiries not traced ... ... 831 1,003 1,120 


351 
The following numbers of fingerprints of suspects were 


en :— 
1936 oe soe wee 431 
1937 ones acs ss 399 
1938 nes eee we 283 


7. Prisons.—There are nine prisons in Trans-Jordan. Any 
prisoner sentenced to more than three months’ imprisonment 
is transferred to the Central Jail, Amman. The average popu- 
lation of the Central Jail during 1938 was 260 prisoners. 


The following prisoners, who had no skilled trade when they 
entered prison, were instructed in the trades shown below:— 


Stone quarrying... Fee es on we, 16 


‘Stone cutting and trimming 14 
Masons (building) 2 
Plastering 6 
Carpentry 5 
Painting 6 
Blacksmithing 4 
Telephone operators 13 
Carpet making 28 av Bs yee 
Shoemaking ee rey nits one ae? | 
Local mat making ... eae any ee se SIOR 
Gardening and poultry rearing... oe cena | 
Washing and ironing as one wa se 22 
Cooking ais ns we ote wee seey 12 


Towards the end of the year a reform was introduced whereby 
all prisoners sentenced to one month or more are able to earn a 
remission of one-quarter of their sentence through good conduct. 


8. Prisoners were employed during the year on building con- 
struction under the supervision of a skilled foreman. ese 
works included the completion of four rural police posts, and a 
barrack room, a stable, and a garage at the Arab Legion Depot, 
Amman. 


g. Public security has been most satisfactory throughout the 
year. The Desert Area, which comprises about four-fifths of 
the total area of Trans-Jordan and is sparsely populated by 
nomads, has remained quiet. 

No incidents on the frontiers occurred during the year which 
are deserving of special mention. Relations with the frontier 
officials of the Saudi Arabian Government continued to be 
friendly. 


352 


1X.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 
AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the Name of Trans-Jordan. 
(i) CoMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Country. 
Syria and 
Lebanon. 


Palestine 


Great Britain 


Nejd 
Syria and the 
Lebanon 


Palestine 


Syria and the 
Jebel Druze. 


‘Iraq 


Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


Syria and the 
Lebanon. 


Saudi Arabia 
Great Britain 
Palestine 


Palestine 


Title of Instrument. 
Customs Agreement 


Transit Agreement 


Date and place of Signature. 
10.5.1923 Amman. 


26.9.1928 Jerusalem. 
Amended 18.12.1928. 
Amended 27.12.1928. 
Amended 23.7.1934. 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Agreement 


Hadda Agreement 


Provisional Agreement in regard 
to the Transmission of Judicial 
Proceedings between Trans- 
Jordan and Syria and the 
Lebanon. 

Agreement regarding the Inter- 
change of Judicial Documents. 

Agreement regarding the Con- 
veyance of Corpses from 
Palestine for Burial in Trans- 
Jordan and from Trans- 
Jordan for Burial in Palestine. 

Agreement as to the Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 

Agreement concerning the Settle- 
ment of Disputes between 
Beduins of Trans-Jordan and 
Beduins of Syria and the 
Jebel Druze as well as between 
Beduins and Non-Beduins of 
the same States. 

Treaty of Friendship 


Agreement establishing Tele- 
graphic Communication. 


Agreement for the Reciprocal 
Grant of Gratis Visas. 


Treaty of Friendship and Bon 
Voisinage. 
Supplementary Agreement 


Extradition Agreement 


Agreement to regulate the Ser- 
vice of Judicial Dccuments 
between Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. 


20.2.1928 Jerusalem. 
Ratified 31.10.1929, Amman, 
2.11.1925 Bahra Camp. 


15.2.1928 Amman. 


6.3.1929 Amman. 


1.10.1929 


16.5.1938 _ 
Published 
2.2.1930 Amman. 


29.12.1929 Beirut. 


26.3.1931 Amman. 
Effect from 1.4.1930. 


20.8.1932 Jerusalem. 
5.9.1932 Beirut. 


27.7.1933 at Jerusalem. 
Ratified 23.12.1933 at Cairo. 
2.6.1934 Jerusalem. 
Ratified at Ablin on 22.6.1935. 
16.7.1934 Amman and Jerusalem. 
Amended 1.9.1935 
28.11.1934 Amman. 
13.12.1934 Jerusalem. 


Amendment 
I1.4.1938 Amman. 
30.4.1938 


353 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Title of Instrument. 


Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of 
States having no Sea Coast. 
Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of 
Navigable Waterways of International Con- 
cern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the 
Regime of Navigable Waterways of Inter- 
national Concern. 

International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copy- 
right Convention signed at Berlin on 
13.11.1908. 

International Opium Convention and subse- 
quent relative papers. 

International Convention relating to the 
Simplification of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of 
Hydraulic Power affecting more than one 
State, and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Railways, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International 
Regime of Maritime Ports and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in 
Transit of Electrical Power and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in Commercial 
Matters). 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene 
Publications. 

International Agreement as to Contagious 
Diseases of Animals. 

International Convention with the object of 
securing the Abolition of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade. 

International Convention relating to Dangerous 
Drugs. 

International Sanitary Convention 


International Convention relative to Motor 
Trathe. 

Convention relating to Regulation of Aerial 
Navigation. 

International Convention relating to Inter- 
national Exhibitions. 

International Convention for the Unification of 
Certain Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 

International Convention for the Amelioration 
of the Conditions of the Wounded and Sick 
in Armies in the Field. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
20.4.1921, — 9.10.1922 
Barcelona. (Ratification) 
20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 
20.4.1921, 28.13.1924. 
Barcelona, 
20.4.1921, 28.1.1924. 
Barcelona. 


13.11.1908, 21.3.1924. 
Berlin. 


20.3.1914, 21.3.1924. 
Berne. 

23.1.1912, 21.8.1924. 
The Hague. 

3.11.1923, 27.11.1924 
Geneva. (effective date). 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

9.12.1923, 22.9.1925. 
Geneva. 

24.9.1923, 8.5.1926. 
Geneva. 

12.9.1923, 23.5.1927. 
Geneva. 

25.1.1924, 13.7.1927. 
Paris. 

25.9.1926, 18.6.1927. 
Geneva. 

19.2.1925, 25.9.1928 
Geneva. (effective date). 

21.6.1926, 9.10.1928. 
Paris. 

24.4.1926, 24.10.1929. 
Paris. 

13.10.1919. 11.7.1922. 

22.11.1928, 17.12.1930. 
Paris. 

25.8.1924, 2.6.1931 
Brussels. (effective date). 

27.7.1929, 23.6.1931 
Geneva. (Ratification), 


(effective date.) 


354 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—continued. 


Title of Instrument. 


International Convention relative to the Pro- 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the Traffic in Women and Children. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of 
the White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression 
of the White Slave Traffic. 

Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 
relating to International Carriage Py. Air. 

Universal Postal Convention 


International Convention for Mutual Protec- 
tion against Dengue Fever. 

International Convention for the Sanitary 
Control of Aerial Navigation. 

International Telecommunications Convention 


International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Bills of Exchange 
and Promisscry Notes. 

International Convention relating to Stamp 
Laws in connexion with Cheques. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
2.6.1928 = 1.10.1931 
Rome 
30.9.1921, 2.11.1931. 
31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 
18.5.1904, 6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 
4-5-1910, 6.5.1932 
Paris. (effective date). 
12.10.1929, 17.3.1938. 
Warsaw. 
20.3.1934, 1.1.1935- 
Cairo. 
25-7.1934,  3-5-1935- 
Athens. 
12.4.1933, _ 1.9.1935. 
The Hague. 
9.12.1932, 24.5.1935- 
Madrid. 
7.6.1930, 6.12.1938 
Geneva (effective date). 
19.3.193f, 6.12.1938 
Geneva (effective date). 


(For position as regards International Labour Conventions see Chapter 


XI. Labour.) 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan 








Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
Application. 
Between United Kingdom and: 
Albania 22.7.1926 11.7.1927. 
Belgium ee 29.10.1901 2 1.4.1932. 
Belgian Congo 5.3-1907/3.3.1911 1.4.1932. 
Ruanda-Urundi 28.6.1928/2.7.1928 1.4.1932. 
Bolivia 22.2.1892 Ss 3-3-1932. 
Chile 26.1.1897 uae es 18.3.1932. 
Colombia 27.10.1888/2.12. 1929. 5.-12.1930. 
Cuba ... 3.10.1904/17.4.1930 ... 12.12.1931. 
Czechoslovakia. 2 ILI. i924/Erotocol 4-8 6. 1926 15.7.1927. 
Denmark (caging. Iceland) 31.3.1873 29.3-1932. 
Estonia ae vee 18.11.1925 see 103.1927. 
Finland 30.5.1924 see 25.11.1926, 
Greece Goa a see 22.4.1932. 
Guatemala 4-7. 1985/30. 5.1914 ++ 30.3.1932. 
Hayti 7.12.1874 ee des ae 24.2.1932. 
Hungary aS 3.12.1873/26.6. 1901 ie + 30.6.1932. 
Supplementary Convention 18.9.1936 ose se 2.4.1938. 
Iraq ee see 25.1932 see 2.5.1932. 
Latvia 16.7.1924 +. 7.6.1926. 
Lithuania 18.5.1926 see 11.6.1927. 
Monaco : on ae peas a 5-7-1931. 
Netherlands ... 26.9.1898 ++ 5-4-1932. 
Nicaragua 19.4.1905 + 6.4.1932. 
Norway 26.6.1873/18.2. 1907 . 20.9.1932. 
Panama 25.8.1906 a aes 4.6.1932. 


355 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan—continued. 





Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
Between United eee and: ‘ At plication. 
Peru ... 2 26,1.1904 we ae see 2.3.1932. 
Poland a ais wee II.1.1932 eae as vs 12.3.1934- 
Portugal a5 oA sss 17.10,1892/20.1.1932 ses 23.6.1934. 
Roumania_... aes vs 9/21.3.1893... ash see 3-3-1932. 
Salvador ae ee «ee 236.1881 aes ee ae 18.10.1932. 
Siam ies See wes 4-3-IQII oo ee see 74.1932. 
Spain Boe tee rs ‘ 6.1878/19.2.1889  ... ses 23.3.1932. 
Switzerland ... 26.11.1880/29.6.1904 9.5.1932- 
Supplementary Convention 19.12.1934 ve vse 2.4.1938. 
United States of America ... 22.12.1931... a «ss 24,6.1935- 
Yugoslavia ... Be «es 23.11.1900/6.12.1900 +66 30.8.1932. 
San Marino ... BSF + 16.10.1899... oar ves 19.7 1934. 
Ecuador |; ... 20.9.1880 wes 8.10.1937. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing ‘list the Trans-Jordan 
Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


- Argentine. Italy. Tunis. 
France. : Liberia. Uruguay. 
*Germany. Paraguay. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition 
between Trans-Jordan and Germany on basis of reciprocity. The arrange- 
ment came into force on 28th February, 1933. 


(D) Commerciai Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 


Jordan. 
Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
Application. 
Lithuania ... Agreement respecting Commercial 24.4.1923. 
‘ Relations, 6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 
Latvia «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5-1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 
Poland ... «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 aa 6.6.1925. 
Finland ... «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 
Germany +. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926, 
2.12.1924, London. 
Greece ... +. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3-1927. 
16.7.1926. 
Hungary... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 26.7.1927. 
23.7.1926, London. 
Yugoslavia +. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4-4.1928, 
12.5.1927. 
Spain... -«. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.1928. 
31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 
31.5.1928. 
Bulgaria ... Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
12.11.1925. 
Lithuania ... Notes Modifying the Agreement of 10,12,1929. 
6.5.1922. 
Japan... «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation 1.6.1930. 


and Supplementarv Convention of 
30.7.1925. 


354 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions—continued. 


Title of Instrument. - Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
International Convention relative to the Pro- 2.6.1928 = 1.10.1931 
tection of Literary and Artistic Works Rome 
International Convention for the Suppression 30.9.192I1, 2.11.1931. 
of the Traffic in Women and Children. 31.3.1922, 
Geneva. 
International Agreement for the Suppression of 18.5.1904, 6.5.1932 
the White Slave Traffic. Paris. (effective date). 
International Convention for the Suppression 4.5.1910, 6.5.1932 
of the White Slave Traffic. Paris. (effective date). 


Convention for the Unification of certain Rules 


12.10.1929, 17.3-1938. 
Warsaw. 


relating to International Carriage by / Air. 


Universal Postal Convention 20.3-1934, 1.1.1935. 

International Convention for Mutual Protec- 25.7.1934, 3-5-1935. 
tion against Dengue Fever. Athens. - 

International Convention for the Sanitary 12.4.1933,  1:9.1935.- 


Control of Aerial Navigation. The Hague. 


International Telecommunications Convention 9.12.1932, 24.5.1935- 
Madrid. 
International Convention relating to Stamp 7.6.1930, 6.12.1938 
Laws in connexion with Bills of Exchange Geneva (effective date). 
and Promisscry Notes. 
International Convention relating to Stamp 19.3.1931, 6.12.1938 
Laws in connexion with Cheques. Geneva (effective date). 


(For position as regards International Labour Conventions see Chapter 
XI. Labour.) 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
A icalton. 
Between United Fpedom and: 
Albania or ++ 22.7.1926 11.7.1927. 
Belgium 29.10.1901 fo 1.4.1932. 
Belgian Congo 5.3-1907/3.3-1911 1.4.1932. 
Ruanda-Urundi 28.6.1928/2.7.1928 1.4.1932. 
Bolivia 22.2.1892 3 3-3-1932. 
Chile 26.1.1897 oe 18.3.1932. 
Colombia 27.10.1888/2.12. 1929. 5.12.1930. 
Cuba ... 3.10,1904/17.4.1930 ... 12.12.1931. 
Czechoslovakia Bt IL11. t924/Krotocol 4-6 6. 1926 15.7-1927. 
Denmark Grcding: iceland) 31.3.1873 . 29.3-1932. 
Estonia oe 18.11.1925 10.3.1927. 
Finland 30.5.1924 25.11.1926. 
Greece 24.9.1910 . 22.4.1932. 
Guatemala 4.7.1885/30.5.1914 30.3.1932. 
Hayti 7-12.1874 ase oe 24.2.1932. 
Hungary : 3.12.1873/26.6.1901 ... 30.6.1932. 
Supplementary Convention 18.9.1936 2.4.1938. 
Iraq 2.5.1932 2.5.1932. 
Latvia ve 16.7.1924 7-6.1926. 
Lithuania ss 185.1926 11.6.1927. 
Monaco : os Ta eto ; \ 5-7-1931. 
Netherlands ... + 26.9.1898 5-4-1932. 
Nicaragua 19.4.1905 ee 6.4.1932. 
Norway 26.6.1873/18.2. 1907 « 20.9.1932. 
Panama 25.8.1906 a 4-6.1932. 


355 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan—continued. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of 
Between United Kingdom and : , At plication. 
Peru ... an oes vs 26.12.1904 eae as ase 2.3.1932. 
Poland és Bee we II.1.1932 pats Pre see -12.3.1934- 
Portugal ses se ss 17.10,1892/20.1.1932 ss 23.6.1934. 
Roumania _... on vee 9/27.3.1893... oe see 363-1932. 
Salvador ate oes vee 23.6,188r axe ose +. 18.10.1932. 
Siam mie a see 4.3-1QII os eve eee 74.1932. 
Spain a ahs «  4.6,.1878/19.2. 1889 ae see 23.3.1932. 
Switzerland ... 26.11.1880/29.6.1904 see 95.1932. 
Supplementary Convention 19.12.1934. nat see 264.1938. 
United States of America ... 22.12.1931... vs see 24.6.1935. 
Yugoslavia... a sss 23.11.1900/6.12.1900 «60 30.8.1932. 
San Marino ... ce +. 16.10.1899... oo vse 19.7 1934. 
Ecuador . ... 20.9.1880 as 8.10.1937. 


In addition to the countries set out in the foregoing ‘ist the Trans- Jordan 
Extradition Law has been applied to the following countries :— 


- Argentine. Italy. Tunis. 
France. : Liberia. Uruguay. 
*Germany. Paraguay. 


* While the Extradition Treaty between the United Kingdom and Germany 
(14.5.1872) has not been extended to Trans-Jordan, an arrangement has been 
concluded by an exchange of notes providing for the operation of extradition 
between Trans-Jordan and Germany on basis of reciprocity. The arrange- 
ment came into force on 28th February, 1933. 


CD) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 


Jordan. 
Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
Application. 
Lithuania -.. Agreement respecting Commercial 24.4.1923. 
‘ Relations, 6.5.1922, Riga and Kovno. 
Latvia «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.5.1924. 
22.6.1923, London. 
Poland ... +. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.1924. 
26.11.1923. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.1923 aa 6.6.1925. 
Finland ... .-. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.1926. 
14.12.1923. 
Germany «Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.1926. 
2.12.1924, London. 
Greece ... «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, . 23.3.1927. 
16.7.1926. 
Hungary... «+. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 26.7.1927. 
23.7.1926, London. 
Yugoslavia «. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4-4.1928, 
12.5.1927. 
Spain... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.1928. 
31.10.1922, Revised 5.4.1927 and 
31.5.1928. 
Bulgaria ... Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.1929. 
12.11.1925. 
Lithuania ... Notes Modifying the Agreement of 10.12.1929. 
°6.5.1922. 
Japan ... +». Treaty of Commerce and Navigation 1.6.1930. 


and Supplementarv Convention of 
30.7.1925. 


356 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans- 


Jordan—continued. 
Country. Title of Instrument. Date of 
Application. 
Egypt ... ... Commercial Modus-Vivendi, 5/7.6.1930, 21.8.1930. 
Cairo. Prolongation until 16.2.1934 
by Notes of 16/19.2.1933. 
Spain... +. Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.1931. 
Companies, 27.6.1924, Madrid. 
Panama ... «.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.9.1932. 
25.9.1928. 
Poland ... .. Agreement regarding Trade and Com- 24.7.1935- 


merce, 27.2.35, London. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Date of 
Country. Title of Instrument, Application. 
France ... «»» Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 21.3.1923. 


e mercial Matters, 2.2.1922. 
Belgium ... ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 13.3.1925. 
mercial Matters, 21.6.1922. 
Czechoslovakia ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 17.2.1927. 
mercial Matters, 11.11.1924, London. 5.1.1937 
Supplementary Agreement 15.1.1935 
Greece ... ... Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates 21.6.1929. 


of Origin, 21.6.1929. 9.7-1929 
(effective). 

Netherlands ... Extension to Overseas Territories of the 1.12.1929 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, (applicable to 
1.12.1929. British subjects 

only). 

Spain... ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 23.2.1931. 
mercial Matters, 27.6.1929. 

Italy noe ... Notes respecting documents of Identity 13.4.1931. 
for Aircraft Personnel, 13.4.1931. 

Poland ... «.. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 17.10.1932. 
mercial Matters, 26.8.1931. 

Estonia ... ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 11.11.1932 
mercial Matters, 22.12.1931. (effective), 

Portugal ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 30.4.1933. 

s mercial Matters, 9.7.1931. 

Denmark ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Coin- 25.7.1934. 


mercial Matters, 29.11.1932. 
Netherlands ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 22.9.1934. 
mercial Matters, 31.5.1932. 


Belgium ... ... Supplementary Convention to Facilitate 27.6.1935. 
the Conduct of Legal Proceedings, 
4.11.1932. 

Finland ... ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 4.6.1935. 
mercial Matters, 11.8.1933. 

Lithuania «.. Legal Proceedings in Civil] and Com- 29.6.1937. 
mercial Matters, 24.4.1934. 

Hungary «Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com-  25.6.1937. 
mercial Matters, 7.5.1936. 

Yugoslavia ... Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 20.11.1938 
mercial Matters, 27.2.1936. 

Germany «. Legal Proceedings in Civil and Com- 25.11.1929. 


mercial Matters, 20.3.1928. 


eS 


357 


X.—ANTIQUITIES. 


1. There are seven Antiquity guards, who are stationed at 
Petra, Shobek, Tafileh, Kerak, Madeba and Jerash. The 
inspectorate staff also includes an Assistant Inspector and a Sub- 
Inspector at Amman, and a Sub-Inspector at Jerash. The 
greater part of the country is regularly patrolled and interference 
with antiquity sites is rare, and no notable cases of damage 
occurred during the year. 


Archaeological Survey. 

2. In continuation of his work in southern Trans-Jordan, 
which was described in Volume XV, 1934-5, of the Annual of 
the American School of Oriental Research, Dr. Glueck began 
his suey of the northern districts of the country in 1937 and 
examined many hitherto unrecorded sites. He continued his 
investigations in 1938 in the Belqa district, the ancient Ammon, 
but conditions did not permit of work on a large scale. 

The proposed survey of prchistoric sites in Trans-Jordan 
which was to have been carried out by Mr. T. P. O’Brien, and 
which was referred to in paragraph 3 on page 346 of the Annual 
Report for 1937, was for the same reason indefinitely postponed. 


Excavations. 


3. Aqaba.—The American School of Oriental Research com- 
pleted a first season’s work at Tell el Kheleifch, near Aqaba, 
which site the Director, Dr. Glueck, identifies with the 
Solomonic port, Ezion Geber. The excavations reveal that the 
site was an important centre for the smelting and refining of 
copper, and a series of intricately built kilns or blast furnaces 
was discovered. Connexions with south Arabia are established 
by the discovery of some characters in the south Arabian script 
scratched on a pot. Much of the pottery consists of forms other- 
wise unrecorded in either Trane lorain or Palestine. The site 
appears to date approximately from ro00 to 650 B.C. 


Tell El-Ghassul.—A short season’s work was carried out by 
the Pontifical Biblical Institute under the direction of Pére 
Koeppel, but has added nothing new to the total of knowledge 
of the period represented by this site, viz.: the Calcolithic Age, 
circa 3000 B.C. 


Wadi Dhobai—The British School of Archaeology, 
Jerusalem, has completed the first season’s work on the pre- 
historic sites around Wadi Dhobai under the direction of Mr. J. 
Waechter. The material collected is now in London, where 
Mr. Waechter is studying and classifying it in comparison with 
other collections of similar material. It is not yet possible to 
make any definite pronouncement about the culture represented, 
but it would appear to fall between the Palestinian Tahunian and 
Jericho cultures. 


358 


Amman.—The Missione Archeologica Italiana, under the 
direction of Dr. Bartoccini, carried out further excavations at 
the Acropolis, but no discoveries of importance were reported. 


Conservation. 

4. The increase of funds made available for this purpose by 
the Trans-Jordan Government enabled the Department of Anti- 
quities to undertake important work, principally at Jerash, 
where the mosaic floor of the Church of SS. Cosmos and Damain 
was completely lifted, relaid and repaired, and much other 
clearing, restoration and repair was carried out. The Forum 
was almost completely cleared of debris, and when this opera- 
tion is finished the appearance of the Jerash site will be greatly 


improved by the impressive entrance so provided. 


Tourists. 
5. Fees collected from tourists visiting Petra amounted to 
-304 as compared with £P.409 in 1937 and £P.648 in 1936. 
he number of foreign visitors to Jerash was 430, as compared 
with 766 in 1937 and 947 in 1936. 
The further serious decrease in the number of tourists visiting 
erash is attributable to the continuance of unsettled conditions 
in Palestine. 
General. 

6. An exhibition of pottery figurines discovered by the 
American Expedition to Jerash in 1933 and repaired and 
restored by the Palestine Department of Antiquities was held in 
the Amman Museum. 

A preliminary schedule of antiquity sites in Trans-Jordan has 
been prepared and a small booklet containing a brief history of 
Petra, with photographs, has been published by the Department 
of Antiquities. 


X1.—LABOUR. 


With the exception of the Convention concerning Forced or 
Compulsory Labour the International Conventions have not 
been formally declared to be applicable to Trans-Jordan and the 
necessary legislation to enforce in Trans-Jordan the provisions 
of such Conventions has not been enacted, except legislation 
relating to forced or compulsory labour which enables the Trans- 
Jordan Government to give full effect to the terms of the Con- 
vention dealing with those matters. At the same time care has 
been taken to ensure that local legislation is in no way con- 
tradictory or repugnant to the terms of the International Labour 
Conventions and, where necessary, the existing laws have been 
amended accordingly. 

This policy has been adopted because Trans-Jordan is in the 
main a primitive pastoral and agricultural country where society 
is still conducted on patriarchal lines, and industries are practic- 
ally non-existent. 


359 


In these circumstances, all that is necessary is to ensure 
generally that local legislation is not repugnant to the terms of 
the Conventions, and to adopt from time to time those provisions 
of the Conventions the application of which is rendered desirable 
by the development of Trans-Jordan. 


2. Certain undertakings have been given by the factory 
owners in regard to the isle Maisie of children. These under- 
takings conform to the draft Conventions and recommendations 
adopted by the International Labour Conference. 


X!II.—TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF ARMS, 
DRUGS, AND LIQUORS. 


Arms. 
1. The existing laws provide that:— 


(a) The import of State or military weapons or revolvers 
of which the barrels are more than 15 cm. in length, or of 
ammunition for the same is prohibited except with the 
permission of the Government. 

(b) Firearms may not be carried without permission 
within towns in which there resides a Government repre- 
sentative. 

(c) The sale of arms and ammunition within a town is 
only permitted under licence and in a specially appointed 
place. 

(da) The transport of arms for export is prohibited. 

(e) Except with a licence the possession of arms or 
ammunition in the Jordan Valley is prohibited. 

(f) With the exception of retail purchase from a licensed 
dealer, as provided in detail in the Law, no person shall 
import, transport, possess, purchase, sell or otherwise deal 
in any explosive substance (including detonators, percus- 
sion caps and bombs) except under a licence to do so. 
Purchase of explosives from a licensed dealer may only 
be effected by persons having a licence to do so. 


2. Before 1933, certain persons in Amman were licensed to 
deal in arms and ammunition and such dealers were required 
to keep registers of receipts and issue. But in December, 1933, 
it was ordered by the Government that no licences should be 
granted to any person to import arms. 


3. During 1938 five shot-guns only were imported under 
licence. Arms and ammunition are not manufactured in Trans- 
Jordan and it was only as result of disturbances in Palestine 
that arrangements were made to permit the manufacture of blast- 
ing powder by licence and under Government supervision and 
control. No advantage was taken of these arrangements during 
1938. During the course of the year there was only one con- 
siderable seizure of arms on suspicion of their being destined 


360 


for Palestine, when 1 pistol, 12 rifles, 200 bombs, and some 8,000 
rounds of ammunition were captured. With this sole exception 
there was no concrete evidence of any considerable traffic in arms 
in or through Trans-Jordan. 


Drugs. 


4. The Dangerous Drugs Law, which came into force on the 
Ist January, 1937, gives effect in Trans-Jordan to the Inter- 
national Convention for limiting the manufacture and regulating 
the distribution of narcotic drugs. This Law makes persons 
guilty of an offence under the Law liable to imprisonment for a 
period not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding £P.500, 
or to both such penalties. 


5. The seizures of dangerous drugs and the penalties imposed 
during 1938 were as follows:— 


Amount. 
Gramnes. Origin, Penalty. 
Hashish ... oy 85 Unknown. 6 months imprisonment 
and £P.2-400 mils fine. 
Opium ... one 1 Unknown. Under trial. 
Poppy heads ... 350 Syria. £P. 1-200 mils fine. 


6. Imports of narcotic drugs under licence during 1938 
were :— 


Opium in the form of preparations ane oes _— 77°70 
Morphine in the form of salts and preparations — 375 °82 
Medicinal opium... es ee tee io I 204-00 
Cocaine in the form of salts and preparations ... _— 360-00 
Codeine in the form of salts on wee Finn _— 485-12 
Dionine ren os ars ae _— 332°10 
Cannabis Indica _ 10-00 
Heroine _ 180-00 


No export authorizations for dangerous drugs were issued 
during the year. 

There is very little addiction to drugs among native Trans- 

ordanians, and any illegal consumption of drugs in the country 
1s confined to residents of other origins. There is no evidence 
of any re-export of drugs smuggled into Trans- Jordan. 


Liquors. 


7. There are three distilleries in Trans-Jordan, which manu- 
ete the following quantities of liquors during the year 
1938:— 


Litres. 
Cognac an oh us eal Pen wed rs 11,486 
Araq ase ee ag oes one oes ase 30,048 
Wine a vee can ss ove oh ne 5,997 
Methylated spirit as aks ae eNethy “Tas 1,326 


Alcohol 18 


361 


At its thirty-fourth session the Permanent Mandates Commis- 
sion questioned the accuracy of the figures of production given 
for the year 1936. The figures shown in paragraph 7 on 
page 359 of the Annual Report for 1936 were, unfortunately, 
inaccurate and should be amended to read as follows:—cognac 
11,071 litres; araq 25,594 litres; wine 7,216 litres; methylated 
spirit 1,940 litres; alcohol 76 litres. 


XI11.— EDUCATION. 


I. The Department of Education is responsible for two main 
branches of work:— 


(a) the direction, supervision and inspection of all 
Government schools, 


(b) the supervision and inspection of non-Government 
schools. 


2. Headquarters Staff—The headquarters staff consists of a 
Director, a Senior Inspector, two Inspectors and an Inspector 
of School Gardens. The Inspectorate Areas are three, corre- 
sponding to the Administrative Districts of Ajlun and the 
Belga, and the combined Districts of Kerak and Ma’an. The 
clerical staff comprises a chief clerk, an accountant, a store- 
keeper and two clerks. 


3. Teaching Staff —The teaching staff of the Department has 
been increased and the total number of teachers in all Govern- 
ment schools, including head masters and head mistresses, is 
now 181 compared with 163 during the previous year. This 
further increase is designed to continue the process of providing 
additional masters in existing schools which were notably under- 
staffed, and to provide for an increase in the number of schools. 


The distribution of Government schools and the teachers and 
pupils therein is shown in the table at the end of this chapter. 


4. During the year five new Government elementary schools 
were opened, in Amman, Es Salt, Madaba, Anjara and Dhana 
Tespectively; one small elementary village school was closed 
owing to lack of pupils. The total number of Government 
schools is now 74. . 


5. The total number of pupils attending school in the first term 
of the school year 1938-9 was 8,512 compared with 7,408 in the 
previous school year, an increase of 1,104 in all schools; includ- 
re admissions to classes maintained by the Municipal Education 

und. 


362 


The following table gives the number of applications for 
admission to all classes of Government schools in the first term 
of the school years 1938-9 and 1937-8:— 











Towns. Villages.* Totals. 
Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. 
1938-39. iG 
Applied ... 2,137 526 2,111 26 4,248 552 
Accepted ... 1,282 373 1,000 26 2,282 399 
Refused or 3 
deferred 855 153 1,11r _ 1,966 153 
1937-38. 
Applied ... 1,917 681 2,520 26 4.437 707 
Accepted ... 737 400 1,177 23 1,914 423 
Refused or 
deferred 1,180 281 1,343 3 2,523 284 

















* The figures for villages apply only to those villages where schools exist. 


The importance of registering all candidates within school age 
is more appreciated than hitherto, and the numbers given in the 
above table for the current year afford a more accurate picture 
than that of 1937-8. The increasing demand for education, 
particularly in towns, adds largely to the number of rejections, 
since financial considerations preclude the possibility of pro- 
viding sufficient accommodation. 


6. Under a Law enacted in 1937 in the form of an Addendum 
to Article 15 of the Ottoman Elementary Education Law of 1329 
(1914) an impost known as the Municipal Education Rate is 
levied on immovable property in municipal areas and is 
collected from the occupiers of the property. Power to put this 
Law into operation in any municipal area and to fix the level 
of the rate, within the specified maximum of 3 per cent. of the 
rental value, is vested in the Executive Council. 

The revenue from this rate forms, in each municipal area, a 
special ‘‘ Municipal Education Fund ’’ which is administered by 
a committee presided over in the capital by the Director of 
Education and in the rural areas by the District Administration 
Officer. The Director of Education controls the work of the 
District and Sub-District Committees. 

The Municipal Education Rate was enforced in 1937 at 
Amman and Es Salt, in both cases at 2 per cent. The annual 
assessment of the rate for the current year amounted to £P.1,228 
at Amman and £P.102 at Es Salt. The cost:df eight teachers 
was met from the Fund. 


363 


Elementary Education. 

7. The elementary course extends over a period of seven years 
in town schools and usually four years in village schools. Mixed 
DEES! classes are attached to the girls school in Amman 
only. 

Town Schools. 

During the year there were 21 town schools (including muni- 
cipal schools) with a roll of 4,835 pupils. Of these nine schools 
were for girls with a total of 1,629 pupils. 

The following table shows the number of town schools by 
Districts: — 


Distnct. ; Boys. Girls. Total. 
Ajlun ee a ee 2, 3 2 5 
. Belga 6 4 10 
Kerak 2 2 4 
Ma’an I I 2 
Totals 12 9 21 


Village Schools. 

During the year 46 village schools were maintained, with a 
roll of 3,316 pupils, and including one school for girls containing 
51 pupils. S 

The following table shows the number of village schools by 
Districts: — 


Number of 

District. Sub-District. Schools. 
Ajlun... mae Irbid ... eee See 20 
Jerash .. : 2 
Ajlun .. 6 
Belga.......' Amman ee ects 8 
‘Kerak ... ws” Kerak... Bes aes 4 
Tafileh 3 
Ma’an ... cies Ma’an ... 3 
iy Total 46 


Secondary Education. 


8. The complete secondary course extends over a period of 
four years, the elementary and secondary stages being con- 
tinuous. The fourth secondary class concludes with the ae 
Jordan Matriculation Examination which follows to some extent 
the Palestine Matriculation. 

There is only one Government Boys’ school in Trans-Jordan 
which provides a complete ioe f course of four years: 
there are three which give two years. Education in these schools 
is free of charge. 


362 


The following table gives the number of applications for 
admission to all classes of Government schools in the first term 
of the school years 1938-9 and 1937-8:— 








Towns. Villages.* Totals. 
Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. [Bos Girls. 

gree a | tae | 

1938-39. 
Applied... 2,137 526 2,111 26 4,248 552 
Accepted ... 1,282 373 1,000 26 2,282 399 
Refused or Z 

deferred 855 153 I,1Ir —_— 1,966 153 

1937-38. 
Applied ... 1,917 681 2,520 26 4.437 707 
Accepted ... 737 400 1,177 23 1,914 423 
Refused or 

deferred 1,180 281 1,343 3 2,523 284 




















* The figures for villages apply only to those villages where schools exist. 


The importance of registering all candidates within school age 
is more appreciated than hitherto, and the numbers given in the 
above table for the current year afford a more accurate picture 
than that of 1937-8. The increasing demand for education, 
particularly in towns, adds largely to the number of rejections, 
since financial considerations preclude the possibility of pro- 
viding sufficient accommodation. 


Municipal Education Rate. 


6. Under a Law enacted in 1937 in the form of an Addendum 
to Article 15 of the Ottoman Elementary Education Law of 1329 
(z914) an impost known as the Municipal Education Rate is 
levied on immovable property in municipal areas and is 
collected from the occupiers of the property. Power to put this 
Law into operation in any municipal area and to fix the level 
of the rate, within the specified maximum of 3 per cent. of the 
rental value, is vested in the Executive Council. 

The revenue from this rate forms, in each municipal area, a 
special ‘‘ Municipal Education Fund ’’ which is administered by 
a committee presided over in the capital by the Director of 
Education aa in the rural areas by the District Administration 
Officer. The Director of Education controls the work of the 
District and Sub-District Committees. 

The Municipal Education Rate was enforced in 1937 at 
Amman and Es Salt, in both cases at 2 per cent. The annual 
assessment of the rate for the current year amounted to £P.1,228 
at Amman and £P.102 at Es Salt. The cést'6f eight teachers 
was met from the Fund. 


363 


Elementary Education. 

7. The elementary course extends over are of seven years 
in town schools and usually four years in village schools. Mixed 
Sndet eatin classes are attached to the girls school in Amman 
only. 

Town Schools. 


During the year there were 21 town schools (including muni- 
cipal schools) with a roll of 4,835 pupils. Of these nine schools 
were for girls with a total of 1,629 pupils. 

The following table shows the number of town schools by 
Districts :— 


District. Boys. Girls. Total. 
Ajlun oe one 3 2 5 
Belqa 6 4 10 
Kerak 2 2 4 
Ma’‘an I I 2 
Totals 12 9 2r 


Village Schools. 

During the year 46 village schools were maintained, with a 
roll of 3,316 pupils, and including one school for girls containing 
51 pupils. : 

The following table shows the number of village schools by 
Districts: — 


Number of 

District. Sub-District. Schools. 
Ajlun... tee Irbid ... ere tee 20 
Jerash ... 2 
Ajlun ... 6 
Belqa... ../ Amman 8 
‘Kerak ... «.” Kerak... ssle pee 4 
Tafileh.. 0.0... 3 
7 Total 46 


Secondary Education. 


8. The complete secondary course extends over a period of 
four years, the elementary and secondary stages being con- 
tinuous. The fourth secondary class concludes with the Trans- 
Jordan Matriculation Examination which follows to some extent 
the Palestine Matriculation. 

There is only one Government Boys’ school in Trans-Jordan 
which provides a complete secondary course of four years: 
there are three which give two years. Fancaton in these schools 
is free of charge. 


364 
There is no Government school providing secondary education 
for girls. 


The total number of pupils attending secondary schools in the 
first term of the current school year was 243 compared with 208 
in the previous year. 


Twenty-seven pa sat for the Trans-Jordan Matriculation 
Examination held in July, 1938, and 20 passed. 


Desert Schools. 


g. Desert schools were started in 1935 and are still two in 
number. One is permanently established at Al Jaffer in the 
Ma’an District, which is in a central situation for the southern 
tribes, and possesses a suitable building. The second has been 
held variously at Muaqqar and at Azraq, both in the Amman 
District, in accordance with the movements of the northern 
tribes. These schools, which fall within the control of the 
Director of Education, in collaboration with the Officer Com- 
manding the Desert Area, follow a special curriculum designed 
to suit the needs of the Bedouin. 


During the first term of the present school year, there were 37 

upils in the two schools, compared with 40 in the previous year. 

ts e school at Al Jaffer is also attended by men of the Desert 
olice. 


Mention has been made in paragraph 3 of chapter VIII, 
Military Clauses, of ten Bedouin boys who are being trained in 
wireless telegraphy: these boys received their education entirely 
in Desert Schools. 

Technical Education. 

ro. The only school that provides technical education in 
Trans-Jordan is the Government Arts and Crafts School in 
Amman. Manual instruction is given in all town schools. 


At the Arts and Crafts School board and lodging are pro- 
vided for students from outside Amman: students living in 
Amman are accepted as day boys. No fees are charged for 
board or tuition in respect of Trans-Jordanians: others are 
accepted as day boys at a tuition fee of £P.6 per annum. 


The school is open to selected boys from the elementary 
classes or above. e age of pupils ranges from 14 to17. The 
courses for both theoretical and practical training cover a period 
of four years for blacksmith and carpentry trades, and three 
years for cane work and upholstery. 


During the first term of the school year 1938-9 there were 
61 pupils as compared with 55 in the previous year; 51 of whom 
were boarders. 


365 


Agricultural Education. 

11. Mixed gardens of an average size of 10 dunums are main- 
tained by 28 village schools under the general control of an 
Inspector of School Gardens. Poultry rearing is undertaken in 
three of these gardens, and the introduction of bee-keeping is 
contemplated. Arbor Day is observed annually in all Govern- 
ment schools. 

Scholarships. 


12z.—(a) The following scholars were maintained by the De- 
partment during the present year: — 


Number of scholars. Name of institution. 
3 Government Arab College, Jerusalem. 
2 * Women’s Training College, Jerusalem. 
I English Girls’ College, Jerusalem. 
3 American University, Beyrouth. 


The maintenance of scholars at the Kadoorie Agricultural 
School, Tulkarm, was precluded by the situation in Palestine. 


(b) The holder of the British Council’s Scholarship of £P.300 
granted in 1937 (see paragraph 10 on page 354 of the Annual 
Report for 1937) completed his course of instruction in England 
and resumed his duty as Inspector in the Department of 
Education in August. 

Fhe British Council awarded a second scholarship of £P.300 
to enable another member of the teaching staff in the Depart- 
ment to take a year’s course in a University in England. A staff 
teacher was selected and sent to University College, Exeter, to 
take a course in English and in methods of teaching that 
language. 

A further scholarship of £P.300 per annum was also granted 
by the British Council to enable a post-graduate to take a course 
of veterinary science for a minimum period of four years. A 
candidate was selected and sent to the Royal (Dick) Veterinary 
College, Edinburgh. 


Non-Government Schools. 


13. The table appended at the end of this chapter shows par- 
ticulars of pupils and teachers in non-Government schools. 


Secondary Education in Non-Government Schools. 

14. The Boys’ Schoo! established in Amman by the Anglican 
Bishop in Jerusalem opened its first secondary class in 1937, 
and a second secondary class was added this year. It accom- 
modates 21 boarders. 

The Girls’ School of the Church Missionary Society in Amman 
also added a second secondary class, and had two boarders. 
This is the only school in the country providing secondary 
education for girls. 


366 


General. 


15. The Department of Public Health continued to co-operate 
in the medical inspection of all schools. The District Adminis- 
tration in collaboration with the Department of Public Works 
continued to assist in the construction and maintenance of school 
buildings in villages; and the Department of Agriculture supplied 
trees to school gardens and gave advice on agricultural matters. 
The Department of Education has co-operated with the Depart- 
ment of Development in combating soil-erosion. 


16. The Department has established a Central Library in 
Amman to which it is intended that the public shall be given 
access. Valuable assistance to this institution was granted by 
the British Council in the form of a gift of English books of the 
value of £P.50. The British Council also made a similar gift to 
the Anglican Bishop’s School, Amman. 








































































































69S'L | ogg‘r | z&g‘9o bl sTe}0L 
g k 9 — 8 + | 19 Lr vy _ 19 I syeID pue sHy 
z z _ z + | 2g — Ls _ LS z sjooyss jaseq 
I I a _ +] 1S _ .s9 1g = I s[zIg—sjooyss aeq[tA (yp) 
6S c49 _ 6S 66z + | Soz‘t gl | 6g0'E _ Sgz'€ Sb shog—sfooysg a3eIItA (2) 
bE Sz ve — 1zr + | 6z9‘r S6z | €€r | 6zg'r | — 6 “"SLIIQ—sooyss umoy, (9) 
£9 $s —_— big + | goz‘€ ble | z€giz — goz'é zr *-sfog—sfooyss umoy (2) 
—: spooyss Arezusula[q 
> br Ir _— SE + | €bz Ig zgl _— €bz + sjooyss Arepuosas 
Ge F “susay ‘anak suny | ‘sua. 
-st4yQ | -sopr snotnaad -s14yQ | -sont 
*$47}0.[. “uso uo “$1040, *sparzy | “shog |saquny -wondisasaq 
aspasoap 
“uotsyay 40 “u0r59y 
asnesouy 
“s4ayova T, “suidnd *$J00Y4IS 








“6E61-gE61 ‘STOOHOG INAWNUZAOD NI SYAHOVEL GNV STIdNg 40 NOILNAIULsIg 















































Szbiz obz'1 lit gr zz LL s]ej0, 

gf gt Shr zIL ee 9 € I z " srTO 
Loz ¢ ere ber 6S +1 ¢ I g *xopoyyO 
giz €€ veh olz gor II 9 ¢ $]Ue}S9}O1q, 
€vo'r gs tor | ESb'r beet ee i 61 ve + sorjouyeg 

_ £6 Seg _ fgg ze € 1 gz SUIO[SOJY 
ssumnystsy 9 | “suapsoyy | “spojoy | “sutesiay | *sm2ps0 

“sppjoL | “paxryr| “spain | “skog 
“usm M ua puvay “spin “shog 
“$4409 [. sspidngd Un) 

















Ee 


“O£61-gE6I ‘STOOHDS INAWNUAAOD-NON NI SYSHOVAL ANV STldNg AO NOILNAINISICG 


oigtzea y GOOgle 


369 


XIV.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


Personnel. 


The establishment of the Department of Health was increased 
during the year by one Assistant Storekeeper. One Medical 
Officer, three Medical Orderlies and one Ambulance Driver were 
also added to the establishment temporarily in connexion with 
the Haifa-Baghdad road construction operations. 


A question was asked at the 34th session of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission sirta * the nationality of the personnel 
of the Department of Health. Their nationality is as follows: — 


Director ... «Palestinian 
2 British 

Medical Officers...4 7 Trans- Jordanians 
2 Syrians 
2 Lebanese 


{% Trans- Jordanians 


Others ... 3 Lebanese 


7 Palestinians 
Finance. 


2. The following is the estimated revenue and expenditure of 
the Department for the financial years 1937-8 and 1938-9:— 








1938-39. 1937-38. 

£P. £P. 

(1) Revenue a wee ae 820 580 
(2) Expenditure— 

Personal Emoluments ... 10,935 10,816 

Other Charges... ee 5,263 4,993 

Extraordinary... ise 250 250 

Totals bee ees 16,448 16,059 








In addition the Trans-Jordan Government pays half of the 
cost of the Desert Mobile Medical Unit (which amounted in 
1938-9 to £P.1,352), the other half being paid by the Govern- 
ment of Palestine. 


The expenditure on the Department of Health has risen from 
£P.11,292 in 1931-2 to £P.17,800 in 1938-9, which latter amount 
tepresents 3-8 per cent. of the whole expenditure of the Govern- 
ment, with the exception of self-balancing items. 


Vital Statistics. 


3. No regular census of the population of Trans-Jordan has 
as yet been taken; but during 1938 the Government caused a 
close survey to be made by District administrative authorities, 


370 
from which the total population of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, was computed to be approxi- 
mately 300,000 (actual figures 300,214). 


In this Report calculations per thousand for birth and death 
rates have been omitted, and only the actual figures of births and 
deaths reported are shown. 


The number of births nofified during 1938 was 12,746 com- 
pared with 11,496 in 1937. The number of deaths notified in 
1938 was 5,627 compared with 6,342 in 1937. The figure of 
births was the highest hitherto recorded, and that for deaths 
the lowest since 1928. 


The infant mortality rate (below the age of one year) was 181 
per thousand live births, being the lowest ever recorded. 


The following table shows the figure for births and deaths and 
infant mortality rate during recent years : — 


Number of Number of Infant 
Year. births deaths Increase. mortality rate 
a registered. —_ registered. per roo0. 
1928 ... ... 8,400 5,009 3,391 _ 
1929 ... oe 9,845 6,573 3,272 = 
1930 ... wee 10,340 6,661 3,679 _ 
1931 ... sss 10,697 5,648 5,049 = 
1932 ... ss 10,871 6,152 4,719 — 
1933... +++ 10,900 7:354 3,546 = 
1934 ... ves 10,742 7,925 2,817 242 
1935 «++ vee 11,284 6,832 41452 211 
1936 ... wee 12,234 6,652 5,582 201 
1937 ... ves 11,496 6,342 5,154 203 
1938 ... vee 12,746 5,627 7119 181 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious and 
communicable disease, reported during the year was 5,747 
compared with 6,508 in 1937. No serious epidemics occurred 
during the year. 


The number of cases of pulmonary and non-pulmonary tuber- 
culosis notified to the Department during the year was 482 with 
32 deaths, compared with 624 and 33 deaths in 1937. 


The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Bedouin 


tribes is carried out by the Medical Officer of the Desert Mobile 
Medical Unit, which began operations in the early part of 1937. 


The following table shows the cases of and. deaths from in- 
fectious and communicable diseases in 1938~compared with 
1937:— 








1937 1938. 
Disease. 
Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths 

Anthrax oe Se vee 5 _ 2 _ 
Chicken Pox.. ees, an 7o _ 63 _ 
Diphtheria ... aa ay 16 3 Ir 2 
Dysentery ... ae es 219 _— 216 4 
Erysipelas... eae ae 29 _— 22 _ 
Influenza ots 20 a 648 20 369 4 
Measles ee ogee fe * 2538 7o 688 52 
German Measles aes aus — _ 3 _ 
Mumps 2. 130 — 153 _— 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis wi 12 8 10 5 
Pneumonia ... ake 156 30 164 22 
Puerperal Fever... ose 10 I 10 4 
Relapsing Fever... _ 9 _ , 8 I 
Typhoid oe ai ae 165 I 144 18 
Para-Typhoid eee See 43 2 29 I 
Typhus ny as Me 14 I II : I 
Whooping Cough oe) tes 350 6 481 2 
Malta Fever ... I _ I _ 
Acute polvarcculer ss Rheuma- L 

tism iw 45 I 18 . 
Malaria 2,791 4 2,212 I 
Leishmaniasis 12 _ 4 — 
Leprosy _ _ I — 
Tetanus oe 2 I 3 3 
Pulmonary and Non-Pul- 

monary Tuberculosis... 624 33 482 32 
Venereal Diseases ... S 600 8 639 3 
Hydrophobia ae 3 3 — _ 
Bilbarzia te a5 ue 5 _— I _ 
Scurvy 10 _ 5 _ 
Cancer —_ _ 4 I 

















5. The Department of Health maintains eight-bedded posts 
at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma’an, and fotir-bedded posts at 
Jerash, ‘Tafileh and Aqaba, for infectious and communicable 
diseases. A mobile epidemic unit of 40 beds is also maintained. 

During the year 95,803 articles or bundles and 1,569 houses 
were disinfected, compared with 110,223 and 1,880 respectively 
in 1937. 

Vaccination against Small-pox. 

6. The number of vaccinations against small-pox carried out 
by the Department in 1938 was 30,914, compared with 22,350 
in 1937. 

Malaria and Anti-Malarial Measures. 

7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 
2,212, with one death, compared with 2,791 cases with four 
deaths in 1937; 2,791 cases with 17 deaths in 1936, and 5,435 
cases with eight deaths in 1935. 


370 
from which the total population of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, was computed to be approxi- 
mately 300,000 (actual figures 300,214). 


In this Report calculations per thousand for birth and death 
rates have been omitted, and only the actual figures of births and 
deaths reported are shown. 


The number of births nofified during 1938 was 12,746 com- 
pared with 11,496 in 1937. The number of deaths notified in 
1938 was 5,627 compared with 6,342 in 1937. The figure of 
births was the highest hitherto recorded, and that for deaths 
the lowest since 1928. 


The infant mortality rate (below the age of one year) was 181 
per thousand live births, being the lowest ever recorded. 


The following table shows the figure for births and deaths and 
infant mortality rate during recent years : — 


Number of Number of Infant 
Year. births deaths Increase. mortality rate 
y registered. —_ registered. per 1000. 
1928 ... +. 8,400 5,009 3,391 — 
1929 ... we 9,845 6,573 3,272 = 
1930 ... wee 10,340 6,661 3,679 _ 
1931 ... s+» 10,697 5,648 5,049 _ 
1932 ... ve 10,871 6,152 4,719 _ 
1933 «.. +++ 10,900 7:354 3,546 rae 
1934 ... wee 10,742 7,925 2,817 242 
1935 -.- vee 11,284 6,832 4.452 211 
1936 ... wes 12,234 6,652 5,582 201 
1937 ... ses 11,496 6,342 51154 203 
1938 ... ves 12,746 5,627 7119 181 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious ard 
communicable disease, reported during the year was 5,747 
compared with 6,508 in 1937. No serious epidemics occ 
during the year. 


The number of cases of pulmonary and non-pulmonary tuber- 
culosis notified to the Department during the year was 482 with 
32 deaths, compared with 624 and 33 deaths in 1937. 


The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Bedouin 
tribes is carried out by the Medical Officer of the Desert Mobile 
Medical Unit, which began operations in the early part of 1937. 


The following table shows the cases of and. deaths from in- 
fectious and communicable diseases in 1938~compared with 
1937:— 














1937 1938. 
Disease. 
Cases. Deaths Cases. Deaths. 
pee ee eee 

Anthrax on Sei 5 — 2 _ 
Zhicken Pox. Pee es 7o _ 63 _ 
Diphtheria... ee Bes 16 3 Ir 2 
Dysentery ... Vea a 219 _— 216 4 
=rysipelas see os aes 29 _ 22 _— 
influenza Oe te 648 20 369 4 
Measles 538 7o 688 52 
serman Measles wee _ —_ 3 _ 
\Llumps . 130 _ 153 _ 
Serebro-Spinal Meningitis -. 12 8 10 5 
Pneumonia ... oo us 156 30 164 22 
Puerperal Fever... oat 10 I 10 4 
Relapsing Fever Po ei 9 _— rh 8 I 
Typhoid saa or ae 165 I 144 18 
Para-Typhoid See os 43 2 29 I 
Typhus ‘s ane ae 14 I II e I 
Whooping Cough Si cas 350 6 481 2 
Malta Fever . I _ I _ 
Acute polyarticular R Rheuma- L 

tism lg 45 1 18 ca 
Malaria oes ee re 2,791 4 2,212 I 
Leishmaniasis ays me 12 _ 4 _ 
Leprosy eas see are _ SP I = 
Tetanus ee 2 I 3 3 
Pulmonary and Non- Pul- 

monary Tuberculosis. ... 624 33 482 32 
Venereal Diseases ... aoe 600 8 639 3 
Hydrophobia a 3 3 _— _ 
Bilharzia PA ea we 5 _— I _ 
Scurvy 6 oes ae 10 _ 5 _ 
Cancer eee vs oe _ —_ 4 I 

















The Department of Health maintains eight-bedded posts 
at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma’an, and four-bedded posts at 
Jerash, ‘Tafileh and Aqaba, for infectious and communicable 
diseases. A mobile epidemic unit of 40 beds is also maintained. 

During the year 95,803 articles or bundles and 1,569 houses 
were disinfected, compared with 110,223 and 1,880 respectively 
in 1937. 

Vaccination against Small-pox. 

6. The number of vaccinations against small-pox carried out 
by the Department in 1938 was 30,914, compared with 22,350 
in 1937. 

Malaria and Anti-Malarial Measures. 

7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 
2,212, with one death, compared with 2,791 cases with four 
deaths in 1937;°2,791 cases with 17 deaths in 1936, and 5,435 
cases with eight deaths in 1935. 


370 
from which the total population of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, was computed to be approxi- 
mately 300,000 (actual figures 300,214). 

In this Report calculations per thousand for birth and death 
rates have been omitted, and only the actual figures of births and 
deaths reported are shown. 

The number of births nofified during 1938 was 12,746 com- 
pared with 11,496 in 1937. The number of deaths notified in 
1938 was 5,627 compared with 6,342 in 1937. The figure of 
births was the highest hitherto recorded, and that for deaths 
the lowest since 1928. 

The infant mortality rate (below the age of one year) was 181 
per thousand live births, being the lowest ever recorded. 

The following table shows the figure for births and deaths and 
infant mortality rate during recent years : — 


Number of Number of Infant 
births 


Year. deaths Increase. mortality rate 
. registered. —_ registered. per 1000. 
1928 ... -.. 8,400 5,009 3,391 — 
1929 ... a 9,845 6,573 3,272 = 
1930 ... ss 10,340 6,661 3,679 —_— 
1931 ... «10,697 5,648 5,049 = 
1932 ... ves 10,871 6,152 4,719 a 
1933... ++ 10,900 71354 3,546 _ 
1934 ... see 10,742 7,925 2,817 242 
1935 ... ve 11,284 6,832 4.452 2ir 
1936 ... see 12,234 6,652 5,582 201 
1937 ... see 11,496 6,342 5,154 203 
1938 ... wee 12,746 5,627 TII9 181 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious a#d 
communicable disease, reported during the year was 5,747 
compared with 6,508 in 1937. No serious epidemics 
during the year. 


The number of cases of pulmonary and non-pulmonary tuber- 
culosis notified to the Department during the year was 482 with 
32 deaths, compared with 624 and 33 deaths in 1937. 


The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Bedouin 


tribes is carried out by the Medical Officer of the Desert Mobile 
Medical Unit, which began operations in the early part of 1937. 


The following table shows the cases of and. deaths from in- 
fectious and communicable diseases in 1938~compared with 
1937:— 














1937. 1938. 
Disease. 

Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
mthrax 3c% be ae 5 _ 2 — 
hicken Pox... a ane 70 _ 63 — 
iphtheria ... Se os 16 3 Ir 2 
Sysentery ... eee oe 219 _ 216 4 
‘Tysipelas.... ‘isis as 29 _ 22 —_ 
nfluenza a ae ae 648 20 369 4 
Ieasles a ain eae | 538 70 688 52 
xyerman Measles ei eas a — 3 _— 
Jumps wes one a 130 _ 153 — 
-erebro-Spinal Meningitis ... 12 8 10 5 
°neumonia . ae on 156 30 164 22 
Puerperal Fever... en 10 I 10 4 
Relapsing Fever... 2 9 _ » 8 I 
Cyphoid cee wee As 165 I 144 18 
Para-Typhoid ae aos 43 2 29 I 
Typhus one ase ae 14 I Ir I 
Whooping Cough ... ass 350 6 481 
Malta Fever ... od ae I _ I = 
Acute polyarticular Rheuma- L 

tism ls. ar ct 45 I 18 ca 
Malaria ae eee is 2,791 4 2,212 I 
Leishmaniasis oes. eg 12 _ 4 = 
Leprosy wee res cae _ Sas I _ 
Tetanus ays ae we 2 ta 3 3 
Pulmonary and Non-Pul- 

monary Tuberculosis... 624 33 482 32 
Venereal Diseases ... ant 600 8 639 3 
Hydrophobia ae ek 3 3 —_ ee 
Bilharzia wes ee soe 5 _ I = 
Scurvy wae wks oes 10 _ 5 _ 
Cancer oe Soe “| _ _ 4 I 














5. The Department of Health maintains ejght-bedded posts 
at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma’an, and four-bedded posts at 
Jerash, Tafileh and Aqaba, for infectious and communicable 
diseases. A mobile epidemic unit of 40 beds is also maintained. 

During the year 95,803 articles or bundles and 1,569 houses 
were disinfected, compared with 110,223 and 1,880 respectively 
in 1937. 

Vaccination against Small-pox. 

6. The number of vaccinations against small-pox carried out 
by the Department in 1938 was 30,914, compared with 22,350 
in 1937. 

Malaria and Anti-Malarial Measures. 


7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 

2,212, with one death, compared with 2,791 cases with four 

, deaths in 1937;'2,79I cases with 17 deaths in 1936, and 5,435 
, cases with eight deaths in 1935. 


370 
from which the total Populaton of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, was computed to be approxi- 
mately 300,000 (actual figures 300,214). 

In this Report calculations per thousand for birth and death 
rates have been omitted, and only the actual figures of births and 
deaths reported are shown. 

The number of births nofified during 1938 was 12,746 com- 
pared with 11,496 in 1937. The number of deaths notified in 
1938 was 5,627 compared with 6,342 in 1937. The figure of 
births was the highest hitherto recorded, and that for deaths 
the lowest since 1928. 

The infant mortality rate (below the age of one year) was 181 
per thousand live births, being the lowest ever recorded. 

The following table shows the figure for births and deaths and 
infant mortality rate during recent years: — 


Number of | Number of Infant 
births 


Year. deaths Increase. mortality rate 
i registered. registered. per 1000. 
1928 ... .-. 8,400 5,009 3,391 _ 
1929 ... + 9,845 6,573 3,272 = 
1930 ... see 10,340 6,661 3,679 —_ 
1931 ... s+» 10,697 5,648 5,049 —_— 
1932 ... « 10,871 6,152 4719 — 
1933 «.. ++. 10,900 7.354 3,546 _ 
1934 ... ses 10,742 7,925 2,817 242 
1935... see 11,284 6,832 4.452 211 
1936 ... wee 12,234 6,652 5,582 201 
1937 ... vee 11,496 6,342 5.154 203 
1938 ... wes 12,746 5,627 7119 181 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious afd 
communicable disease, reported during the year was 5,747 
compared with 6,508 in 1937. No serious epidemics occu 
during the year. 


The number of cases of pulmonary and non-pulmonary tuber- 
culosis notified to the Department during the year was 482 with 
32 deaths, compared with 624 and 33 deaths in 1937. 


The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Bedouin 


tribes is carried out by the Medical Officer of the Desert Mobile 
Medical Unit, which began operations in the early part of 1937. 


The following table shows the cases of and. deaths from in- 
fectious and communicable diseases in 1938-compared with 
1937:— 














1937. 1938. 
Disease. 

Cases Deaths. Cases. Deaths 
inthrax oe oe oo 5 _ 2 _ 
thicken Pox... ors ved 7O _ 63 _ 
Diphtheria ... one see 16 3 11 2 
Dysentery ... _ a 219 _ 216 4 
Erysipelas ... Se: sh 29 _— 22 —_ 
nfluenza wee ee a 648 20 369 4 
Teasles $33 ate ve |’ 538 70 688 52 
;erman Measles oe owe — — 3 _— 
lumps wee one ae: 130 _ 153 — 
lerebro-Spinal Meningitis ... 12 8 10 5 
>neumonia ... ae a 156 30 164 22 
Puerperal Fever... oes 10 I 10 4 
Relapsing Fever as 9 —_— 8 I 
Cyphoid BaD ee ee 165 I 144 18 
Para-Typhoid eae ot 43 2 29 I 
Cyphus ae ae aoe 14 I II g I 
Whooping Cough ... sae 350 6 481 2 
Malta Fever ... aaa Se I _ I = 
Acute polyarticular Rheuma- 1 

tism ls. sas ats 45 I 18 c- 
Malaria hee fas me 2,791 4 2,212 1 
Leishmaniasis c vee | 12 == 4 — 
Leprosy sv ats ee _ =i I _ 
Tetanus coe ee ve 2 I 3 3 
Pulmonary and Non-Pul- 

monary Tuberculosis... 624 33 482 32 
Venereal Diseases ... wad 600 8 639 3 
Hydrophobia a. ae 3 3 —_ — 
Bilharzia ae ane os 5 _ I _— 
Scurvy abs Bek acs 10 _— 5 _ 
Cancer ves bee vf _ _ 4 I 











5. The Department of Health maintains eight-bedded posts 
at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma’an, and four-bedded posts at 
Jerash, Tafileh and Aqaba, for infectious and communicable 
diseases. A mobile epidemic unit of 40 beds is also maintained. 

During the year 95,803 articles or bundles and 1,569 houses 
were disinfected, compared with 110,223 and 1,880 respectively 
in 1937. 

Vaccination against Small-pox. 

6. The number of vaccinations against small-pox carried out 
by the Department in 1938 was 30,914, compared with 22,350 
in 1937. 

Malaria and Anti-Malarial Measures. 

7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 
2,212, with one death, compared with 2,791 cases with four 
deaths in 1937,;°2,791 cases with 17 deaths in 1936, and 5,435 
cases with eight deaths in 1935. 


370 
from which the total population of the country, including the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, was computed to be approxi- 
mately 300,000 (actual figures 300,214). 
In this Report calculations per thousand for birth and death 


rates have been omitted, and only the actual figures of births and 
deaths reported are shown. 


The number of births notified during 1938 was 12,746 com- 
pared with 11,496 in 1937. The number of deaths notified in 
1938 was 5,627 compared with 6,342 in 1937. The figure of 
births was the highest hitherto recorded, and that for deaths 
the lowest since 1928. 


The infant mortality rate (below the age of one year) was 181 
per thousand live births, being the lowest ever recorded. 

The following table shows the figure for births and deaths and 
infant mortality rate during recent years : — 


Number of Number of Infant 


Year. births deaths Increase. mortality rate 
: vegistered. — vegistered. per 1000. 
1928 ... «8,400 5,009 3,391 = 
1929 ... os 9,845 6,573 3.272 _ 
1930 ... se» 10,340 6,661 3,679 _ 
193I ...  ...  10,697 5,648 5,049 aa 
1932 ... + 10,871 6,152 4,719 —_— 
1933... +++ 10,900 7354 3,546 oe 
1934 ... ses 10,742 7,925 2,817 242 
1935 + wee 11,284 6,832 4,452 211 
1936 ... vee 12,234 6,652 5,582 201 
1937 ... vee 11,496 6,342 5,154 203 
1938 ... ves 12,746 5,627 7119 181 


These figures include the nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. 


Infectious and Communicable Diseases. 


4. The total number of cases, of all forms of infectious and 
communicable disease, reported during the year was 5,747 
compared with 6,508 in 1937. No serious epidemics occ 
during the year. 


The number of cases of pulmonary and non-pulmonary tuber- 
culosis notified to the Department during the year was 482 with 
32 deaths, compared with 624 and 33 deaths in 1937. 


The campaign of treatment of tuberculosis amongst Bedouin 
tribes is carried out by the Medical Officer of the Desert Mobile 
Medical Unit, which began operations in the early part of 1937. 


The following table shows the cases of and. deaths from in- 
fectious and communicable diseases in I938~compared with 
1937:— 


———— 











1937. 1938. 
Disease. 

Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
nthrax aes BEd 5 —_— 2 _ 
hicken Pox. exe aaa 70 _ 63 _ 
iphtheria ... On Se 16 3 II 2 
Yysentery ... oe % 219 —_— 216 4 
‘Tysipelas... ‘ss oats 29 _ 22 _ 
nfluenza_... aoe ae 648 20 369 4 
leasles 30 Srey" we |‘ §38 7o 688 52 
rerman Measles _ _ 3 _— 
fumps 130 _ 153 _ 
‘erebro-Spinal Meningitis . | 12 8 10 5 
*neumonia ... z see. 156 30 164 22 
>uerperal Fever... te 10 I 10 4 
Relapsing Fever... is 9 —_— A 8 I 
Typhoid de ae ste 165 I 144 18 
?ara-Typhoid an see 43 2 29 I 
Cyphus ry wa on 14 I Ir I 
Whooping Cough oe ae 350 6 481 2 
Malta Fever . I _ I _— 
Acute polyarticular R Rheuma- L 

tism oh 45 1 18 cn 
Malaria oe hae na 2,791 4 2,212 I 
Leishmaniasis Jee see 12 _ 4 _ 
Leprosy oat ae bee — —:; I _ 
Tetanus oes 2 1 3 3 
Pulmonary and Non-Pul- 

monary Tuberculosis... 624 33 482 32 
Venereal Diseases... ts 600 8 639 3 
Hydrophobia ce 3 3 _ - 
Bilharzia oD ie Sa 5 _— I _ 
Scurvy Bee ete on 10 _ 5 _ 
Cancer oo on ac _ _ 4 I 

















The Department of Health maintains ejght-bedded posts 
at Irbid, Amman, Kerak and Ma’an, and four-bedded posts at 
Jerash, ‘Tafileh and Aqaba, for infectious and communicable 
diseases. A mobile epidemic unit of 40 beds is also maintained. 

During the year 95,803 articles or bundles and 1,569 houses 

were disinfected, compared with 110,223 and 1,880 respectively 
in 1937. 

Vaccination against Small-pox. 

6. The number of vaccinations against small-pox carried out 
by the Department in 1938 was 30,914, compared with 22,350 
in 1937- 

Malaria and Anti-Malarial Measures. 

7. New cases of malaria reported during the year numbered 
2,212, with one death, compared with 2,791 cases with four 
deaths in 1937,;°2,79I cases with 17 deaths in 1936, and 5,435 
cases with eight deaths in 1935. 


372 


The main sources of infection are the Jordan Valley and the 
Asraq marches. 

Out of a total of 55,171 new cases treated at Government 
clinics during the year, 2 per cent. were diagnosed as malaria, 
compared with 3 per cent. in 1937 and 4 per cent. in 1936. At 
voluntary clinics, out of a total of 17,973 new cases, 6 per cent. 
were diagnosed as malaria compared with 7-1 per cent. in 1937 
and 7-8 per cent. in 1936. 

The above figures indicate that the incidence of malaria is 
higher among voluntary clinic patients; but diagnosis at non- 
Government clinics is based more on clinical and less on 
microscopic examination than at Government clinics, and con- 
sequently numbers of cases of unknown fevers are diagnosed 
as malaria in the former. 

During the year the Department used on the free treatment 
of malaria 21,800 tablets of Plasmochin, 21,950 tablets of 
Atebrin, 111,074 tablets of Quinine and 40 kilogrammes of 
Quinine Salts. 

The Medical Officers of Health examined 10,033 children 
throughout the country with the object of determining the spleen 
rate, the calculation of which during recent years was as 
follows: — 


Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
1926... 25°3 193t ... 5°8 1936... 10:0 
1927... 19'0 1932... 45 1937. --- I0°4 
1928... 14°9 1933. « —3°7 1938 ... 5:0 
1929... = 9°5 1934 -.  4°5 
1930... 6:6 1935... I5'O 


Anti-malarial measures were carried out throughout Trans- 
Jordan on normal lines. In the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 
camps at Zergqa and Jisr el Majamie, anti-malarial work was 
carried out as in previous years in co-operation with the health 
authorities of that Force. 


Anti-rabic Measures. 

8. No cases of hydrophobia in humans were reported during 
the year. Twelve persons, bitten by animals suspected to be 
suffering from rabies, were treated at the Department’s centres 
with prophylactic anti-rabic vaccine treatment. 


Government Hospitals. 

g. The Department maintained the twenty-bed hospital at 
Amman, the twelve-bed hospital at Irbid, and the six-bed 
hospital at the Central Jail, Amman. 

The number of admissions to, and deaths in, Government 
hospitals were 947 and 56 respectively in 1938; compared with 
933 and 51 in the previous year. 


373 


Voluntary Hospitals. 


1o. The construction of the new thirty-bed hospital of the 
Church Missionary Society at Es Salt was completed and opened 
early in 1938. 


A new hospital is in the course of construction at Ajlun by 
Dr. C. F. MacLean, an independent Missionary. 


The admissions to voluntary hospitals during the last two years 
were as follows: — 





Number of Deaths in 
Admissions. Hospitals. 





1938. 1937. 1938. 1937. 








The Church Missionary Society 








Hospital, Es Salt a 705 480 26 28 
The English Hospital, Amman . _— 125 _ 8 
The Italian Hospital, Amman ... 846 754 36 35 
The Italian Hospital, Kerak... 567 469 9 10 





Government Clinics. 


11. There was again a considerable increase in 1938, in the 
number of attendances at the Department’s clinics the total being 
250,708 compared with 220,452 1n 1937. 


New cases at these clinics were 55,171, classified as follows: — 
1,117 malaria, 10,327 eye diseases, and 43,727 other diseases. 


Voluntary Clinics. 
12. The number of attendances at voluntary clinics was 
43,026 compared with 30,641 in 1937. Their distribution was 
as follows:— 


Number of 

Attendances. 
The Church Missionary Society Hospital cine Es Salt . 9,541 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Kerak 2 8,717 
The Italian Hospital Clinic, Amman aa — s35 13,719 
Dr. MacLean’s Clinic, Ajlun.. 6,285 


The Palestine Electric Corporation’ s Clinic, Jisr el “Majamie 4,764 





Total... sie aan 43,026 





Licensing of Medical Practitioners, Dentists, Pharmacists 
and Midwives. 


13. During the year licences were issued to nine medical prac- 
titioners, one dentist, two pharmacists and three midwives. 


15774 N 


374 


The number and distribution of licensed members of these 
professions at the end of 1938 was as follows: — 


Medical Pharma- = Mid- 
Practitioners Dentists. cists. wives. 
Amman ... oh aes 10 4 4 3 
Es Salt 3 I 1 
Kerak 4 I _ I 
Irbid 3 = = 1 
Ma‘an — —_ _— I 
Jerash I _— _ — 
Ajlun I _— —_ — 
Madaba _— — _ 1 
Zerqa_ ss... bos ae _— _— _— 1 
Iraq Petroleum Company, 
Mafraq, H-4, and H-5 I _— —_ _— 
Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion, Jisr el Majamie ... I _ —_ — 
Total ae 24 6 5 9 


Government Laboratory. 


14. The number of specimens examined during the year was 
6,253 compared with 5,181 in 1937. 


School Medical Service. 

15. The Medical Officers of Health carried out a medical ex- 
amination of 8,262 school children compared with 7,095 in 
1937. Of this number 27 per cent. were found to be suffering 
from trachoma, compared with 28 per cent. in 1937, and 1-6 per 
cent. had enlarged spleens, compared with 3-4 per cent. in the 
previous year. 

The number of children vaccinated or re-vaccinated against 
small-pox was 3,941 compared with 1,564 in 1937. 

The total number of attendances at the school ophthalmic 
clinics was 385,424 compared with 353,460 attendances in the 
previous year. 


Maternity and Infant Welfare. 


16. Four qualified midwives, one for each of the munici- 
palities of Irbid, Ma’an, Kerak and Madaba were maintained 
during the year. At Zerka a midwife was maintained for a 

art of the year, later this work was entrusted to the nurse of the 

rans-Jordan Frontier Force camp. 


There are Infant Welfare Centres at Amman and Zerqa. The 
number of new cases registered during the year was 172 com- 
pared with 129 cases in 1937, and the number of attendances 
was 11,004 compared with 8,767 in the previous year. The 
number of visits to the homes of children by the nurse was 2,424 
compared with 2,465 in 1937. 


375 


Medical Treatment of Civilians at Zerqa Camp. 


17. A small Child Welfare Clinic, originally intended for the 
families of members of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force was 
expanded by the Medical Officer of the Force to include civilians 
and in 1930, a suitable building was converted for use, and a 
nurse, fully qualified in midwifery and child welfare work, was 
employed. ; 

During 1938 attendances numbered 2,080, and 1,776 visits 
were made by the nurse to the homes of children. This most 
valuable work is carried out at no charge to the Department of 
Health. 

A small new Centre was opened at Jerash towards the end of 
the year by an independent charitable worker. The Depart- 
ment assists the institution with free drugs and dressings, and 
the Medical Officer of Health at Jerash is the consulting 
physician. 


Medico-legal Examinations. 


18. Practically all medico-legal examinations are carried out 
by the Medical Officers of Health. The number of examinations 
made during the year was 3,949 compared with 4,152 in 1937 
and 3,934 in 1936. Of this number 114 were post-mortem 
examinations compared with 96 in 1937 and 97 in 1936. 


Desert Mobile Medical Unit. 


1g. The results of the first complete year of work of this 
Unit, which first began operations in the early summer of 1937, 
indicate that it is serving a very valuable purpose among the 
nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. It adequately satisfies the 
need for which it was established, and there is no present inten- 
tion of forming other similar units. 

During the year clinics were maintained at Zizia, Azraq, 
Muaqgqar, Nejil, Al Jaffer, Sadaqga and Mudawara. Experience 
showed the desirability of obtaining permanent accommodation 
for the clinics at Zizia and Al Jaffer. 

The total number of attendances was 14,672; new cases were 
7,832, including tuberculosis 38, malaria 96, eye diseases 2,263 
and other diseases 5,435. 

The Medical Officer of the unit was also in medical charge of 
the outposts of the Desert Police. 


Ophthalmic Clinic Service. 

20. The Department continued as in previous years to give free 
treatment for all ophthalmic cases. The campaign against these 
diseases continued to be extensive and effective. Considerable 
number of cases are treated every year at the Department’s 
clinics and at school ophthalmic clinics besides the distribution 


15774 Nz 


376 
of eye drops in villages and Bedouin camps. The number of 
new cases of eye disease examined and treated at public health 
department clinics (excluding school clinics), was 10,327 com- 
pared with 12,913 in 1937 and 9,652 in 1936. The number at 
voluntary clinics was 2,552 compared with 2,379 in 1937 and 
1,780 in 1936. 

The attendances at school ophthalmic clinics numbered 
385,424 compared with 353,460 in 1937 and 308,090 in 1936. 

21. The Department continued to be in charge of all medical 
and health services pertaining to the Arab Legion, including the 
Desert Police. The health of the force has generally been very 
good. All men have been vaccinated against small-pox and 
inoculated against typhoid. 


22. The prison medical service has also continued under the 
charge of he Department of Health. The health of prisoners 
has been generally good, and all have been vaccinated against 
small-pox and iocalited against typhoid. 


Railway Medical Service. 


23. The Trans-Jordan section of the Hejaz Railway remained 
as in previous years under the care of the Department of Health. 


Unhealthy Trades and Public Establishments. 


24. The Department carried out the control and licensing of 
all unhealthy trades and public establishments. 

The number of licences issued or renewed during the year was 
1,502 within municipal areas and 1,119 outside municipal areas, 
as compared with 1,282 and 938 respectively in 1937. 

A new Law to regulate public establishments and dangerous 
and unhealthy trades and repealing former regulations was 
enacted and came into force on the rst April. 


Water Supplies. 


25. A water supply scheme for Es Salt, estimated to cost 
4P.4,000, of which £P.2,500 is to be provided by loan, has been 
approved and will be put in hand early in 1939. 

Minor improvements of water supplies were completed at 
Madaba, Irbid, Jerash and Deir Abu Said. The water supply 
scheme for Mahis was completed. 

_ Improvements have also been carried out at a number of exist- 
ing wells and cisterns in the desert area. 

_ Pumped water supplies of a properly organized nature exist 
in the municipal areas of Annam, Irbid, Kerak and Madaba. 


377 


Municipal Sanitation. 


26. The municipal sanitary services continued to be adminis- 
tered by District Medical Officers, and were satisfactorily carried 
out. There are 13 municipal Sanitary Sub-Inspectors who are 
paid by municipalities but work directly under the Public Health 
Department. 


The Moniipel Advisory Board, consisting of one representa- 
tive from each of the Departments of Health, Finance, Public 
Works and General Administration, continued as in previous 
years to advise on municipal estimates and other municipal 
matters. : 


Quarantine Service. 


27. The quarantine station at Ma’an with a sub-station at 
Mudawara, were opened during the pilgrimage season. The 
pilgrims who proceeded to the Hejaz from Trans-Jordan by the 
southern land routes numbered 356 and those returning 693. 


All pilgrims before their departure to the Hejaz are vaccinated 
against small-pox and cholera by Medical Officers of Health. 
Twenty-eight pilgrims travelled to the Hejaz via Palestine-Suez, 
to whom the Department issued special Sea ea booklets 
and return railway tickets, after vaccination had been per- 
formed. 

Haifa-Baghdad Road Service. 

28. The Department of Health undertook the medical charge 
of the construction camps and labour parties on this road as 
far as the ‘Iraq frontier. Additional staff, including one 
Medical Officer, three Medical Orderlies and one Ambulance 
Driver were employed for this purpose in a special unit which 
began operations in July. 

The general health in the construction camps was excellent. 


Two detention hospitals, of four beds each, were provided, at 
Mafraq and H.4 respectively. 

Attendances at clinics were 4,652; 109 of which were chronic 
malaria and 259 were eye diseases. There was one serious 
accident, in which a labourer was killed by the explosion of a 
blasting charge. 


XV.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


Revenue and Expenditure, 1924-5 to 1937-8. 


The following statement sets out the annual totals of Revenue 
{including all grants from His Majesty’s Government) and Ex- 
penditure (including that covered by specific grants) from the 


378 


ist April, 1924, the date of institution of the existing form of 


financial control, to the 31st March, 1938:— 


Financial Year. Revenue. 
£P. 

Surplus balance at the ant March, 1974 23,958 
1924-25 280,673 
1925-26... foo se ae 282,459 
1926-27... ide oes ae 302,520 
1927-28 ... tis wo oes 282,073 
1928-29 ... eae mes a 307,555 
1929-30... ave ce as 316,147 
1930-31... ae ore Soy 367,516 
1931-32... oe sie os 338,046 
1932-33 --- sd xe See 354,888 
1933-34 «+ BSS ae ace 381,412 
1934-35. Gas ee a 377.517 
1935-36 ... aa ry ea, 395,630 
1936-37... ae ase oe 418,650 
1937-38 459,150 


Surplus balance at the 3ist March, 1938 —_— 


£P.4,888,194 


Expenditure. 
£P. 
274,868 
274,573 
274,920 
318,260 
318,950 
338,461 
350,532 
344,983 
340,883, 
374,769 
369,395 
381,300 
435,039 
462,710 
28,551 


4,888,194 





Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure under Heads during 


the last four years are given in the following tables: — 








2. Summary of Revenue for the Financial Years 1934-35 to 
1937-38.(a) 

Head of Revenue. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 1937-38. 
Customs and Excise ... vs 98,627 104,567 133,884 125,351 (6) 
Licences and Taxes ... see 113,057 140,637 89,121 149,397(c) 
Court Fees and Office Receipts 32,812 37,026 _ 36,462 42,416(d) 
Posts and Telegraph Dept. ... 12,982 13,798 15,222 16,715(e) 
Revenue from Government 

Property... a vee 3,198 7:184(f) 1,659(f) —4,357(f) 
Interest asa we ont 1,523 827 382 1,017 
Miscellaneous ... we 11,935 7.198 9.435 14,342(g) 
Sale of State Domains. fe 2,124 2,610 1,975 4,565(A) 

Total Local Revenue £P.276,258 313,847 288,140 358,160 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 60,000 42,000 55,000 19,000(1) 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 

Frontier Force wee vs 31,959 31,611 31,534 31,335 
Grants from the Colonial 

Development Fund 9,300 8,172 12,904 14,532 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan 

for the Repayment of its 

Share of the Ottoman Public 

Debt.. = = 31,072(7) — 31,008() 
Grant to meet the Cost of the 

Hydrographic Survey of 

Trans- Jordan oe ase _ _ _ 5,115(A) 

Total Grants ... £P.101,259 81,783 130,510 110,990 

Total Revenue... £P.377,517 395,630 418,650 = 459,150 





379 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
page 173 of the Annual Report for 1931, those for the financial years 
1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on page 329 of the Annual Report for 1935. 

(0) The general improvement in the revenues of the Department of 
Customs and Excise is mainly due to the revision in 1933-34 of the Customs 
Agreement with Palestine whereby, with effect from the 1st October, 1932, 
Trans-Jordan was allowed to retain the duties on all imports in transit via 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan’s share of the import duties collected in 
Palestine was reduced to {P.17,000 per annum. This share was increased 
by £P.8,000 to £P.25,000 in 1936-37 on the basis of statistics taken of 
foreign goods re-exported from Palestine to Trans-Jordan. Another cause 
of the improvement in 1936-37 was the increased trade with Palestine 
during the Arab strike in that country. The drop in 1937-38 partly reflects 
the reversion of trade with Palestine to conditions approaching the normal. 


(c) and (hk) The fluctuation in revenue from Licences and Taxes and 
from the sale of State Domains during the four years under review coincides 
with the yield of the respective harvests and, inversely, with the amount 
of remissions (from taxation) granted. 


(da) The improvement in revenue from Fees of Court or Office is mainly 
due to increased receipts from (a) Court Fees (b) Land Registry and Land 
Settlement Fees (c) Veterinary and Animal Quarantine Fees (d) Pension 
Contributions (¢) Miscellaneous Reimbursements (f) Passport Fees, and (g) 
Nationality Certificates. 

(e) The steady increase in the revenues of the Posts and Telegraph 
Department indicates a continuance of the increasing use of the various 
branches of the service which is being made by members of the public. 


(f) Include not only the rent paid by the tenants of State Lands but 
also the taxes assessed on such lands which in previous years were credited 
to Head II, Licences and Taxes. 

The drop in 1936-37 resulted mainly from the bad agricultural season 
of that year. 


(g) Is accounted for mainly by increased receipts from Trans-Jordan’s 
share in the profits of the Palestine Currency. 


(i) The Grant-in-Aid of the Trans-Jordan Administration in 1935-36, 
which had been approved by His Majesty’s Government at the figure of 
£P.60,000, was short issued by the sum of £P.18,o00 in consideration of 
the improvement in the situation of the Administration in that year. 
The situation in 1937-38 was even better and resulted in the reduction of 
that year’s grant from £P.63,000 to £P.19,000. 

(j) Represents payments’ made by His Majesty’s Government by way of 

ts towards the liquidation of Trans-Jordan’s share of the Ottoman 
Public Debt. 


(k) See Note (0) at the end of paragraph 3. 


380 
3. Summary of Expenditure for the Financial Years 1934-35 


to 1937-38.(a) 
Head of Expenditure. 1934-35. 1935-36. 1936-37. 1937-38. 


Ordinary. £P. £P £P. £P. 
Civil List... see 14,534 15,329 15,706 15,142 
Public Debt and Loan 
Charges ... ay: + 1,340 1,148 241 646 
Legislature ... as 1,986 (6) 3, a9 3,722 3,705 
Pensions and Gratuities we 9,479 11,064 (c) 11,941(¢) 11,589 (c) 
Chief Minister and Interior 3,753 3,899 4,132 4,688 
District Administration ... 10,035 9,667 9,786 10,152 
Ministry of Justice vee 15,827 16,047 15,497 16,691 
Sharia Courts hee ve 3,869 3,901 3,815 3,884 
Ministry of Finance 11,032 11,256 11,138 11,225 
Customs,Trade and Industry 7,543 > 7,569 8,232 10,810 (@) 
Public Health Department 12,762 13,763 15,212 15,186 
* Desert Medical Mobile Unit — — _ 2,275 (e) 
Education Department ... 23,324 24,207 23,373 24,232 
Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary Department... 7,151 TAIL 8,506 9,633 
Antiquities Department ... 2,500 2,558 2,389 2,676 
Public Works Department 4,584 4,637 4,691 4.959 
Public Works, Recurrent... 18,918 23,308 20,285 . 23,327(f') 
Posts and Telegraphs ses 13,903 13,661 16,094 15,163 
Department of Lands and 
Surveys ... 13,509 15,617 (g) —-15,723(g) 17,661 (g) 
Police and Prisons ‘Depart: 
ment :— 
(a) Police ave see 99,721 101,998 108,394(h) 107,737 
(0) Prisons... 11,549 11,004 10,707 11,080 
(c) Supplementary Re- 
serve Force ed — 4,603 (t) _ 
Miscellaneous a vee 9,560 9,682 8,729 8,791 
Audit Department .. wee 3,253 3,672 3,878 4,005 
Tribal Court of Appeal 3 766 181 760 830 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force 27,527 28,531 29,876 29,197 
Total Ordinary 
Expenditure £P.328,425 343,809 357,430 365,284 
Extraordinary. 
Public Works Department 8,567 19,796(j) 16,072(j) 22,967(7) 
Ministry of Finance vee 1,987 453 _ 8,775 
Posts and Telegraphs ... 2,818 6,906 (k) — 2,962 
Public Health Department 252 225 —_ 189 
Police and Prisons . 3 —_ 2,571 1,254 10,419 (f) 
Agriculture, Forests and 
Veterinary wee 289 — —_ _ 
His Highness the Amir ses 2,957(m) _— —_ 2,000 (m) 
Relief Measures... see 14,824 (2) 150 19,145(n) 997 
Antiquities Department ... — _ _ 824 


Schemes financed by the 
Colonial Development 





Fund oa - 4,844 4,311 8,405 10,032 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force 4,432 3,079 1,658 2,138 
The Hydrographic Survey of : 

Trans-Jordan... 5,114 (0) 
Trans-Jordan’s Share of the 

Ottoman Public Debt .... — — 31,072 (p) 31,009 (p) 


Total Extraordinary 
Expenditure £P.40,970 37,491 77,610 97,426 


Total Expenditure £P.369,395 381,300 435,040 462,710 





381 


(a) The figures for the financial years 1924-25 to 1930-31 are shown on 
pages 174 and 175 of the Annual Report for 1931; those for the financial 
years 1931-32 to 1934-35 are shown on pages 330 and 331 of the Annual 
Report for 1935. 

(6) The smaller expenditure on the Legislature in 1934-35 was principally 
due to a seven months’ interval which preceded the election of the Legis- 
lative Council, during which no commitments were incurred in respect of 
the salaries of members. 


(c) The increase in expenditure on Pensions and Gratuities arises from 
increased commitments under the Pensions Laws in force. 


(d) The increase in expenditure under the Customs, Trade and Industry 
is accounted for mainly by refunds and drawbacks, previously treated as 
in reduction of revenue. 


(e) The Desert Medical Mobile Unit was newly established for work 
among the Bedu during the latter half of 1936-37 at the joint expense of 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan. Palestine’s share of the cost is brought to 
account as a reimbursement under Revenue Head III ‘‘ Fees of Court or 
Office.’’ Expenditure in 1936-37 (£P.648) was debited to Head XI. 

(f) The increase in expenditure on Public Works Recurrent during 
1935-36 was mainly due to the heavy cost of repairs of damage to roads 
caused by floods during the months of February and March, 1935. The 
increase in 1937-38 was occasioned by the necessary expansion of services. 


(g) The increase in expenditure on the Department of Lands and Survey 
was due to expansion of the service mainly in connexion with land 
settlement. 


(%) The increase in expenditure on Police was mainly due to the enlist- 
ment of a Reserve Force of 115 men and to increased activities of the 
Department during the Palestine disturbances. 


(i) A Supplementary Reserve Force was formed during 1936-37 to deal 
with the situation arising from the Palestine disturbances. 


(j) The 1935-36 figure includes £P.8,500 the 1936-37 figure £P.4,495 and 
the 1937-38 figure £P.4,500 chargeable to the Colonial Development Fund. 

(k) Includes an abnormal item of {P.6,131 being Trans-Jordan’s share 
of the Haifa-Bagdad telephone circuit. 


(J) The heavy increase in 1937-38 results from the acquisition of a reserve 
of vehicles, spare parts, arms and ammunition, and other stores. 


(m) The 1934-35 figure represents an allotment to the Amir to meet 
the expenses of His Highness’s visit to the United Kingdom, and of the 
marriage of His Highness the Amir Talal. The 1937-38 figure represents 
an allotment made to meet His Highness’s visit to London to attend the 
coronation of His Majesty King George VI. 

(nm) Relief Measures on a large scale were necessitated in 1934-35 and 
in 1936-37 by the distress caused by crop failure in those two years. 

(0) Represents expenditure chargeable to a grant of £P.30,000 approved 
by His Majesty’s Government to meet the cost of an Hydrographic Survey 
of Trans-Jordan. 

(p) This expenditure was met by a grant made by His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment. See also note (j) of the Summary of Revenue. 


382 


4. Public Debt. 


At the 31st December, 1938, the Public Debt of Trans- Jordan 
was as follows: — 


(i) Balance of Agricultural Loan obtained from His er 's £P. 
Government on 30.3.37 9 «.. Se 3,500 


(ii) Trans-Jordan’s share of the Otiouian Public Debt : — 
Twenty half yearly payments 
of £15,504 6s. gd. each 
payable on the 31st May 
and the 30th November of 





each year. The first pay- £ s. d. 
ment fell due on the 31st 
May, 1936.. - 310,086 15 0 
Less: The first six payments 
already made es «+ 93,026 0 6 
Balance at the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1938 ... oss ... £217,060 14 6 
On conversion to Palestine £P. mils. 
Currency ... sae or 217,060°725 Or say 217,061 
Total ... wee rea ae eee £P.220,561 





Note.—The payments mentioned in (i) are being met as and when they 
fall due from grants by His Majesty’s Government. 


5. Comparative figures of Revenue and Expenditure for 
1937-38 and 1938-39. 


Forecast at 
Particulars. Actuals, Estimates, 31.12.38 
1937-38. 1938-39. for 1938-39. 
£P. £P. EP. 
A.—REVENUE. 
Local... wee eat eet 303 358,160 339,332 356,220 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan aA 19,000 90,000 0,000 
Grant-in-Aid of Erie eacs Frontier 
Force 31,335 33.397 33,397 
Grants from the Galonial Development 
Fund . oc 14,531 12,981 12,981 
Grant- in-Aid of ‘Tyand- jordan (Ott 
man Public Debt) ... ite 31,009 31,073 31,009 
Grant-in-Aid of Trans-Jordan’s Hydro. 
graphic Survey Fr 5,115 24,886 14,886 
Grant-in-Aid of Haifa- JBaaded Road.. = 200,000 200,000 
Revenue from Loans ... tes _ _ 4,300 4,113 











Totals ... w+. £P.459,150 735,969 742,606 








383 


Forecast at 
Particulars. Actuals, Estimates, 31.12.38 
1937-38. 1938-39. for 1938-39. 
B.—EXPENDITURE. £P. £P. £P. 


Trans- Jordan Administration, Ordinary 336,085 407,351 397,220 
Trans- Jordan Frontier Force, Ordinary 29,197 30,839 30,839 
Trans-Jordan Administration, Extra- 


ordinary os 49,135 258,472 248,350 
Trans- Jordan Frontier | Force, “Extra- 




















ordinary G ave Ses aes 2,138 2,558 2,558 
Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants 10,032 12,981 12,981 
nditure from Grants (Ottoman 
Public Debt) .. 31,009 31,073 31,009 
Loan Expenditure—Irrigation ‘Schemes _ 4,300 4,113 
Expenditure from Grants cyate. 
graphic Survey) ase . . 5,114 24,886 14,886 
Totals ... «» £P.462,710 772,460 741,956 
C—EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, 
AGRICULTURE, PuBiic HEALTH, 
Pusiic Works, RELIEF MEAs- 
URES, HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEY, 
IRRIGATION SCHEMES AND DE- 
VELOPMENT. 
Education, Ordinary ... bce ny 24,232 27,974 26,000 
Education, Extraordinary ... sie — 710 710 
Agriculture, Ordinary aon oe 9,633 7,338 6,800 
Public Health, Ordinary ry ae 17,461 18,901 18,300 
Public Health, Extraordinary _ Se 189 250 230 
Public Works, Ordinary on a8 4,959 7,685 7,000 
Public Works, Recurrent hive eis 23,327 24,065 24,000 
Public Works, Extraordingsy., as 22,967 241,972 232,000 
Relief Measures : As 997 _ _ 
Hydrographic Survey . 5.14 24,886 14,886 
Loan Expenditure—Irrigation Schemes _ 4,300 4,113 


Expenditure from Colonial Develop- 
ment Fund Grants— 
(a) Improvement of Water Supplies 75 475 475 
(6) Sinking Artesian bores in the 
Desert 


: 499 _ = 

(c) Seed Propagation 725 297 297 
(d) Land Settlement, Acceleration ‘of 4,777 5,000 5,000 
(e) Agricultural Experimental Station 2,660 1,129 1,129 
(f) Development ae 1,296 1,580 1,580 





Notes: (1) Expenditure on Public Works Extraordinary in the year 1937-38 
includes £P.4,500 chargeable to the Colonial Development 
Fund. The 1938-39 figure includes £P.4,500 chargeable to that 
Fund and £P.200,000 to the special grant provided by His 
Majesty’s Government for the purpose of the construction of 
the Haifa-Bagdad Road. 
(2) Loan Expenditure—(Irrigation Schemes) is provided for from a 
loan from the Colonial Development Fund. 


6. Comments on the Principal Variations in Revenue. 


(i) Local Revenue for 1938-39 is expected to fall short of the 
1937-38 figure by £P.1,940. The following table shows how this 
anticipated decrease is made up: — 


384 


Actual, Forecast, 


Head of Revenue. 1937-38. 1938-39. .Increase. Decrease. 
; £P. £. £. &. 

1.—Customs and Excise wee 125,351 130,620 5,269 _ 
2.—Licences and Taxes «e+ 149,397 141,430 — 7,967 
3.—Fees of Court of Office ... 42,416 46,500 4,084 
4.—Posts and  Telegraphs 

Department Per 16,715 18,180 1,465 —_ 
5.—Revenue from Govern- 

ment Property ... 4.357 4,000 _ 357 
6.—Interest ... ae bes 1,017 500 —_— 517 
7.—Miscellaneous ove aes 14,342 10,510 —_ 3,832 
8.—Sale of State Domains ... 4.565 4,200 _ 365 
8a.—Advances Recovered _— . 280 280 _ 











£P.358,160 , 356,220. 11,098 13,038 
Net Decrease ... _ 1,940 1,940 —_— 














£P.358,160 358,160 13,038 13,038 














(ii) The forecast of grants from the Colonial Development 
Fund for 1938-39 is £P.1,550 less than the total of such grants 
received in 1937-38. This is accounted for by the following 
variations : — 


Head and Sub-Head of Actuals, Forecast, 
Revenue. 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
XI.—Grants from the Colonial {£P. £P. £P. £P. 


Development Fund. 
Es Salt—Allenby Bridge Road 4,500 4,500 _ _— 
Improvement of Trans-Jordan 





Water Supplies ac a 75 475 400 _ 
Agricultural Experimental 
Station a3 ae ws 2,659 1,129 _ 1,530 
Seed Propagation Se ee 725 297 _— 428 
Sinking Artesian Bores in the 
Desert... ee af vie 499 —_ —_ 499 
Land Settlement oat cee 4,777 5,000 223 _— 
Development ... nes ar 1,296 1,580 284 _— 
14,531 12,981 907 2.457 


Net decrease 1,550 1,550 














£P 14,531 14,531 2,457 2,457 














(iii) A special grant of £P.30,000 was made by His 
Majesty’s Government to Trans-Jordan to meet the expenses of 
an Suliy pis Survey of the country. Receipts from this 
grant are determined by the cost of work actually carried out or 
expected to be completed in connection with the scheme in 
question. See also the corresponding item in the Comparative 
Statement of Expenditure at paragraph 5B. 

(iv) Grant-in-Aid of the Haifa-Bagdad Road. See Note (1) 
telating to the Extraordinary Expenditure of the Trans-Jordan 
Government at the end of paragraph 5C. 

(v) Revenue from Loans. See Note (2) relating to Expendi- 
ture on Irrigation Schemes at the end of paragraph 5C. 


7. Comments on Principal Variations in Expenditure. 
(i) The forecast of ordinary expenditure of the Trans-Jordan 
\Iministration shows an increase of £P.61,135 over the actual 
‘nary expenditure of 1937-38. This is made up as follows:— 


385 


Actuals, Forecast, 


Head of Expenditure. 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
1.—Civil List ie: ae ae Pe sk 
2.—Public Debt and Loan ‘Charges 646 320 _— 326(b) 
3-—Legislature ... ad 3,705 3,780 75° _— 
4-—Pensions and Gratuities os 11,589 15,000 3,411(c) _ 
5-—Chief Minister and Interior... 4,688 4,440 — 248 
6.—District Administration Sea 10,151 10,540 389 _ 
7-—Ministry of Justice ... as 16,690 18,500 1,810(d) _ 
8.—Sharia Courts.. av 3,884 4,400 516(e) _ 
9.—Ministry of Finance . 11,225 12,600 1,375(f) _— 

10.—Customs, Trade and Industry 10,810 12,600 1,790(g) - 
11.—Public Health Department .. 15,186 15,800 614(h) — 
11a.—Desert Medical Mobile Unit "2,275 2,500 225 —_ 
12.—Education ais 24,232 26,000 1,768(3) _ 


13- = agricaltnre, Forests. and 


























9,633 6,800 — 2,833(9) 

Iga. ma eal ‘Recurrent _ 200 200(k) _— 

14.— Antiquities Department... 2,676 2,590 _ 86 

15.—Public Works Department ... 4,959 6,850 1,891(I) —_ 

15A.—Public Works Recurrent ... 23,327. 24,000 673 _— 
16.—Posts and Telegraphs Depart- 

ment.. es oe 15,163 18,150 2,987(m) _ 

17.—Lands Department By at 17,661 24,700 7,039(”) — 

18.—Police and Prisons Deve —_ 

(a) Police... : +s 107,737 120,210 12,473(0) _ 

(6) Prisons ... os 11,080 11,200 120 _ 

(c) Supplementary “Reserve _ 21,000 21,000(p) _ 

19.—Miscellaneous .. mh ioe 8,791 9,000 “209 _— 

20.—Audit Department ak ees 4,005 4,030 25 _ 

21.—Tribal Court of Appeal ses 830 g10 80 _ 
21a.—Advances Other Than Tem- 

y porary ae ae are _ 4,300 4,300(q) —_ 

£P.336,085 397,220 64,628 3,493 

Net Increase ... aes 61,135 —_ _ 61,135 

Total ave $P.397,220 397,220 64,628 64,628 














(a) Is mainly due to a temporary increase in the allotment of His 

ess the Amir. 

(6) Results from the reduction by repayment of the balance outstanding 
on the loan of {P.11,500 obtained from His Majesty’s Government on the 
3oth March, 1937, for the Agricultural Bank of Trans-Jordan. 

(c) Is due to increased commitment under the Pensions Laws in force. 

(@), (2), (g), (4), (4), (J) and (m). These increases are largely due to 
expansion in the relevant services. 

(f) Is accounted for mainly by increased expenditure on ‘‘ revenue 
refunds.’’ Such refunds were previously treated as in reduction of 
revenue. 

(j) Is mainly due to the transfer of the Forests Section of the Depart- 
ment to the Department of Lands and Surveys and of the Inspector of 
School Gardens to the Education Department. 

(k) Was previously paid from Head XIII. 

(m) Is accounted for by expansion of the service and by increased 

nditure necessitated by the purchase of a reserve of stores. 

(o) and (p) The increased expenditure was necessitated by the situation 
in Palestine. 

(q) Advances other than temporary were in previous years charged to 
suspense. Such advances are now to be paid from voted moneys and when 
recovered are to be credited to revenue, in order to preserve to the legis- 
lature full control of the disposal of Government funds. 


386 


(ii) The following is a forecast of the extraordinary expendi- 
ture of the Trans-Jordan Government for the financial year 
1938-39 as compared with the actual figures for 1937-38. 


Actuals, Forecast, 
Head of Expenditure. 1937-38. 1938-39. Increase. Decrease. 
P. £. B. £P. 
23. Public Works Extraordinary 22,967 232,000 209,033 _ 
24. Police and Prisons Extra- 


ordinary + 10,419 9,000 — 1,419 
25. Antiquities Extraordinary | 824 850 26 —_ 
26. Education Extraordinary .. —_ 710 7to _ 
27. Posts and Telegraphs Extra- 
ordinary... 2,962 1,450 _ 1,512 
28. Customs, Trade and Industry 
Extraordinary _— 200 200 _ 
29. Development (Water Boring) _ 1,800 1,800 _— 
33. Relief Measures 2 997 _— _— 997 
34. Public Health Extraordinary 189 230 41 —_— 
35- Ministry of Finance Extra- 
ordinary » 8,775 1,410 _— 7.365 
H.H. The Amir. % 2,000 —_ — 2,000 


Expenses of His Highness’s 
delegate to the London 
Conference on Palestine ... _ 700 700 —_ 











£P 49.133 248,350 © 213,510 13,293 


Note.—In connexion with the expenditure on Public Works Extra- 
ordinary see Note (1) at the end of paragraph 5C. 





8. Financial Position of the Trans-Jordan Government at the 
31st March, 1938. 


Liabilities. Assets. 
£P. mils. £P. mils. 
Deposits bes ses -14,723.829 Advances... ses 12,575,024 
Imprests_... «+ 6,719.056 
Excess of Assets over Remittance ... ose 163.6907 
Liabilities (Surplus Cash and Bank 
Balance) bt vs 28,550,812 Balances ... «+ 24,816,864 
£P. 51,274.64? EP. 51,274-641 


9. Revenue Collection. 


The collection of current taxation from the 1st January to the 
31st December, 1938, amounted to £P.120,640. Relative col- 
lections during previous calendar years were as follows: — 


£P. 
I193I_ ... ane a8 oe i 2 oy aoe 99,961 
1932... tas ee oss arr ae vs 101,073 
1933 -:- Pre = ees ave _ aa 84,611 
1934... ee aes de ae ne a 89,872 
1935... ae 3 on bay eae «121,985 
1936... aes Re on fee aah ise 81,352 


1937. «-- Ban fe ale os ane oe 129,163 


387 
Curtent taxation remitted on account of crop failure during 


recent years in accordance with the revised system described on 
page 379 of the Annual Report tor 1936 was as follows: — 


LP. 
1931 a5 i oe So ahs 12,468 
1932 oe aa ea Poe ae 8,397 
1933 ie a dee os Bee 14,726 
1934 RS: wai aes See ute 19,155 
1935 oats ute ae wes ee 13,776 
1936 - ane wae eee wee Bs 51,949 
1937 as ee ane ed nae 7,681 
1938 hes 3 Are 5 ae 16,133 (recommended) 


Io. Arrears of Taxes. 


Collection of arrears of taxes from the 1st January to the 
31st December, 1938, amounted to £P.2,400. Relative collec- 
tions during previous calendar years were as follows: — 


. £P. 
1931 vas Gas wea 3 ono 3,841 
1932 owe ots Bas fe 3% 5+230 
1933 Sa 5 an a ate 4,021 
1934 we ee we a ae 3.757 
1935 os ote oe ae =o 9,671 
1936 ie on aut de ot 2,730 
1937 sis Fie: a ts ee 4,947 


The amount of arrears authorised or recommended to be 
written of in accordance with the procedure outlined on page 
337 of the Annual Report for 1935 were as follows: — 


Year of Assessment. £P. 
1924-25 to 1930-31 ve; ot Se 63,42 
1931-32 eee brat aie bas on 7,789 
1932-33 anh ais oh ee zis 13,500 
1933-34 ake Pe sae ei 14,227 
1934-35 ene oh ‘ eas _ 8,865 
1935-36 a te i ts Soe 3,281 (recommended) 


11. Revenue Reform. 


The decennial re-assessment of the gross value of taxable lands 
and buildings within the Municipal area of Amman, under 
article 25 of the House and Tax Law, 1926, was completed 
during the year under review. 


12. Trade, Public Finance, and Population. 

A statistical table relating to Trade, Public Finance and Popu- 
lation is appended. In accordance with the request of the Per- 
manent Mandates Commission at its thirty-fourth session 
(Minutes, page 30), the table has been expanded so as to include 
information relating to the calendar year 1931 and to the finan- 
cial year 1931-32. 


*g£6r seak rBpualed oY} 03 JOIId potsad oy} 10} O|QUITeAY 2OU OLB S9I1;819878 OIQUTTOY (9) 
‘r80K 78q} Ul OpBur AOAING OAT BIIETU}WPS [NjorE. w UO Poseq sf gEOI JO; UMOYs ain3y oy} ‘ UeHe? U99q JoAO SEY sNsUsD ON (D) 






































== == = _ -_ _ _ _ 66E'zL¥ | 6Lr‘g0€'1) ooo'ook +8 a “ g€6r 
wSe'1S | 19b'Zr | E£9'6 1Ez'bz og1'gsé €@x6‘001 | 000'g gt-LE61 | ggG6‘orS | ogz‘bSo'r| _ “te sre s+ LE6r 
Lyo'1y | ziz‘S1 | goS'g €LE‘Ez obr'ggz orS‘ofr | Lo6'er LE-g£61 | OLE'gzz | So€f‘SE6 _ Ess ors  g€6r 
IvLidy | 6g6'Er | r1b‘Z Loz‘oz Log€r€ | €glirg | o1g'h g€-SE6r - _ _ oT see te SE6r 
olo'z€ | bro'€r | 6Eb'L bez gSz'glz oSz'ror | glg‘of S€-vE61 _ - _ SF pi + pE6r 
err'z€é | grr'zr | SLo'g gzo'ez LoS'19z $06‘61r | bgr‘o€ vE-€€61 - _ _ oe oh o €€6r 
g6S'zE | o96'11 | 6LH'S gge‘zz 6bL'ESz 6€1‘101 | oo0‘or €€-z€61 _ _— _ ose oe o 2e6r 
SOE'EE | z6z'1r | 121'9 veliiz z206'zzz bor'Str | ooo'z1 z€-1€61 —_ _ _ Sse pee oe 1€6r 
‘dF ‘dF ‘dF ‘dF ‘at ‘at ‘at ‘dF ‘dF 
‘sysom | ‘ynvezy | -sangyna “uot aoinoe soaa ‘sooupapy 
Ey 8 445) -D9N; 0 
"and | Nand | -May Pr | 5 | -aancaes Rents 
7 unyt “HON 403 X 
49430 posouvusy | “St4odxq | ‘sysoduy (») 
most “ayDMsIST 
uo yusds stunowp onusnay "S9IANOS [OULIXT wots 77k, ADpusted 
moss anusnoy -ondog 
‘soupusy 9Qng (Q) ‘eps 











(‘seayomeops3y osvnbs 000'06 Ajozpusxosddy : 0947) 


“NVvauof[-SNVUL 


389 


XVI.—CUSTOMS, EXCISE AND TRADE. 
Customs. 
: Imports. 

1. The total value of commercial imports cleared for home 
comsumption during the year 1938 was “788,714 compared 
with £P.934,211 for 1937 and £P.794,959 for 1936. 

Direct importations by parties enjoying exemption from 
customs duties, which are not included above, were as follows: — 





(1) Iraq Petroleum Company— £P. 

(a) From Palestine oes a one nae 48,077 

(db) From Iraq on oe aes oe 5,131 

(2) Palestine Electric Cosporation ... ie ive 5,983 
(3) Commanders, Royal Engineers (Haifa-Baghdad 

Road) be or ae aed she 23.153 

(4) Privileged Persons ... one vee ie + 202,883 

(5) Items on free List ... faz abs set see: 232,238 

Total... ss 517,465 





The increase above the figures in the previous year was due in 
part to larger imports by the Royal Air Force, and in part to 
sums under item (5) in respect of camels, sheep an goats 

ssing through the new customs post at Station 4 on the ‘Iraq 

etroleam Company’s pipe-line and of Maria Theresa dollars 
brought in for re-export to Saudi Arabia. 


Principal _Imports—The recorded value of the principal 
commodities imported from all countries for home consumption 
are shown in table ‘‘ A ’’. 


Specie.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 
imported during the year under review, with comparative figures 
for the previous three years was:— 

1935- 1936. 1937. 1938 
£P. £P. &P. £P. 


Silver coin wee Ne =} hoe 7 f Ae 
Maria Theresa ... 4,847 4,53 77,23 


Other metal coins 


Currency notes ... 4,000 — 18,800 





600 
£P. 600 8,847 4,530 96,032 





* Imported for dealing with Nejd merchants. 
15774 oO 


390 
Exports and Re-exports. 


2. The value of known commercial land exports and re- 
exports: (excluding goods passing through Trans-Jordan in 
transit and specie) were as follows: — 











Exports. Re-exports. 

: i A ee, : 
oy: -.1938. 1937. 1936. 1938. 1937. 1936. 
ee &P. | $P. £P. £P. £P. £P. - 
Exports to Palestine 444,523 404,107 198,215 77,597 12,239 2,678 
Exports to Syria’ 27,677 106,861 29,781 11,967 92,173 -564 

Exports to Iraq -..»- .. 199: — 380 ari 28 _— 

Exports to Nejd ... _— _— _ 2,770 420 = 1,873 
Totals £P. 472,399 -.510,968 228,376 92,545 14,860 5,115 





Specie.—The value, in Palestine pounds, of declared specie 





exported during the year under review, with comparative 
figures for the previous three years was: — é 
1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 
Gold coin ... Nil Nil Nil Nil 
Silver coin ... 21,700 27,000 45,800 30,000 
Other metal coins... 1,200 700 4,320 1,710 
Currency notes 90,050 154,850 160,355 168,500 
Totals £P. - 112,950 182,550 210,475 201,110 





Principal Articles Exported.—The recorded values and quan- 
tities of the principal commodities exported from Trans-Jordan 
during the year 1938 weré as follows : — 


Quantity Value. 
1938. 1938. 
Item. Nos. £P. 
Sheep 28,602 25,010 
Goats 7,769 5,000 
Cattle 679 2,673 
Y Kilogrammes 
Samneh one 109,794 12,356 
Fresh vegetables ... 2,853,317 11,291 
Kersenneh peas 1,188,401 8,320 
Fresh fruit 1,557:045 15,656 
Raisins aid 354,817 4,652 
Grapes Lae ae 1,213,795 4,007 
Wheat 32,619,405 324,103 
Barley 4,015,106 20,473 
Durra 4c8 842,252 4,501 
Dyed goods 28,575 4.312 
Wool 5 33-157 1,149 
Men’s wear 9,878 1,503 
Head gear ... 12,900 2,852 
(Keftiyeh) 


Palestine provided an excellent market for Trans-Jordan 
wheat. The demand was constant and good prices ruled. 


391 
Transit Trade. 


3- The value of goods removed through Trans-Jordan in 
transit during the year under review and the three previous years 
were as follows: — 


£P. £P. 

(a) From 'Iraq to Palestine ... 365,920 390,321 243,123 407,262 
From Palestine to ’Iraq_ ..._ 161,338 313,465 193,886 280,728 

(0) From Nejd to Syria * 
From Syria to Nejd * Rot ate it es 
. . : No official landings These Companies 
(¢) vie Ar routes by Bs ater fly across Trans-Jordan but do not 
Misr ae een). a provide any service for Trans-Jordan 


goods or passengers. 
(@) Via ’Iraq Petroleum Com™ 5 
pany’s Pipeline, ‘Iraq to 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 
£P. P. 





Palestine :— 
1938. 1937. 1936. 
Quantity of crude 
oil-tons wie 2,036,067 2,024,115 1,922,498 
Value... we £P.1,628,854 1,619,292 1,537,998 


(Arbitrary value at 16 shillings per ton of crude oil.) 


The principal goods carried by road in transit through Trans- 
Jordan are:—from ‘Iraq to Palestine, carpets, lambskins, cas- 
ings, gums (for Europe and America), poultry, ghee, fish, eggs, 
dates (for Palestine). From Palestine to ‘Iraq, cased goods of 
foreign manufacture including hardware, wearing apparel, and 
medicines. ; 

The Baghdad firm of Haim Nathaniel, with branches in Pales- 
tine, operated a bi-weekly goods service between Jerusalem: 
Haifa and Baghdad and vice versa during the year. 

Mails were also carried by this firm. 


Rest houses have been provided for the use of travellers at 
Mafrak and at the desert Stations H.5 and H.4. 


Customs Revenue. 


4. Receipts from customs for 1938, as compared with the 
four previous years were as follows: — 


1938. 1937- 1935. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. _ £P. £P. . = 
113,057 118,405 104,434 95,132 86,406 | 


In addition thereto the following amounts were collected on 
behalf of the undermentioned Departments : — ; ; 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 1934. 
3 £P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Municipalities Tax on 

Inflammable goods... 7,947 5,695 2,179 7,289 5.411 
Octroi Tax (1.4.38)... 5,413 
Veterinary... ee 562 721 569 292 288 
Passport oes aes 297 401 212 136 156 


15774 P 





394 
Contraband. 

5. The total number of offences against the customs law 
adjudicated during the year under review was 318 as compared 
with 227 in 1937, 258 in 1936 and 179 in 1935. 

Receipts from penalties imposed, and the sale of confiscated 
goods, amounted to £P.400 and £P.83 respectively. 

The amount of penalties imposed by the courts amounted to 
£P.33 in 1938. 

Foreign Trade. 

6. The main trade channels and the distribution of trade 
during 1938, together with comparative figures of the preceding 
years are given in table (B). 

Trade between Palestine and Trans-Jordan was erally 
satisfactory notwithstanding the difficulties arising from the 
abnormal situation in Palestine. 

Trans-Jordan exported a record guanuty of wheat, and road 
transport employed in the export of grain quoted cheap retumm 
tates for merchandise. 

. The present situation in Palestine is not conducive to close 
business associations between Palestine local industry in general 
and the merchants of Trans-Jordan. Consequently the acne 

. portion of purchases made by Trans-Jordan relate to foreign 
goods duty paid in Palestine. The imports of such goods during 
1938 are valued at £P.373,055 and the value of goods of Pales- 
tine produce or manufacture imported amounted to £P.46,347. 
as figures for 1937 were £P.200,685 and £P.60,390 respec- 
tively. : 

The transactions under the Trans-Jordan-Syria Customs 
Agreement were:— 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935- 
Imports of Syrian produce ¢ 
and manufactures ... ss 175,670 156,853 153,963 81,048 
Re-exports from Syria we 30,831 20,299 22,863 12,320 
Exports of Trans-Jordan pro- 
duce to Syria ‘ ses 27,677 106,861 29,781 21,487 


Re-exports to Syria ie vee - 11,967 2,173 564 3,024 


Syrian trade with Trans-Jordan continued to benefit by the 
devaluation of the franc in September, 1936. 

The value of Riese) ordan trade with Nejd is very difficult to 
assess but it is considerably larger than the statistical figures 
indicate. Wheat, barley, coffee, spices, cotton and artficial 
silk piece goods and benzine are the principal exports to Nejd. 

The value of imports from ‘Iraq amounted to £P.106,336 as 
compared with £P.7,141 during 1937. 

Work on the construction of the Haifa-~-Baghdad road began 
in August, 1938. Animals. to the value of £P.102,746 were 
imported in connection with this work. 


393 
The value of goods entering Trans-Jordan in transit through 
Palestine and Syria during 1938 was £P.286,545 and £P.193,722 


as Nai eae with £P.266,439 and £P.202,491 respectively 
during the previous year. 


Balance of Trade. 

It is not possible to assess the balance of trade with any degree 
of certainty. The number of the customs posts in the central 
and southern areas is insufficient to enable complete trade statis- 
tical data to be obtained but it is known that cereals from these 
areas are freely exported to Nejd and to Palestine. 


Tariff Changes. 

7. The Import Tariff Schedule is based on the League of 
Nations Standardised Nomenclature and consists of 554 items 
and sub-items. 4 

The customs duties collected during 1938 represented 18 per 
cent. of the value of dutiable goods. 

No tariff changes were recorded during 1938. 

Exports continued free of duty or dues. 

An examination fee of one-half per cent. on the c.i.f. value of 
goods imported continues to be chargeable in addition to the 
customs duties on goods which are not free of duty or otherwise 
exempted therefrom. 


Excise. 
8. Liquor.—Revenue from excise duty on spirits and wine 
manufactured-in the country during the year under review as 
compared with the two previous years was: — 











1938. 1937. 1936. 

Cognac ... wea wae ae 195 190 195 
tAraq eee 855 757 759 
Wine... tee wee aa 60 56 72 
Methylated spiri wee a8 13 17 19 
Alcohol ate ta so I I 3 
Totals ... vet 1,124' 1,021 1,048 











The rates of excise duties on liquors and spirits manufactured 
remained unchanged, being: — 
Cognac and Araq... 56 mils per litre. 
Wine ee ... Io mils per litre bulk, provided that the wine does not 

contain more than 25 per cent. of alcohol. 

Methylated spirit ... 10 mils per litre. 
Pure spirit -.. 50 mils per litre. 

The output of the three distilleries in Trans-Jordan during the 
last four years is shown in table ‘“‘ C ’’. 


15774 P2 


394 


The receipts in respect of liquor licences were as follows, 
compared with the previous three years: — 


"1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 
£P. sP. £P. £P. 
339 374 309 253 


Table ‘‘D”’ contains particulars as to the quantities of 
‘liquors, wine and spirit imported into Trans-Jordan during the 
year with comparative figures for the four preceding years. 


Tobacco.—The excise duties on tobacco continue to be as 
follows : — 


Cigarettes nize wi see nee ++. 300 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco... se ate BES ++. 250 mils per kilogramme 
Cut Tobacco where the retail price for 

40 grammes does not exceed 10 mils + 120 mils per kilogramme 


The revenue from the above excise duties, and the quantities 
of tobacco so taxed, are shown in Table ‘‘ E'’’ with the corre- 
sponding figures for the last four years. 

The revenue from licences to sell. and manufacture tobacco 
was as follows: — ; ‘ 


1938. 1937. 1936. 1935- 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
648 627 609 - 588 568 


“Tombac locally grown and Hisheh tobacco continued to be 
exempt from excise duties during the year. 

Table ‘‘ F ’’ contains comparative figures for the past four 
years of foreign leaf tobacco imported in Trans- Jordan. 

Table ‘‘ G ’’ contains comparative statement of revenue from 
import duty on foreign manufactured tobacco imported _ into 
Trans-Jordan during the last four years. 


Salt.—The excise duty on salt was abolished in 1929. The 
salt deposits of Trans-Jordan are at Azraq. There are no 
statistical data indicating quantities extracted for use. 


9. Excise Offences——The riumber of excise cases dealt with 
during 1938 was 70 compared with 98 in 1937, 112 in 1936 and 
147 in 1935. They were as follows: — 

1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 


Unlicensed sale of tobacco es 23 30 65 65 
Unlicensed sale of alcohol aoe 2 8 Ir 4 
Unlicensed sale of matches... 40 60 36 47 
Undeclared cultivation of tobacco 4 _ _ 21 
Unlicensed manufacture of 

alcohol ... sai a5 I _ _ to 


Totals dies sus SFO. 98 112 147 


395 


Excise Revenue :— 











1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 
Liquors. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
Excise on liquors... De 1,110 1,003 1,026 1,009 
Licence fees ... ee eee 339 374 309 253 
Tobacco. 
Excise on tobacco... ... 133366 13,008 12,576 9,963 
Licence fees ... ay Res 648 627 609 588 
Methylated spirit aa sai 13 17 19 
Alcohol 4.00 eke hes I ; ane 3 
. Totals. .... vs 15,477 15,030 14,542 11,813 








Table ‘‘ H ”’ shows excise revenue for 1938 as compara with 
totals for the three previous years. 


Customs and Excise Revenue. 


10. Customs stations were opened during the year at Ma’an 
seid Zerka. 


graph illustrating the trend of customs and excise revenue 
ane e past 14 years (1925-1938) is annexed as table “‘ J ’’ 


11. Trade and Industry. Ea oman being an agricul- 
tural country a sufficient and timely rainfall and a healthy 
condition of cereal crops are important factors which are neces- 
for prosperous economic conditions. While the total rain- 
during the season 1937-8 was satisfactory its incidence was 
untimely with the result that the cereal yield of the year was most 
disappointing. The effect upon economic conditions was re- 
flected by a drop in the total value of known exports from 
£P.511,000 in 1937 to £P.472,000 in 1938. 


Grains.—The approximate production in, and export from, 
Trans-Jordan of wheat and barley (the principal grain crops) in 
the past three years were as follows: — 


1938. C 1937. 1936. 
Pro- Pro- Pro- 
duction. Exports. duction. Exports. duction. Exports. 
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Toms. 


Wheat... an +. 85,000 33,000 113,000 26,500 40,000 12,000 
Barley... tae es 45,000 4,000 53,000 8,000 16,000 1,500 
Lentils aay +» 4,600 1,000 5,000 1,200 3,000 600 
Kersenneh _... «7,500 1,200 7,000 1,800 4,000 650 
Durra ... oe 8,900 800 11,000 2,400 _ 400 


Grapes.—The grape crop was generally good, except in the 
region of Es Salt. Exports were much ected by the inter- 
ruption of road transport in Palestine. Vineyard owners con- 
verted large quantities of grapes into raisins, but the expectations 

15774 P3 


3096 


of an excellent export market did not materialize owing to risks 
of transport in Palestine. 


Wool.—The quantity of wool exported during 1938 decreased 
to 33 tons from 177 tons in the previous year. This was mainly 
due to the fall in world market prices to very low levels. 


Fresh Fruit.—There was some increase in the export of fresh 
fruits, mainly bananas, citrus and pomegranates. 1,557 tons 
were exported in 1938 as compared with 889 tons exported in 
1937- 


Currency.:—The relatively high cost of ane which still 
obtains in Trans-Jordan is in part due to the fact that, although 
the Palestine pound is divided into 1,000 mils, the lowest spend- 
ing unit is in reality the 5-mil piece. 


TABLE (A). 
Principat Imports. 
VaLuEs. 
1938. 1937 1936. 
£P. £P. £P. 

Cotton Piece Goods ... 8 86,576 62,893 94,926 
,», White Shirting s+ 15,066 18,555 14,359 

» Figured aie Shs 10,397 12,693 12,937 

» Calico ... Me i 18,190 9,576 9.579 
Artificial Silk Piece Goods ... 50,000 97,891 73,045 
Benzine ... os ak _ 39,410 35,665 46,881 
Sugar. eee tee 46,057 47:277 45,597 
Kerosene aie eee on 25,001 24,820 21,700 
Coffee... ats ave Fis 18,083 18,459 16,640 
Animals as ate vs 126,075 23,256 16,277 
Articles made of Wool a 24,340 19,963 15,647 
Timber ... mee aes Mas 21,686 13,090 14,964 
Clothing ... a eae Se 28,549 29,335 13,999 
Samneh ... Su a ae 71440 22,738 13,700 
Head Gear te we aie 13,799 13,401 13,857 
Confectionery ... 0% ens 21,394 17,328 11,554 
Boots and Shoes pre aes 18,203 19,612 10,467 
Tea ons Be se) oh 11,189 10,145 9,556 
Flour 238 Sy Be ae 4,645 16,789 8,410 
Olive Oil ... op es Mee 5,882 11,223 8,172 
Woollen Piece Goods ... ate 6,169 6.447. 7,971 
Articles made of Iron ... bes 11,379 9,768 7,047 
Ware of Paper ENG ose 12,754 8,873 6,216 
Soap bee 133 oe nay 7,231 10,468 5.144 


Rice wae aie a8 rea 24,758 49,377 41,637 


397 
TABLE (B). 
Marin CHANNELS AND VALUES OF IMPORTS AND EXPorRTs. 
Imports. 
1938. 1937. 1936. 1935. 1934. 
£P. £P. £P. £P. £P. 
:. In Transit through Palestine 286,545 266,439 236,608 200,119 212,415 


In Transit through Syria .... 193,722 202,491 199,013 82,611 30,745 
In Transit via Post Office... 6,939 5,015 4,945 (Statistics not kept) 


2. Imports from ‘Iraq... ++. 106,316 7,141 9,508 (Statistics not kept) 
Imports from Nejd ... oe 4.410 14,898 II,1T5 7,550 2,730 
3. Tvade Agreements :— y 
Palestine— 


I. Foreign goods duty paid 
in Palestine subse-. 
quently consumed in 


Trans-Jordan ... +++ 373,055 200,683 121,453 (Statistics not kept) 
2. Palestine locally manu- 
factured goods +» 46,347 60,390 36,088 (Statistics not kept) 
Syria— 


1. Foreign goods re-ex- 

ported to Trans-Jordan 30,831 20,299 22,863 12,320 13,627 
2. Syrian locally manu- 

factured goods +++ 175,670 156,853 153,963 81,048 79,425 


Exports. 
4. Exports from Trans-Jordan:— 
To Palestine es ++» 444,523 404,107 198,215 (Statistics not kept) 
Re-exported to Palestine 77,597 12,239 2,678 (Statistics not kept) 


To Syria ... sae ++. 27,677 106,861 29,781 21,487 9,220 
To Syria re-exports ses 11,967 2,173 564 (Statistics not kept) 
To ‘Iraq ... on 199 _— 380 (Statistics not kept) 
To ‘Iraq re-exports one air 28 —. (Statistics not kept) 
To Nejd ... fe eos (Statistics not kept.) 


To Nejd re-exports ss. 2,770 420 ~=—-:1,873 (Statistics not kept) 


TABLE (C). 


Quantity oF Liquors MANUFACTURED BY DISTILLERIES. 








Year. Arag. Wine. ipecscrats Alcohol 
Litres. Litres. Litres. Litres. 
1938 30,048 5,997 1,326 18 
1937 26,264 5,624 1,729 36 
1936 25,594 7216 1,940 76 
1935 24,672 6,975 = or; 


























169‘ ogs‘S €19'1 zgr €S1 z16'9 SSo'oz zer'y £vo'ob 
ogt'r 069'E S¥6'1 o6€ gs zzg'S Sgo‘oz 6g1'6 £0S‘gz 
LS9‘1 1ob‘z rb'e grrr 6S 1S9‘E gfE‘gz got‘g bzgly 
69¢'1 09g‘ S€ 0z0'z 19z zz 1z6'z _ zI9 Igb‘g€ 
1zl'r 669‘ Ls gLE'S LSE LL gtoz _ Sro'g giZes 

‘dT ‘saan “SOMNT ‘SaaneT ‘saan "saan ] “SOMeT ‘SaaneT ‘SON ‘SON 

*sananbt 7 “sanog eee. 
Sang “ < : “AYSIU, . yous ‘agavT 
440d 19409 7 4 ‘ysnoussa A |, tet S1aaavg 
y4oguy aut yA audvdusy)| ‘sudop 
suojsny | PRIMA] eng ung "ui uy 
‘buay “sag 


——— eee 








"NVG¥O[-SNVU], NI NOIL4WASNOD YOs GALUOAW] SLIMIGG GNV ANIM, ‘suon6r] 4O SaILILNvn® 


‘(@) aTavL 





399 























1S0' bg l'€E gzz'z £06'g ggo'l 6z9'€z oSo‘LoL‘o€ “* g€6r 
60S‘F Ego‘ge or z Sgt'6 160‘9 got ‘oz gEz‘obl‘gz “ LE6r 
LSL'€ r1€‘1€ bgz'z 9S0'6 bSS‘g 6bg'Iz OSb‘Egg‘gz “+ Q€61 
169‘T z60'F1 LEo'z grr'g bEz‘g zgL‘oz 00z‘¢z9‘Lz “+ O€6r 
‘af *saueuenadoyt ‘at + sameuavesore yy ‘at *sameuapasoft yy 

“ang IM “ang 5M ‘aang IM ‘ON 

*amamene5osry sausmenadozry *aueueadopry “409K 

aod stsus O21 Aqnp astoxq 4ag sqsus oSe Anp astoxq 4og Stus 00€ Aqnp astoxay 
*0990Q0} 12D "099004 In-_ *sayasvsteD 


“SHIYOLOV AM ZIVS wOA AHNSST GNV GAANLOVANNVAT SALLAUVSID ANV ODOVaEOL ‘NO QaLOATIOD SAILNd ANV ‘a0 SHILILNVOG 


‘a TIavL 


400 


TABLE F. 


QuanTiTizs oF Forzicn Topacco Lear IssvzD From BoNnD AND AMOUNT 
oF Durres CoLLEcTED THEREON. 


Rate of Duty : 300 mils per kilogramme. 


Tobacco leaf Import duty 
Year. issued. collected. 
Kilogrammes. £P. 
1935 7,566 2,269 
1936 7,265 2,179 
1937 ° 7412 2,223 
1938 6,434 1,930 
TABLE G. 


Import Duty CoLLEcTED oN ALL KINDS oF ImporRTED ToBAcco 
AND TomBAC. 


Foreign Cigarettes 


Year. Leaf. Tobacco. Tombac. Total, 
£P. £P. £P. £. 
1935 2,270 1,211 1,566 5047 
1936 2,180 1,285 2,732 6,197 
1937 2,223 1,045 4175 7443 
1938 1,930 920 4.928 1778 
TABLE H. 


ExcisE REvENUE. 


Year. Tobacco. Liquor. Total. 
£P. £P. £P. 
1935 9,962 1,009 10,971 
1936 12,576 1,048 13,624 
1937 13,008 1,021 14,029 
1938 13,366 1,124 14,490 


wan'suog g Aqew 


GZBLI GZ@VE POIES EGEZE SbSSL ZBSS9 SSP89 SILLA B9b/6 0266 SSESOI 6SOBII 





























sz6l ezel =LZ61 Sz6i = 626) O€6! 1€61 U ee6i veGI se6 = 96! Leet 


(gee - S761) WOUd SYV3SA vi ONINUNG GANIVLEO ANN3AAY 3SIOX3 GNY SWOLSNDS 
(c) @Tavi 





Beez ever y9ser 7647 


Sever! vESeZ) ox” 








Ld 


oigtzea y GOORle 


401 


XVII.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES. 


I. Finance.—The revenue for the’ financial year 1937-8 was as 
follows : — 

















Sale of postage stamps... Ba See ie ae - 
Commission on postal orders Ne mee zee 316 
Telephones (rentals and calls)... oe eee 10,528 
Telegrams ... re aa Sis ae ase 1,203 
Parcels See 386 Se seb a aed 1,119 
Miscellaneous as gt ase arr} se 230 
16,714 
Charges for services rendered to Government Depart- 
ments not included in the above figures :— 
Inland telephones and telegrams to civil list... 325 
Police post telephones, the rentals of which are 
on a kilometric basis... ae de see 745 
Inland postage on official correspondence 2,332 
Commission on the sale of revenue stamps... 289 
3,691 
Total ... ave ES aoe 20,405 
Expenditure for the year was: — 
Ordinary expenditure wee ue ete oy 15,163 
Expenditure incurred by other departments on 
behalf of this department :— 
Rents of buildings elie whe ae ee 682 
Furniture and other minor works wee: tee 27 
Printing and stationery cas fen 428 
1,137 
Total ... one sai toe 16,300 





Extraordinary works.carried out during the year included the 
construction at a cost of £P.2,665 of a telephone and telegraph 
route between Tafileh and Ma’an, thus completing the direct 
route between the latter town and Amman. _ A telephone route 
was also constructed at a cost of £P.298 between Irbid and 
Samar, the headquarters of a Nahieh. 


2. Posts.—As a result of the disturbances in Palestine the motor 
transport daily service for the carriage of mails between Amman 
and Jerusalem ceased to operate in the latter part of the year, 
and these mails were thereafter carried by road convoys of the 
Royal Air Force about three times a week. Some interruption 
of mail services in southern Trans-Jordan occurred during 
periods of rain and snow at the beginning of the year. 

Trans-Jordan participated in the British Empire ‘‘ All up ”’ 
Air Mail Service as from the 1st March. 

Eighty-two enquiries were received for lost items of registered 
correspondence, and 42 for ordinary items. Investigations re- 
vealed that of the registered items 75 were delivered; and of the 


402 


ordinary items 21 were delivered and the remainder were 
untraced. 

The number of items dealt with in the Returned Letter Office 
amounted to 3,576 of which 27 items were registered; 378 items 
were returned to offices of origin in foreign countries; 358 were 
delivered to senders and addressees in Trans-Jordan; 2,434 


printed papers were destroyed and 406 letters were kept until 
claimed. 


The appended table of statistics for the years 1937 and 1938 
shows a further satisfactory progress in many of the postal 
services. Where decreases appear they are mostly due to dis- 
turbed conditions in Palestine. 


Traffic Statistics 1938. 


Description. ° " Increase or 
1937. 1938. decrease 
Ordinary mails :-— per cent. 
Correspondence (letters, postcards, if 
printed papers, etc.) ... +» 500,905 645,703 29 increase 
Parcels, inland oes ove 4.375 3,833 12 decrease 
Parcels, foreign, despatched eee 318 389 22 increase 
Parcels, foreign, received . obs 2,778 3,257 17 Fy 
Telegrams, inland... ea 6,411 6,776 6 as 
Telegrams, foreign, despatched Le 3,640 4,966 36 A 
Telegrams, foreign, received ae 3.759 4.714 25 hy 
Telephone subscribers, number mes 643 725 13 ” 
Telephone trunk calls, inland ike 91,559 120,415 32 ” 
Te elephone trunk calls, foreign, out- 
going.. 14,671 11,553 21 decrease 
Telephone trunk calls, foreign, in- 
coming ‘i : 12,227 9,521 22 ” 
Telephone call Offices ads 52 54 4 increase 
Telephone trunk lines, kilometres ... 1,500 1,660 Ir f 
Money orders, inland, number-__... 2,677 2,601 3 decrease 
Money orders, inland. Value {P. 46,960 49,754 13 i 
Money orders, foreign, issued, number 987 598 39 
Money orders, foreign, issued. Value {P. 4,293 3,152 27 a 
Money orders, foreign, paid, number 260 277 7 increase 
Money orders, foreign, paid. Value £P. 1,935 1,981 2 be 
Postal orders, inland, number or 14,160 19,364 37 eS 
Postal orders, inland. Value £P. _ 10,802 14,670 36 v3 
Postal orders, imperial, issued, number 2,158 2,730 27 a 
Postal orders, imperial, issued. Value £P. 1,483 1,804 22 Se 
Postal orders, imperial, paid, number 225 229 2 PA 
Postal orders, imperial, paid. Value £P. 153 147 4 decrease 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid, number 5,130 3,867 25 oe 
Postal orders, Palestinian, paid. Value £P. 4,473 3.411 24 * 


3. Telegraphs.—The improvement in the inland telegraph 
traffic and the increase in foreign traffic were both due to restnic- 
tions imposed on trunk calls in Palestine and the destruction by 
armed bands of the Amman-Jerusalem circuits within the latter 
country between September and December. During this period 
telegrams destined for Palestine and those normally transmitted 
through Palestine were diverted through Syria. 


403 
4. Telephones.—The increase in the number of inland tele- 
phone trunk calls was mainly due to the demands of internal 
public security precautions, and to improvement in the service 
concurrently with a marked increase in the number of sub- 
scribers. 


5. Engineering. —The ordinary work of maintaining the tele- 
phone and telegraph routes was performed regularly; and in 
addition to extraordinary works carried out preparations were 
made for the erection of a telephone circuit between police posts 
at Kreimeh and Damieh in the Jordan valley. 


General. 


6. During the year 33 cases of damage to telephone and tele- 
graphs routes were reported and action was taken against the 
persons or the villages concerned. 

Funds for the expropriation of a site for a new General Post 
Office at Amman were provided in the current year’s Estimates, 
and a suitable site was acquired, and plans of construction are 
in course of preparation. 

New postal acencies were established at stations H.4 and H.5 
on the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company pipe line, and at Fuheis 
and Wadi es Sir villages. 

The total number of officers on the classified establishment at 
the end of the year was 64. The unclassified employees com- 
prised 34 linemen, 14 postmen, 3 apprentices and 4 orderlies. 


XViI1.—AGRICULTURE AND VETERINARY. 
Agriculture. 


After a satisfactory rainfall in October and November, 1937, 
there was a long dry interval until mid-January when the next 
rain fell, but damage had already been done to the early “‘ afir ’’ 
crops in a number of localities. Rain continued intermittently 
during the first quarter of the year, but the rainfall in Apml 
was disappointing. A considerable fall occurred in May but 
this was too late in the season to be beneficial. While there- 
fore, the aggregate rainfall was somewhat above the average, the 
irregularity in its incidence, together with a serious and wide- 
spread outbreak of ‘‘ must,’’ resulted in yields of wheat and 
barley which were most disappointing both in quantity and in 
quality. The yield of the olive crop was good, and that of 
vines satisfactory, except in the neighbourhood of Es-Salt where 
the crop was below the average. Some 8,000 dunums were culti- 
vated with winter vegetables and 37,000 dunums with summer 
vegetables. 

Particulars of the areas sown with tobacco and tombac are 
given in Chapter XVI of this Report. In addition some 7,400 


404 
dunums were sown with hisheh tobacco, giving an estimated 
yield of 828,000 kilogrammes. 

Apart from the usual visitations of field mice and ‘‘ worm,” 
no serious pests appeared, 

The early rains of the 1938-9 season have been excellent and 
well distributed, and give promise of a good agricultural harvest. 

At the end of 1937, which was nominally the last year 
covered by the grant from the Colonial Development Fund of 
4%P.1,200 for each of three years for the propagation of good 
seed in Trans-Jordan, a small balance of funds remained which 
was carried forward for expenditure in 1938-9. 

During the past season the following quantities in kilo- 
grammes of selected seed were distributed to cultivators through- 
out the country: wheat 187,700, barley 21,200, kersenneh 
13,700, jilbaneh 14,300, lentils 28,800. 

Reports of the higher average yield from the selected seed 
issued and of the eahariced price obtained for its produce indi- 
cate that the scheme is being most beneficial. 


' The year 1938 was the first year of practical Timental 
work at the new Agricultural Station at Jubeiha. Test cro) 
sown included 48 varieties of wheat, 40 of barley, four of lentils, 
one of oats, three of kersenneh, two of potatoes; and a quantity 
of fruit trees, vines and forest trees were planted. Three asses 
were acquired for mule breeding, and a beginning was made 
in the poultry section by the- purchase of 180 birds of four 
varieties. 

In addition to the experimental station at Jubeiha, the Depart- 
ment maintains the following: — ee 

(a) Horticultural Station at Ruseifa, near Amman, where 
all kinds of fruit trees suitable to the altitude of the plateau 
are grown and grafted for distribution. 

(b) Horticultural Station at Bagoora in the northern 
Jordan bere devoted to citrus and fruit trees, date palms 
and vegetables. The Department of Agriculture continued 
to issue free of charge grafted citrus trees from this planta- 
tion to inhabitants in the Jordan valley, and also their 
planting and maintenance until established. 

(c) Horticultural Station at Jerash, in the Ajlun hills 
which is confined principally to the growing of olives. This 
nursery was extended by a further four dunums. 

(d) A Demonstration Plot of 80 dunums at Mejdal, also 
in the Ajlun hills for the propagation of carobs. 

(e) Wadi Zahar Nursery, in the foothills west of Irbid, is 
confined to the production of seedlings of forest trees for 
the re-afforestation of areas in the north of the country 
which have been selected for that purpose during settlement 
operations. In addition to this nursery, all the other 
stations maintain a certain quantity of forest seedlings. 


405 


Veterinary. 


2. After a set-back in winter grazing at the end of 1937 there 
was some recovery in the spring of the year under review and 
the condition of flocks generally has been good. With the early 
incidence of the first rains, in November, 1938, prospects for 
future grazing are extremely good. 

There was no serious outbreak of disease, the more notable 
cases being: — 


Cases. Deaths, 
Small-pox in goats... ee eS Hie 700 47 
Mange in goats ana an wee 960 53 
Foot and mouth disease 6 Boe 1,682 2 


The large transit trade in camels, sheep and goats from Saudi 
Arabia through Trans-Jordan to Palestine and Egypt continued 
during the year. 

By the generosity of the British Council a student has been 
sent to England to take a four year course in Veterinary Science, 
with a scholarship of £P.300 per annum. 

3. The Forestry Section of the Department of Agriculture was 
transferred on the rst April, 1938, to the Department of Lands 
and Surveys. A description of the activities of that section will 
be found under Chapter ITI, Lands. 


X!X.—PUBLIC WORKS. . 
Roads. 

The five-year programme of reconstruction of that part of 
the main Amman—Jerusalem road lying between Es Salt and 
the Allenby Bridge, which is being carried out with the assist- 
ance of a grant from the Colonial Development Fund, ended 
during the year with the completion of work on 11 kilometres 
of the road. At the end of the year work on a small section 
near the Allenby Bridge was proceeding and will be finished 
by the end of March, 1939, together with two large culverts now 
under reconstruction. 

The construction, within Trans-Jordan territory, of the 
Haifa—Baghdad road under arrangements made by His 
Hei Covaiment began in August. Work between Irbid 
and Jisr el Majamie is being carried out by the Trans-Jordan 
Department of Public Works at the charge of His Majesty’s 
Government. 

The construction of the road between Kerak and Madaba 
across the Wadi Mojib, which was begun as a relief measure 
in 1936, was continued by the Department_in 1938 and will 
probably be completed in February, 1939. Similarly the work 
on the road connecting Ajlun with Deir Abu Said, which was 
started in 1936, was resumed and is expected to be completed 
by the end of March, 1939. 


406 


During the year 831 kilometres of roads were continuously 

maintained and 714 partially maintained. 
e Buildings. 

2. Regular maintenance work was carried out in 80 Govern- 
ment owned and rented buildings. 

Important buildings completed for Government use during 
the year included a new Headquarters for the Department of 
Lands. at Amman, a Customs ‘Ronded Warehouse and offices 
at Amman Station, additional stabling, garage and barrack 
accommodation at the Arab Legion Depot, Amman, and a Fort 
at Wadi Musa. The construction of a Fort at Al Jaffer and 
Police Posts at Gharandal, Rasheidieh and Wadi al Arab was 
also begun during the year. 


Water Supplies. 

3. A detailed scheme of water supply for the municipality of 
Es Salt has been prepared. This scheme will be carried out 
early in 1939 from municipal funds assisted by a loan of 
£P.2,500. 

4. Other Works.—The Department is responsible for the 
works and buildings of the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force at 
Zerka and Ma’an, and also undertakes all hirings of offices and 
other accommodation for the Government and arranges for the 
provision of furniture therein. A Municipal Engineer was added 
to the staff of the Department in 1938 and Tey public 
sda are now more closely supervised and controlled by the 

rector. 


XX.—DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT. 


1. The Department of Development was established in May, 
1937, under the charge of a British Director, and is maintained 
by a grant from the Colonial Development Fund. 

2. Preliminary studies and investigations were b at the 
outset; but before a proper plan of operations could be estab- 
lished the circumstances of the Department were substantially 
changed by the provision by His Majesty’s Government in 1937 
of a grant of .15,000 for the ‘pe of a Hydrographic 
Survey of the country which, together with a contour survey of 
the Jordan Valley to be executed by the Department of Lands 
and Surveys, would enable the practical possibilities of irriga- 
tion development in Trans-Jordan to be assessed. This work, 
which was the outcome of the Report of the Royal Commission 
on Palestine, came as a matter of emergency upon an organiza- 
tion of which the merest nucleus was as yet in existence; and it 
absorbed most of the activities of the Department throughout 
the remaining part of 1937 and during 1938. 

3. Hydrographic Survey.—The Hydrographic Survey, 
designed to disclose the possibilities of the water resources of 
the country, was put in hand at the end of 1937. During 1938 


407 
a programme of drilling for underground water was carried out, 
principally in the Jordan Valley, with results which were not 
unpromising although the sources discovered were compara- 
tively . An extensive network of water measurement of 
springs and streams was set up to serve as the basis of an 
analysis of the aggregate water resources of the country. Other 
studies and experiments in connexion with irrigation were 
initiated, and steps were taken to collect and compile general 
hydraulic and other information relevant to the developmental 
problems of the country. 

Towards the end of the year the systematic compilation of the 
Tesults of the survey during the past year was put in hand, but 
has not been completed. 


4. Irrigation Control Schemes.—Subject to the overriding 
demands of the Hydrographic Survey the normal activities of 
the Department were pursued. A scheme for the control of the 
water of the Wadi el Arab, a perennial stream in the Jordan 
Valley, south of the River Yarmuk, was prepared, and the 
issue of a loan from the Colonial Development Fund of £P.4,000 
for its execution was Spptoved: It was, however, found neces- 
sary to postpone the work until security conditions in the Jordan 
Valley generally should become more normal. 

A second scheme for the control of the water of the Wadi 
Ziqlab, the next considerable perennial stream south of the 
Wadi el Arab, was nearing completion at the end of the year; 
and proposals for a number of minor schemes for improvement 
of water supplies were in course of preparation. 


5. Irrigation Legislation.—The use of water for irrigation con- 
tinues, as hitherto, to be governed by the Ottoman Law, to 
which no amendments or additions have been made. A new 
Law for the control of irrigation and land drainage water was 
drafted, and was under consideration at the end of the year. 
In addition to general powers of control throughout the country 
the draft Law makes provision for water settlement and for the 
assumption of control of distribution in areas proclaimed as 
Irrigation Areas. 


XXI.—CIVIL AVIATION. 


I. The air services maintained by the Imperial Airways and 
the Royal Dutch Line between Europe and the Far East pass 
over Trans-Jordan territory but only make emergency landings 
in that country. 

2. There are no customs aerodromes in Trans-Jordan, but 
permission is occasionally given for commercial machines to 
land on Royal Air Force aerodromes, and in such instances 
special arrangements are made in the matters of customs and 
passport control. 

3. The need for a special department to administer civil 
aviation in Trans-Jordan has not arisen. 


408 
APPENDIX I (i). 


THE PALESTINE ELECTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED. 
(Incorporated in Palestine.) 
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS, DECEMBER 3IST, 1937. 


ReporT oF DiRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 3IST, 1937. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounts 
for the year ended 31st December, 1937. 


The Directors are glad to be able to report that despite the disturbed 
conditions which prevailed in Palestine throughout the year under review, the 
Undertaking has operated satisfactorily and an efficient service has been 

Notwithstanding the economic depresssion which accompanied the 
unsettled conditions in the country, both output and revenue increased. 


The total number of consumers connected by December 31st last was 
75,805 compared with 66,537 at the end of 1936, an increase of 14 per cant. 
71,265,889 units of electrical energy were sold in 1937 compared with 
65,495,957 in 1936, an increase of 8-8 per cent. The gross revenue increased 
by 4-9 per cent. from £P.582,765 in 1936 to £P.611,051, the lesser increase 
being mainly due to the considerable reductions effected during the year 
in the rates charged for energy. 


The following figures show the development of the Corporation’s business 
during the past six years :— 


No. of Gross 

Consumers Units sold Revenue 
Year. Connected, (in RWh.). (in £P.). 
1932, we 15,113 11,590,350 145,512 
1933 wee 21,934 _ 20,136,839 221,128 
1934 35,397 34,385,515 363,900 
1935 ase 53,246 50,362,193 488,443 
1936... 66,537 65,495,957 582,765 
1937 te 75,805 71,265,889 611,051 


The construction work on the new Tel-Aviv Power House was continued 
throughout the year with the utmost expedition. The erection of machinery 
was held up, however, owing to considerable delay in the deliveries from 
England. It is expected that this Power House will be completed at the end 
of July of this year. 

The second 66,000-volt Transmission Line from the Jordan Power House 
to Tel-Aviv is completed, but awaits connection with the new Power House. 


Fifty transformers with a total capacity of 5,320 kVA. were put into 
commission in consumers’ premises in 1937, bringing the total up to 707 
transformers with a total capacity of 65,230 kVA. 5 

The Transmission Lines to Beisan and to Gaza have been completed and 
supply commenced on December 16th, 1937 and May 23rd, 1938, respectively. 


The transmission and distribution network of the Corporation was 
extended during the year by 246 km., making a total on the 31st December, 
1937 of 1,137 km. of high-tension transmission lines and cables, and 1,061 km, 
of low-tension distribution lines. 


Following the Resolution of the Extraordinary General Meeting held 
last year, increasing the Capital of the Corporation, an Issue was made at par 
or eon 44 per cent. Second Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares 
of {1 each. 


409 


The gross profit for the year was ... 

Deducting Appropriations made :— 
(a) Reserve for Depreciation ... 
(b) Redeemable Preference Shares Sinking F Fund 
(c) Capital Amortisation Fund 


there was a nett profit of 

Deducting further :— 

(2) Dividend on Preference and Second Preference 
Shares : 

(e) Interim Dividend of 2h per cent. free of United 

Kingdom Income Tax on Ordinary and “ A” 

Ordinary Shares, paid on December 315t, 1937.. 


and adding the balance brought forward from the previous 
there is an available balance of : ne 
out of which the Directors recommend :— 
(1) The transfer to Keserve for Income Tax and 
Contingencies of ... ave 
(2) The transfer to General Reserve of wee 
(3) The payment of a final Dividend of 5 per cent. 
free of United Kingdom Income Tax on Ordinary 2 and 
‘“*A” Ordinary Shares, absorbing 


Leaving a balance to be carried forward of ... 


£P. 


95,150 
12,000 


9,754 





33,633 


+ 43.441 


£P. 
352,470 


116,904 





235,566 


77,074 


24,240 


158,492 


182,732 


20,000 
50,000 


86,881 


156,881 


£P.25,851 


The members of the Board retiring by rotation are Lord Hirst and 
Dr. G, Halpern who, being eligible, ofter themselves for re-election. 
The Auditors of the Corporation, Messrs. Russell & Co., retire and, being 


eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, 
SAMUEL, Chairman. 


Pinuas RuTENBERG Managing Director. 


July 1st, 1938, 


408 
APPENDIX I (i). 


THE PALEsTINE ELEcTRIC CORPORATION, LIMITED. 
(Incorporated in Palestine.) 
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS, DECEMBER 3IST, 1937. 


Report oF DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 3IST, 1937. 


The Directors beg to submit their Report and Statement of Accounts 
for the year ended 31st December, 1937. 

The Directors are glad to be able to report that despite the disturbed 
conditions which prevailed in Palestine throughout the year under review, the 
Undertaking has operated satisfactorily and an efficient service has been 

Notwithstanding the economic depresssion which accompanied the 
unsettled conditions in the country, both output and revenue increased. 

The total number of consumers connected by December 31st last was 
75,805 compared with 66,537 at the end of 1936, an increase of 14 per cent. 
71,265,889 units of electrical energy were sold in 1937 compared with 
65,495,957 in 1936, an increase of 8-8 per cent. The gross revenue increased 
by 4-9 per cent. from £P.582,765 in 1936 to £P.611,051, the lesser increase 
being mainly due to the considerable reductions effected during the year 
in the rates charged for energy. 

The following figures show the development of the Corporation’s business 
during the past six years :— 


No. of Gross 

Consumers Units sold Revenue 

Year. Connected. (in RWh.). (in £P.). 
1932 236 15,113 11,590,350 145,512 

1933 ae 21,934 _ 20,136,839 221,128 

1934 «+ = 351397 34,385,515 363,900 

1935 + 53,246 50,362,193 488,443 

1936. 66,537 65,495,957 582,765 

1937 ise 75,805 71,265,889 611,051 


The construction work on the new Tel-Aviv Power House was continued 
throughout the year with the utmost expedition. The erection of machinery 
was held up, however, owing to considerable delay in the deliveries from 
England. It is expected that this Power House will be completed at the end 
of July of this year. 

The second 66,000-voelt Transmission Line from the Jordan Power House 
to Tel-Aviv is completed, but awaits connection with the new Power House. 

Fifty transformers with a total capacity of 5,320 kVA. were put into 
commission in consumers’ premises in 1937, bringing the total up to 707 
transformers with a total capacity of 65,230 kVA. 

The Transmission Lines to Beisan and to Gaza have been completed and 
supply commenced on December 16th, 1937 and May 23rd, 1938, respectively. 

The transmission and distribution network of the Corporation was 
extended during the year by 246 km., making a total on the 31st December, 
1937 of 1,137 km. of high-tension transmission lines and cables, and 1,061 km. 
of low-tension distribution lines. 

Following the Resolution of the Extraordinary General Meeting held 
last year, increasing the Capital of the Corporation, an Issue was made at par 
of 500,000 44 per cent. Second Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares 
of £1 each. 


409 


The gross profit for the year was ... 

Deducting Appropriations made :— 
(a) Reserve for Depreciation ... 
(6) Redeemable Preference Shares Sinking F Fund 
(c) Capital Amortisation Fund we 


there was a nett profit of 
Deducting further :— 
(d@) Dividend on Preference and Second Preference 
Shares 


(e) Interim Dividend of Bs per cent. “free of United 
Kingdom Income Tax on Ordinary and ‘“‘ A” 
Ordinary Shares, paid on December 31st, 1937... 


and adding the balance brought forward from the previous 
there is an available balance of aoe os 
out of which the Directors recommend :— 
(1) The transfer to Reserve for Income Tax and 
Contingencies of ... 
(2) The transfer to General Reserve of ite 
(3) The payment of a final Dividend of 5 per cent. 
free of United Kingdom Income Tax on Caney and 
“‘ A” Ordinary Shares, absorbing Bes 


Leaving a balance to be carried forward of 


eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 


Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, 
SAMUEL, Chairman. 


£P. 


95,150 
12,000 


9,754 





33,633 


43,441 


£P. 
352,470 


116,904 





235,566 


77,974 


158,492 


24,240 


182,732 


20,000 
50,000 


86,881 


156,881 


£P.25,851 


The members of the Board retiring by rotation are Lord Hirst and 
Dr. G. Halpern who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
The Auditors of the Corporation, Messrs. Russell & Co., retire and, being 


Pinuas RuTENBERG Managing Director. 


July 1st, 1938, 


410 


ozg‘ogz'aF 


0zg‘ogz 


ozg‘ogz' dF 
" oer ar a + puny von gos‘Sez 
-enuueiedng pue uoretoeideq 107 uotstaoid But oSL‘'6 
-eUl Joye pue sesuedx gy s0qJO UOpuCT pue aol} 000'ZI 
-esTUTMIpY ‘UoYNqLysIq ‘UoMeIeuey S3uIsreyo 
Joyye sydiecey Arpung pue 3uyeiedo uo sniding Ag oS‘ 
ID | ‘at 





yoays eourleg 0} partes WoOIg ON Buleq soured 
__ pun uoHesHHOUlYy jeyideg 
2 e4 2a : puny 
Surquis | soreqs eouarajarg aatyeinuiny a[qemaepay 
saaq ,S10}991IG OL 
aq 


-L€61 ‘1aquieoeq 4SIE ey} popue rea 94} IO} UNODY ssOT pure OIG 


(‘augsered ut peyerodioouy) 
“GaLIniIyT ‘NOILVUOduOD OaLoaATY ANIL 


Sa1Vq FH] 


HH 
H 
+ 


rS24r 


Seg'reg 


669'z16'r 





vErCE 
LSE 
$6g'StE 
ExS'0fS'e 


‘dIe 


oso “4900 we oe “havwooRe worpmnsseue" “sdourysom 


yO uoy3p8 
syunoure: © $01 “Yys00 * ‘Supreme eo wopucy fo 9svaT 


sasvys voussafasey 9019 
“min ‘nqousrprs p senss] uo Aang pondvg puy - 
sendvg fo sesvesmu] yias woHseUNO? us s99q 40310415339 
“wT! 20) oppo epel oq3 Jo sosuodx gy Areupmnytard 
“ne ‘meyeks wonNgrnsid ‘syweld 
onan ‘orp (puey : wONelTe sul Ay-foL 
* Wopss20u0D 949 JO VORASMbIY 
—! oyep 03 emmyrpucdxg peqded 


i uopsssquog viny 
“"* dopes20m07 wepiof oq? raya Steele 
a sosusdxg exous5 Suypnpouy “ 
$380), oamg, Fpiot el 


mos esnoy JeMog 
ee <0 “m9ys4g ToRNGE: 
pee ao ssyunsTeLE “Arouyqoe yi ‘SqJOM ame 
arpa ‘puey  : sesmoH SepaqrL poe 
eH ‘esnoH smog Dneote- SpA wepsof IIRL 
+ WoFssvaUOD 943 JO wORISMbOY 
—: yep 07 amypucdxg jeydep 
—: wopsssquog wepsof 
“erassy 


*LE61 ‘1aquisoeg 4SIE oy} 3e Se Joy souLTeE_ 


(eurjsofeg ut payesodsoouy) 
‘QULINI] NOLLVYOdUOD) OMMLIATY ANLUSTIV HL 





eeves 
‘Pgo'e 
168'SSY 


S26 
1gh6r 
fz9'r6e 
00'oor 
oS1‘gr 


SLY'Izg'c 


"ade 





L00'LLr 
Pretigde 





000'oos 


oSg‘tgs 


200% 
Szg‘Ze 


o00'000'F 





o00‘oor ‘Tr 
000‘00S 


“dJe 


_satouaduyuod | pay xv] suouy sof 9029504 
Worss0u0) tepsof 
‘5 osnelD qa} Gouepsoooe UY prsss/aqy sat] SHOTS 





2045 soussaford saszoinusnd 91qvucsapIy 
funooay wmpuias 2604S 

re +" sasasoyy pos9uI5) 

punosoy , punt ‘sasssoy wousduspay 1271409 


yore Suy103g IF Jo sareYys ooualajeId OAR 
-ejnumg 9[qemvepay puosag “U2 Jad fF co0'ooS 





ayep 07 pomoapoyt #977 
000009 ae qore 


wre aa 
ce qoro Teas 1 jo sareqs rN $291 Zee 
—i Pred Aina pae ponssy 


iy sereqs Sais '000'000'T 
= nV 
— endvg se0ys 
“saLLITEvry 


412 


“ON PRY ‘smBpURCZY posnseyD “OD @ TIESHIAY 86x ‘Kym sax ‘epyeyy 

thueduioy om jo 8y oq 4q umogs se pov on 0} UsAj3 suOFeUEd xo Pue ‘cop,euLs0;0} IMO 40 380q 94) 07 BUTpI0008 

uayege s,Loedmo) 0q7 70 91848 eT jo MofA 3001300 PUY ONT) B MONS OF se os ‘dn UMEIp dpsodold s} J00qS SoURTE eACge oq) MOFU;dO Jno UY *pouynbas eneqg om Qo1YM suOHeUEidxe 

PUT VOR eULIO; UF OF) [TE PoUTe qo eaey PUT ‘G70; 308 eAogeE BB ‘ZE6x ‘sequIBCEg yeIf ON; POIEP “PIT ‘UoIJeJ0dI0y SPRTY oUppsoreg og3 JO Joos odueseg egy porple anzy om 
‘WUACIONTUVHS BWL OL LuOaRY sHOLIGAY 


onmnony fyoly ‘avnaray -[ “spend Iupiouepy ‘ouneKainy synig ‘wemssyD ‘TanKYS—ssopeng fo prwog oy fo {rvysq KO 
“soon Selous pe ‘OUNENAINY SVENIY ‘weMswYD “TEAMYS ‘sjuNCDDY eACgE O43 UT pazEI0dJOOUT Ueeq 30OU BEY GDIGu LE6r 20; yyoud B amoge AuEdmC) AsePpIsqns aq], 
626% ‘oouvUTpIO sepuEduI0) egy Jo Lor Des 07 yUBNEINd ‘AXVEMOD AUVICISENS O1 SY INENALVIS 




































——— ———_—_ ‘BUMS IF — I “dF 0 
ove'LS6"F “gy Ove'L5E'Y “aF 
etditgr 
vlol. 
getore "8" syeodeq pue puet wp pue syung ww yr9D VPEy ow soregg Areutpig ,, ¥,, Put 
Arevypig vo xey auiosuy wops 
JO aay "jus sod fz jo puay 
ued wee eee ee ee yon 998) €€9'CE sareqs souasosorg aanejnam 
461 ‘spuspuasq fo gusmdog sof porrudosddy ysva aouasajary 
Gane o[qemoopoy “yuan sod fF UG 
—: LE6r 30} spuopiai : 5527 
1g)6r are teas gog'6sz 
a Ein mets, : 5 
pe de wee eae ase gqumamsoauy gosiste sek oy} 105 yoIg : PPY 
—! (B09 90s) puny Susyuts Sans, omuasaf 1gg't9r — 
Og MYDnWAND oromrpey sof powssdosddy spssy o00'Se 
gzo'or ap see EP st sasuedxg snyd ‘3900 38 ‘pur 000'0S 
zx0'gs 198'98 
6Lo'Ce bane iicip Cpe ST yanoooy yuan 
£96 ste ee ae te gg09 ye quemsoany 
—: Mueduog havspisyngs 
66P'9r oP i ste my 3809 3e ‘spusmpsoaus Aapuns 
25807 
oe6'LSr Ie1'ogr £661 ‘Azennel yst aq3 ye 
€xéizh Sc ®umoooy Axpung Psemioy yYRNOIq coUrTEg 
rre‘Sir ae Soe aoe ts “* syunoooy siomNsUO) —i quno2y S507 pur pyosg 
—t somo Ne Pur sso | coscce 
oeaies 
“ oe on oe ae os rer oe ride ae ae Wig 
seret souvepy ws semnpusdsy erst g€6r Arenuef ysr vo aiqedrd 
9EE've s+ (eaqu09 99s) ££6r ‘spuaptaiq 
zos'Srr “+ gepyo #Aueduey ony £q £S0'6br cr ar Oo air aac s10ITPaID Aapung 


Poypiiao se ‘asa y-70,7 pue o/sopy ‘uEpso[ fo pUdfY HO S#4015 —! senupqng Mp249 pun sope4y 


413 


APPENDIX I (i 


JerusaLtem Extxctrric & PusLic SERVICE CORPORATION LIMITED. 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 
31st March, 1938. 


The profit for the year, including the balance ({P.4,228.127) brought 
forward from the previous year is ... ole £P.69,283.763, 
out of which the following payments and "appropriations 
have been made :— 


£P. 
Provision for Income Tax ace oie 13,500.000 
Transfer to General Reserve... eas 5,000,000 
Capital Amortisation Fund aes ote 5,476.924 


Plant Renewal and Depreciation Account 15,000,000 
Dividend on 225,000 Preference Shares for 


year to 31st March, 1938, less tax... 11,812.500 
———__ 50.789.424 
leaving a balance of ah £P.18,494.339 
which the Directors propose to deal with as foigwd — 
In payment of a Dividend on 250,000 
Ordinary Shares, of 7 per cents less tax, 
amounting to ... 12,687.500 
leaving to be carried forward “to next E year's —_-—— 
Account ove £P.5,806.839 


The premium on the 50,000 Ordinary Shares of {P.1 each issued on 
4th March, 1937, which amounted to {£P.16,346.063 has been added to 
General Reserve. 


The Plant has operated satisfactorily during the year and extensions aS 
necessary, to deal with the increased demand, have been made in |the Distri- 
bution System. 


The Directors greatly regret to record the loss sustained by the death on 
the 8th of January last of Sir John H. B. Noble, Bt., who had been a Director 
of the Company since its formation, and who rendered valuable service as a 
member of the Board. 


Since the date of the last Annual General Meeting Mr. Douglas Selby 
Warren, Sir Cuthbert Headlam, Bt., D.S.O., O.B.E., and Mr. Hugh George 
Balfour have been appointed Directors. In accordance with the Articles of 
Association, they, together with the Rt. Hon. Lord Rankeillour, P.C., retire 
and are eligible for re-election. 


The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., of Jerusalem, retire, and, being eligible 
offer themselves for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 
D. C. Brook, 


London Secretary 
t2ath July, 1938. 


414 

















“naw SIT JO ANGE &: 
JO mera soatz09 pus enn © ware oF selon dna 

AMUNIOZUF Od Ite PeUjErqo eAvG ‘puw ysl} 408 Baca’ 
‘GNLIMY] ‘NOILVMUaNOD EOAWEG OFTENg ANY OlMioEIg MEIVERuAL 


e pire sn mna® 
danoszy 6 
worl pus wor 
MQ HHL OL SuoL! 


04d OF Buypaere ayepe ekueduso, 
ano Uy "poujubos avy om suopy 





\y aui 40 1m0sEy 



























r6S-Lgr'olo'ay 16S*Lgt‘og'ay 7 
OSS-+6h'9x see ee ae unozay S807 pun sos 
o00'00g'Sh 
sesopona { a cEEe Sy goorooo'sg ttt ogee Symp poppy 
uxuvang AVITHA, 000'00'0f eae yunoooy 388] 19g 
- punovoy ‘wourmpoesdo puo poasuey med 
Sgorgt8'x5 eae 
90°9F6 or oh _ Jmnosoy uMpuIeId ereyS 
90-600" seek Zupmp poppy 
000°000'0S Sie as cn sSqumoooy 38eT JOE 
6gZ:Zrg‘Zr iat a ay ct MOH Wp pup sasyung 99 Y8¥D —i sasssey 049s 
Selrge'ir amy = ey fee * Yee. pue s)uSTTseAU] 60L°684‘9x asf eae) id oe puny uorwsiOMY tondyD 
—! pwnd wovossuowy 000°000'Zr pas fe Gee saint ome qun020y wwOT 
SER ELEY es a rs : me ont tone he aes ‘ayo “se@ego pence ‘ssopipesy Lipune 
‘sou¥s id Sai bed pre (oaretey r? Aapun: 000°000' 
egrtgd‘gz9 ve : Busyouspun Ais 9 nou 000'000'0Sz ae pred Army Mpve "dF 30 | sarey Azeuypio o0o‘oSe 
00'000'Szz pe Dyed Anoy oes ray 
Er 6rr'tr v* | GAIDSON $53] “\suex JO Saregs eouemsoIg CAnEiNuND “3000 £ oo0'Szz 
4 poe “oaBoae ou nq Peypiseo se ‘puny wo s940;5 — pansy pondog 
eSerogd'r woRepardop -_—_—_. 
Beciees $89 ‘3800 ye “2B ‘senrmusny ‘s9INYA 40—H ‘51001 | 000'000'009'AF 
LLr-062'L9 ae ea ++ yeak 0g} Supmp suopippy 000°000'Sé oe * qoea dj Jo sareys payeurmouspun o00'S£ 
Oze-Egs‘egr see ee “snzoeoy, supe #577 ‘yunoooy 788] og (000°000'00€ a _ mee 1 dF Jo soreqs Areuppsg ‘000‘00F 
—- “1-40 ‘ero0 ‘SuTeW ‘Axoupqoe Ry pus UE, 000°000'Szz é apne rat 
‘eBurprma ' ‘spae] Sappnyouy “3900 ye ‘ssnpspusda 7 iia) jo sozeqs 5 couasoposa eaNeMuM “yuo rod £ ooo'sre 
000'000'09 wopsssquoy Jo $03 i passsoymy pondvg 
“SIN “dF am ‘ad? “srassy iy a bf “I'd? “SEILITIGVTT 
(Sora 1} sqenbo 1'a7) 
“96x ‘HOUVW W818 LV SV LHHHS FONVIVE 
f94-Ege'69 AF £94-€gz'69 “AF 
GEE-¥6h'gr “1 yoous souereg 0} soured 
9&9°SS0'S9 arene ste ate ot uMop 3q4%n0Iq couNTeg “* OoS-zrg'rr “+ xB ssaq ‘reak Joy puosptarq souarajorg “* 
dergec'd 000°000'S 1 _aMorsy vopepaded pue jemousy sued * 
000'000'6 oo ¥e6rgch'S “"pung wopestomy fendey 
‘eens aa sak my " powpsia Arempio emp 000°000'S if eArosoy ezouey “ 
eergee'er * yMMovoy yee] wos; couejeg 4q | oo0-ooS‘Er “+ XBY, SMOOUT Joy UOPsfAoIg OL 
as “mH “dF “aA ‘dF 
brrer19'06 ‘aF brv-e19'0l ‘AF 
9£9'S60'S9 wee ses ewop patames soureqeg. 
000:00S'r peer ety ese * “seaq sojoang ‘ 
Lrrer9'0L ats aye ot Kdyooy Arpuns pue Supesedy uo snyding 4g 1gZ9S0'r eee, sr ld socusdey | ereuey oa. voneNHsTapUpy UopuoT Of 
“SUW ‘dF TU “dF ae 
a5 


“(ays 17 sfenbs 1-47) 
“g£6x ‘HOUVW 3SI€ GHANA UVAA IHL AOA LNNOOOV SSOT ANV LIdONd 


“GHLIWIT NOILVaOddOD HOIAWAG OITANd ANV OIeLOATY watvsnual 


415 


APPENDIX I (iii). 


PaLzsTINE PotasH LIMITED. 
Report oF DrrgcTors. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report, together with the duly audited 
Balance Sheet of the Company dated 31st December, 1937, and the Profit 
and Loss Account for the year 1937. 


The total sales of the Company’s products showed an increase of over 
55 percent. The gross profit on trading amounted to £86,773 148. 10d. as 
against {59,267 8s. 7d., and the net trading profit £47,831 9s. 8d..as against 
£26,880 158. 5d. in 1936. : 


‘Your Directors have this year made provision for amortisation and depre- 
ciation as foreshadowed by your Chairman at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting. They have provided the sum of {£30,000 for this purpose in respect 
of 1937. As stated in previous Reports, no provision had been made for. 
amortisation and depreciation prior to January 1st, 1937, and the sum of 
£8,736 58. allocated in this year’s accounts represents the first appropriation 
for this purpose. The period prior to 1937 was for the most part one of 
development and operations on a small scale. 


As the Shareholders are aware, the Anglo-Palestine Bank Limited guaranteed 
the payment of the Preference dividend from 1st January, 1935, to 30th June, 
1937. The subsequent half-yearly dividend on the Preference capital has 
been paid out of the Company’s earnings. 


The production of refined potash at the Company’s Northern plant, as a 
result of improvements introduced in the chemical process and greater efficiency 
showed an increase while costs have been reduced. 


Part of the Company’s new plant at the South end of the Dead Sea was 
put into operation at the beginning of June, 1937. While this has not yet 
materially contributed to the profits of the year 1937, the beginning in the 
South in conjunction with the considerable improvements in the North have 
carried production in 1937 to a level 65 per cent. higher than in 1936. The 
further extension of the plant is proceeding according to programme. 


The export trade in potash throughout the world has considerably increased 
particularly with the main importing countries, such as the United States 
and Japan. 


Potash prices in all the markets to which your Company despatched its 
goods in 1937 were more satisfactory than in the preceding year. 


Owing to the hostilities between Japan and China, large consignments of 
the Company’s potash destined for Japan during the second half of the year 
had to be diverted to other countries at less favourable prices. This somewhat 
affected the Company’s profits. 


Sales of the Company’s bromine in the year 1937 showed a fractional increase 
and prices improved somewhat. 


Floods of exceptional magnitude occurred on the shores of the Eastern 
Mediterranean in the autumn of 1937 and a cloudburst in the catchment 
area above the Southern End of the Dead Sea caused some damage to the 
Company’s property. The balance on Profit and Loss Account as at 
31st December, 1936, has been allocated to the repair of this damage. 


416 
In spite of the continual political unrest in Palestine, the Company’s 
operations have not been interrupted. 
Divectorate——Your Board have to record with deep regret the death of 
Mr. Felix M. Warburg, who was a Director of the Company from the beginning. 


Mr. Julius Simon and Mr. Paul Singer were appointed Directors by your 
Board during the period under review, and in accordance with Article 99 of 
the Company’s Articles of Association, their appointment is submitted for 
confirmation. 

Farther, in accordance with Article 108 of the Company's Articles of Associa- 
tion, Mr. Harry Sacher, Mr. Robert Szold and Major T. G. Tulloch retire and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Auuditors.—Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co. retire and, being eligible, 
‘offer themselves for re-election. 
Lytton, Chairman. 
E. W. D. Tennant, Director. 
24th March, 1938. 





6 € $r6%6ogF 





£0 6ge'tr 
9 9% Szo%s 
oro sSPss 
& or LYS 


v 6x HSr'et 


8 8 GSS'9S 
we & fr0t6ty 
co) 
+ 


gt rE g'og 


x xx regs 
or or dor'£6 


ps F 
vay 





© Sx r$6VS °° 
4 g 160°V68 -- 





g St 
98 





mee 
oo a 


IX 2x zor 


6 € ofrl6 + 


pt 


x 


“+ pM ts pus syweg sy ys9D “ 
 smuvepy wy suomheg pus some Lapuns “ 
seofid BOTES JOU yw ssakng OF MEWOAT ws EPOCH “ 


se ae ase tee E63 “amquamcecy 3er£ 48 sy 
—t "po ‘sor £26617 ‘uoysspurmi0D Suppmszopuy, 
Zuppnpuy ‘Twades Jo sones] yp VoRIeUTOS UF sssusdsy 


seek oq) Supmp emyypuodxe sequins ; PPy 
a ry *** g66x ‘zoquisoo] 966 38 SY 

—: UoReZ. 07 peingEnye soscedze 
peoqzeao jo voprodosd Suypayouy ‘3803 ye ‘shuspyng “ 


o 966x ‘20 wisyesy 
—! 3809 98 Powrent 


4£€6x 3upmp ool JUNOUTY | S897 
++ QS6x ‘zequiscec] 3sr6 ye sy 
1 oe0q3 
UoNees vy amyypucdxe Fuypnyouy ‘wes PREC oT} 
Uy STVIOUTA FO GoRIeI}Xe OT} 303 wossteINLD fo 0D fq 








6 $ $x6'69gF ‘ZMVNMZY, ‘2 oN 3 


ssygord 
JO yO 380707 ua ofqededar pus s0jURFEN: 
ogy 4q poppaoad elobow 30 yn0 ‘uedwoy eq} 4q pred 


“esop0nT: 











os ¢ 








PY 
oOSr'6re - 


o gfg'6r * 








bite IF JO sareys Areuyppio ,, V ,, 062‘ 
Bt Spe Fe ey yecaraae Aoeting) COECYE 


© ooo'oor * ct Gove IF jo sareqs souarajntg Suned 
“Pred ofqecmeopoy sapemuiny “3000 sad $5 oo0'oor 
o o gtg'6x * Re eee “ qoee IF Jo saseqs cous 
aajaig AIwwMespay oapemums "wus sad $4 gfg'6x 
—passoumny 
ee pe F —tended OL 
=a 


“E61 ‘“YAAWAOAC ISi€ 38 ‘LAAHS AONVIVA 


‘aati RSVIOT ANTISHIVA 


sunpny {7 “09 9 TvAIDaad ‘SNNA{ ZOrEAV_ ee 


S108 

JO 480q 64} 03 SuyprOoCe suyeye sAueduTOD oy) JO 97e}S OT} JO MOTA JOOLIOO PUL ons} B ZIqQIyXO 07 Se os dn uaezp Aysodoad ‘St JooYS soueTeg ons ‘uoruldo mmo uy “pernbes eaeq 

@m suoWeUR[dxe pue uoHeMuosu O43 [Te Peusezqo oAeY pUE ‘sAoge qyIOJ 3aS se ‘EOI ‘requIeDEg ySIE poyep “PyT ‘YSEIOg SUTISTE JO JOO4S oULTE Om Po}TPNE OARY OA, 
“SMMGHAW BHL OL SHOLIGAY BHI 40 LHOaTY 








we oF 4 96h'98F or £ g6L‘99F 
+ g@ 6 xfgiér “ paays sounyog 09 payssv2 sfoay ** 
© 0 cod'of  Moypssiomy pur uormreadaq * 
o € €2e's sreak 
r jonpep aise quer 
ont eae ete ee eee ar aafanowa * ; Tpapoy Dede pun sayodey 
© 0 ooo'z an “woyDsauniury, ssopang * 
or br f£é'9g “ srofnq 04 rg der'z See SRT ERA is. Bae ee * “ysaaaquy 
; ysuesy a pue ‘pies spoo8 uo yyoud surpnyout ‘Suipwsy wo pfosg ssovy gy | 1 g sone EE oe ” eet ee jehas pun uopuocy wt Flin oL 
‘p's p's 


= “4€6r ‘YAAWAOAC Is1€ CHANA UVAA AHL YOA LNNODOV SSOT ANV LI4OUd wa 


Google 
Cc 


419 


APPENDIX I (iv). 


STATEMENT OF THE HULEH CONCESSION ACCOUNT. 
As at the 31st December, 1938. 
As shown in the books of the Palestine Land Development Co. Ltd. 
£P.Mils.  £P. Mils. 


Price of Concession ae wits 191,795.000 
Add—6 per cent. Interest fod “e 1st + October, 
1934, to the rst October, 1939 Ses 24,643.290 216,438.290 


Payment to previous Concessionaires on account 

of Drainage Works ee ies 9,000,000 
Survey and Experts’ Investigation, Céeninibcat, 

Advocates’ Fees, Upkeep, Administration, In- 

terest, &c. : 42,250.056 
Technical Apparatus, Cas, ‘Sundry Equipment, 

&ec. : 1,363,336 
Buildings snd participation in Road making cae 2,793.844 


£P.271,845.526 


Of the Purchase Price, the previous Concessionaires have now received 
£P. 185,150.632 mils in cash, and the balance including interest thereon, is 
covered by promissory notes to the value of £P.31,287.658 mils, which mature 
during the year 1939. Certain of these promissory notes to the amount of 
£P.27,287.658 mils maturing on the 1st October, 1939, have been deposited 
with the Company as security until final settlement has been made with the 
previous Concessionaires in respect of the exact extent of the area acquired. 


Note.—A sum of £P. 172, 344. 825 mils ies been received by the Company 
from prospective participants in the development of the Concession. 


The Palestine Land Development Co., Lid. 


"We have examined the above Statement with the Books of the Palestine 
Land Development Co. Ltd., and certify the same to be in accordance 
therewith. 

RussE._t & Co., 
Jerusalem, 30th January, 1939. Chartered Accountants 


420 


APPENDIX I (v). 
LIGHTHOUSE CONCESSION. 


Statement of Light Dues collected by the Administration Générale 
de Phares for the year 1938. 





Other Ports 
Month. Haifa. Jaffa. outside 

Palestine. 
January... vee 2,148.836 685.533 2.746 
February... se 2,213,845 792.188 0.160 
March a0 «+ 2,568.370 993-584 0.818 
April as see 2,154,053 680.834 2.591 
May ... 1,830.561 820.395 3.232 
June oe + 2,036.283 828.195 0.847 
july ... os vs -1,782.240 0, 822.911 2.165 
Augut ee wee 1,827,712 875.867 4-768 
September ... see 1,731.612 922.113 0.885 
October site ss 2,042,838 975-281 2.625 
November ... ss 2,168,307 958.842 1,833 
December ... se 2,338.173 1,215.668 _- 
Grand Total... sss 24.842.830  10,571.411 22.670 


APPENDIX II. 
HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognised as holy days by the various com- 
munities in Palestine is set out hereunder :— 


Mos_eM FESTIVALS 


‘Id al-Adha (Qurban Bairam, 3 days) .. 

New Year . 

Yom ‘Ashura (date ‘of Noah Leaving the 
Ark, and of the death of Husein at 
Kerbela). 

Descent of Holy Banner (Sanjaq al- 
Sherif) from Jerusalem to Nebi Musa. 

Return of Banner from Nebi Musa 


Mawled al Nabi (Mohammed’s birthday) 

Lailat al-Raghaib (night of Mohammed's 
conception). 

Lailat al-Mi‘raj (night of Mohammed’s 
miraculous journey). 

Lailat al-Baraat (‘‘ Night of Decrees,” 
when the guardian angels received from 
the Almighty tablets recording the fate 
of their charges in the coming year): 

Ramadhan wee 


Lailat al-Qadr (‘‘ Night of Power”, on 
which the requests of all worshippers 
are believed to be granted). 

“Id al-Fitr (Shaker Bairam, 3 days) 


Total. 


£P. Mils. - 
2,837.115 
3,006.193 
3,562.772 
2,837.478 
2,654.188 
2,865.325 
2,607.316 
2,708.347 
2,654.610 
3,020.744 
3,128.982 
3,553-841 


35,436.91 


Corresponding 


Christian 
dates. 


10-12 Dhu al-Hijja 10-12.2.1938. 


1 Muharram ... 
1o Muharram ... 


+ 3-3-38. 
+ 13.3.38. 


Friday before Orthodox 15.4.38. 


Good Friday. 
Orthodox Maundy 


Thursday. 


12th Rabi‘ al-Awal 


21.4.38. 
+ 12.5.38. 


Eve of first Friday in 26.8.38. 


Rajab. 
27th Rajab 


15th Sha‘ban 


1-30 Ramadhan 
27th Ramadhan 


1-3 Shawal 


22.9.38. 
g.10.38. 


+ 25.10.38— 
23.11.38. 
+ 21.11.38. 


. 24> 
26.11.38, 


421 
CHRISTIAN FESTIVALS. 


Orthodox Festivals. 

Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Epiphany or Thephania, Purification, 
Annunciation, Palm Sunday, Good Friday, Easter Day, St. George, Ascension, 
SS. Constantine and Helen, Whit Sunday, SS Peter and Paul, Transfiguration, 
Assumption, Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Exaltation of the Holy 
Cross, St. James, St. Nicholas. 


Roman Catholic and Western Churches. 


New Year's Day, Epiphany, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension Day, 
Whit Monday, Christmas Day. 


Jewisu FEstTIvats. 


The Jewish festivals are divided into three categories :—(a) days of rest’ 
(6) festivals on which work is permissible, (c) fasts. 


Corves- 
ponding 
Dat. Category (a). Category (b). Category (c). Christian 
dates. 
Tishri 1-2... Rosh ha-Shana _- _— 26- 
(New Year). 27.9.38. 
Tishri ro .... Yom Kippur _ _ 5-10.38. 
(Day of Atone- 
ment). 
Tishri 15 ... 1st Day Tabernacles _ _ 10.10.38 
(Sukkoth). 
Toshri 16-21 _ 2nd—7th Day _ 11- 
Sukkoth. 16.10.38. 
Tishri 22 .... 8th Day Sukkoth _ _ 17.10.38. 
(Simhat Torah). 
Kislev 25 to _ Hanukka —., 18 
Tevat 2 (Maccabeans). 24.12.38. 
Tevat ro ... = _ ‘ Asara be-Tevat 1.1.39. 
(Siege of 
i Jerusalem). 
-Shevat 15... _ Tu be-Shavat (Tree _ 17.1.38. 
New Year). 
Adar 13... _ _— Ta‘anit Esther 14.2.38. 
(Fast of Esther). 
Adari4 ... _— Purim ae one _ 15.2.38. 
Adari5 ... _ Purim (in Jurusalem _ 16.2.38. 
only). 
Nisan 15 ... 1st Day Passover _ _ 16.4.38. 
Nisan 16-20 _ and-6th Day _ 17.4.38. 
Passover. 21.4.38. 
7th Day Passover _ _ 22.4.38. 
_ Lag Baomer (Out- _- 19.5.38. 
door Day). 
Shavu'oth —_ : _ 5.6.38. 
(Pentecost). 
_ _ Shiv‘a‘Asar be 16.7.38. 
Tammuz 
(Capitulation of 
Jerusalem). 


= _ (Destruction of the 6.8.38. 
Temple). 





422 


APPENDIX III. 


LIST OF CONCESSIONS. 


Concession. 
Dead Sea 


Holder of Concession. 
Palestine Potash Company. 


Drainage of Lake Huleh Sd Palestine Land Development Company. 


adjacent marshes. 
Tiberias Hot Baths 
Lighthouses 


Electricity 


Leased by Hamei Tiberia Co., Ltd. 

Administration Générale de Phares de 
Palestine. 

Palestine Electric Corporation and Jerusalem 
Electric and Public Service Corporation. 


E] Hammeh Mineral Springs... Suleiman Bey Nassif. 


Auja Irrigation 


Auja Irrigation Company. 


Transit of Mineral Oils through ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 


Palestine. 


(1577449) Wt. 42554243 


1500 §/39 P. St. G. 377/8 





LIST OF CONCESSIONS. 


Concession. Holdey of Concession. 
Dead Sea see Palestine Potash Company. 


Drainage of Lake Huleh and Palestine Land Development Company. 
adjacent marshes. 


422 | 
APPENDIX III. F 
| 


Tiberias Hot Baths ... ... Leased by Hamei Tiberia Co., Ltd. 

Lighthouses... sa ... Administration Générale de Phares de 
Palestine. 

Electricity... a ... Palestine Electric Corporation and Jerusalem { 


Electric and Public Service Corporation. 
El Hammeh Mineral Springs... Suleiman Bey Nassif. ‘ 


Auja Irrigation oes Auja Irrigation Company. 
Transit of Mineral Oils éirough ‘Iraq Petroleum Company. 
Palestine. 


(1577449) Wt. 4255—4243 1500 5/39 P. St. G.377/8 

















able from 


STA TIONERY 











COLONIAL ANNUAL : 
REPORTS 


H.M. Stationery Office publishes the Annual Report: 
Social and Economic Progress of the Peoples of the Colon 
Protectorates, most of which contain a map of the Dep 
concerned. More than 40 Reports appear each year aind the 
are supplied at the Subscription price of sos. per ann r 
(This rate does not include Mandated Territories.) Indivi 
Reports may also be purchased and standing orders 
for their annual supply 


ADEN 

BAHAMAS 

BARBADOS 

BERMUDA 

BRITISH GUIANA 

BRITISH HONDURAS . 

BRITISH SOLOMON ISLANDS 
PROTECTORATE 

BRUNEI, STATE OF 

CAYMAN ISLANDS (JAMAICA) 

CEYLON 

CYPRUS 

FALKLAND ISLANDS 

FEDERATED MALAY STATES 

FIJI 

THE GAMBIA 

GIBRALTAR 

GILBERT & ELLICE ISLANDS 

GOLD COAST 

GRENADA 

HONG KONG 

JAMAICA 

JOHORE 

KEDAH 


BASUTOLAND 
BECHUANALAND 


PROTECTORATE 


KELANTAN 

KENYA COLONY & 
PROTECTORATE 

LEEWARD ISLANDS 

MAURITIUS 

NEW HEBRIDES 

NIGERIA 

NORTHERN RHODESIA 

NYASALAND 

PERLIS 

ST. HELENA 

ST. LUCIA 

ST. VINCENT 

SEYCHELLES 

SIERRA LEONE 

SOMALILAND 

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS 

TONGAN ISLANDS 
PROTECTORATE 

TRENGGANU 


TRINIDAD & TOBAGO 
TURKS & CAICOS ISLANDS 
UGANDA 

ZANZIBAR PROTECTORATE 


SWAZILAND 


MANDATED TERRITORIES 
Annual Reportsare published on the undermentioned territories 


administered by H.M. Government under mandate from the 
League of Nations 


PALESTINE AND TRANS-JORDAN 
TANGANYIKA TERRITORY 


CAMEROONS under British Mandate 
TTOGOLAND under British Mandate 


Further particulars as to the latest reports and prices are obtainable 
from the Sale Offices of 


His Mayesty’s SraTioneRY OFFICE 


CROWN AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES 


Publications issued by the Governments of British Colonies, Protectorates, and 

Mandated Territories can be obtained from the Crown AGENTS FOR THE 

Coxomies, 4, Millbank, Westminster, S.W.1. They include Departmental 
Reports, Laws, Handbooks, etc. 





SyOoCode No. 58-166 


(s 
O; 
oy Q | c 


' a 








Lees oY 








—-—_ --—---—_--—, 











j 
~~ 
~~ 


Poesscs en 5 if “" 


UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA 
325.342 G792P C001 1937-38 
Report by His Majesty's government 1 


VINIQ0 N00 1) 


08 61 





te 


ue THEHBHBATT HITS HARA HAR RH RH 


TT HATH TSHLARE 








