This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 


Google books 


https://books.google.com 





Issued by the Colonial Office 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 4 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and ‘Trans-Jordan 


For the Year 1932 


(Ror Reports for 1930 and 1931 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colontal No. 59, 1931, and Colonial No. 75, 1932, 
price ros. od. and 8s. od. respectively) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 








LONDON 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STAIIONLRY OFFICE 


to be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses 
Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; rao, Georre Street, Edinburgh 2 
York Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff 
ts, Donegal] Square West, Belfast 
or through any Bookseller 


VE 1933 
; Price gs. 6d. Net 
Colonial No. 82 


58-92) 









THE LIBRARY 


+ MBs 


cass 956.9 
pox GIORY 





Ze /, fri ts 
Issued by the, [Colonial Office 


REPORT 


by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
Council of the League of Nations 
on the Administration of 


Palestine and ‘Trans-Jordan 


For the Year 1932 


(For Reports for 1930 and 1931 see Non-Parliamentary Publications, 
Colonial No. 59, 1931, and Colonial No. 75, 1932, 
price ros. od. and 8s. od. respectively) 


Crown Copyright Reserved 





LONDON 


PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OF ICE 


To be purchased directly from H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses 
Adastral House, Kingsway, London, W.C.a; 120, George Street, Edinburgh 2 
York Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew’s Crescent, Cardiff 
1g, Donegall Square West, Belfast 
or through any Bookseller 


1933 


Price gs. 6d. Net 
Colonial No. 82 ? 


58-82 


Ly 


“4 


il 


CONTENTS 


Questionnaire of the Permanent Mandates Commission 
Index of Replies in the Report to Special and other Observations of 


the Permanent Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Second Session 


in November and December, 1932 
Note regarding arrangement of the Report 


PALESTINE. 


Introductory 


Jewish National Home 
Autonomous Administration 
Jewish Agency 


Immigration and Emigration 
V. Land Regime oe 
Vi. Nationality ... 
Vil. Judicial System 
Vill. Economic Equality 
IX. Holy Places . ais 
X. Freedom of Conscience 
XI. Military Clauses 
Xft. International Agreements, ‘Conventions, and “Treaties 
Xitl. Antiquities ae eae 
XIV. Official Languages ... 
XV. Holy Days 
XVI. Trans-Jordan 
XVII. Labour 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs, Arms, and. Liquors 
XIX. Education : ose hoe “ nae : ss 
XX. Public Health 
XXII. Public Finance 
XXIttl. Demographic Statistics 
XXIiit. Customs, Excise, and Trade ; 
XXIV. Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones 
XXV. Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries 
XXVIi. Public Works, eee and re 
XXVIII. Railways 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


1. Introductory 
ll. Finance ee 
iti. Customs, Excise, and Trade 


IV. Legal and Judicial 
V. Education 

Vi. Health . 

Vil 


Posts, Telegraphs, and d Telephones... 
Agriculture ioe 

IX. Lands ... 

X. Public Works . 

Xi. Antiquities 

Arab Legion sts 
International Agreements, Conventions, and Treaties sate 





APPENDICES 
Page 
I. Education Ordinance, 1933, and Regulations bus the .. 236 
il. Balance Sheets of Concessionary Companies :— 
(i) Palestine Electric Corporation Limited is ... 256 
(ii) Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation 
Limited... ee eat Gs en ... 268 
(iii) Palestine Potash Limited: — 
(a) Report of Directors . ; se ... 261 
(b) Report by the Managing Director. kes ... 263 
(iv) Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Company Limited ... 265 
Ill. Correspondence relative to the Frontier between ‘Iraq and 
Trans-Jordan aula re Gisis ae ie Say ... 265 
DIAGRAMS. 
l. and II. Progress of eee topocadastral survey, and 
settlement — = ae seta following 40 
lll. Monthly variations of water-level in inland seas... oie ww. 41 
IV. Plans issued... uy san es tea oe Bo ive v2 


ad Os avb Lb sistswie 


ve 


aes 


18938 


1377172 


1V 
Questionnaire of Permanent Mandates Commission. 


I.—Jewish National Home. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to place the country Z 


under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the establishment of the national home of the Jewish 
people? 

What are the effects of these measures? 

2. Y@.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will secure the development of self-governing institutions? 

What are the effects of these measures? 


3. @.—What measures have been taken to place the country 
under such political, administrative, and economic conditions as 
will safeguard the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants of 
Palestine, irrespective of race and religion? 

‘What are the effects of these measures? 


II1.—Autonomous Administration. 


Q.—What measures have been taken to encourage local 
autonomy ? 
What are the effects of these measures? 


ITI.—Jewish Agency. 


1. Q.—When and in what manner has the Jewish Agency been 
officially recognized ? 


2. Q.—Has this Agency given any advice to the Administration 
in the past year? 


If so, in what form and in what connexion? 


3. Q.—What is the nature and extent of the co-operation of 
this Agency with the Administration of Palestine in economic, 
social, and other matters? 


4. Q.—In what manner has this Agency taken part in the 
development of the country (statistics of results obtained) ? 


5. Q@.—What steps have been taken in consultation with His 
Britannic Majesty’s Government to secure the co-operation of all 
Jews who are willing to assist in the establishment of the Jewish 
National Home? 


IV.—Immuigration and Emigration. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to facilitate Jewish 
immigration ? 


Vv 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken to safeguard the rights 
and position of other sections of the population? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken in co-operation with the 
Jewish Agency to encourage the close settlement by Jews on the 
land (give figures) ? 

4. Q.—What are the effects of these measures? 

Statistics of immigration (country of origin, religion, race, pro- 
fession, age, and sex). Geographical distribution within the 
country in the urban centres and in the rural districts. 

Same statistics for emigration. 


V.—Land Regime. 
1. 0.—How have State lands been defined and delimited ? 
2. 0.—How have waste lands been defined and delimited? 


3. Q.—What measures have been taken for the registration of 
teal property ? 


VI.—Nattonality. 


1. Q.—What is the text of the Nationality law? 


2. (.—Have special provisions been enacted, framed so as to 
facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews? 


VII.—Judictal System. 
1. Q.—When did the new judicial organization begin to operate? 


2. Q.—What special features does it include with a view to 
assuring to foreigners as well as to natives a complete guarantee of 
their rights as laid down in Article 9? 


3. Y.—What special measures have been taken to assure respect 
for the personal status of the various peoples and communities and 
for their religious interests? 


4. 0.—How have the control and administration of Wakfs been 
assured ? 


3. @.—What extradition agreements have been made between 
the Mandatory and other foreign Powers since the coming into 
force of the Mandate ? 


VIII.—Economic Equality. 


l. Q.—How have the interests of the community been safe- 
guarded in the execution of measures taken to secure the develop- 
ment of the country in respect of public ownership or control of 
- any of the natural resources of the country or of the public works, 

services, and utilities? 


18938 A3 


Vi 


2. Q.—Has it been found necessary to arrange with the Jewish] _ 
Agency to construct or operate any public works, services, and]. 
utilities or to develop any of the natural resources of the country— | . 
and, if so, under what circumstances ? 


3. Y.—Give a complete list of concessions and the names and 
nationalities of the concession holders. 


4. Q.—Give the reports submitted to the company meetings and 
the balance sheets of these undertakings, or, when such reports 
and balance sheets are not available, give all information relating 
to the subject, particularly the rate of interest and the uses made 
of profits. 


5. Q.—What provisions are made to secure economic equality as |. 
regards :— 
(a) Concessions ? 
(b) Land tenure? 
(c) Mining rights (in particular, rules in regard to pro- 
specting) ? 
(d) Fiscal regime (direct and indirect taxation) ? 
(e) Customs regulations (imports, exports, transit) ? 

6. Q@.—What regulations has the Mandatory Power made for the 
application of the clause providing ‘‘ freedom of transit under equit- 
able conditions ’’? 

7. Q.—Have any Customs agreements been made by virtue of 
Article 18? 


If so, give the text of such agreements. 


IX.—Holy Places. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken for the assumption by 
the Mandatory of responsibility in connexion with the Holy Places 
and religious buildings or sites, including the responsibility of pre- 
serving existing rights and of securing free access to the Holy 
Places, religious buildings and sites, and the free exercise of 
worship ? 

2. Q.—Which are the purely Moslem sacred shrines the immu- 
nities of which are guaranteed ? 


X.—Freedom of Conscience. 


1. QY.—What measures have been taken to assure freedom of 
conscience and religion? 


2. Y.—Have any restrictions been made upon the free exercise 
of any form of worship in the interest of the maintenance of public 
order and morals? 

What are the effects of such restrictions? 


Vil 


3. Q¥.—What measures have been taken to ensure the rights of 
communities to maintain their own schools for the education of 
‘their own members? 

What educational requirements of a general nature are imposed 
by the Administration ? 

_ What measures have been taken to assure the exercise of such 
supervision over religious or other charitable bodies of all faiths or 
nationalities in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance 
of public order and good government? 


| XI.—Military Clauses. 

1. Q.—What is the form of military organization and training? 

2. Q.—Are there any police forces independent of the military 
charged with the defence of the territory ? , 

What is the respective importance of these two forces and the 
amount spent on each ? 

Racial and religious composition of these two forces. 

3. Q.—Has there been any occasion for the Administration of 
Palestine to contribute to the cost of the maintenance of the military 
forces of the Mandatory Power? 

If s0, to what extent? 

_ 4. Q.—Has the Mandatory exercised its right to use the roads, 
‘Talways, and ports of Palestine for the movement of armed forces 
and the carriage of fuel and supplies? 

If so, to what budget has the expenditure been charged ? 


XII.—International Conventions. 


1. Q.—To what International Conventions has the Mandatory 
adhered on behalf of the Palestine Administration? 


2. Q.—What steps have been taken by the Mandatory to co- 
operate with the League of Nations in the struggle against disease, 
including diseases of plants and animals? 


XIII.—Antiquittes. 


Q.—Has the Mandatory enacted a law of antiquities according to 
the provisions laid down in Article 21 of the Mandate? 
Give the text. 


XIV .—Official Languages. 


1, Q.—Have the three official languages been used simultaneously 


and on an equal footing in legislative and administrative documents 
and in the Courts? 


If not, what languages are used? 
2. Q.—To what observations does the application of this system 
give rise? 
18938 A4 


V1ll 


XV.—Holy Days. 


@.—What days are recognized as holy days by the various com-] - 


munities ? 
XVI.—Trans-Jordan. 


1. Q@.—Has the territory lying beyond the Jordan been finally]. 


delimited and organized ? 


2. Q.—In what way does the political and administrative regime] - 


established in this territory differ from the regulations laid down for 
Palestine ? 


X VII.—Labour. 


1. Q@.—What measures have been taken to ensure, in accordance 
with Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the consideration of 
conventions or recommendations of International Labour Confer- 
ences ? 


2. Q.—Are these conventions or recommendations being carried 
into effect ? 


3. Q@.—What other regulations are in force in regard to labour’ 


4. Q@.—What powers has the Administration for controlling labour 
contracts in order to ensure their loyal fulfilment both on the part cf 
employer and employed, and what powers does it possess to prevent 
any abuses in this respect? 


5. Q@.—What is the competent authority in regard to labour 
legislation, and what authority is responsible for the application 
of such legislation? 


XVIII.—Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs. 


Q.—Have measures been taken to secure the prohibition or the’ 


control of the importation, of the production, and the consumption 
of poisonous or narcotic drugs? 


XIX.—Education. 
1. Q@.—What is the general system of elementary educatiot 
(organization and statistics) ? 
Is this education free for all, and, if not, in what cases is it free’ 


2. Q.—What measures have been taken for higher education ; fot 


example, medical, veterinary, and technical education? 


3. Q.—In what languages is instruction given in the various 
categories of schools? 


XX.—Public Health. 


1. Q.—What steps are being taken to ensure public health and 
sanitation and to combat endemic and epidemic diseases ? 





| 


1x 
2. Q.—What is the regime for medical assistance? 


_ 3. Q.—What is the actual situation as regards prostitution and 
what measures have been taken in this matter? 


XX1I.—Public Finance. 


Q.—A general schedule of the revenue and expenditure of the 
territory, the budgetary system, and indication of the nature and 
the assessment of taxes. 


XXII.—Demographic Statistics. 


-Q.—Statistics of births, marriages (polygamy), deaths, emigra- 
uon, and immigration. 


x 


Index of replies in the Report to special and other observations of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission at its Twenty-Second Session in October-November, 1982. 


A. SPrEctaL OBSERVATIONS. 
Page 363. 2. Liquor Traffic: Increased consumption of 


spirits in Palestine. 
(Section XVIII, paragraphs 21 and 22.) 


B. OTHER OBSERVATIONS. 


Page 83. In what circumstances were two areas in the 


Page 
Page 


Page 


north and south of Palestine ceded by Syria 
and Trans-Jordan respectively in 1930. 
(Introductory, paragraph 38.) 


Figures of “‘ returning residents ”’ 
(Section IV, paragraph 8.) 


Long term loans of immigrants 
(Section IV, paragraph 2.) 


Number of travellers, etc., registered ag immi- 
grants. 
(Section IV, paragraph 4.) 

Consideration of permanent and temporary em- 
ployment in relation to Labour Schedule. 
(Section IV, paragraph 6.) 


Who were other vendors of agricultural land sold 
to Jews in 1931. 
‘(Section V, paragraph 1.) 
What is the competence of the Special Tribunal... 
(Section VII, paragraph 16.) 


What is the difference between the functions of 
the Supreme Court and the High Court. 
(Section VII, paragraph 13.) 


Jail population aes 
(Section XI, paragraph 12. ) 


Numbers of advocates os 
(Section VII, paragraph 2. ) 


Court receipts - 
(Section VII, paragraph 19. ) 


Statistical information regarding territories under 
Mandate. 


Inspection of the application of Labour Legisla- 
tion; reference to Labour Legislation Com- 
mittee. 

(Section XVII, paragraph 10.) 

Employment of Jews at Mt. Tabor School 

(Section XX VI, paragraph 15.) 


Distinction between persons seeking regular and 
those seeking casual employment. 
(Section XVII, paragraph 2.) 


Dlicit arms ... 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 9. 7 


Limitation of hours of sale of liquors 
(Section XVIII, paragraph 13.) 


See pages 93, 94 


See page 10 


See page 27 
See page 25 


See page 26 


See page 27 


See page 33 


a 
EE ee 
a . . . 


See page 50 


See page 49 


See page 63 
See page 46 
See page 52 
See pages 155, 210 


See page 80 


See page 190 


See page 76 


See page 90. 


See page 91 


Page 99. 


Page 100. 


Page 101. 


Page 101. 


Page 101. 


Page 101. 


Page 101. 
Page 102. 


Page 102. 


Page 102. 


Page 102. 


Page 103. 


Page 343. 


tent. 


(Section XVITI, paragraph 24.) 
Number of Arab girls in town schools... 


xl 


(Section XIX, paragraph 12.) 


Malaria campaign ... 
_ (Section XX, paragraph 2. ) 
Prevalence of ankylostomiasis and tuberculosis 


in certain parts of Palestine. 


(Section XX, paragraph 2.) 
Expenditure on Public Health by Government... 


(Section XX, paragraph 13.) 


Water supply 


(Section XX, paragraph ‘B; 


paragraph 31 et seq.) 
Jerusalem Electricity Concession ... 


(Section VIII, paragraph 3.) 


(Section XX, paragraph 8.) 


Consumption of arak; control of alcoholic con- 


Section XXVL 


Puerperal fever and number of dayahs ... 


Concentration of all information about tithes in 


the same paragraph of Finance chapter. 
(Section X XI, paragraph 14.) 


(Section X XJ, paragraph 14.) 


(Section XXI, paragraph 15.) 


(Introductory, paragraph 40; 
paragraph 10, and Note at end of Chapter.) 


Full amount of tithes to be shown in Report 


Explanatiqn of increased figure of grant-in-aid 
in 1931. 


Exodus of Jews to found a settlement in Biro- 
Bedjian. 

(Section IV, paragraph 9.) 

Insufficient accommodation in schools 


Seetion XLX, 


See page 95° 


See page 101 
See page 116 


See pages 117, 118 


See page 125 


See pages 120, 193 


See page 56 
See page 121 


See page 137 


See page 137 


See page 137 


See page 27 


See pages I1, 101,115 


xu 
NOTE. 
At its Seventeenth Session, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission of the League of Nations specially requested that the Sec- 
tions of this Report might be arranged in the order of subjects 


adopted by the Commission for its annual examination, that is, 
in the order of the questions in its Questionnaire on the Palestine 


Mandate, namely :— 
I. Jewish National Home. 
II. Autonomous Administration. 
III. Jewish Agency. 
IV. Immigration and Emigration. 
V. Land Regime. 
VI. Nationality. 
VII. Judicial System. 
VIII. Economic Equality. 
IX. Holy Places. 
X. Freedom of Conscience. 
XI. Military Clauses. 
AII. International Conventions. 
XIII. Antiquities. 
XIV. Official Languages. 
XV. Holy Days. 
XVI. Trans-Jordan. 
XVII. Labour. 
XVIII. Trade in and Manufacture of Drugs 
XIX. Education. 
XX. Public Health. 
XXI. Public Finance. 
XXII. Demographic Statistics. 
2. This order has been followed, except that, for convenience, 
the Section on T'rans-Jordan, which is self-contained, has been 


removed from its order according to the Questionnaire and placed 
at the end of the Report. 


An Introductory Section and Sections on Customs, Excise 


and Trade, Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture, Public Works, 
and Railways are also included in the Palestine portion of the 
Report. There are no specific headings for these matters in the 
Questionnaire. 


Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United 
Kingdom of Great Britainand Northern Ireland 
to the Council of the League of Nations on the 
Administration of Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
for the year 1932 


PALESTINE. 
INTRODUCTORY. 


Position, etc. 


Palestine lies on the western edge of the continent of Asia be- 
tween latitude 30° N. and 33° N., longitude 34°30’ E. and 35°30’ E. 

On the south it is bounded by Egyptian and Saudi Arabian 
territory, on the east by Trans-Jordan, on the north by the French 
Mandated Territories of Syria and the Lebanon and on the west 
by the Mediterranean. 


The boundaries are described as follows :— 


South.—From a point west of Rafa on the Mediterranean 
to a point two miles west of Aqaba in the Gulf of Aqaba. 

East.—From a point two miles west of Aqaba in the Gulf 
of Aqaba up the centre of the Wadi Araba, the Dead Sea, 
and the River Jordan, to the junction of the latter with the 
River Yarmuk, thence up the centre of the River Yarmuk to 
the Syrian frontier. 

North.—The northern boundary was laid down by the Anglo- 
French Convention of the 23rd December, 1920, and its 
delimitation was ratified in 1923. Stated briefly the boundary 
runs from Ras el Naqura on the Mediterranean eastwards to 
Metulla and across the upper Jordan Valley to Banias, thence 
to Jisr Banat Yaqub, thence along the Jordan to the Lake 
of Tiberias on to El Hamme station on the Samakh-Deraa rail- 
way line. 

West.—The Mediterranean Sea. 


Area and Climate. 


2. The average length of Palestine from south to north is 
about 160 miles and its extreme width from east to west is less 
than 70 miles, the total area being approximately 10,100 square 
miles inclusive of a water area of 261 square miles (the Dead Sea, 
the Lake of Tiberias, and Lake Huleh). In size it is therefore 
comparable to Wales or Belgium. 

3. The climate of Palestine, affected by the neighbouring deserts 
of Arabia and Nubia as well as by nearby temperate zones, is 
characterized generally by a dry, warm, but not excessively het 


2 


summer, and a mild winter with heavy periodical rainfalls accom- 
panied by high cold winds; frost is rare. But the typical climate 
is varied by the diverse topography of the country. In the south 
and south-west, there are wide expanses of sand dunes and desert. 
The remainder of the country falls naturally into three longitudinal! 
strips, the maritime plain, the mountainous regions (or Central 
Highlands), and the Jordan Valley. Each of these strips, which 
are more closely described below, is climatically distinct. 


The climate of the maritime plain is warm but equable; the heat 
of summer and the cold of winter are both tempered by the westerly 
winds from the Mediterranean. In the central highlands there is 
a greater range of temperature both daily and seasonal, and the 
maximum temperature is a few degrees lower than in the coastal 
plains. Snow and hail occasionally fall in Jerusalem and Hebron, 
and the winter storms are accompanied by penetrating winds 
which necessitate the use of clothing suitable for a cold English 
climate. 


The Jordan Valley is tropical. The high air pressure and the 
excessive heat in summer combine to produce most oppressive 
conditions, but the winter in this region is warm and balmy. 


The maritime plain and the central highlands are both healthy, 
though the one, on account of greater humidity is relaxing in its 
effects, while the other, through sudden changes of temperature, 
predisposes to chills and respiratory complaints. 


4. The following records (taken in 1927) are typical of the three 
climatic zones :— 


Maritime Central Jordan 
Plain Highlands Valley 
Haifa. Jerusalem. Tiberias. 
Mean temperature ... Summer 77°F. 70°F. 83°F. 
Winter 60°F. 52°F. 62°F. 
Mean daily maximum Summer — 83°F. 95°F. 
temperature. Winter — 60°F. 72°F. 
Mean daily minimum... Summer — 60°F. 71°F. 
Winter — 44°F. 54°F. 
Absolute maximum Summer 104°F. 102°F. 114°F. 
temperature. 
Absolute minimum Winter 35°F. 21°F. 34°F. 
temperature. 
Relative humidity ... Summer 69 percent. 55 percent. 651 per cent. 


Winter 70 percent. 68 percent. 64 per cent. 


5. Rainfall is of supreme importance in Palestine and any reduc- 
tion in its quantity arouses concern for the prospects of agriculture 
and water conservation generally. The mean volume of annual 
rainfall is roughly equal to that of the rainfall in the east of 
England. 


There are two well-marked periods of precipitation; the former 
rain in October and November is not usually large; during 
December, January, and February, the rainfall steadily increases, 








3 


in March it begins to abate, and it is practically ended in April. 
The characteristic winds are the moist west and south-west of 
winter and the dry north and north-west of summer. Desert heat 
is brought by the sirocco from the hot deserts of the south or east 
generally in April and May and occasionally in September and 
October. 


6. Along the greater part of the western seaboard lies a stretch 
of fertile plain of sand and sandy loam soil. In the south this plain 
has an average width of about 20 miles, but it gradually narrows 
to the north until at Mount Carmel, near Haifa, the hills approach 
to within a few hundred yards of the sea. Beyond Carmel the plain 
widens again, but in this area it is marshy and malarial. 


The second strip consists of two distinct mountainous regions 
divided sharply by the Plain of Esdraelon. To the north of that 
Plain are the mountains of Galilee extending beyond the Syrian 
frontier and rising at Jebel Jermak to a height of 3,934 feet above 
sea-level; to the south are the mountains of Samaria and Judea 
which in places reach heights little less than those of Galilee. Most 
of this second strip of country is desolate and stony, but at irregular 
intervals there occur stretches of fertile land capable of deep 
tillage. 

The Plain of Esdraelon, which cuts so sharply through the 
mountain system of Palestine, is roughly triangular in shape. 
Though the soil is here of a heavier and more clayey texture than 
that of the coastal plain, Esdraelon is proverbially fertile and is 
especially suitable for cereal production. 


The third and eastern strip of country is the Jordan V alley, a 
natural depression which, starting from sea-level in the extreme 
north of the country, falls gradually to a depth of 1,300 feet below 
that level at the Dead Sea about 100 miles to the south. 


7. The capital of Palestine is Jerusalem, sited in the midst of the 
hills of Judea, and the principal towns are Haifa, with its modern 
harbour in the north at the entrance to the Plain of Esdraelon ; 
Jaffa, a second port which lies some 40 miles west-north-west of 
Jerusalem ; Tel-Aviv, which is contiguous to Jaffa; and Nablus, the 
ancient Sichem, in the hills of Samaria. Jerusalem has a majority 
of Jewish inhabitants ; in Haifa, the people are predominantly ‘Arab 
though there is a large Jewish element; Tel-Aviv is an entirely 
Jewish township of 48,000 inhabitants. In Jaffa a large majority 
of the people are Arabs, and in Nablus, apart from a small com- 
munity of Samaritans, all the people are Arabs. 


Other important towns where the population consists of both 
Arabs and Jews are Hebron, 20 miles to the south of Jerusalem, 
Tiberias, on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee, and Safad, a 


remote town in mountainous country in the extreme north of 
Palestine. 


4 


Changes in personnel, 1932. 


8. Sir Steuart Spencer Davis, C.M.G., Treasurer to the Pales- 
tine Government, vacated that office in August, 1932, on appoint- 
ment as Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the island of St. 
Helena. 

Mr. W. J. Johnson, O.B.E., Deputy Treasurer, has been 
appointed to succeed him. 

Major C. H. Ley, O.B.E., Director of Surveys, retired from the 
Public Service on grounds of ill-health in April, and Mr. F. J. 
Salmon, M.C., Surveyor-General in Cyprus, is to take his place. 

Mr. L. French, C.I.E., C.B.E., resigned from the office of 
Director of Development in November for private reasons. 

Mr. F. G. Lowick, Settlement Officer, has been appointed 
Registrar of Co-operative Societies. 

Musa Eff. Alami, Assistant Government Advocate, has been 
appointed to the staff of His Excellency the High Commissioner as 
Private Secretary. 


Public Security. 


9. Public security was not endangered during the year and there 
was no outbreak of racial disorder. 


10. The beginning of the year was marked by a recrudescence of 
agrarian crime, taking the form of the uprooting of trees or wound- 
ing of cattle. For the most part, this was the outcome of feuds 
between Arab villages originating in boundary disputes or family 
differences ; but in Tulkarm sub-district, where this type of wrong- 
doing is common, certain new Jewish centres were the sufferers. 
A summary fine upon the offending villagers and the imposition of 
a punitive police post put a speedy end to the trouble and special 
steps have been taken to bring the unruly district under closer 
police surveillance. 


11. In a number of cases disputes over pasturage or squatting 
rights led to clashes between Jewish watchmen or shepherds and 
Arabs, in which shots and blows were exchanged. Where graver 
breaches of the peace threatened, action was taken by the District 
Commissioner under the Land Disputes (Possession) Ordinance 
to establish one or the other party in undisturbed possession of the 
disputed area pending a judicial decision as to the conflicting 
claims to ownership. 


12. The revolt of Ibn Rifada against the King of Saudi Arabia 
caused little excitement in Palestine. In the south, due pre- 
cautions were taken to prevent the entry of Ibn Rifada’s adherents, 
whether on their way to join his forces or dispersing after his defeat 
and death. 


13. The reorganization of the Intelligence Service of the De- 
partment of Police and Prisons is proceeding and there has been 
a definite improvement in the efficiency of the Service as a result. 





5 


Separate constabularies maintained by the larger municipalities 
and by the township of Tel-Aviv have been converted into State 
Police; the cost to public funds of these additions to the State 
Force is to be offset by contributions to revenue from the local 
authorities concerned. This arrangement, combined with certain 
changes introduced by the Inspector-General in the organization 
and disposition of the Force under his command, have led to a 
marked increase in the efficiency of the Force and in its ability 
to detect crime. Of this improvement the success of the measures 
adopted to subdue agrarian crime in the Tulkarm sub-district and 
the decrease in the number of highway robberies in 1932 are notable 
examples. 
Policy. 

14. The policy of His Majesty’s Government in Palestine is 
subject to the provisions of the Mandate. Statements of their 
policy are contained in the White Paper of 1922, (Cmd. 1700), 
and in the White Paper of October, 1930 (Cmd. 3692). The Prime 
Minister’s letter to Dr. Weizmann dated the 13th February, 1931, 
was issued as an authoritative interpretation of the latter on certain 
points as to which misconceptions and miSunderstandings had 
arisen. 


15. The intention of the Mandatory as regards the establishment 
of a Legislative Council in Palestine remains unchanged from that 
announced in the 1930 White Paper. It is proposed to take steps 
towards the formation of the Council when the new Local Govern- 
ment Ordinance, which is at present being considered by the 
Palestine Government after consultation with the Executive of 
the Jewish Agency, the Arab Executive, and the various munici- 
palities, has been brought into working order. The proposals for a 
Legislative Council will necessarily contain definite safeguards so 
that in no circumstances can the peace or safety and security of 
Palestine be endangered or the carrying out of the Mandate, which 
involves the discharge of a two-fold duty towards the Jewish 
people on the one hand and the non-Jewish inhabitants of Palestine 
on the other, be hampered. 


16. Meanwhile, the Palestine Government has exerted every 
effort to bring representatives of all sections of the community into 
closer association with Government and thus with each other. 
Moslems, Christians, and Jews serve together on the General 
Agricultural Council and its various sub-committees, and unofficial 
members representing the different interests or communities con- 
cerned have been appointed to the Railway and Road Boards, to 
the Labour Legislation Committee, and to the Standing Committee 
for Commerce and Industry. 


Development. 


li. The Reports of the Director of Development were presented 
to the High Commissioner early in the year. Copies have been 


6 


communicated to the Arab Executive and to the Jewish Agency, 
and no decisions will be taken until the Reports have been con- 
sidered by His Majesty’s Government in the light of the observa- 
tions of these two bodies and of any comments which the High 
Commissioner may make when he has received their observations. 


18. Up to the 3lst December, 1932, the Department of Develop- 
ment had received 3,188 applications for admission to the Register 
of Landless Arabs from persons claiming that they had been dis- 
placed from the lands which they occupied in consequence of those 
lands passing into Jewish ownership, and that they had not yet 
obtained other holdings on which they could establish themselves 
or other equally satisfactory occupation. 

19. So far, 542 claims have been accepted, 2,441 have been dlis- 
allowed, and 205 are still under examination. Each claim has been 
examined by the Legal Assessor (His Honour Judge H. A. Webb, 
K.C., President of the District Court, Nablus) and the Jewish 
Agency has been given an opportunity of testing the claims by 
reference to its own record of the land transactions concerned. 


20. The Palestine, Government has acquired 5,740 dunums of 
irrigated land in the Baisan sub-district at a cost of about £P25,000 
on which to resettle the displaced Arabs belonging to the northern 
section of the Wadi Hawareth tribe. Meanwhile, these Arabs are 
continuing to cultivate some 3,000 dunums of land in the Wadi 
Hawareth as sub-tenants of the Government, which is lessee to 
the Jewish National Fund. 


21. An economic survey is being carried out in a number of 
villages in the coastal plain in order to ascertain what areas in 
these villages are capable of closer settlement. 

In the Negeb, or arid region of Beersheba, experimental drilling 
is being carried out by means of special plant in the hope of tapping 
underground water fit for purposes of irrigation. Success here 
might mean restoring to the plough and habitation a large area 
at present unproductive and underpopulated. Water has already 
been reached in considerable quantity, but still of excessive salinity. 


22. Work is progressing slowly at Lake Huleh, under the Con- 
cession held by the Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Company for the 
drainage and reclamation of this marshy area. The construction 
of a new bridge over the Jordan at Jisr Banat Yaqub, which is 
the preliminary to the deepening of the river channel as the first 
stage of the drainage plan, was in hand at the end of the year. 

23. Reconstruction of the irrigation system at Jericho is bringing 
about a large increase in the area of intensive cultivation, and the 
Baisan system has been partially reconstructed with satisfactory 
results. 

24. The registration of co-operative societies, hitherto carried 
out by an officer of the Legal Department, has been entrusted to 
a specially trained Registrar whose first task it will be, in association 





7 


with the Development Officer, to organize co-operative societies 
among Arab farmers. Judging from the results attending the co- 
operative movement among Jewish settlers, this should prove an 
effective means of improving Arab methods of cultivation and of 
enhancing the fellah’s income from the land. 


Agriculture and Land. 


25. On the recommendations of the Committee to enquire into 
arrears of taxation (see 1931 Report, page 7, paragraph 18), it was 
decided to waive the indebtedness of fellahin and farmers to the 
following extent :— 


£P. 
(i) Mule loans in i 7 ~~ 5 ,400 
(11) Seed loans hee pee Kis ees gos 6 ,000 
(ii) Other loans .... cag oe me mee 2, ,500 
(iv) Werko ... As ce ed ats oe 5,000 
(v) Tithes ... ae = ie ie ... 80,000 


It was necessary to grant this indulgence in view of the fact that 
in the overwhelming majority of instances the debtor was genuinely 
unable to pay, so that to have pressed for collection would have 
been as unprofitable an expenditure of money, time, and trouble 
to Government as it would have been an exasperation to the 
villagers, who were in sore straits owing to a succession of bad 
agricultural seasons. But this relief was not enough. The mis- 
fortunes of the previous years were repeated in 1932 and poor rains 
brought about a general failure of the winter crops, which yielded 
less than 50 per cent. of the normal. The summer crops were 
hardly any better and the situation was aggravated by the scarcity 
of grazing due to drought, which seemed likely to decimate the 
villagers’ plough oxen where they had not been sold to obtain 
money for meeting tax and other obligations. 

The Palestine Government therefore remitted £P173,000 out of a 
total assessment of £P246,000 of the commuted tithe, including 
that pavable by tenants of State Domain. This remission repre- 
sented, in part, a general reduction from 10 to 74 per cent. in the 
rate of the tithe and the remainder represented rebates of varying 
percentages of the balance due, proportioned to the extent of loss 
or hardship suffered in mdividual cases. 

In addition, funds amounting to £P35,000 were set aside to 
be distributed in loans to cultivators for the purchase of seed, 
forage, plough oxen, and other requisites for the winter sowing. 
The interest payable on these loans is at the rate of 5 per cent. 
per annum and 9 per cent. on arrears of due instalments. 


26. Reference has already been made (see paragraph 11 supra) 
to the Land Disputes (Possession) Ordinance. The Protection ot 
Cultivators Ordinance (see 1931 Report, page 6, paragraph 14) 
remains in force. These two Ordinances have been enacted in 


8 


view of the special circumstances attending dispossession 
in Palestine, where absentee landlords sell large estates with 
little consideration for their tenant-cultivators or for occupiers 
with customary rights from time immemorial. Occupancy without 
formal title is a most common form of landholding in Palestine, 
and frequently rests on nothing more tangible than a verbal under- 
taking between occupant and owner, or upon recognized and un- 
disturbed practice. If, therefore, cases occur in which land is 
not vacant for occupation by the person who obtains the title- 
deeds by purchase, it is the duty of Government to prevent 
occupancy from passing unless it is satisfied that existing rights 
have been fully taken into account and that, if dispossession is 
unavoidable, due provision is being made for the future livelihood 
of the persons dispossessed. 


27. The year has witnessed a considerable extension of the 
facilities which are provided by Government through its agricultural 
stations for the improvement of farming practice. ‘The object of 
the Government Department is to ameliorate the quality of stock, 
of seed, and of fruit trees throughout the country, and to encourage 
better methods of husbandry, especially in the hill districts, so 
that by augmenting his production and minimizing his purchases 
of foodstuffs the fellah may become as nearly self-supporting as 
possible. This end will be advanced if olive, fruit, and vegetable 
growing is combined with the cultivation of cereals. 

A further form of agricultural instruction is given by means of 
school gardens, in rural areas, where the pupils, who are to form 
the next generation of cultivators, are taught simple farming prac- 
tice under the supervision of Government instructors. 

With the construction of new stations, at Farradiya in the heart 
of the potentially productive hill district of Safad, and at Majdal 
to meet the requirements of southern Palestine, the practical and 
material assistance which the Palestine agriculturist requires for 
improvement of his plantation, crops, and farm stock will be at 
his disposal at convenient centres in every important agricultural 
zone. At each station there are sections for general agriculture, 
horticulture, poultry, and beekeeping. Farmers are instructed by 
means of demonstration plots in the different varieties of cereal 
and leguminous crops; selected seeds are sold at low prices to them 
as well as chicks and eggs of approved strains; the cleaning of 
grain is illustrated by special plant ; and budwood and seedlings are 
issued gratis. 

At the Acre station there is also a Stock Farm and the pedigree 
animals are in general demand for grading up the local breeds. 

28. The Government has taken steps to acquire land for a citrus 
demonstration grove in the orange belt near Jaffa and in connection 
therewith a grant of £P3,000 will be made to the Agricultural Fx- 
perimental Station of the Jewish Agency at Rehovot to supplement 
the annual expenditure of £P5,000 by the Agency on experiments 


9 


and research designed to improve the output and value of what is 
the most important industry of the country. The Jewish Agency is 
also being assisted by a grant of £P300 to maintain plots for 
demonstrating methods of intensive farming and a second grant of 
the same amount for horticultural experiments in a hillside settle- 
ment near Jerusalem. The Government Department is undertaking 
feeding experiments with oats and vetch and is importing selected 
bulls from Syria with a view to improving the local breed of plough 
oxen. Experiments in improving natural pasturaer and in growing 
maize as fodder are also contemplated. 


29. A series of 31 observation stations has been established in 
the coastal plain between Ras el Naqura and Rafa on private and 
municipal wells, yielding valuable information as to the seasonal 
fluctuation of the level of the underground water-table. The 
observation stations are so placed that a check can be kept on 
subterranean water conditions in their relation to the rapid annual 
increase in the area under citrus culture. 


30. In view of the persistence of black scale infection in the 
citrus groves of Northern Palestine and its spread into the Jaffa 
areas, the Government has decided, after a special survey of the 
situation, to carry out a complete scheme of fumigation next year 
and thereafter vigorously to enforce a continuous programme of 
scale control from year to year. This control is properly regarded 
a8 @ routine operation in the production of citrus fruit and the 
expenditure on this control as a normal item in the cost of produc- 
tion which must be met by cultivators. No part of the expenditure 
will therefore be accepted as a charge upon the general taxpayer 
of Palestine and recovery of any expenses incurred by the Govern- 
ment Entomological Service on behalf of defaulting growers will 
be effected by legal process. Seedlings will, however, be 
issued without charge to replace trees cut out as unproductive, 
and technical advice and assistance will be given freely in budding 
for the replanting of groves. Some rebate will also be allowed of 
fumigation charges by way of compensation for the value of trees 
destroyed in the process. 


31. For the protection of the local cereal farmers, as well as in 
the interests of the milling industry, the import duties on wheat 
and flour have been so modified that the duty on wheat is high 
when the local crop is harvested and on the market, and low during 
the season when no Palestinian wheat is available ; and the margin 
of difference between the duty on wheat and that on flour has been 
increased. 


32. The importation of acid and olive oils is regulated under a 
system of licences so that, while manufacturers of acid oil soaps 
can obtain the supply which they need, the market for local olive 
oil is preserved and the interests and the reputation of the pure olive 
oil soaps of Palestine are safeguarded. 


10 


33. Mr. B. P. Uvarov of the Imperial Institute of Entomology 
visited Palestine during the year for the purpose of a research on 
the desert locust which is being conducted by the Institute. There 
was no appearance this year of locust swarms in Palestine. 


34. The Land Department has been busy with the registration 
of the schedules of rights compiled by Settlement Officers. The 
production of these schedules has been extremely rapid, thanks 
to the satisfactory speed with which settlement is proceeding. The 
transactions in rural lands have not been many and no large 
transfers are pending; for the most part dispositions have taken 
place in the towns, reflecting the intense building activity in the 
principal centres. 


In the course of settlement, steps have been taken to partition 
undivided village land wherever possible and the benefits of this 
division as it takes place become visible almost at once in improve- 
ment of cultivation under the stimulus of individual effort. 


35. The Committee which was appointed in December, 1931, to 
consider the replacement of the Commuted Tithe and Werko by a 
single Land Tax (see 1931 Report, Introductory, page 7, paragraph 
17), submitted its recommendations, and legislation is being drafted 
to give effect to the consequential decisions taken by Government. 


36. Progress in the fiscal survey was maintained, and lands in 
173 villages, covering an area of 2,111,679 metric dunums, were 
divided into fiscal blocks and the land in each block was valued. 


387. The Urban Property Tax was applied to the urbanized 
villages of Majdal, Petah-Tiqva, Rehovot, and Rishon-le-Tsiyon, 
where it will come into force on the Ist April, 1933. 


38. The Permanent Mandates Commission has asked for par- 
ticulars of the cession of two northern villages to Palestine in 1930 
by Syria and Trans-Jordan, respectively, which was mentioned in 
paragraph 20 of page 7 in the Report for 1930. 


One of these villages consists of 500 dunums of land containing 
the mineral springs of El Hamme and some few huts and tents 
occupied by cultivators from a neighbouring settlement in Trans- 
Jordan. This area was taken over from Trans-Jordan on the 
ratification of the Agreement between His Majesty’s Government 
and His Highness the Amir of Trans-Jordan and in virtue of 
Article 2 of that Agreement whereby the boundary between the 
two countries was declared to be the median line of the Yarmuk 
River in the area in question. 


In the course of this adjustment, it was discovered that a part 
of the lands of the Syrian frontier village Kafr Harib lay within 
the territory of Palestine, and this part was consequently included 
in the tithe lists of the Palestine Government. This is the second 
of the ‘‘ villages *’ in question. 


11 


Education. 


39. The Education Ordinance is to be enacted in January, 1933, 
and the text is printed in Appendix I to this Report, together with 
the text of the Regulations which are being made under the Ordi- 
nance. The Ordinance has been carefully framed so as to meet the 
special requirements of non-Government schools conducted by 
foreign religious and charitable organizations, and the regulations 
for its application give clear expression to the intention of Govern- 
ment to refrain from all interference in the conduct and manage- 
ment of private schools which is not absolutely necessary for the 
maintenance of order and good government. 


40. A Committee was appointed by the High Commissioner to 
enquire into the accommodation available in Government town 
schools and to make recommendations for increasing that accom- 
modation so as to permit of the admission of a larger number of 
applicants. 


As a result of the recommendations of the Committee, the | 
Government is increasing the roll of teachers to supply deficiencies 
in the staffs of town and village schools and is renting or con- 
structing additional schoolrooms. 


Commerce and Industry. 


41. The economic and fiscal conditions of Palestine continue to 
be favourable in comparison with the depression which besets most 
of the countries of the world at present. There is no abatement 
in the building activity at Jerusalem, Haifa, and Tel-Aviv. 


42. The process of consolidation of local industries and the 
winning of local and neighbouring markets is steadily maintained ~ 
and the placing of new areas under citrus cultivation proceeds 
apace. The Palestine orange finds an ever increasing market in 
Kurope. 


43. The Post Office again shows a profit on the year’s working, 
and the Railways are slowly regaining some of the traffic which 
had been diverted to the roads. 


44. It is anticipated that the Haifa Harbour will be open to 
traffic in October, 1933; it is already sufficiently advanced towards 
completion to be able to accommodate large vessels calling at the 
port, and consignments of oranges, railed to the quayside, have 
been shipped on board steamers moored to the lee breakwater. A 
destroyer flotilla of the Mediterranean Fleet anchored within the 
harbour in September and October. 


45. The pipe line of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company has been laid 
for a considerable distance in Trans-Jordan. The company’s 
headquarters are established at Haifa and its private telephone 
route has been laid. 


12 


46. A trans-desert motor service, organized by an ‘Iraqi com- 
pany, has been started from Baghdad via Amman to Jerusalem, 
and has met with a considerable measure of success. The Palestine 
Government has granted it the contract for the conveyance of 
mais and is considering an application for certain Customs 
facilities. 

47. In consultation with the Standing Committee for Commerce 
and Industry, on which there are three Arab and two Jewish un- 
official members, Government has pursued a policy of facilitating 
the development of local industries either by the exemption of the 
raw materials from payment of import duty or by levying 
protective tariffs. 


48. 'The Levant Fair held at Tel-Aviv in the spring of this year 
attracted a large number of visitors. A considerable amount of 
business was transacted at it and many trade openings were 
created. Plans are now being made for an Arab Exhibition to 
be held at Jaffa in 1933. 


49. In view of the large volume of imports and exports at the 
Port of Jaffa, the Customs staff has been substantially increased so 
as to accelerate the clearance of goods, and various improvements 
and enlargements of storage space are being arranged to the same 
end. 

50. An index of the sound position of the country is the revenue 
from import duties, which in the twelve months of the year under 
review amounted to £P1,193,683. The total revenue for the 
financial year 1932-33 as a whole is expected to exceed the ex- 
penditure by £P439,000, leaving a surplus balance at the 31st 
March, 19383, of approximately £P1,170,000. 


51. These favourable circumstances created openings for new 
employment in the various branches of trade and industry and it 
was found possible to authorize the admission of 4,200 men and 
2,000 women during the year as labour immigrants on the applica- 
tion of the Jewish Agency. 


52. An Automobile Association has been formed in Palestine and 
is affihated to the International Association of Recognized Auto- 
mobile Clubs. The Government of Palestine has decided in the 
first instance to grant a period of six months’ franchise from import 
duty to visiting cars of members of other affiliated automobile 
clubs and it is hoped that this concession will be the means of 
attracting tourists to Palestine. 


Jewish Affairs. 

53. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) is still occupied in the 
organization of its Local Committees and Rabbinical Offices. Its 
budget for the financial year October, 1931, to September, 1932, 
amounting to approximately £P6,000, was approved by the High 


13 


Commissioner in accordance with the Jewish Community Regula- 
tions, 1927, but it is experiencing some difficulty in obtaining its 
due contributions from local communities. 


54. By arrangement with the Jewish Agency, the General Council 
(Vaad Leumi) is to assume responsibility henceforward for the 
administration of the Hebrew public school system, towards the 
expenditure upon which the Government makes, at present, an 
annual contribution of approximately £P20,000. The contribution 
is to be increased next year, subject to fulfilment of certain con- 
ditions, to some £P26,000. 


55. During 1932 there has been no development in the affairs 
of the Zionist Organization or the Jewish Agency calling for 
comment by His Majesty’s Government. The President of the 
Agency, Mr. Nahum Sokolow, paid a visit to Palestine towards 
the end of the year. 

The differences between the General Zionists and the Revisionist 
group have not yet been resolved, but the local representatives of 
Revisionism have shown themselves less irreconcilable and are 
taking part in the Councils of the Community. 


56. The Central Agudath Israel renewed its application to be 
recognized as a separate community by Government, but it has 
not been possible to accede to its request. 

Rabbi Chaim Sonnenfeld, the religious head of the Central 
Agudath Israel, died in March, 1932, and a distinguished Rabbi 
of Czechoslovakia has been chosen to succeed him. 


Arab Affairs. 


57. The Arab Press continues to attack the policy of the Man- 
datory and certain leaders of Arab opinion have not hesitated 
to discuss the possibility of non-co-operation. The two main 
parties are still those of the Husseini and Nashashibi factions. A 
third party has been formed under the name of Istiqlal (Indepen- 
dence) Party. The trend of Arab feeling can be gauged from the 
boycott of the Levant Fair at Tel-Aviv by Arabs and from the 
announcement that Jews are not to be invited to participate in 
the proposed Arab Fair in 1933. Representative Arabs invited to 
serve as members on a Government Education Committee expressed 
their inability to accept, and two Arab members appointed to the 
Road Board resigned shortly after their appointment. 


58. There has been some friction between the Moslem and 
Christian elements, largely related to the preponderance of 
Christians in the subordinate posts of Government. A _ bitter 
campaign was conducted in the Moslem Press against the alleged 
favouritism enjoyed by the Christian community in obtaining 
Government appointments and the dispute was pointedly empha- 
sized by a Moslem celebration of the Saracenic victory at the Horns 
of Hattin over the Crusading Army. 


14 


_ 59. The Supreme Moslem Sharia Council relies for its revenue 
mainly on receipts from assigned waqf tithes, the average collec- 
tions of which amounted to £P28,000 per annum. As a result 
of remissions and reductions of the tithe granted in recent years 
as a measure of relief to cultivators, the revenues of the Council 
were seriously affected. Actual collections were reduced to approxi- 
mately £P12,000; a figure at which it was impossible to maintain 
the services entrusted to the Council under the Order of 1921. 
It was therefore decided to come to an arrangement with the 
Supreme Moslem Sharia Council, and it was agreed, in order to 
stabilize their revenue, to replace the payment of actual collection 
of assigned waqf tithes, which was previously treated as a refund 
of revenue, by an annual payment of £P23,000 chargeable to ex- 
penditure. The agreement included, inter alia, the introduction of 
certain reforms in the financial system under the advice and 
guidance of Government, the increase of revenue and the reduction 
of expenditure of the Sharia Courts and the investigation of the 
claims of the Waqf Administration to the revenue from certain 
additional assigned waqf tithes. 

There is some reason to hope that the good will shown by the 
Government and the Council during the negotiations which re- 
sulted in the re-establishment of the finances of the Council will 
promote relations of mutual confidence between Government and 
the Moslem Community of Palestine as a whole. 


60. The election of an Orthodox Patriarch (see 1931 Report, 
page 12, paragraph 41) has still to take place. 

The application of the Lay Community to the High Court, 
through the Executive of the Arab Orthodox Congress, for an 
Order staying the election was granted, the Court holding that 
the preliminary proceedings had not been taken in accordance 
with the Fundamental Law of the Orthodox Patriarchate (see 
Appendix D to the Bertram-Young Report (Oxford University 
Press), 1926). The locum tenens of the Patriarchate, acting upon 
the advice of the Holy Synod, did not allow himself to be repre- 
sented at the hearing of the application, as the Synod challenged 
the jurisdiction of the Court on the ground that any decisions in 
regard to matters relating to the Patriarchate had always been 
given by administrative and not judicial authority. The Court, 
however, ruled that it had jurisdiction under Section 6 (b) of the 
Courts Ordinance, 1924. The preliminary difficulties as to the 
election are to be resolved by legislation. 


Miscellaneous. ‘ 


61. The Labour Legislation Committee (see the 1931 Report, 
page 14, paragraph 45) has not yet completed its deliberations, but 
interim reports have already been presented to Government with 
regard to workmen’s compensation, compulsory health insurance, 
the employment of women and children in industry, and minimum 


15 


wage fixing machinery. The Palestine Government is now con- 
sidering these interim reports with a view to the enactment 
of legislation giving effect to such of the Committee’s recommenda- 
tions as it may be found practicable at this stage to adopt. 


62. The High Commissioner has conferred with the Mayors of 
Palestine for the discussion of municipal affairs and future municipal 
policy, and met representatives of the Chambers of Commerce and 
addressed them with regard to a number of outstanding questions 
which had been the subject of representation to Government by the 
commercial community. 


63. For the first time, the budget of the Government and the 
Financial Report of the Treasurer have been published for general 
information. 


64. With effect from the 1st April, 1932, the financial and account- 
ing period of the Government, which has been the calendar year 
since 1928, was altered to the period of 12 months from April to 
March. 


65. On the King’s Birthday, the battalion of British infantry 
stationed at Jerusalem carried out the ceremony of the trooping 
of the colour in the presence of the High Commissioner and 
Commander-in-Chief. 


66. The hydro-electric station of the Palestine Electric Corpora- 
tion at Jisr Majamie was formally opened by the High Commis- 
sioner in March in the presence of His Highness the Amir Abdullah 
of Trans-Jordan, and can now supply current to the entire con- 
cession area. The fuel stations at Tiberias, Tel-Aviv, and Haifa 
are now, for all practical purposes, reserve stations. 


I.—JEWISH NATIONAL HOME. 


6,730 Jewish immigrants were admitted to Palestine in 1932, cf 
whom 6,200 were working men and women authorized under the 
Labour Schedules. In addition, some 3,000, already in the country 
as travellers and otherwise, were registered as immigrants, having 
shown themselves qualified for registration under one or other 
category. There has been a considerable immigration of persons 
of independent means. 


Special facilities have been given for the admission of the parents 
of persons already settled in the country, and 100 young female 
relatives of such persons were allowed to enter in addition to those 
for whom individual applications were made in the ordinary way. 

A new category of immigrants has been brought into force which 
permits the entry of persons in possession of capital ranging from 
£P500 to £P1,000. This is designed to facilitate the immigration 
of small farmers and independent craftsmen. 


16 


Special facilities were provided by Government as regards pass- 
port, visa, and quarantine formalities to visitors to the Levant Fair 
and the Athletic Sports of the Maccabee Organization. 

The age limit in respect of Rabbis applying for admission for 
settlement in Palestine has been removed and immigration cer- 
tificates are now granted to all Rabbis certified either by the Chief 
Rabbinate of the Jewish Community or by the Central Agudath 
Israel to be duly qualified as Rabbis and to be pursuing a religious 
vocation. 

The age limit of 35 which has hitherto been imposed on 
immigrants applying for admission under the Labour Immigration 
Schedules authorized from time to time has been raised in selected 
cases to 45 years. 


2. Reference will be found in Section ITI of this Report to the 
measures now being devised in order to enable Government to 
determine what proportion of the labour costs on each public work 
may properly be assigned to Jewish labour. It is neither possible 
nor was it intended that the Prime Minister’s assurance should be 
fulfilled by granting to Jews a share of employment on public works 
fixed solely in relation to the Jewish contribution to revenue. The 
Prime Minister’s undertaking was that with regard to public and 
municipal works “‘ falling to be financed out of public funds, the 
claim of Jewish labour to a due share of the employment available, 
taking into account Jewish contributions to public revenue, shall 
be taken into consideration ’’. 

The Administration will continue its endeavours to satisfy the 
just claims of Jewish labour. Already in a number of specific cases, 
contracts have been directly awarded to the General Federation of 
Jewish Labour, or conditions introduced into contracts to ensure 
that a fair proportion of Jews should be employed on the works. 


3. The only important mixed areas in which the question arises 
of Jewish employment upon public works carried out by municipali- 
ties are Jerusalem, Jaffa, and Haifa. In Jerusalem, one-third of 
the permanent staff of the Municipality are Jews; and in various 
works services, ordinary and special, out of a total of 111,445 man- 
days worked in 1932, 31,426, or 28 per cent., were worked by Jews. 
But the percentage amount of the total wages paid to Jews was 
much higher, probably 50 per cent., as Jewish workmen received 
the greater share of the skilled labour, while the unskilled labour 
was largely Arab. On the Jerusalem main drainage scheme, 
£P10,000 will be spent on wages, and the conditions of the contract 
secure that about 50 per cent. of that sum will be earned by Jews. 
A similar apportionment of labour costs has been arranged in two 
smaller works connected with the Jerusalem water supply and in the 
construction of a new abattoir and incinerator for the town. 

In Jaffa, Jews are usually employed for the more technical part 
of the works undertaken by the Municipality, to the average extent 
of 12 per cent. of the total labour engaged. 











17 


The Municipality of Haifa expended £P6,300 on works during 
1932 ; of this amount, 77 per cent. went to Arab and 23 per cent. 
to Jewish labour. In Tiberias, Jewish labour obtained 76 per cent. 
of the work done by the Municipality. 


4. The budget of the General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish 
Community was duly approved by Government and the Council was 
given official assistance in the drawing up of its fiscal proposals 
and system of internal taxation. 

Negotiations have been proceeding between the General Council 
(Vaad Leumi) and the Government with a view to the amendment 
of the Jewish Community Regulations in various ways. It was 
proposed that the arrangements ‘which are laid down in paragraph 18 
of the Regulations (see 1927 Report, page 87) in respect of the 
annual revision of the Register of Adult Jews should be altered so 
as to provide for the automatic inclusion in the register of every 
Jew on reaching the age of maturity and of every Jew who has 
been resident in the country for three years. A second pro- 
posal was to alter the provisions as to grant of licences for the 
baking of unleavened bread, to prohibit its sale without licence, 
and to limit by licence the number of bakers of independent con- 
gregations. Government found itself unable to agree to either of 
these amendments. 

In regard to a third amendment, that the Regulations should 
provide for the prohibition of slaughter or sale of “kosher meat by 
unlicensed persons, Government is disposed to agree provided that 
the Central Agudath Israel, representing the independent congrega- 
tions, accepts the change. But Government did not agree to the 
proposal to limit by licence the number of ritual slaughterers 
belonging to independent congregations. 

The Vaad Leumi applied for a Government subvention towards 
the cost of the Rabbinical Offices and the Rabbinical Courts and 
this matter was still under consideration at the end of the year. 
The Rabbinical Courts derive their revenue from fees over the scale 
of which there is no Government control and the upkeep of the 
Rabbinical Courts is at present provided out of contributions by the 
Committees of Local Communities. 


5. Reference is invited to the summary in Section III of this 
Report of the various new and increased grants in aid of Jewish 
services, health, educational, and agricultural, which the Govern- 
ment has decided to make available in the next financial year. 


II1.—AUTONOMOUS ADMINISTRATION. 


A new Municipal Council was elected in 1932 at Ramallah, 
consisting of six members and a Mayor, all of them Christian 
Arabs. At Bait Jala, also a Christian Arab area, a new Mayor was 
appointed to fill a vacancy caused by death, and the appointment 
was confirmed by the High Commissioner. 


18 


In the mixed Moslem-Christian area of Bait Sahur, a new Local 
Council, consisting of seven members and a President, was elected. 
I'wo of the members are Moslems. 


A new Local Council of fourteen members and a President was 
elected in Tel-Aviv; and new Local Councils were elected in the 
Jewish villages of Ramat Gan and Petah-Tiqva. 

The Local Council of Anebta near Nablus was abolished, having 
ceased, in the opinion of the District Commissioner, sat'sfactorily 
to discharge its functions. 


2. An Order was issued by the High Commissioner modifying 
the boundaries of Ramle municipal area. 


3. A number of by-laws were made by Municipalities and Local 
Councils during the year :— 

(1) at Jerusalem, to regulate the parking of public vehicles 
and prescribing the hours for sale of intoxicating liquors ; 

(ii) at Acre, Baisan, Haifa, Nazareth, Safad, and Tiberias, 
prescribing the hours for sale of intoxicating liquors; 

(11) at Jaffa, prescribing routes for omnibuses and regulating 
the parking of public vehicles; 

(iv) at Majdal, regulating the parking of public vehicles ; 

(v) at Tel-Aviv, for the licensing of bicycles and tricycles; 
for the protection of plants; for opening and voiding cesspits ; 
prescribing closing hours of shops, restaurants, etc. ; prescribing 
the rules to be observed in abattoirs ; 


(vi) at Petah-Tiqva, for the pruning of acacia hedges. 


4. The Electoral Regulations of the Local Council of Petah- 
Tiqva were so amended as to give women the right to participate 
in the election of the Local Council and to be elected as Councillors. 

The Order constituting the Local Council of Rama was amended 
to afford a more equitable distribution of taxes amongst the rate- 
pavers. | 


5. The Local Government Bill (page 16, paragraph 1, of the 
1931 Report). reached a stage when it could be communi- 
cated to Municipal and the principal Local Councils for their 
observations at the beginning of November. The Mayors met in 
conference at Jerusalem to discuss the Bill and agreed upon certain 
general lines of criticism. A small official Committee is now 
engaged upon the revision of the Bill for publication in the light 
of the comments made by local authorities and other bodies, which 
have been consulted. 


6. Exemption from Import Duty has been granted in respect of 
appliances for abattoirs, asphalt sprayers, and  chlorinating 
apparatus for water supplies, in favour of Municipal and Jocal 
Councils. 








19 


7. The validity of the collection of rates by the Local Council 
~ Tel-Aviv over a period of years was challenged by certain rate- 
payers and this challenge was upheld by the Courts. Steps were 
therefore taken by the Palestine Government with a view to enact- 
ing legislation validating the collection and thus to secure a very 
considerable amount of arrears of revenue for the Local Council. 
Validating legislation was also passed to regularize the elections of 
members of the Local Council which were held in 1932 with some 
informality. 

A further Ordinance of this character was passed to validate the 
acts done by the Municipality of Jerusalem in the absence of a 
statutory quorum following the resignation of the Jewish members 
of the Municipal Council. 


By the instrumentality of the Government Treasurer, the local 
branch of Barclays Bank has agreed to grant a loan of £P20,000 
to the Municipality of Nablus on reasonable terms of interest and 
repayment and without Government guarantee, for the financing 
of a much-needed water-supply system. It has also agreed to 
make a loan on similar terms to the Municipality of Gaza for an 
identical purpose. 


Ill.—_ JEWISH AGENCY. 


In other Sections of this Report will be found references in detail 
to the consideration which has been given by the Government of 
Palestine to the possibility of increasing the grants from public 
funds towards the capital and recurrent costs of various services 
conducted by the Jewish Agency; and to the efforts which are 
being made to secure that a due proportion of the employment on 
public works, taking into account the Jewish contribution to 
' Tevenue, shall be assigned to Jewish labour. 


2. It will be sufficient in this Section to summarize the results 
| of this consideration. 


(i) Education.—An increase of the block grant in aid of the 
Jewish public school system, at present £P20,000, to about 
£P26,000, account being taken of the cost of educational services 
tendered by other Departments of Government outside the Educa- 
ton Vote proper, and, generally, of the expenditure which the 
Government Department of Education would incur if called upon 
‘0 provide educational services to all Jewish children of school 
age in Palestine on the scale provided for Arab schoolchildren. 


(i) Health.—A capital grant of £P3,000 for structural improve- 
ments of the Hospital of the Workers’ Sick Fund at Affula. 

A maintenance grant of £P1,700 towards the Hadassah Tuber- 
— Culosis Hospital at Safad. 


- _Acontribution of £P1,500 towards the cost of the School Hygiene 
» and Ophthalmological Service of the Jewish Agency. 


20 


A contribution of £P500 towards the cost of its infant welfare 


service. 


(i) Agriculture.—A grant of £P3,000 towards citrus research 
and experimentation at the Agency’s Agricultural Experiment 
Station at Rehovot. 


Grants of £P300 each to experiments in intensive cultivation . 


plots and hillside horticulture at Jewish settlements. 


(iv) Public Works.—It is intended to scrutinize the programme 
of works for 1933-84 so as to determine precisely in what pro- 
portions Jews and others shall be employed upon each work, regard 
being had, as promised by the Prime Minister, to the Jewish con- 
tribution to revenue, and to the factors of locality, racial distribu- 
tion of local population, nature of work, and labour costs. 


3. The Jewish Agency has made representations to Government 
during the year in regard to the draft Immigration (Consolidating) 
Ordinance, the draft Education Ordinance, the Land Law (Amend- 
ment) Bill, and the Land Disputes (Possession) Ordinance; and 


the Regulations under the Education Ordinance were modified to — 
meet certain of the Agency’s criticisms. The Department of . 


Education of the Jewish Agency is in close touch with the Govern- 
ment Department, and has discussed with it questions connected 
with the conditions of the grant-in-aid to Jewish schools, and with 
the legislation already mentioned. Officers of the Government 


Department sit upon the Supervising Educational Committee of — 


the Agency. 


A representative of the Hebrew University and an official of 
the Agricultural Experiment Station of the Agency are members 


of the General Agricultural Council of Palestine ; and the unofficial — 


Jewish members of the Government Standing Committee for 


Commerce and Industry and the Road Board were selected after 


consultation with the Agency. The Agency’s trade adviser is a 
member of the Standing Committee. The Jewish member of the 


Road Board is the local manager of the Palestine Jewish Coloniza- — 


tion Association. 


4. All applications for inclusion in the Register of Landless Arabs 
have been referred to the Jewish Agency, so that it might have — 
an opportunity of examining the claims of applicants that they had — 


been dispossessed by reason of their land having passed into Jewish 


hands. Mention was made in the 1931 Report (page 18, para- | 


graph 8) of the assistance given by the Agency to Government 
in providing temporarily for the northern section of the Wadi 


Hawareth Arabs; a member of the Agency served upon the Com- — 


mittee which was formed for the purpose of, and has succeeded in, 
finding other areas for the permanent resettlement of the 
tribesmen. 


21 


The Agency is represented upon the Committee appointed to 
jraw up the curriculum of the Kadoorie Agricultural School, 
Mt. Tabor. An official of its Experiment Station at Rehovot has 
been selected as Principal of the School. 


Facilities were obtained by the Jewish Agency from Government 
x the importation of cattle for Jewish settlements from Holland 
und Syria. 


5. The Agency submitted proposals in April and in October for 
Labour Immigration Schedules of 3,723 (2,688 men and 1,035 
women) and 6,560 (4,380 men and 2,180 women) respectively. 
After due consultation with representatives of the Agency, the 
High Commissioner decided to authorize quotas of 2,100 (1,500 
men and 600 women) and 4,500 (3,000 men and 1,500 women) 
respectively. Special permission was given for the entry of selected 
- labour immigrants above the age of 35 years. 


6. The Agency also made representations to the Government as 

othe numbers of Jews in the Palestine Police and in the Trans- 

Jordan Frontier Force. The Jewish element in the Police Force 

~ gs shown in Section XI, paragraph 1, of this Report; the percent- 
’ ages are—officers 17 per cent., men 13 per cent. 


_ §teps were taken to enlist additional Jews in the Trans-Jordan 
_ Frontier Force, in which the number of Jews is at present 47, and 
these steps will be continued. 


The Agency continued to co-operate, through its special] liaison 
. Officer, with the District Administration and the Police and Air 
. Force authorities in all matters concerning the arrangements made 
. for the defence of Jewish settlements; and it participated in the 
negotiations between the Government and the Township of Tel- 
_ Aviv regarding the reorganization of the local constabulary and 
. Its absorption into the State Police. Upon the suggestion of the 
_ Agency, it was decided to set up a Standing Committee of the 
' Township which should be its instrument of co-operation with 

Government in Police matters. 


7. The General Council (Vaad Leumi) of the Jewish Community 
_ assists the Government Probation Officer in taking care of Jewish 
, Juvenile offenders. 


_ 8. The receipts of the Jewish Agency and affiliated Zionist In- 
stitutions showed a decrease, owing to the economic crisis in Europe 
* and America, as well as to the restrictions imposed by various 
* Governments on the export of currency. 


: 9%. During the financial year Ist October, 1931, to 30th 
September, 1932, the Jewish Agency, the Emergency Fund for 
18938 B 


22 


Palestine, and the Hebrew University expended the sum of half a 
million pounds. The sources of revenue were as follows :— 


£P. 

Keren Hayesod __... se see ... 204,600 
Hadassah Medical Organization oa a .... 95,500 
Jewish National Fund _... ... 97,700 
Women’s Internationa] Zionist Organization ° ... 20,000 
417,800 

Emergency Fund for Palestine ... — ... 88,900 
Hebrew University oe = ... 935,400 
Hebrew Technical College Soa hte ae 6,600 
Total ... £P498 ,700 


The expenditure of the Jewish Agency is covered by the Keren 
Hayesod funds collected throughout the Diaspora, except Russia. 
The allocation of the expenditure of £P204,600 was as under :— 





£P. 

Agricultural Colonization (including Experi- 
mental Station) ... sae an Ae ...  ¢1,700 
Education _... beat ... 40,000 
* National and communal institutions ae ... 14,700 
Investments in land and buildings __... ... 13,700 
Immigration and Public Works ... ae ... 10,700 
Public Health and Sanitation... gee ao 6 ,200 
Religious and Mizrahi Institutions cae eae 3,900 
Other expenditure ... Se sim ue ... 48,700 
Total ... £P204 ,600 


10. During the year 5692, the Jewish National Fund purchased 
about 8,300 dunums of land, of which 4,700 dunuims are located 
in the Plain of Esdraelon (Emek) and 3,600 dunums in the Mari- 
time Plain. The new land in the Emek was used for enlarging | 
the holdings of existing settlements while that in the Maritime | 
Plain will be utilized in settling workers’ and farmers’ sons. The 
total area in the possession of the Fund is now 296,910 metric 
dunums. , 

The Fund afforested 6,320 dunums, built 23 houses in two 
Yemenite settlements, continued drainage works on the Wadi el 
Hawareth and Haifa Bay tracts, and constructed water-powers 
and installed water-supplies in various settlements. 

The Agency enlarged the area of some of the Emek settlements, 
carried out deep boring operations, and built wells in several others, 
equipped a number with modern machinery, and carried out a large 


wn oe a 


23 


building programme in the Kishon Valley, where 48 houses and 
342 farm buildings were in the process of construction during 1932. 
Contracts for the repayment of capital and interest of installation 
loans were concluded with nineteen settlements. 

The ‘* Thousand Families Scheme ’’ provides for the settlement 
of several contingents of workers out of those employed in the 
plantation colonies, each approved settler being provided with a 
cottage and farm buildings, a cow, a poultry run, an irrigated plot 
of 3 dunums for vegetable growing, and 74 dunums of irrigated 
land under citrus. The land has been provided by the Jewish 
National Fund and credit is being granted for equipment by the 
Palestine Economic Corporation of America, the Palestine 
Emergency Fund, and various individuals. All expenditure is to 
be repaid by the settlers, who contribute to their establishment out 
of their savings. Over 400 families have so far been approved as 
settlers under the scheme. Construction began in October, 1932, 
and by the end of the year 300 buildings were being erected, 888 
dunums were planted, and a Water Company had been formed to 
carry out the irrigation works. 


ll. The Jewish Agency maintains Palestine offices in all im- 
portant centres of Jewish immigration to supervise the selection of 
immigrants under the Labour Schedule and to assist immigrants 
of other categories, and hostels at Tel-Aviv and Haifa, where immi- 
grants are provided with temporary accommodation pending their . 
transfer to places of employment. In co-operation with the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour, the Agency regulates the distribution 
of immigrants between centres of employment and supplies them 
with beds, tools, and medical assistance during the initial period of 
establishment. This year, tents were provided by the Jewish 
Agency for about 1,000 immigrant workers, and permanent 
dwellings and dining halls were erected with the assistance of the 
Jewish Agency for camps accommodating 500 workers in the 
plantation colonies. 


_ 12. The Agency has formed an Economic Department for direct- 
ing investments to Palestine, facilitating the immigration of people 
of means, and publishing economic information. An Economic Re- 
search Committee of experts has been set up to explore the country’s 
resources systematically and to secure reliable economic data; and 
the activities of various Jewish economic bodies are being co- 
ordinated. 


13. The Hadassah Medical Organization continued to supply 
medical treatment to most of the Jewish inhabitants of the country. 
Its four hospitals had a total bed-strength of 423 and admitted 
11,674 patients. Its School Hygiene Department had under its 
care 30,000 pupils. 

The Jewish Agency made a grant of £P3,000 to the Sick Fund of 


the General Federation of Jewish Labour which, with a total 
18938 B 2 


24 


budget of £P51,000, provided medical services to a paying member- 
ship of over 20,000. 


14. The school system of the Jewish Agency is now managed by 
the Executive Education Committee constituted by and responsible 
to the Vaad Leumi. The Committee consists of five members, one 
appointed by the Jewish Agency, who acts as Chairman, two by 
the Vaad Leumi, and one each by the Township of Tel-Aviv and 
the Farents’ Association in the colonies. The schools constituting 
the system were attended by 23,976 pupils and had a teaching per- 
sonnel of 9380. The expenditure for the Jewish year amounted to 
£P109,448, towards which the Jewish Agency contributed 
£P40,000, the rest being covered by the Government grant, tuition 
fees, and education grants from Local and Village Councils and the 
Township of Tel-Aviv, where a special education tax is levied. 
The total expenditure of the Jewish community on elementary edu- 
cation, including private schools and excluding the Government 
grant-in-ald, exceeded £P180,000. 


15. The Central Bank of Co-operative Institutions has now a 
clientele of 74 co-operative societies; during 1932 it granted 
£P173,000 in loans for agricultural purposes, planting of orange 
groves, construction of farm houses and purchase of equipment. 
Building loans were granted by the Palestine Mortgage Bank (estab- 
lished by the Keren Hayesod) to a total amount of £F25,700, and 
by the Palestine Mortgage and Credit Bank, which constructed 
160 houses in the workers’ suburb of Haifa and 12 houses on the 
outskirts of Tel-Aviv, all on Jewish National Fund land. 


IV.—_IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. 


1. The balance of arrivals over departures in 1932 was 15,908. 
Of this number, 6,730 entered as immigrants on immigration certifi- 
cates. The remainder consisted of returning residents, tourists, 
pilgrims, and travellers in transit, including travellers holding visas 
for stay in Falestine of which the validity was still current at the 
close of the migration records for 1932. 


Apart from movements to and from Trans-Jordan, 30,898 resi- 
dents of Palestine left during the year, in most cases temporarily, 
and 30,696 returned to their homes in Palestine. The net Lalance 
outwards was 202, but the true number of emigrants was larger 
than this, for among the returning residents are many who, having 
lived for long periods abroad, especially in North and South America, 
have been forced by financial and economic difficulties to abandon 
their adopted homes. 

All emigration countries are closed to the classes of working men, 


hawkers, and small shopkeepers, to which emigrants from Palestine 
belong almost without exception. Emigration from Palestine has 


25 


consequently consisted almost entirely of the return of immigrants 
of long or short standing to their former homes, for the most part in 
Kurope. 

2. Among the recorded immigrants, an increase is noticeable in 
Category A (i) (persons in possession of £P.1,000 and upwards), 
the number being 754 as compared with 269 in the year 1931. 
Some of these were men whose means considerably exceeded the 
minimum. In many cases the whole of the immigrant’s capital was 
not transferred to Falestine. In others the qualifying capital in- 
cluded long term loans placed at the disposal of the immigrants. 
With reference to a question put at the Twenty-Second Session of 
the Permanent Mandates Commission, it is not possible to state 
even approximately the total amount brought to Palestine by these 
immigrants nor the extent to which the qualifying capital was not 
the property of the immigrants. In some cases i+ may be that the 
qualifying capital was borrowed for the occasion. Judging, how- 
ever, from the sums invested in house-building and plantations and 
also lying idle at the Lanks awaiting opportunity of investment, 
the amount of money brought to Palestine by immigrants and that 
invested here by persons resident abroad who have not yet settled in 
the country is relatively considerable. A large part of the activities 
of the population, at any rate of the Jewish section of it, may be 
said to be financed by this foreign capital. e 


3. The existing categories of immigrants are the following :— 


A (i) Persons in possession of capital amounting to £P.1,000 
and upwards, not necessarily in cash ; 

A (ii) Members of liberal professions possessing capital of 
£F.500 and upwards ; 

A (iii) Craftsmen and artisans in possession of capital of 
£P.250 and upwards ; 

A (iv) Persons enjoying a secured minimum income of £P.4 
& month ; 

A (v) Persons, not being members of liberal professions, 
possessing capital of not less than £P.500, not necessarily in 
cash, provided that the Director of the Department of Immi- 
gration is satisfied that (a) the settlement of such person in 
Palestine will not lead to the creation of undue competition 
in the pursuit which the proposed immigrant states his inten- 
tion of entering; (b) his capital is sufficient to assure him a 
reasonable prospect of success in that pursuit ; (c) he is qualified 
and physically fit to follow that pursuit ; 

B (i) Orphans whose maintenance is assured ; 

B (ii) Persons of religious occupation whose maintenance is 
assured ; 

B (iii) Students whose maintenance is assured ; 

C Persons coming with a definite prospect of employment ; 


D Dependants of permanent residents and immigrants. 
18938 B 3 


26 


4. Of the 6,730 persons who were admitted to Palestine as immi- 
grants during the year, 5,823 were Jews, 805 were Christians and 
101 were Moslems. Of the Jews, 2,349 were men, 2,485 women, 
539 boys and 500 girls. Among the Christians there were 282 men, 
272 women, 135 boys and 116 girls, and among the Moslems 35 men, 
24 women, 18 boys and 24 girls. 


In addition to these immigrants, 4,559 persons who had entered 
Palestine during this year and previous years as travellers or without 
permission and had succeeded in establishing themselves as settlers, 
were registered as immigrants. Of these, 3,730 were Jews, 719 
Christians and 109 Moslems. Among these were 2,826 Jews and 
224 non-Jews who were granted registration under the special 
rule applied in 1931 (see 1931 Report, Section IV, paragraph 2). 

Of the 9,553 Jews who were thus registered as immigrants in 
the course of the year, 4,955 claimed to be between the ages of 
18 and 35 years; 1,204 described themselves as unskilled labourers, 
619 as merchants, manufacturers, shopkeepers, etc., 435 as tailors, 
seamstresses, milliners, etc., 428 as agriculturists, 304 as clerks 
and shop assistants, 305 as members of professions and artists, and 
728 as skilled in other trades ; 727 were registered in Category A (1), 
one in A (ii), 21 in A (ii), 97 in A (iv), 2 in A (v), 2,271 in C, 
3,416 in D (including dependants of immigrants), and 189 were 
orphans, students and rabbis. The social position which the immi- 
grants occupy does not necessarily correspond to these classifica- 
tions. For instance, medical practitioners are not confined to 
Category A (11) but are to be found also in Category A (i), A (iv), 
C and even D. Working women appear also in all categories except 
A (iv), B (i) and B (11) and perhaps A (ili) and A (v). 


5. Of the registered immigrants, 4,228 (4,215 Jews) came from 
Eastern Europe, 3,833 (3,030 Jews) from oriental lands including 
North Africa, 745 (741 Jews) from Central Europe, 909 (864 Jews) 
from the United States of America and 539 (including 128 Jews 
and 78 British Police) from the British Empire apart from Aden 
and India. 


6. Two Labour Immigration Schedules were approved during the 
year. ‘That for the period April-September consisted of :— 
1,433 men under 35 years of age, 
500 unmarried women under 35 years of age, 
67 men under 45 years of age, 
and that for the period October 19832—March 19338 consisted of :— 
2,700 men under 35 years of age, 
1,500 unmarried women under 35 years of age, 
300 men under 45 years of age. 
In all cases, these immigrants may be accompanied by their wives 
and minor children, and an increasingly large number of young 
labourers now bring wives with them. 


27 


1,789 men and 713 women, apart from dependants, were regis- 
tered as immigrants under the Schedule quotas. 


The full effect of the Second Schedule will not be felt until the 
first half of the year 1933. 


The Schedules are decided by the High Commissioner after the 
Director of the Department of Immigration has submitted the 
material on which a decision can be based. This material is 
collected from all available sources and co-ordinated, tabulated 
and analysed by a special Unemployment Officer (see 1931 Report, 
Section X VII, paragraph 3, page 70). Its value is estimated after 
consultation with representatives of the Jewish Agency and with 
reference to the proposals which that Agency itself submits, 
indicative of its anticipations of the extent to which new openings 
for employment will be created in the period in question. In 
deciding on the size of a Schedule, Government gives equal con- 
sideration to all prospective employment, permanent or temporary. 
For instance, the immediately prospective needs of housebuilding, 
which for some labourers is a temporary occupation, are given 
equal weight with the anticipated requirements of permanent in- 
dustries and agriculture. 


7, 258 prospective immigrants were refused admission, apart 
_ from & number of persons who were deported during the year for 
_ being in Palestine without permission. 


8. In the 1981 Report (Section IV, paragraph 5), it was stated 
that 31,617 returning residents entered Palestine during the year. 
These were persons domiciled in Palestine, both Palestinians and 
foreigners, who returned in the course of 1931 to their homes after 
_ having been absent abroad for longer or shorter periods. A few 
had been away since before the War; the absence of others dates 
from the years immediately following the War, but most of them 
had been out of the country for a brief time only. Detailed informa- 
tion is not available as to the nationalities of these returning 
residents, or the countries from which they have returned; but 
those countries are mainly South American and Central European. 
As against the figure of 31,617 returning residents, there should be 
set a figure of 33,172 residents in Palestine (not travellers and 
not immigrants) who left the country during the year. Thus, it 
may be calculated that 1,555 more residents left the country than 
returned to it in the course of 1931. 


9. The Permanent Mandates Commission requested information 
48 to the exodus of Palestinians to Biro-Bedjian. 


The movement to settle Jews in this Soviet province was 
‘rganised shortly after the settlement of Jews in the Crimea, 
| Which began in 1928, and was conducted simultaneously with the 
. Movement to encourage the settlement of Armenian refugees in 


sie Armenia. The Jewish movement is carried on by the 
938 B4 


28 


O.Z.E.T. (initials of Russian words meaning Society for the Pro- 
motion of Agricultural Work amongst Jews), which is an organiza- 
tion formed for the purpose of assisting the settlement of Jews on 
the land in Russia generally. | 


From information in the possession of the Palestine Government, 
it appears that, while the movement lasted, permission was granted 
to 115 persons resident in Palestine (including Armenians) to 
settle in Biro-Bedjian with their families, and sixty-six families 
are known to have left. Some of them have since returned to 
their homes in Palestine. With few exceptions, the emigrants 
were members of or sympathised with the Communist Party in 
Palestine. 


The movement has for the time being been suspended by the 
Soviet authorities, but it is believed that it will shortly be resumed, 
and it is understood that permission has been granted to a further 
party of 84 persons from Palestine to proceed. 


The settlers receive 50 per cent. discount in respect of their fares 
from the Soviet Steamship Agency in Palestine, and those who 
have no money are allowed a loan. 


Provenance of Immigrants. 
Country of last permanent residence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. Total. 


Kurope— 

Austria oats ta sas ee 98 6 — 104 
Belgium ne oP re sae 30 2 — 32 
Bulgaria 26s sae = ase 66 3 — 69 
Czechoslovakia oe be _ 96 7 — 103 
Danzig as ae wes sei 26 — — 26 
Denmark ar sive eas ope 1 2 — 3 
Esthonia ee ean ae wea 7 ] -—— 8 
Finland. on ae i os 1 ] — 2 
France sa 70 72 — 142 
Germany 353 106 4 462 
Greece 290 37 — 327 
Hungary 50 — _ 50 
Italy ... 16 111 — 127 
Latvia ane vite ea ... 170 — — 170 
Lithuania eos Site Pre ea 241 2 — 243 
Malta ... oe wa = ees — 3 — 3 
Netherlands ... te on wee 34 2 — 36 
Poland Sis we ree ... 3,156 4 — 3,160 
Portugal ‘a en cats 2 — — 2 
Roumania ... iad aes ... 504 4 — 508 
Russia 137 2 — 139 
Spain .. 18 21 — 39 
Sweden ee sae ave — ] — 1 
Switzerland ... ids ii eae 11 19 | 31 
United Kingdom _... Ais ea 71 372 — 443 
Yugoslavia ... a ‘ee ae 42 5 — 47 

Total ... ee oe ..- 5,490 782 5 6,277 


- 


29 


Country of last permanent residence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. ‘Total. 


Atia— 
Aden ... es 278 1 1 280 
Afghanistan .. 186 —_— —_— 186 
China ... or 8 — — 8 
Cyprus 8 16 1 25 
Hedjaz — — 1 l 
India ... 30 6 17 53 
Traq ... 1,055 33 2 1,090 
Persia 455 l — 456 
Syria ... 164 323 62 549 
Trans-Jordan. — l — 1 
Turkey 229 67 12 308 
Yemen . 410 — — 410 
Total ... ‘ 2,823 448 96* 3,367 
Africa— 
Abyssinia 2 3 = 5 
Algiers 1 — — l 
Egypt... 168 164 109 44] 
Kenya — 5 — 5 
Morocco axe a eae 37 2 l 40 
South Attica, U Union ay 7 11 2 — 13 
Sadan... ee 3 = — I 1 
Tanganyika .. — 3 — 3 
Tripolitania os 3 — a 3 
a 14 — — 14 
Other Countries 1 1 — 2 
Total ... 237 180 111 528 
A ° 
Canada 29 4 — 33 
U.S.A. 864 45 — 909 
Central and South America— 
Argentine ... 15 2 — 17 
Brazil 12 1 — 13 
Colombia 15 1 — 16 
Jamaica — 2 — 2 
Mexico 12 5 as 17 
Panama ie 22 2 —_ 24 
Other Countries of Latin America 21 46 — 67 
Total ... 990 108 — 1,098 
Australia 9 ans — 9 
New Zealand... = 3 ae 3 
Unepecified 4 3 = 7 
Grand Total ... 9,553 1,624 212* 11,289 


* Including one Druze and one Hindoo. 


30 


SUMMARY. 

Country of last permanent residence. Jews. Christians. Moslems. Total. 
British Empire (excluding os .- 158 416 18 592 
Central Europe... Sos ... 623 118 4 745 
Eastern Europe wine Se .. 4,215 13 — 4,228 
Balkan States... a .. 398 45 — 443 
Other European Countries... .. 183 231 l 415 
North Africa... .. 223 166 110 499 
Western Asia (including Turkey, ‘Iraq, 2,777 426 78 3,281 

Persia and Afghanistan). 
U.S.A. ... sey ... 864 45 — 909 
Central and South America ... “iv 97 57 — 154 
Other Countries and Unspecified... 15 7 1 23 
Total ... ane ai ... 9,553 1,524 212* 11,289 


cm meri ED 


* Including one Druze and one Hindoo. 


Sex and Age of Immigrants. 


A.— Distribution of persons registered as immigrants by class, 
religuon, sex and age. 








Boys. | Girls 
Class. Religion. Men. |Women. 
under 16. 

(1) Immigrants Jews ... .. | 2,349 | 2,435 539 

arriving. | Christians... 282 272 135 

Moslems in 35 24 18 

Other Religions — — — 

Total ..- | 2,666 | 2,731 692 

(2) Persons registered | Jews ... -- | 1,536 | 1,243 527 

as immigrants who | Christians... 319 288 59 

had entered Pales- | Moslems was 64 19 11 

tine as travellers or | Other Religions 1}; — — 
illegally. —_—|__— ———_]|}—--— 

Total ..- | 1,920 | 1,550 597 

(3) Total number of | Jews ... .- | 3,885 | 3,678 | 1,066 

persons registered as | Christians... 601 560 194 

immigrants. Moslems ‘ai 99 43 29 

Other Religions 1 — — 


SSS 
EE | es | CS eS | ce 


Grand Total 4,586 | 4,281 | 1,289 | 1,133 

















31 








B.—Age groups. 
Total. 
Under 18 years of age ... 2,654 
From 18 to 35 years 5,766 
From 36 to 45 years 1,099 
Over 45 years of age 1,765 
Not stated “ 5 
Total 11,289 
Occupation of Immigrants. 
Jews. Non-Jews. Total. 

Agriculture... ae vr ues 428 4 432 
Mining, Mineral Products, Quarrying 3 2 5 
Skilled Urban Trades— 

Textiles ... = 32 5 37 

Chemical works 9 1 10 

Leather works 9 — 9 

Wood works “ae ace 179 5 184 

Metal and Mechanical works... 185 22 207 

Building and Building material ... 80 4 84 

Printing and Stationery si 34 3 37 

Food products... ee “ 78 8 86 

Clothing and Millinery 435 17 452 

Boot and Shoe making 70 25 95 

Other skilled trades 52 10 62 
Transport and Communication 38 18 56 
Unskilled Labourers ... be 1,204 18 1,222 
Professional— 

Physicians, Surgeons, Dentista ... 45 10 55 

Architects, Engineers : 49 10 59 

Education ... ies 107 43 150 

Arta ou sas its 8 — 8 

Other liberal professions ... 37 12 49 

Religious occupations... we ae 59 268 327 
Commerce (Manufacturers, Merchants, 

Dealers) ... bee set a8 sist 619 36 655 
Clerical and Commercial Service, 

Civil Service* ... a 304 207 511 
General and Domestic Service 186 156 342 
Students (18 years and over) 173 30 203 

Total 4,423 914 5,337 

P ‘sons of no occupation (including persons 
living on income), minors and dependants 5,130 822 5,952 
Grand Total 9,553 1,736 11,289 





* Including British Policemen. 


32 


Categories of Admission of Persons Registered as Immigrants 


During the Year 1932. 
Categortes. Jews. 
A (i): Persons with £1,000 and upwards 727 
A (i) 2: Dependants of persons in Category A (i) 687 
A (ii): Members of liberal professions in possession 
of a capital of not less than £500 sibs 1 
A (ii) 2; Dependants of persons in Category A (ii) 1 
A (iii): Skilled artisans in eee of a capital of 
not less than £250 21 
A (iii) 2; Dependante of persons in ‘Category A (iii) 38 
A (iv): Persons of minimum income of £4 p.m. ... 97 
A (v): Persons with a capital of not less than £500 2 
A (v)2: Dependants of persons in Category A v) — 
B (i): Orphans coming to institutions ; 1 
B (ii): Persons of religious occupation .. 19 
B (ii) 2: Dependants of persons in Category B i). 26 
B (iii) : Students whose maintenance is assured . 169 
C: Persons coming to nenyeene’ — 
Men ... Kes 1,641 
Women 630 
Boys under 16 youn ‘of age — 
Girls _,, —_ 
C2: Dependants of persons in Category Cc. 1,437 
D: Dependants of residents of Palestine 1,227 
K: Persons exempted from the provisions of the 
Immigration Ordinance 3 
A (i) A: Persons who are not qualified for inclusion 
in one of the above-mentioned categories but 
were permitted to remain in the country perma- 
nently by the Order of the High Commissioner 
of the 14th of July, 1931, and under Regula- 
tion 2 (b) of the 14th of September, 1932, 
under the Immigration Ordinance, 1925-28 ... 1,489 
A (i) A2: Dependants of persons in Category A(i)A 1,337 
Total. 9,553 
* Including 78 British Policemen. 


Non- 


Arrivals and Departures during the Year 1932. 


A. Arrivals :— 
(1) Immigrants arriving (*) ... 
(2) Travellers arriving, includ- 
ing tourists, pilgrims and 
travellers in transit 
(3) Residents returning 


6,730 


63,253 
30,696 





Jews. Total. 
27 754 
17 704 
— 1 
-_ 1 
l 22 
— 38 
20 117 
1 3 
2 3 
273 292 

3 29 
166 335 
247 1,888 
112 742 

l ] 

76 1,513 
314 1,541 
252* 255* 
124 1,613 
100 1,437 
1,736 11,289 


100,679 





* The number of immigrants arriving does not include persons who, having 
entered the country as travellers or illegally, were subsequently permitted to 
remain permanently. Their number during the year was 4,559. The total number 


of persons registered as immigrants during the year was 11,289. 


| 











33 


B. Departures :— 


(4) Travellers leaving ae 53,873 
(5) Residents leaving (*) ... 30 ,898 84,771 





Net Increase of Population due to 
Recorded Migration seu ; 15 ,908 





V.—LAND REGIME. 


1. In the 1931 Reportt (page 30, paragraph 1), it was stated 
that 41,226 dunums of land were sold that year to Jews, of which 
22,641 dunums were sold by Jewish vendors. It may now be 
added that of the remaining (approximately) 18,000 dunums, 15 ,000 
dunums were purchased from effendis, meaning persons who do 
not cultivate their lands by their own labour but lease it to tenants, 
and the balance of 3,000 dunums was purchased from villagers, 
including 1,968 dunums from transferees under the Ghor Mudaw- 
wara Lands Agreement, 1921. 


2. There were no large transactions in agricultural land during 
1932. 18,893 dunums of land of all classes, but mainly agricultural, 
were sold by non-Jews to Jews at a total cost of £P.148,881. 


3. The number of small transactions, especially in town and 
suburban building plots, again showed an increase on the previous 
year. This increase is, in general, due to the continued deprecia- 
tion of sterling and to the operations of the Imprisonment for Debt 
(Abolition) Ordinance to which reference was made in the 1931 
Reportt (page 31, paragraph 2). There were many deals in land 
in Tel-Aviv owing to a rapid advance in prices in that town, and 
a marked tendency was displayed to buy small parcels of land in 
the citrus belt. 

The total number of transactions registered during the year was 
18,392 (the highest total yet attained); and £P.97,876 was col- 
lected in fees. 


4. Thirty-nine outstanding applications were settled under the 
Correction of Land Registers Ordinance, 1926, and twenty-seven 
new applications were entered. Most of the outstanding applica- 
tions mentioned in the 1931 Report* (page 31, paragraph 4) have 
been or are in process of being dealt with by Land Settlement 
operations. 

5. Apart from the original entries derived from the Schedules of 
Rights deposited by Land Settlement Officers, 3,751 transactions 
were recorded in the new registers based upon Settlement. Since 
Settlement began, not one attempt has been made to effect an 


* No statistics of emigration were compiled. The number of residents leaving 
includes emigrants, while the number of residents returning includes residents of 
Palestine returning after long absence. 

T Colonial No. 75. 


34 


unregistered disposition of any property entered on the new 
registers. This goes to show that the public appreciates the facility 
and promptness with which transactions can be carried out in these 
registers. 


6. The Land Settlement Ordinances, 1928-1932, have been 
applied in 89 villages. The new Registers have been completed 
in respect of 45 villages. Claims to all categories of State Domain 
in villages under Settlement have been submitted by the Lands 
Department on behalf of the Government and in disputed cases the 
claims of Government are conducted by that Department. 


7. Large areas of State Domain continue to be assigned to the 
Department of Agriculture for afforestation. 350 State Domain 
properties were leased and £P.4,831 was collected in rent during 
the year. 


Land Settlement. 


8. The staff engaged in the Land Settlement and in the office 
of the Commissioner of Lands consists of 21 administrative officials 
and 34 officers in clerical grades, and a Shari’a Judge. 


9. Ghor Mudawwara Land Agreement, 1921.—In March, the 
operations in the Agreement area were concluded, consisting of 
allotment of additional areas in three villages, identification of 
parcels in the built-on and garden areas of Samakh, and allotment 
of land to landless families of the Ghazawiya tribe. 


10. The following is a summary statement of the total area 
transferred under the Agreement and of claims dealt with :— 


Total Area. 
Metric dunums. 
In 18 villages te ee ues sie 202,361 
In 4 tribal areas... sie ee ab: 179 ,545 
Allotted to transferees. 
In villages :— 
Irrigated << a snk as 34,786 
Unirrigated __... ate sie a 112,577 
In tribal areas :— 
Irrigated i oe aa a 77,768 
Unirrigated —_... =f es sind 16,818 
Total Irngated adi Sie San 112,553 
Total Unirrigated as ie 129 ,396 
Total distributed to transferees si 241,949 
Allotted as communal. 
Matruka io oe 2,047 
Transferred under the Agreement see 243 ,996 


Not allotted oie she a3 fae ann 137,910 


35 
Average allotment per transferee. 


Metric dunums. 


In villages... ae ae sie ae 115 
In tribal areas on whi sais eas 71 
General average per transferee for whole 

area, et 93 


Claims submitted :— 


In villages a ae re oe oe 3,574 
In tribal areas Sa wis ioe ba 1,508 
Total number of admitted transferees to whom land was allotted. 
In villages oe a se oie sh 1 283 
In tribal areas stig nos Peg he 1,331 


ll. General operation of Settlement.—Notices of Settlement were 
issued to 36 additional villages during the year, so that operations 
are now proceeding in 89 villages in four Settlement areas. 


12. Summary of work completed in 1932 :— 


Claims recorded :— 


In In 
Mafruz Musha’ 
Land. Land. 
Number of claims, original ... 21,743 540 
Number of counterclaims ian 1,055 95 
Schedules of claims published :-— 
In In In 


Mafruz Built-on Musha’ 
Land. Areas. Localtttes. 
Number of Registration 


Blocks Sa _ 594 3 — 
Number of Parcels... 22 ,959 244 — 
Approximate area 

(metric dunums) ... 288,626 107 69,570 

Claims settled :— 
In In 
Mafruz Musha’ 
Land. Land. 
Undisputed ... oe — .. 18,562 650 
Disputed ee 4 on ee 1,990 181 


There were 334 actions outstanding at the end of 1931, and 834 


hew actions were added during 1932. Of the total number, 638 
were decided 1n the year. 


In 233 cases appeals against the decision of the Settlement 
Officer were lodged in the Land Court. 


36 
Schedules of Rights and Partition Schedules Published. 





Total No. of Including Covering 
Schedules Published. Registration No. of Total Area. 
Blocks. Parcels. Metric dunums. 
Mafruz Land— 
Schedules of Rights ss 328 11,030 127,246 
Schedules of Rights to Sites and 
Reputed Owners se 4 360 116 
Musha’ Land— 
Schedules of Partition ... oe 36 725 21,123 
Schedules of Rights to Shares ... — — 148,485 
— — 14,808 
Total area... 163,293 





13. The following is a comparative statement of the area covered 
by Settlement operations to date :— 
(i) Recording of preliminary investigation of claims in the 
field, including the aurea of Schedules of Claims :— 


June, 1928 to cies 1930 . ... 212,992 metric dunums. 
During 1931 a pa w. 205,947 - - 
During 1932 sue aes rr ..- 958,303 _,, 9” 


(ii) Settlement of claims and publication of Schedules of 
Rights and Schedules of Partition :— 


June, 1928 to aed 1930 . .-- 142,799 metric dunums. 
During 1931 age oa .- 138,387 __,, 9% 
During 1932 wa os i .-» 163,293  ,, - 


It is considered that exceptionally good progress was achieved in 
1932, considering that the field staff was only equivalent to about 
eight officers, without reserve for absences on sick or vacation leave, 
so that in effect the over-all work period was only eight months. 


14. The total amount of registration fees payable since the be- 
ginning of Settlement operations is £P.29,362, of which, so far, 
£P.12,353 has been collected. 


15. Advance partition of village Musha’.—The procedure of 
partition under the Land Settlement Ordinance is lengthy, laborious, 
and expensive. During the period from June, 1928, to February, 
1932, partition covered an area of only 20,000 dunums in eight 
villages. In February, 1932, therefore, an attempt was made to 
secure the physical partition of Musha’ by the villagers themselves in 
advance of Settlement, not under the provisions of the Ordinance but 
under the guidance of an Assistant Settlement Officer detailed for 
that work. The experiment was successful and a second officer was 
appointed for the purpose a few months later. More than a million 
metric dunums have been already partitioned or are in process of 
partition in this way in Gaza and Ramle Sub-Districts. 


16. The scale of fees ad valorem on registration arising out of 
Settlement has been replaced by a nominal fee cm area. 


37 . 


17. A large number of Orders were issued prescribing minima of 
areas and breadth of parcels which may be registered and conferring 
powers on Settlement staff to eliminate uneconomic parcels of less 
than the required dimensions. 


18. Urban Property Tax.—An Ordinance was enacted in March 
providing power for the High Commissioner to increase the maxi- 
mum rate of urban tax from 10 per cent. to 15 per cent., and the 
rate has been increased accordingly on house property. The rate 
on industrial buildings and on land is now 10 per cent. 


19. The principal Ordinance has been applied to certain larger 
Arak villages and Jewish colonies, and annual revision of assess- 
ments is proceeding in the principal towns. 


15,493 parcels were surveyed and valued under original assess- 
ment and revision operations; 3,543 objections were lodged of 
which 1,364 were allowed, and there were 762 appeals of which 
400 succeeded. 


20. Exemption is granted in respect of house property occupied 
by the registered owner of which the net annual value is less than :— 


£P.15 in the urban areas of—Jerusalem, Jaffa (with Tel- 
Aviv), and Haifa; 


£F.10 in the urban areas of—Tulkarm, Tiberias, and 
Nablus ; 


£P.8 in the urban area of—Acre; 


£P.5 in the urban areas of—Baisan, Gaza, Ramle, Lydda, 
Nazareth, Bethlehem, Safad, Jenin, Hebron, and Beersheba; 


£P.3 in the urban areas of—Bait-Jala and Ramallah. 


For taxation purposes house property and land are divided into the 
following categories :— 


(a) All house property including the sites, except house 
property constructed and used solely for the purpose of an 
industrial undertaking in which mechanically driven machinery 
is used ; 

(6) House property constructed and used for the purpose of 
an industrial undertaking in which mechanically driven 
machinery is used ; 


(c) Land which is not the site of house property, or which is 
used for the cultivation cf crops and is subject to the payment 
of tithes. 


21. The total amount of Urban Property Tax payable in the 
financial year 1982-33 in the nineteen principal urban areas is 
£P.226,757. The total expenditure incurred for the original appli- 
cation of the tax and for the annual revision in that year was 
£F.2,726, exclusive of the cost of permanent staff employed in these 
operations in addition to other duties. 


38 


22. Fiscal Survey and Valuation for Rural Property Tax.—The 
work of dividing village lands into fiscal blocks and of valuing the 
lands for the purpose of a rural property tax, was continued : to date, 
458 villages have been surveyed in twelve suk-districts, covering 
nearly 6,000,000 metric dunums. 


Surveys. 
Strength and distribution of classified staff, and health. 


23. The number of classified officers shows an increase of 22 over 
the previous year. 


Office. Field. 

British officers, senior service he ae 3 3 
Palestinian officers, senior service ... ae OS 1 
British officers, junior service aes sae 6* — 
Palestinian clerks, and storekeeper ... — 6 — 
Palestinian computers ... Hes = a, — 
Falestinian draughtsmen as oT . = =—48 — 
Palestinian surveyors ... age a eo 77+ 
Printer... es 38 ae a gh 1 — 

Total bes ses aes we wo 81 


24. 39 surveyors are employed on cadastral survey. 28 on topo- 
cadastral survey, and one on triangulation; 8 are attached to Land 
Registries, and one to the Department cf Lands. 

To meet the requirements of the Commissioners of Lands in the 
acceleration of Land Settlement and in the completion of the 
1/10,000 fiscal map, it was necessary to reduce the number of 
surveyors employed on survey for Urban Assesment purposes and 
triangulation, and to interrupt the work of contouring the 1/20,000 
map. 

25. 2,312 men-days were lost through general illness, being 
679 more than in 1931, but only 17 men-days were lost owing to 
malaria, compared with 34 last year. 


26. 25 students trained during 1930 and 1931 were classified, and 
a further group of students are under training for classification in 
1933. 


27. The topocadastral triangulation of the Sub-districts of Acre, 
Safad, Nablus, Ramallah, Jerusalem, and Jericho was completed. 

The 3rd Order and topocadastral triangulation of Hebron Sub- 
District is now in hand. 

Trigonometrical data were supplied to the Commander of 
H.M.S. Endeavour in connection with a hydrographic survey of 
the Palestine coast. 


* Includes 2 British Jews and 1 British Jewess. 
t Includes 4 Cypriots. 


39 


- The progress to date of the triangulation is shown in Table I 
: below and in Diagram I at the end of this Section. 


TABLE I, 


| ° . 
iTrigonometrical 
intersections.* 


Traverse. 


Srd Order. Topocadastral.| 4th Order. 










































No.of | Area | No. of | Area | No. of | Area | No. of | Length No. of 
_points.| Km?. | points.| Km?. | points.| Km?. | points. Km. points. 
29 | 176 802 1,929 87 22°5 | 1,059 148°5 2,272 














* Trigonometrical block control. 


28. The monthly variations of water-levels in the inland seas are 
shown in Diagram III. 


29. The village maps on the 1/10,000 scale of the Sub-Districts 
of Acre, Safad, and Tiberias were completed, and the survey of 
the Sub-Districts of Nablus and Ramallah is now proceeding. 
1,761,645 dunums have been surveyed at an average field cost 
of 3.3 mils per dunum. 


The area covered by the topocadastral survey is shown in 
Diagram I. 


30. Nine sheets on the 1/20,000 scale, covering an area of 
90 km2, were contoured during the early part of the year, and 
fourteen block plans on the 1/4,000 scale, representing an approxi- 
mate area of 8,300 dunums in the villages of Farwana, Hamra, 
Samriye, and Fatur, were contoured at 9-metre intervals. 


dl. The survey of Khan Yumis on the 1/625 scale for Urban 
Assessment purposes was completed in August, and a survey of 
Jafla on the same scale to replace municipal plans hitherto used 
for these purposes, is proceeding. 


32. 47 villages containing 800 blocks covering an area of 
399,331 dunums were completed, und 787 preliminary block plans 
with schedules of claimants, areas, and survey fees, were issued 
to Settlement Officers. 

The details of the 47 completed villages are given in Table II 
below. 


During the year 806 blocks, covering an area of 406,863 dunums, 
were surveyed and of these, 787 blocks, covering an area of 
302,257 dunums, have been examined. 


The progress of the cadastral survey is illustrated in Diagrams II 
and IV. 


40 


Taste I]. | 
Details of completed Blocks. 





Average. Average coat of surt: 
Village Category No. of sates No. of | area per per dunum.* 
° of land. blocks d parcels. | parcel 
UNU 

dunums 
Arab Masha’a 111 | 53,843} 1,235 | 43-2 | 16-6 6-4 
Mafruz 466 | 286,278 | 16,293 17°5 27-5 9-5 3 
Built-on Area 44 1,136 1,984 0:6 95-4 | 118-6 1,1} 
Hawakir ... 13 13,010 3,946 3°3 117-0 46-0 lé 
Jewish ... | Mafruz 719 41,346 3,487 | 11-8 35-4 9-6 4 
Built-on Area 1 25 16 1:6 641-0 118-0 65 
Hawakir... 26 3,693 1,080 3°4 118-0 46-0 16 
Total ... uz eee 800 {| 399,331 | 28,041 14-2 — — - 


* Includes all costs except overhead and reproduction charges. 


Maps, Plans, etc. 
33. The progress of the publication of the 1/20,000 scale topo- 
cadastral series in 3 colours is shown in Diagram I, and covers 
issues during the year of the undermentioned 12 sheets :— 


14-24 Carmel. 15-22 Umm ez Zinat. 
15-24 Haifa. 16-22 Megiddo. 

14-23 Athlit. 14-21 Caesarea. 

15-23 Daliat el Karmil. 15-21 Kafr Qari. 

16-23 Nahalal. 138-20 Minet Abu Zabura. 
14-22 Jjzim. 14-20 Hadera. 


34. Special maps were printed as required by Governmer 
Departments in Palestine and Trans-Jordan, or for His Majest- 
Forces in this country. 37,623 zincographed prints, 6,425 ordov 
prints, and 8,908 sun-prints, of which 13,372 were issuec 
Government Departments, were produced during the year. 

Sales to the public realized £P.503. ra 


35. 47 block plans, covering Rehovot, Rishon le Tsiyon, 1 
Tiqva, and Majdal were drawn and printed and 415 block 
were revised. 


36. 1,263 plans for Registration purposes, covering an ar 
51,883 dunums, were checked, including 968 plans coveri 
area of 42,843 dunums, prepared by private licensed surveyors 

The total cost of this service, including the various dutie 
nected with State Domain and other Land Registry work for 
no survey fees are collected, amounted to £P.2,688, and the r 
in survey fees was £P.2,193. 


oar 


- 





SKETCH MAP 
of 


PALESTINE 


SCALE 1: 750,000 
KILOM.16 5 ? 10 20 30 KiLoM. 













. 
= 









Es Sanameino 
ay 


oe | 







/ 


S / 
/ 
/ 
/ 
4 
4 





j 
| 
| 


7 
/ 
4 
/ 






REFERENCE | 









R a ilways pudlapyeAGcbs ania Ginerak teecauadeno tes 










Metalled Roads........................ ———_———— 






Heights tn Metres 







SANE DUTIES Ki 55: otis svn eidsrteehte 


WA IES Fine Pee ns 











Interna tional Bd fe.e.c...0ne i aprntestoscteompacete ts 
OP ISGEL UOT (IC Vrain Rests: ev ites tens eax een inte aioe 






SUES TRICE SAY care ska tucac ste ypcivansnFrtme Neg eeOTs Atl ©) 






















Progress to Dec. 313 1932 Sy 
a joa Rembha \ 
i Kos V _ 4 “aK Sa 
U ON A588 bg a \ 


o- 






eee ‘ 


j 
| ‘ 
} t \ 
; \ 
wy , i i 1 
‘be 1 | / 
1 
i 
8 ‘ 


Awty 

~ . - 
~. “ Irhiady¥ Faint | 
ro me 

r 





Czesareaf (Jisr Sh. Husetn 







! 

/ 

t 

) \ 
/ 
! 

















































| 
| 
| 
Ww. rb oOo Kur \ | 
F LSS L - - ! \ | 
ean Sine ; \ if 
a ae i) 
) \ 1088 ' / | PS, V 
lopoeadastral § urvey ES K A / | PaaS | 
Scan Pe ' / ( \ ! 
Published... ie \ ae }) Ajline ; / \ \ 
; feared / H } : ._Matraq 
ote \ i ee wees 
PSone ~ 330 j \ / { >| 
as = | aoe J ‘\oMad war’ ih 
tease / ~--OJarash =|! ! 
[See / | ; 1 \ t 
te Bo J eA | 
ae | ee = } 
wo - 
NS \' Agee rf 
...\ Ke \S PW LAE | 
pS oy ¥ aS id = h he 
; SS jj Abube ia foUmmerRumman 
H 7 } 1 
Fo ft i 
a oe i 
Sy Cs Sa disr ed Damiya | oy Sts 
On 82 | Pte -\-~ A 1097 
: VANS -$93°>-—" SY MAA ; Y 


.* 


JAFFA @. 







Vise file ig ala a 









sey 


“= 
hdnat Nimrin 


\) s y 
aes . a 
‘ io ee SN ’ oe / 
a WES S : AN sq Allenby Br. ; / j 
- ? jericho eT ee : = 
: ye = . + ~381 fr Natirg ji pe cae Ueo- 
= Fz. ‘ 
' hos ‘ 
















- , ny e ~ s Speed 
Talat ed Dam WN wie | oYadida / oe 
Sern. oy q ay (PE | / Labans ie 
; AMA é pot 

En Nabi Masaenn \D ead Sea Post reed ie 

\ { bi 
Ve i 17 
\S Medaba Qrssbees \ 
. 80, Fae Ce | 
\ . =Ss \ ° eas 

* 


\ 






SEQ Kalat ed Dabit 













' 
! 
! 
! 
! 
j 
‘ 
! 
i 
' 
| 
! 
' 
1 
| 
1 
1 
' 
‘ 
' 
1 
1 
‘ 
| 
I 
! 
t 









ene ; ~ \ 
i 5 ge 287 : j \ \ ; 
eee S ji Wiz Me ies 
p t ar9 MY \ \ ae 
ae — \ Se 
\ ‘ asr 
BS aoe \ Quanimam 
\ | < meat { ‘Se 
Sma \) ~390 for ae Zabib 
Ma ° SS W: ! H a a ‘ 
\ ‘ x Be 
8 Dhiban © a i “ 
Jp ' yy > 
; N 
















f S A Ghor elMazra‘ a yf 
’ Z / 
“s Wo. ElQutrant/ 
oe ; Se. 
ae py -360 io Sat i i 
! 
| W 
Qasr9 - fi 
y pe Ae ee 
j El Karako-"~ 
L { 
i \ Ss 
t \ 
pom i 
: / ' \ 
: \ 
va \roat 
1-168 } 
! . ! 
! ape ne oMazar $1° 
f al pall © aPs \/ . 
! va : 7Se@e 4 ~ 
Te wu pais Qasrat Tuba ; 
/ — le 
| 7 A | 
/ } 
nt QalatelHisa ¢ 
‘ : | 
0. : 
GE Auja Zubeita : 
ma 6 


PWYVYSVIAd 


Digitized by Google 






































































































































































































f — - ? 
Metulla ‘ Y 7 
Tyre y! KeférGil'adifg, iy f ¢ 
oh Tel Hats if 2 d Y 
aS i El Khalisay Peo mG 
SKETCH MAP Nees ay j ey Ai. \ 
of ~~--~o.Libnin ; Oo; Suweiziya 
PALESTINE So oF ae Quneitr, es 
a Boek a ‘4 
—— NS ‘ s / Wu 
: > SS |Da \ Z 
SCALE 1:750,000 PRBS PNBQURE fe aneeyrenip eee SX, oe Mon j off 
See eee eee Oe een 3.0 KILOM. OEIBassa / ak, x ; Vt, ke ES Hallameyys / 
es oT ott f+ |i La \ 
Wez “pv eee ek os Yestid ham Ma‘ala tr, oes 
¥ 5 url Tarshiha O ? Fale 
33 = ee en er ee ee aU Ss aa OKafrBir‘im if mee \ 
O-=== — $$ ~~ Hype, ! Se 33 
El Kabri Nos Oy Re So 7 
PERE PENCE / abri XS er ctarnny aa hay Varden gi isr Banat Ya‘qub / : \ 
; fre f ioe re Rosh \ 
iat Wy Skirt atte ota, rd RY io inna 
é ErRama\ / \ 
Meéalled Roads Roane apens ssecsceapc ace ————————————————— ord® 4 r ame | 
SENS S ! Ezra 
Other Roads & Tracks ‘ | | 
‘Sh. Miski 
Heights tn Metres........ i aed ee i derek ; \ ao pSh-Miskin | 
eee” { 
Sad DUNCS.....cecssecrcnssnsennnee db es CapeCarmel HAIFA y v a y, 
STL ee we ( YQ (7 : 2 go: { 
TSS Rot dint Sco Rees lee ge Se ee : HAAN: Shafa‘Ame : cy ? +540 Tiberi i A 4 
an ea ol ; ee, ! a 
, cf \ x 1 Ghazala 
International Bdy,.........20..0- ye ere | \ Beit Lahm aD Saffiriva er ies 
. ‘ Blk s on : >s - 
DISTRI CIO OV ect. cir ive 4 tise seainb as es yi} ‘ Y pa a % y y ySajara 
! pe *4= ° . = 
‘ I <~ Jeidig Rol Kinnéret a 
Sub-District By... es i |» woe eM | nérety 
err rrr Teri rit eit rrrrr ri riily ° iV hor} a ; ar ! D . 
2) er + Nahalal Nae Mas-ha,, .-=—- Deganyag 
Towns surveyed tor Assessment Purposes.....@ 4 ‘w nag Were rater i 
" 2 
¢ 
Cou. MEG! DD} 
Progress to Dec. 318% 1932 bi: pLikhron Ya‘agév ast? 7‘ a * — 
i TR Rar | 1169 a OQ 
AE ot way hee y ‘Ein Harod = 
KSinyamita <7 Yn 
WPinyamina Beg : she, 
Surveyed ......... Caesarea ue re oil Jisr Sh.Husein h 
Cadastral Survey ( okarkir / / 
es eae er SA H / 
Settled............ nes wel Mi pone ; 
; Ps ree W, Hass Lb 0 ‘Kura i ‘ | 
i i ; 
a ! WBS: oh nee YA 
-* ! a YO 
4] 7 ae, 
owe” \ y) Pcs 1 / ay f 
\ en ae i 
“ H Ajlins 3 / \ | 
Siesnegeer™ } 330 ; 
1 FoR ee ne IE an I i Pe dee SD ee ie ea Oe 
P oi 
! 
OSamaria / R i 
Ps / 
938 ,’ A ~\ 
/ eal 
Of 
SH | 
: 
TEL AViv¢ ae Vy oKalat ezZarqa 
‘S98 NAN, 
Yf “Y 
© s)° 
82 f ji 
J “A e : i 32°| 
YW g ; er 
4 A: (a ee : fAMMAN: 
G a, : 1 
Mg . ‘ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
rf 
7 pe Se, ots = toate 
/ Po Po, ae a 
: // Laban / we 
o—— EnNabiMasae~ __ 727 i} 
ER Z, i / 
u RUSALEM Medaba o.-__ ¢ 
Sy ; di a ee ; \ \ 
; ; 527 >. ' ae za! 
etilehem alin, J | ~~. iza\ 
° i a 
tn eT i | Y N ic 
: Taher (BeitJibri ‘ 4 EDN : 7 
th lFaluja a. t : P=Q Kalat ed Dabi 
icon hee Mere apy t t a eal 
yy i oe } ot ’ | 
ae We sf | is 
{ ~S 
t WW Zarga, MX, l TSK 
“ wv) am Hammam 
~390 ag Hor éKhanZabib 
Gaza ff N ' ‘ 
“Yj NS . 5 i M2 
NEdh Dhahiriya 7 : Dhiban ? q \ AS 
“ oe \ ‘ 
§ VF \ / N 
g <Coen \ Suwaka 
t o6. H 
| 
Me t / ao re ae 
f Ghor elMazra‘ / 
Ay i AS O Ww. / 
Se ae ew ery Ob On On one ° : » . ! 
ROR teen xt . ft 2360 Ske, ! 
TOS ese eae eee Tt | t 2 es i f 
Ase) j Beersheba ~~---___ i ES 
/ Ss. —_ k i e es 
** Qasr Seeo 
* PA cos an ‘S 
<e } El Karako~~ 
, t > ' = 
A ee 
1 \ : 
jth t \ 
H : 
! H ! 
YVR Berra een oMazar Oo 
s ale pain I 7 - $1F — 
/ ar e AACE? & a Sa 
} en om Qasrat Tuba ; iy for} 
Boer err / WY H a 
— v4 ‘ Hi > 
: < ~25 / / QalatelHisa¢ = 
RN DT RAN / / = 
GE! ‘Auja 4 Xe i 
‘ Pa \ 2 ZL. 4 4 





f Survey of Palestine, Jaffa 1932. 
fe me 








| | | Digitized by Google 


Diagram III. 


VARIATIONS OF LAKE-LEVELS 


41 


| 
M! 


/ 


i 
if 


i 
g 







LAKE TIBERIAS 


e 


tt 
| 


J 
és S 
a 


7; & & 


Metres Below 






| 
! 


<v 


& 


& =) ) 


i 
1 


i 
| 


ll 
TOE | 
ve 









¢ 


39 











S. of. P. Jalfa Dec 1932 


DEAD SEA 


Diagram IV. 


CADASTRAL SURVEY 


PROGRESS OF REGISTRATION BLOCK PLANS 1932. 


42 





43 


VI.—_NATIONALITY. 


The texts of the Palestinian Citizenship Order in Council and 
of a Proclamation by the High Commissioner for Palestine 
amending Article 2 thereof were reprinted in Section 4 of the 
Report for 1925*; and the text of the amending Order in Council 
of 1931+ was printed in Appendix II of the Report for that year. 


2. Article 5 of the Principal Order facilitates the acquisition 
of citizenship by Jews who opted therefor under Article 2 of the 
Palestine Legislative Council Election Order in Council, 1922. The 
qualifications for naturalization are simple: two years’ residence 
in Palestine out of the three years preceding application, good 
character, and the declared intention to settle in Palestine; 
knowledge of Hebrew is accepted under the literary qualification. 
In special cases the High Commissioner is empowered to grant 
naturalization even if the period of residence has not been within 
the three years preceding application. 

3. The fee for naturalization is 500 mils. Jewish ex-soldiers 
form the majority of those to benefit from the exemption from 
naturalization fees granted to ex-members of His Majesty’s Forces. 

4. Special facilities have been granted to Jewish students resident 
abroad to obtain citizenship, if qualified, without being required 
to present themselves in person at Jerusalem. 

5. Reference is invited to paragraph 3 on page 40 of the Annual 
Report for 1931. t 

6. 1,076 applications for naturalization were made under Article 7 
of the Palestine Citizenship Order in Council during the year under 
review and two under Article 9 (2). 53 certificates of citizenship 
Were issued under Article 5, 748 certificates of naturalization under 
Article 7 and two under Article 9 (2). Of the certificates issued 
under Article 7, three were granted exceptionally by the High Com- 
missioner under sub-section (5) to persons who had not resided 
in Palestine for two years during the preceding three. Three 
applications were rejected under Article 5 and fourteen under 
Article 7. 52 certificates granted under Article 5 were annulled 
and 26 granted under Article 7 revoked, in almost every case because 
the recipient had not carried out his declared intention of residing 
permanently in \Palestine. 971 certificates of citizenship and 
naturalization were lying unclaimed at the end of the year. 

7. 4,391 Palestine passports, 284 Identity and Travelling docu- 
ments, 300 Certificates of Identity and 1,424 endorsements on 
Palestine passports were given and 2,283 Palestine passports re- 
newed in Palestine, besides those renewed by British Consular 
Officers abroad. 7,005 passports, visas, etc., were granted on behalf 
of the British, ‘Iraqi, and Sudan Governments. These included 
4,638 return visas for Palestine. 


8. 251 changes of name were registered during the year. 
* Colonial No. 20. 3 t Colonial No. 76. 


44 


Citizenship and Naturalization Statistics. 
A. Applications accepted. 


Article 7 (1) sea Sie oe — seg 1,068 
Article 7 (5) Boe oe — 2 ie 8 
Article 9 (2) st See cae Se ie 2 
1,078 
B. Citizenship and Naturalization Certificates tssued. 
Article 5 ae ee ee Sat sie: sae 53 
Article 7 (1) she sd sine iad bx 745 
Article 7 (5) me _ hg si a 3 
Article 9 (2) oe ae 235 — ans 2 
803 
C. Applications refused. 
Article 5 ae ie a, sc — ote 3 
Article 7 a nee — ae eat Sst 14 
17 
D. Certificates revoked and annulled. 
Article 5 Ses a0 ues sis de ao 52 
Article 7 ne oe oe ee ue ae 26 
78 


VII.—_JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 
Legislation. 


The most important Ordinances enacted during the year are the 
following :— 


(1) THe Lanp DIspuTEs (POSSESSION) ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinance enables District Commissioners to make 
orders as to possession of land concerning which a dispute, 
likely to cause a breach of the peace, exists. 


(2) THE OFFICIAL SECRETS ORDINANCE. 
This Ordinance provides for the prevention of disclosure of 
official documents and information. 
(3) THe TELEGRAPHIO Press MESSAGES ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinance confers temporary exclusive rights in respect 
of telegraphic press messages. 








45 - 


(4) THe SuccEssIon (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinamce makes it clear that a District Court exercis- 
ing jurisdiction under the Principal Ordinance may be con- 
stituted by the President sitting alone; it also provides that 
the Court which shall exercise jurisdiction thereunder should 
be that in which the deceased resided or had his place of busi- 
ness at the time of his death, or, if he had no residence or 
place of business in Palestine, the District Court of the Dis- 
trict within which any of the estates of the deceased is 
situated, or, in default of such, the District Court of Jerusalem. 


(5) THe MAGISTRATES’ COURTS JURISDICTION (AMENDMENT) 
ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinance enables a President of a District Court, with 
the approval of the Chief Justice, to direct that all or any 
classes of civil or criminal cases, which but for the provisions 
of this Ordinance would be triable in a particular Magistrate’s 
Court in the District, shall be tried in some other Magistrate’s 
Court in the same District. 


The object of this Ordinance is to enable cases occurring in 
certain Hebrew-speaking Jewish colonies to be transferred to 
Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking Magistrates and 
also, at the instance of the Police, to facilitate the disposal of 
cases by enabling summary prosecutions in certain places to 
be taken at Magistrates’ Courts situated nearer the places 
concerned. 


(6) THE LAND SETTLEMENT (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinamce provides that appeals from Land Settlement 
Officers shall normally be decided in Chambers without the 
hearing of the parties, and serves, at the same time, to validate 
appeals decided in this fashion which were heard before the 
passing of this Ordinance. 


(7) THe Courts (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE. 


The object of this Ordinance is to enable a Chief Execution 
Officer to delegate his duties to a Judge or a Magistrate. 


(8) THe Courts (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE (No. 2). 


This Ordinance enables District Courts constituted of two Judges 
to have jurisdiction in criminal trials in which the maximum penalty 
is three years imprisonment and a fine not exceeding £P.200 


instead of, as in the past, three years imprisonment or a fine not 
exceeding £P.200. 


- 46 


(9) Tae CRIMINAL LAw (SEDITIOUS OFFENCES) 
(AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE. 


This Ordinance amends the definition of ‘‘ Seditious intention "’, 
points out the cases where a principal can refute a prima facie 
case of publication by his agent, and provides that persons charged 
with publication, etc., of statements likely to disturb the public 
peace knowing that such statements are false shall, in order to 
escape punishment, have laid upon them the onus of proving 
that they took reasonable measures to verify the accuracy of such 
statements before publication. 


2. Advocates.—Thirty-one persons were admitted as advocates 
before the Civil Courts during the year. Of these, 21 were graduates 
of the Government Law Classes and ten were foreign advocates 
who had passed the special examination for such advocates that 
is held annually. 


Twenty advocates were reported to the Chief Justice in the year 
1932 for disgraceful, fraudulent or unprofessional conduct under 
section 15 of the Advocates Ordinance, 1922. In two cases only 
were the charges sufficiently substantiated to justify the convening 
of a Court of Discipline. 


In the first it was found that the advocate was guilty of unprofes- 
sional conduct in that having received a sum of money with which 
to defray the Court fees in an action which he had been instructed 
to bring, he failed, without any justification, to lodge the action 
for a period of six months and that during this period, upon several 
occasions, he informed his client that the action had been lodged 
and that its hearing was imminent, contrary to the truth. The 
Court adjudged him to be severely reprimanded. The Chief Justice 
confirmed the finding of the Court of Discipline, but varied its 
sentence, and decided that the advocate should be suspended from 
practice for a period of three months. 


In the second case the proceedings in the Court of Discipline are 
still pending. 

In one other case, no Court of Discipline was convened as the 
advocate paid the amount of money due by him to his client and this 
settled the dispute amicably. 


In another case the final decision of the Criminal Courts in 
certain criminal charges brought against an advocate is being 
awaited before a decision is taken as to whether or not a Court 
of Discipline need be held. 


The Permanent Mandates Commission requested information as 
to whether all persons practising the profession of advocate in 
Palestine make a living out of that profession. 


In recent years, persons practising the profession of advocate in 
Palestine have found it difficult to make a living in view of 


| 
i 
| 
| 
| 
| 


47 


the economic crisis. The position, however, has now improved, 
and on the whole it may be said that the majority of such persons 
do make a living by their profession. 


3. Law Classes.—The number of students enrolled in the Law 
Classes for the session 1932-33 is 86. 


4. Compantes.—Sixty-four Palestinian companies were registered 
and 16 foreign companies. 

The principal Palestinian companies were the Palestine General 
Insurance Company, the Safety Match Company ‘* Nur ’’, Limited, 
the Kalia Seaside Health Resort, Palestine Ashrai Bank, Arab 
Building Company and the Sulphur Quarries, Limited. 

Among the foreign companies registered were the Mediterranean 
Pipelines, Limited, ‘Iraq Petroleum Transport Company, Socony 
Vacuum Corporation, National General Insurance Company, the 
Phoenix Insurance Company, and the Polish Guardian Bank. 

The total number of companies now registered is 422, of which 
126 are foreign. 

The names of five companies were struck off the register by 
the Registrar of Companies. 


5. Co-operative Soctettes.—Eighty-nine co-operative societies were 
registered in comparison with 42 last year, of which 25 were agri- 
cultural, 12 orange growers, 11 credit, 11 transport, 7 building, 
7 consumers and 17 other forms of co-operative societies. 

Five societies went into voluntary liquidation, and three were 
compulsorily wound up by the Registrar. 

The total number of co-operative societies now registered is 430. 


6. Trade Marks.—204 applications for the registration of trade 
marks were filed during the year, 89 by local firms and 115 by 
foreign firms. 63 of the local applications were in respect of 
sas used as food or as ingredients in food, mostly citrus 
ruits. 

Thirteen hearings were granted and the Registrar’s decision was 
accepted in all but two cases. 


£P.934 was collected in fees. 


The working of the Trade Marks Ordinance shows a marked 
Improvement both from the peint of view of the number of appli- 
cations filed and the manner in which applications are submitted. 
Circulars have from time to time been sent to trade marks agents, 
which have led to a better understanding of the rules and of the 
procedure involved in obtaining registration. 


1. Patents and Designs.—63 applications for patents were re- 
ceived, 49 from local inventors and 14 from abroad, including two 
applications for the registration of United Kingdom patents. 

Fifteen of the applications have already been sealed. 

A set of rules is about to be published for the guidance of local 
inventors. 


48 


Nine persons were registered as patent agents, and £P.406 was 
collected in patent fees. 
Three applications were made for the registration of designs. 


Judicial. 


8. Orders made by the High Commissioner and rules made by the 
Chief Justice during the year will be found in the annual volume 
of subsidiary legislation, copies of which have been sent to the 
Permanent Mandates Commission. 


9. Munictpal Courts. —The number of cases entered in 1932 shows 
@ marked increase (15,854 compared with 10,967 in the previous 
year), probably due to more effective traffic control. Cases of this 
nature and offences against public health laws constitute the major 
part of the work of the Municipal Courts. 

15,771 cases were decided during the year and only 220 cases 
were pending at 3lst December. 

The increase in work is almost entirely in the Courts of Jerv- 
salem and Jaffa which are presided over by stipendiaries. 


10. Magistrates’ Courts.—The recent upward tendency in the 
list of civil cases entered in the Magistrates’ Courts was checked 
in 1932, the number being 48,000, compared with 65,000 in the 
preceding year. The decrease is probably attributable to the 
favourable economic situation. Approximately the same number 
of cases was decided ; only 973 were pending at the end of the year. 

30,910 criminal cases were entered, 31,094 were decided, and 355 
were pending at 3lst December. The increase in the number of 
criminal cases entered speaks for the greater efficiency of the 
Police Force and for vigilance in the prosecution of minor offences: 
it was most evident in Bethlehem, Haifa, Safad, Tiberias, Tel-Aviv, 
and Baisan. 


11. District Courts.—5,315 cases were entered during the year 
in the District Courts, the increase being almost entirely on the 
criminal side. 

COMPARATIVE TABLES. 


(1) Entered. 


Year. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
1923 1,809 1,534 3,343 
1924 1,750 1,580 3,330 
1925 1,716 1,471 3,187 
1926 2,246 1,556 3,802 
1927 2,241 1,870 4,111 
1928 2, 225 2,305 4,530 
1929 9, 206 2,359 4,565 
1930 2,501 2. ,282 4,783 
1931 2,401 9,257 4,658 
1932 2,490 2 825 5 316 


oe 


4 


(2) Decided. 


9 


Year. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
1923 1,761 1,494 3,255 
1924 1,725 1,590 3,015 
1925 1,658 1,539 3,197 
1926 2,217 1,497 3,714 
1927 2,129 1,863 3,992 
1928 2 292 2,151 4,443 
1929 2,181 2,309 4,490 
1930 2,361 9, 273 4,634 
1931 2,289 2,390 4,679 
1932 i 2,454 2,868 5 322 
(8) Pending. 
Year. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
1923... — oz o8G 193 144 337 
1924 ... oe ee ae 218 134 352 
1925... Boks st, Ss 276 66 342 
1926 ... ag sine Led 305 125 430 
1927 ... ee tie bt 417 132 549 
1928 ... ee San ae 350 286 636 
1929... 524 whe att 375 336 711 
1930 ... oo eee re 515 345 860 
1931 ... a mae a 627 212 839 
1932 ... oe am be 663 169 832 


It will be okserved that it is the practice, if arrears are unavoid- 
able, to give priority to criminal cases. 

12. Land Courts.—551 cases were entered in the Land Courts 
and 478 decided. As a measure of economy, the separate Land 
Courts at Jerusalem and Jaffa were abolished, and the work of 
each was added to the respective District Court. 


13. Supreme Court.—The highest Court in Palestine is the 
Supreme Court, which is composed of a British Chief Justice and 
one other British judge and four Falestinian judges. The Court sits — 
In two forms :— 

_ (1) As a Court of Appeal, in which capacity it has appellate 
jurisdiction in civil and criminal matters decided in first in- 
stance by the District Courts, the Land Courts, and the Court 
of Criminal Assize ; 

(2) As a High Court of Justice, in which capacity it hears 
applications of the nature of habeas corpus and mandamus 
proceedings. 

The Court of Appeal is composed normally of three judges, while 
the High Court may sit with two judges. In either case a British 
Judge presides. An appeal lies from the Supreme Court in civil 
cases to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council where the 
value of the suit exceeds £P.500. 


50 


274 appeals were entered in 1932, and 236 decided. 198 were 
pending at the end of the year. 


There were 212 criminal appéals, 195 were decided, and 2) 
were pending at 3lst December. 


14. Court of Criminal Assize.—44 cases were decided in the 
Court of Criminal Assize. 

63 persons were tried during the year on charges involving the 
capital penalty : 16 were sentenced to death and 10 to imprison _— 
ment, 35 were acquitted, one was committed to a reformatory | 
school and one was allowed to turn King’s witness. 


Fifteen of the death sentences were confirmed by the Cout - 
of Criminal Appeal, and one was reduced to 15 years’ imprison- 
ment; and of the death sentences confirmed, five were carried out, 
while in the remaining cases the High Commissioner commuted — 
the death penalty to varying terms of imprisonment. 


-_+* a 
: Se 6 

an ¥ i — . ghey , 
i See 5 ks pea ae eee . a a 


15. High Court.—99 petitions were entered in the High Court, 
and 84 decided. 

Here again the increase is due to the shortage of judges in the 
Supreme Court during the greater portion of the year. 

The petitions may be classified as follows :— 


(1) Petitions in the nature of habeas corpus pro- 
ceedings under sub-section (1) of section § of 


the Courts Ordinance, 1924 ... Nil. 

(2) Petitions under sub-section (2) in Execution 
matters ... 66 

(3) Other Petitions under sub- ‘section: (2) for orders 
directed to public bodies or public officers ... 27 

(4) Petitions under sub-section (3) for Eanes of 
venue 3 

(5) Petitions under the ‘Contempt of Court Ordin- 
ance : ae ve 2 
(6) Not coming within the above heads ... 1 
99 


16. Special Trbunal.—This Tribunal is constituted under 
Article 55 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, and section 8 
of the Courts Ordinance, 1924, to decide whether or no a case is 
one of personal status within the exclusive jurisdiction of a religious — 
Court. Its members are two British judges of the Supreme Court , 
and the President or a judge nominated by such President of the 
highest Court in Palestine of any religious Court which is alleged 
by any party to have exclusive jurisdiction in the matter. 


No cases were entered in this tribunal in 1932; one case was 
still pending at the close of the year. 


51 


17. Probation of Young Offenders.—A Probation Officer was 
ppointed in April to deal with young delinquents under the Young 
fenders Ordinance, 1922, after a course of study of this work 
n the United Kingdom. 

This officer, on information supplied by the Police, investigates 
he home conditions and other circumstances of the delinquent 
nd places the result of his investigation before the Magistrate, 
t the same time recommending how, in the light of that result, 
he case should be judged. The Secretary of the Social Service 
3ureau of the Vaad Leumi (General Council of the Jewish Com- 
nunity) has taken charge of Jewish cases which are referred to 
hat body, and is in a position to call upon the services of trained 
ocal workers and medical practitioners for the purpose. Similar 
ielp has been rendered by voluntary workers in Arab cases. 

It is hoped next year to appoint Honorary Assistants, Arab 
ind Jewish, who will regularly co-operate with the Probation 
Jtheer in his work of inquiry, and in the subsequent visiting of 
Jelinquents placed on probation. 

In necessitous cases, the Probation Officer provides medicine, 
school books, and clothing to young persons under his supervision. 

Arrangements have been made, if the Probation Officers deals 
with any petty case of a juvenile offender, for the Police to endorse 
on the records a note that the charge has been withdrawn. 

As far as possible, juvenile cases are heard by Magistrates at 
a separate time and in a separate room ; and Magistrates recognize 
the advantages of the probationary system. 

The following are statistics from 1st April to 31st December, 


s 
a 
° 


Total number of boys is — 


Moslems _ _ es ... 180 
Christians... Si me ie aoe ie O9 
Jews ... - set on _ ee .. 28 

962 

Nature of charges :— 

Theft and ene at eh tee LOT 
Assault sie se a set a .. 20 
Indecent behaviour e she oe he 5 
Murder se ms ~ met 3 
Attempted Murder . es - aa oT 1 
Other charges sid i a sas ... 126 

262 





15 boys were discharged ; 20 Arab, 14 Jewish and one Christian 
boy were placed on probation, and ten Arab and five Jewish boys 
Were sent to the reformatory school. 


52 


18. Personnel.—Two members of the judiciary, Mr. Justice }- 
Jarallah, Senior Palestinian Judge of the Supreme Court, @- 
Ahmad Eff. Jaouni, an Acting Senior Magistrate, died in the cow - 
of the year. ; 

Judge Tute, President of the Land Court, Jerusalem, was pi: 
moted to be Chief Justice of the Bahamas ; and Judge Isy-: 
Eff. Budeiri retired on pension. | 

Commander Bodilly was appointed as Chief Magistrate, af 
assumed duty at Haifa in October. pe 


19. General.—The revenue of the Courts in 1932 was £P.81 O . 
and the expenditure was £P.16,500 less. 

The excess of revenue over expenditure which has marked a: 
accounts of the Courts for the last period of years was due largé 
to the volume of post-War civil litigation. That litigation — 
gradually being disposed of, 18 is shown by this year’s diminuti 
of receipts (cf. page 51 of 1931 Report) .* 

A second British Magistrate was appointed towards the close -- 
1932; a third officer of this category has been selected and w - 
assume his duties in May, 1933. The filling of these posts, as we* 
as those judicial and magisterial posts which are at present vacan 
the provision of certain necessary new Court buildings and tt 
improvement and adequate furnishing of the existing buildings al 
likely to reduce the margin between the revenue and expenditu! 
of the Courts. 


20. Court Buildings.—The new Court House at Haifa has bea 
taken over, and enlarged or improved accommodation has bea 
secured at Jerusalem, Baisan, Tulkarm, Ramle, Jenin, Acre, an 
Majdal. The new Court House at Nablus is almost complete. 


Religious Communities. 


21. An account was given on pages 69-71 of the Report for 1930: 
of the Religious Courts exercising jurisdiction in Palestine, thei 
distribution, composition, the codes which they apply and the rate 
of fees which they charge to litigants. 

There is nothing of a general character to add to that account 
The following are particulars of the activities of the various Court 
during 1932 :— 

(1) Moslem Community.—4,665 cases were entered ant 
4,417 were decided ; 6,430 marriage certificates were granted 
997 decrees of divorce were made, and 2,676 miscellaneous cert 
ficates were issued. The revenue from fees was £P.4,522. 

(2) Jewish Community.—385 cases were heard by the Rab 
binical Courts of the Jewish community (excluding Jaffa, Tel 
Aviv, and Petah-Tiqva) during 1932, of which 69 concerne 
matters of guardianship, 76 concerned matters of persons 
status, and 32 financial cases; 1,155 marriage certificates wet 


* Colonial No. 75. t Colonial No. 59. | 
| 


53 


granted, 290 decrees of divorce were made, and 1,180 certi- 
ficates, mainly of succession, ritual validity, and birth, were 
issued. 

The Jaffa-Tel-Aviv Rabbinical Court heard 417 cases, mainly 
of personal status, succession, and guardianship, and that at 
Petah-Tiqva heard 140 cases. 

(3) Marontte Community.—11 cases were entered in the 
Religious Court of the community during 1932, of which seven 
were of inheritance and two of wills. 

(4) Greek Catholic Community.—Two cases of alimony were 
entered in the Religious Court of the community, and 19 cer- 
tificates, mainly of inheritance, were issued. 

(5) Catholic (Melkite) Community, Northern District.—78 
cases were entered in the Religicus Court of this community 
at Haifa during the year. 

(6) Greek Orthodox Community.—373 cases were entered 
in the Religious Courts of First Instance of this community 
at Jerusalem, Acre, Haifa, Nazareth, and Gaza during 1932, 
and 14 cases in the Court of Appeal at Jerusalem. 104 cases 
concerned marriage and divorce, 130 cases concerned inheri- 
tance and wills, 25 cases concerned questions of guardianship, 
51 cases concerned conjugal differences, 25 cases concerned 
alimony, 11 cases concerned change of religion, and two cases 
concerned disposal of waaf. 

(7) Armenian Community.—26 cases of wills, succession, 
and guardianship were entered in the Religious Tribunal of 
the Armenian Patriarchate. 

(8) Latin Community.—69 cases of inheritance, alimony, 
and disposal of property of minors were entered in the Religious 
Court of the community. 

(9) Greek Catholic (Melkite) Community, Jerusalem Dts- 
trict.—12 cases were entered in the Religious Court of the 
community during 1932. 

(10) Armenian Catholic Community.—No cases were heard in 
1932. 

(11) Syrian Orthodox Community.—There is only one Re- 
gious Court for this community; it sits at Jerusalem, and 
consists of the Bishop of the Community and two priests. 
No advocates appear before the Court, and no fees are collected. 
12 cases were heard in 1932, three of which concerned breach 
of promise. 


22. Waqfs.—The Administration and control of Moslem W aqfs 
5 one of the functions of the Supreme Moslem Council. Informa- 
lon in regard to the constitution and organisation of this Council 
"ill be found on pages 100 and 101 of the Report for 1926.* (See 
so the Introductory Section of this Report, paragraph 59). 


* Colonial No. 26. 
18933 C 


23. Information in regard to the extradition agreements mad 
between the Mandatory and other foreign powers is given | 
Part (A) (i) and Part (C) of Section XIT of this Report. 


Cases decided in the Year 1982, 
Including Appeals in all Courts of Palestine other than Religious Courts. 

























e iia ee 








Courts. Civil. Criminal. Total. 
Supreme Court 236 195 43] 
High Court Sa 84 — 84 
Court of Criminal Rasize: _ 44 44 [ 
Special Tribunal ... ie ae — — — |. 
District Courts 2,454 2,868 5,322 | 
Land Courts : 478 — 478 | 
Magistrates’ Courts .. 47,958 31,094 79,002 | 
Municipal Courts , = 15,771 15,771 | 
Persons charged before “Magis- — 24,216 24,216 
trates holding special warrants. 
Total wwe: 1,210 74,188 125,398 
1931 Bes eae Hew 68,411 57,254 125,665 
Increase ... oe eis — 16,934 ee 
Decrease ... 17,201 — 26; 
Cases Pending, Entered and Decided during 1932. 
Entered Decided 
Pending during during _—~Pending 
1.1.32. year. year. 31.12.32. 
SUPREME CouRT— 
Civil 160 274 236 198 
Criminal 8 212 195 26 
Total... =... ee «168 486 43] 223 
High Court... ... .. 19 99 84 of 
Court or CRIMINAL ASSIZE 12 44 44 12 
SPECIAL TRIBUNAL l — — ] 
Districr CourTts— 
Civil visas wee QT 2,490 2,454 663 
Criminl ... 3... «.. S212 2,825 2,868 169 
Total... .. ... ~—-839 5,315 5,322 832 
Lanp Courts vee 6468 551 478 719 
MaaistraTts’ CourRTs— 
Civil wee wee 1,429 47,502 47,958 973 
Criminal ... 20... we S58 30,910 31,094 350 
Total... 6. ~~ -—-:1,968 78,412 79,052 1,328 
Mumicrpan Courts—  ....— 137 15,854 15,771 220 














55 
Revenue of all Courts in Palestine other than Religious Courts, 1932. 


Supreme District Land Magistrates’ Municipal 

Month. Court. Courts. Courts. Courts. Courts. 
January ... 193-950 2,830-830 158-610 3,390-842 184-670 
February ... 99-705 2,562 -660 96°355 2,629-355 248 - 630 
‘March... = -134+530 3,587 - 980 220-915 3,164-884 210-800 
April .--  182°730 2,136-575 133-955 2,476-190 176-360 
May --» 105-430 2,767 -709 88°270 3,057:241 242-530 
June was 94°745 2,583 - 443 101°557 = 3,145°363 243-210 
July .. 80°310 2,782-091 59-852  2,967-616 232-380 
August ... 264-620 1,909: 840 101-025 1,711-980 194-120 
September 67-755 2,661-795 189-270 3,268-339 294-385 
October ... 75°875 2,439-292 183-435 3,489: 588 296-530 


November... 102-915 3,025-150 83-595  3,500-796 406-195 
Decemher... 128-555 3,029-900 79-380 2,992-597 432-415 


Total... 1,531°120 32,267:265 1,446-219 35,794-791 3,162-225 
Advocates’ 32-200 454-800 34-600 3,857 > 655 — 
~ Procura- 

tion Fees, 


ToraLs :— £P. mils. 
Revenue ee ses ee eat 74,201 -620 
Advocates’ procuration fees Was 4,379+255 
Advocates’ licence fees an ams 997-000 
Advocates’ annual practising fees 1,441-000 
Fees on registration of clerks under 

service in an advocate’s office ... 42-000 
GRanpvD ToTAL ... eee 81,060°-875 


VITI.— ECONOMIC EQUALITY. 


1, The railways of Palestine, its posts, telegraphs, and _ tele- 
phones, its ports and roads are in public ownership and are ad- 
ministered by the Palestine Government. 


The construction of the Haifa Harbour is being carried out by 
4 Government Department. 


Water supplies are administered, in all cases, by the Municipal 
or Local Council concerned. 


The Turkish tobacco monopoly has been discontinued. 


The principle that all mineral resources of Palestine are the 
Property of the Government and may therefore be exploited under 
. cence by private individuals or corporations, is established by the 
Mining Ordinance, 1995. 


; There are Ordinances for the control of fisheries, forests, and 
: game, for the cultivation, manufacture, and sale of tobacco and 
, Quor, for the manufacture and sale of matches, for the manu- 


‘ “acture and sale of salt, and for the export of fruit. 


18938 C 2 


56 


Reference may be made also to the Mewat (waste) Iuands, Com- | 


panies, Customs Tariff, Urban Property Tax and Collection of 
Taxes Ordinances; and to the measures which are being taken 
to carry out a cadastral survey and a settlement of title to land. 


The terms of the concessions which have been granted by the 


Government in respect of the exploitation or development of ant ! 
of the natural resources of Palestine, or public services, are such | 


as to ensure, by means of time-limit clauses affecting the com- 
mencement of the work and the expiry of the concession, genuine 
and expeditious development. 


Where appropriate, the Palestine Treasury is to receive reason- 


able royalties or rents ; the employment of local labour is adequately | 


guaranteed ; the Government has the right of inspection of the 
concessionnaires’ accounts; and in certain cases there is provision 
for local investment in the capital of the Company. In general, 
rights under a concession may not be assigned without the consent 


of the Government, and, as a rule, the mght of the Government .- 


to take over the undertaking in the event of war or 
similar emergency is reserved. Finally, provision is made for the 
reversion of the undertaking and all assets and effects thereof to 
the Government at the end of the term of the concession. 


The provisions of the Mining Ordinance of Palestine are % 
framed that it is possible for the Government to prevent any 
speculative ‘‘ tying-up’’ of undeveloped mimeralized areas by 
prospectors. 


——me 


All leases of State Domain land contain a clause enabling the ' 
Government to resume possession of the whole or any part of the — 


area for public utility purposes. 


2. It has not been necessary to arrange with the Jewish Agency 
to construct or operate any public works, services, and utilities, 
or to develop any of the natural resources of the country. The 
Jewish Agency ‘is, however, a large shareholder in the Palestine 
Electric Corporation, which holds the concession for generating 
electricity from the waters of the Jordan and the Auja; and the 
Palestine Economic Corporation of New York, of which the 
Directors are non-Zionist Jews co-operating with the Jewish 


Agency, has a considerable interest in the Dead Sea Concession. , 


3. Reference to the activities of the Palestine Electric Corpora- | 


tion, the Jerusalem Electric and Public Services Corporation, and 


Palestine Potash Limited is made in Section XXVI, paragraphs ° 
45, 46 and 62 of this Report. The Mavrommatis Concession for | 


the supply of water to Jerusalem has been cancelled owing to the 
inability of the British Company which had acquired the rights 
to commence operations within the prescribed period or to accept 
the views of the Government of Palestine as to the rate to be 
charged for each cubic metre of water supplied. The Tiberias 
Baths Concession is still suspended, and the Concessionnaires are 


o7 


‘Nanaging the Baths for the Municipality under a five years’ con- 
Tact; they have spent £P.2,000 on improvements. The Huleh 
-Joncessionnaires are engaged in the construction of the bridge over 
‘he Jordan which is the first stage in the scheme of reclamation. 

In the course of discussion at the Twenty-Second Session of the 
Permanent Mandates Commission, it was suggested that some 
lificulty still existed in connexion with the concession for supply- 
ing Jerusalem with electricity. This suggestion was inadvertent : 
the concession has been satisfactorily operated since November, 
1929, by the Jerusalem Electric and Public Service Corporation, 
which purchased it from the Turkish Concessionnaire (see 1930 
Report, page 227, paragraph (iii) )* and there are no outstanding 
questions between the Palestine Government and the Corporation 
or the original Concessionnaire. 


_ 4. The latest Balance Sheets of the several companies are 
furnished in Appendix II to this Report. 


». The difficulties placed by the Ottoman regime in the way of 
foreign persons acquiring land in their own name and the pro- 
hibition against any foreign corporation holding land have been 
removed by the Palestine Government and all foreign persons, 
Whether individuals or corporate, may hold land upon the same 
terms as any Palestinian individual or corporate person. 

Economic equality as regards mining rights is secured by the 
| provisions of the Mining Ordinance, 1925. 

There is no economic discrimination in the fiscal regime or in 

_ the Customs Regulations of the Palestine Government. The 

_ §pecial privileges in respect of import duty, State and municipal 
taxation and tithes which were enjoyed by certain foreign charitable, 
religious, and educational institutions prior to the War under the 

: Ottoman Law of Zilhi 1281 A.H., and various Firmans are main- 

tained in toto by the Palestine Government, but no fresh privileges 
of the kind have been granted. 

__ Apart from this, foreign subjects are liable to the same taxation, 
State or municipal, as are Palestinian citizens. The Ottoman 
Law of Professional Tax (Temettu) which was assessed only upon 

Ottoman subjects and not upon foreigners, has not been applied 
by the Palestine Government. 

Under the Urban Property Tax Ordinance the net annual value of 

: all immovable property in towns is assessed by Committees on which 


the public and the Government are represented in equal 
, Proportion. 


IX.—HOLY PLACES. 


: a the Day of Atonement, a Jewish visitor blew a ram’s horn 
‘ 7 ed at the Wailing Wall during devotions contrary to custom 
; ite In contravention of the Regulations laid down (1931 Report, 
Se es a 9 See eS gee ge ee ee ty hy, eet ee ee 


* Colonial No. 59. 


18938 C3 


58 


page 198). He was prevented by the Rabbi in attendance and 
immediately placed under arrest, and on tral by the Magistrate . 


was sentenced to 21 days’ imprisonment. 


2. Certain structural repairs of minor importance were carried ~- 


out within the Church of the Holy Sepulchre by the Orthodox, 
Armenian, and Latin Communities, in mutual agreement. 


3. The Syrian Community protested against repairs made by the - 
Armenian Community to the door leading to the antechamber of : 
the Chapel of St. Nicodemus, but the Government decided that | 
there was no ground for intervention. 


4. An asbestos tapestry in the Grotto of the Church of the 


Nativity at Bethlehem fell from its place in February, and was . 
removed by the Government. Investigations showed that the Latin - 
Community had the right to defray the expenses of its repair. It . 


was accordingly repaired by the Government at the expense of the 
Custodia di Terra Santa and was rehung by the Government on 
the 22nd December, in the presence of the Apostolic Delegate, an 


Orthodox Bishop, and representatives of the Armenian Patriarchate — 


and the Custodia di Terra Santa. 
The cleaning of the Church of the Nativity, which is usually 


carried out on the 29th December every year, was postponed | 


indefinitely owing to dissensions between the Orthodox and Latin 


Communities on the subject of the cleaning and opening of the © 
northern windows of the Church. An endeavour by the Govern- — 


ment to bring about agreement did not meet with success. 


5. The wall of the enclosure of the sanctuary of the Ascension, 
Mount of Olives, which is in Moslem possession, was found to 
require urgent repairs and the right of the three Christian Com- 
munities to carry out the repairs jointly was recognized by the 
Government. Before the repairs were effected by the Communities, 
workmen of the Supreme Moslem Council had completed part of 
the work. 


X.— FREEDOM OF CONSCIENCE. 


There is complete liberty of conscience and of religion through- 
out Palestine. 

The Palestine Government is bound to carry out the prescrip- 
tions of Article 83 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which 
reads as follows :— 


ye nae 


‘‘ All persons in Palestine shall enjoy full liberty of 


conscience, and the free exercise of their forms of worship 
subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals. 
Every religious community recognized by the Government 
shall enjoy autonomy for the internal affairs of the community 
subject to the provisions of any Ordinance or Order issued by 
the High Commissioner.”’ 


| 


59 


The intervention of the Government in matters of change of 
religious community is regulated by the Change of Religious Com- 
munity Ordinance, 1927, and is directed to secure that there will 
be public notification of the change of legal status which is involved. 


A Special Tribunal has been established to deal with conflicts of 
jurisdiction between Civil and Religious Courts. 


An Ordinance was enacted in 1926 giving power to the High 
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to 
make Regulations for the organization of any Religious Community 
which applies therefor. Separate Regulations are to be made in 
each case suited to the special circumstances and organization of 
the Community concerned. The Regulations may provide for the 
constitution of Councils or Boards of the Community which shall 
have juristic personality and may confer on them power to impose 
contributions and fees for communal purposes which shall be 
—Tecoverable in the same way as municipal taxes and fees. 


_ The only Regulations of this kind which have so far been made 
are those of 1927 in respect of the Jewish Community, which contain 
_ provisions assuring freedom of conscience and religion to Jews who 
wish to hold aloof from the established Community. 


_ Municipal and public works are arranged, as far as possible, so 

as to allow every labourer to enjoy, in freedom of conscience, that 
Weekly day of rest which he elects to keep, subject to technical 
exigencies or consideration of emergency; and in fact a six-day 
_ Working week is general in such works. The precise méthod of 
securing this end depends on the kind of work to be done, the 
period fixed for its completion, the locality in which it is to be 
carried out, and the different racial and religious elements of the 
labour gang employed on it. The matter is usually susceptible 
of adjustment by the District Commissioner concerned, in consul- 
tation with the undertaker or contractor responsible for the work 

and, if need be, with the Religious Head of the Community affected. 


There is no difficulty in respect of skilled individual craftsmen 
who can do their jobs in their own time. 


As regards public works (roads, buildings, etc.), undertaken by 
Departments or under contract, the Government endeavours to 
avoid such conditions as might make Sabbath labour unavoidable 
to Jews employed upon the works, or such conditions as might 
*ncourage or facilitate Sabbath labour by Jews. All Government 
officers are granted the weekly day of rest observed by the religious 
ommunity to which they belong. But in the case of certain 
pepartments, such as the Railways, Posts and Telegraphs, and 
- folice, the difficulty of duplicating staff, the racial distribution of 
‘echnical skill, and the essential continuity, for example, of watch 
| and ward duties, entail the consequence, in some centres, that some 
; ret vee shall perform essential services on their weekly day of 


18938 C 4 


60 


2. The acts which may be done and which may not be done by 
Jews and Moslems at the Wailing Wall are defined in the Wailins: 
Wall Order in Council which was printed in Appéndix I to tha? 
Report for 1931. sas 


3. The registration of schools is required by the Department df 
Education and granted subject only to compliance with sanitary — 
requirements of the Department of Health. The establishment of 
schools in Palestine by communities or private organizations of: 
individuals is, apart from this, unrestricted. 


Under the new Education Ordinance,* all teachers are required’ 
to register their names and certain particulars with the Education 
Department, but except for this formality there is no restriction 
on the free exercise of the educational profession in a private school, 
that is, a school not receiving assistance from public funds. Private 
schools other than those private schools exempted by the High 
Commissioner on the ground that only religious instruction 1s given 
aré subject to inspection by certain officers of the Departments oi 
Education and Health. No changes in the curriculum or internal 
management of a private school establishéd or maintained by 3 - 
Religious Association may be required by the Department of 
Education. 


The full text of the Education Ordinance is given in Appendix I 
to this Report. 


XI.—MILITARY CLAUSES. 
Police and Prisons. 


The estimated cost of the Palestine Police Force and the Prisons 
Service in 19382 was £P.463,445. The strength of the Force and 
of the warder establishment on the 3lst December was as under :— 


Officers and Inspectors. Other Ranks. 
Chris- Chris- 5 
— tans. : tans. 3 3. 
: : : SF 
3 S 3 & # 
2 8 § 5 3S" we g . § 
Be - 2 3 : Nd ~s 
ei22f2 i 2 ERP 
aeeaesy 6 & QR KR FF 8 & & 
District Police 42 21 39 21 l 1244 — 239 995 304 4 1,542 1,6* 
British Police 3 — —~ — — 3 637 — — — 637 & 
Prisons and 8 — 4 3 — 1b — 46 201 146 — 263 
Jail Labour 
Companies. 
Total -- 53 21 43 24 =$1| 142 £637 #«32865 1,196 320 4 2,442 25s: 


* Ordinance No. 1 of 1933. The Ordinance came into force on the 
Ist January, 1933. 





61 


Captain H. P. Rice, formerly Superintendent of Police, Kenya, 
ras appointed Deputy Inspector-General, Criminal Investigation 
Jepartment, and Mr. E. P. Quigley, M.C., District Superintendent 
f Police, was retired from the Service on account of ill-health. 

As part of the economies effected on the recommendation of the 
Financial Commission to which reference was made in the 1931 
Report (page 10, paragraphs 33 and 34*), five British Superior 
Police Officers were retrenched and the personnel of the Force was 
‘duced by two Deputy District Superintendents, five Assistant 
District Superintendents, and an Inspector, and five sergeants, ten 
orporals, and 139 constables. 

The various municipal constabularies were merged with the 
Jovernment Police Force, which was thus augmented by an 
Inspector, four sergeants, 22 corporals, and 237 constables. 
es health of the Force has been uniformly good throughout 
the year. 


2. Proficiency Pay Examinations.—163 Palestinian constables 
ind 32 warders sat for the Proficiency Pay Examination and 38 
qualified. These examinations have now been introduced for 
British constables and an allowance of £P.1 per month is granted 
to those who pass, up to a limit of twenty-five per cent. of the 
British Section : 39 constables took the test in 1932 and 29 passed. 


3. Police Training Schools (British and Palestinian) .—246 recruits 
were accepted during the year so that, with 128 who were 
under training at the end of 1931, 374 recruits in all underwent 
the course in 1932. 22 were discharged for inefficiency or on 
other grounds, 286 were posted to Districts and 66 were still 
under training at the close of the year. 

162 non-commissioned officers and constables attended refresher 
ind promotional courses at the raining Schools and 152 other 
ranks qualified for the First Aid Certificate of the St. John 
Ambulance Association. 


4, Language Examinations. —Examinations in colloquial Arabic 
and Hebrew were held for British police officers: in the higher 
‘Xamination thirteen passed in Arabic and in the lower examina- 
lon 127 passed in Arabic and eight in Hebrew. 

There are also examinations for Palestinian pérsonnel in English, 
Arabic, and Hebrew : those passing the colloquial or lower standard 
‘tcelve a monthly bonus of 500 mils, and those who pass the 
neher examination, which includes a written test, receive a similar 
nus of £P1, Seventy other ranks were successful in the higher 
‘amination and 344 in the lower. 

9d. Wireless 

‘tations are m 
‘Wentv-three + 


Telegraphy.—Ten permanent  wireless-telegraph 
aintained by personnel of the Police Force and 
rained operators are employed for this purpose. 


* Colonial No. 75. 


62 


6. Police Stations and Posts.—Twenty new Police Stations were 
opened in 1932 and five closed; and five new Police Posts were 
opened and thirty-one closed. 

7. Prisons.—The health of the prisoners has been uniformly 
good. 
°'On the 31st December there were thirteen inmates in the 
Criminal Lunatic Section and fourteen in the Tubercular Ward 
of the Central Prison, Acre. 

Five prisoners escaped from the precincts of Central Prisons or 
Jail Labour Camps of whom three were recaptured ; two escaped 
from lock-ups, both being recaptured and eight prisoners escaped 
whilst on outside labour, of whom four were recaptured. 

11,636 prisoners were released under the Penal Labour Ordinance 
(as against some 7,000 in the previous year) and employed on 
various services of public utility. No wages are paid to the 
prisoners for the work. 

8. A daily average of 700 convicted prisoners were at work in 
Jail Labour Companies on road making, quarrying, and railway 
ballasting. 

In the Central Prisons the convicts are employed, without pay- 
ment, on making and repairing furniture for public offices, on 


making earth baskets for the Public Works Department, prison — 
clothing, mats and sandals, iron grilles, doors, and carpets, and on > 


mending mail bags. A printing industry has now been started. 


9. The numbers of prisoners in confinement on the 3lst Decem- 


ber were as follows :— Convicted. Unconvicted. 





Central Prison, Jerusalem Eee ss 373 46 
Central Prison, Acre... ve aaa 519 67 
Jail Labour Company No.1 ... ais 301 — 
Jail Labour.Company No. 2 ... wih 399 — 
Women’s Prison, Bethlehem ... sat 31 7 
Northern District Lock-ups _... ae 71 61 
Southern District Lock-ups ... Bs 81 50 
Jerusalem District Lock-ups ... — 30 32 
Nablus District Lock-ups oe ae 76 37 
Beersheba District Lock-ups ... oe 5 7 

1,891 307 

The distribution of sentences was as follows :— 

Debtors ... Si es se sth ae ase 66 
Up to 3 months... se Sed ba ae ... 388 
From 3 to 12 months ... aoe ve 2a .. 476 
From 1 to 5 years... a aes od .. A474 
From 5 to 15 years... ae a ae .. 407 
Over 15 years ... eat te set se a 25 
Life ; a sas sist ce sae 52 


Capital Punishment ... ...  .. ewes 


63 


10. The operation of the Imprisonment for Debt Ordinance 
(1981 Report, page 43, paragraph 1*) has had the effect of reducing 
the number of debtors in the prisons from a total of 5,221 in 1931 
toa total of 1,446 in the year under review. 


11. There were 101 convicted juvenile offenders and five boys 
awaiting trial in the Reformatory School: the average age on 
admission was 12 years. 


12. The large decrease in the number of civil debtors in denten- 
tion in 1932 is set off, to a large extent, by an increase in the 
number of minor offenders. 

For 1932, the daily average of persons imprisoned was 664, 
which is 12 per cent. less than the previous year; the total number 
of persons committed to prison in 1932 was 33,906 compared with 
3d4,682 in the previous year. 

A considerable proportion of prisoners are persons serving 
sentences of three months and less for contravention of Road 
Transport and Health Regulations; and many persons convicted on 
these minor counts elected to be imprisoned and to be subsequently 
released for extra-mural labour rather than pay the fines. 


13. Criminal Investigation Department.—The Criminal Investi- 
gation Department is controlled by a Deputy Inspector-General of 
Police, whose principal assistant is a Deputy District Super- 
intendent, and there are in addition three senior Police Officers 
in the Department. | 

The subordinate staff consists of a British corporal and three 
British constables, and three Palestinian Inspectors, two sergeants, 
and six constables. 

The subordinate staff of three detective sergeants and twenty 
constables (1931 Report, page 54, paragraph 10) were transferred 
to District establishments during the year. 


14. The duties of the Criminal Investigation Department are to 
Prevent and detect crime by the collection of evidence and by 
investigations, to watch and report upon political movements, to 
repress seditious activities, to maintain criminal records and a 
Finger Print and Photographs Bureau, to examine the regular 
organs of the Press and occasional pamphlets with a view to action 
In case of seditious or inflammatory articles, to prevent smuggling 
of arms and drugs, to scrutinize applications for naturalization, 
to arrange deportations and extraditions, and to preserve liaison 
With the corresponding Departments in Egypt, Syria, Trans- 
Jordan, India, ‘Iraq, and Europe. 


15. The Criminal Record Office and Finger Print Bureau hold 
21,383 convict dossiers of which 3,016 were filed during 1932. 
Apart from these, 2,901 finger-print slips were received for search, 
and in 588 cases previous convictions were traced. 


* Colonial No. 75. 


64 


16. Crime.—The following are comparative statistics of crime in: 
Palestine :— 


1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
Indictable Offences w. 4,218 4,723 5,015 4,815 4,133 
Non-Indictable Offences ... 24,396 22,804 29,036 28,008 17,950 


1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. . 

Murder... re 188 178 126 *119 119 
Attempted Murder re 90 232 179 145 118 
Manslaughter fer ae 4l 58 73 71 69 
Highway Robbery ies 70 34 28 42 28 
Burglary ... | 

Housebreaking |... ais 269 250 193 220 206 
Shopbreaking 


* Five of the 124 cases reported in 1931 were found not to be true cases of murder; 6 


hence the adjustment in this present report. 


17. Highway Robbery.—In two instances, highway robbery was 


accomnpanied by murder, Arab villagers being the victims on both |. 


occasions. 


In all save three of the remaining instances of highway robbery 
recorded the value of stolen property did not exceed £P20; there 
has been no reappearance of organised gangs of highwaymen and 
there are grounds for hoping that the profession of brigandage 
has been suppressed. 


In July, it was learned that a gang was being formed to despoll 
Hebron, Gaza, and Ramle: the ringleader was watched, and 
after a few days openly challenged by a police patrol on the high- 
way, whereupon he fired upon the patrol but was himself shot 
dead before he could fire a second round. He was found to be 
armed with an English rifle, fully loaded, a belt containing fifty 
rounds of ammunition, and a dagger. 


In October, Eid el Sanie, a notorious brigand, was sighted in ~ 


the neighbourhood of a Police Post in the Beersheba District. 
This man had escaped from Beersheba Lock-up in 1920 while 
serving a term of imprisonment for theft and since his escape 
warrants had been issued for his arrest for eighteen serious crimes; 
two murders, one attempted murder, nine highway robberies, five 
thefts with violence and one animal theft. He and his gang had 
killed or wounded five policemen and he had been sentenced to 


r 


— 


death in default for one murder, and to penal servitude for life | 
for the second. The British Inspector at Beersheba with a patrol , 
tracked the outlaw down on this occasion and shot him dead after : 


a sharp encounter. 


18. Extradition.—During 1932, two absconded offenders were 
extradited from Palestine to Syria, eight from Syria to Palestine, 
thirty from Palestine to Trans-Jordan, and nine from Trans 
Jordan to Palestine. 


65 


19. 5€3 cases were dealt with of persons recommended for 
deportation : 205 were Egyptians and Sudanese, 114 Syrians or 
Lebanese, 64 Poles, 24 Russians, and the remainder of various 
other nationalities. In 111 cases the recommendation to deport 
has been made by a Court following a conviction on a criminal 
charge, in 415 cases the offence was that of being in the country 
without permission, in 34 cases it was that of overstaying the period 
of residence allowed to travellers, and in 23 cases it was held by 
the High Commissioner that deportation was conducive to the 
public good. 


20. 210 persons were prosecuted for subversive communist 
activity, of whom 141 were convicted and the rest acquitted. 

Twenty-nine persons were bound over to keep the peace, under 
the Prevention of Crime Ordinance, on account of seditious acts 
during the Nebi Musa festivities. 

Ninety-nine foreigners were excluded from Palestine by order 
of the High Commissioner, under the Immigration Ordinance, 1925, 
as being unsuitable persons for admission. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force. 


21. The actual strength of the Force, including the Reserve, at 
the 38lst December, 1932, was 1,017, made up as follows :— 





Arabs. 
_—_ 

4 2 

‘ ~ © 

i . = “ 3 
£ 2 3: i S S so 
Ss + sc & SS. & & = 
Officers ... was ae 25 9 7 2 8 1 — 52 
Warrant Officers 6 — — — — — — 6 
Staff Sergeants... sae 3 — — — — — — 3 
N.C.0.’s and Troopers... — 409 161 44 152 12 28 806 
Total —...., et 34 418 # £168 46 160 13 28 867 
Reserve N.C.0.’s and Men — _ 101 22 1 17 8 — 149 
Total fos oe 84 619 #190 47 177 21 28 1,016 


The following 144 recruits were enlisted in the year under 
Teview :— 


Arab-Moslems ... sae a ats S98 — 61 
Arab-Christians ... 2. a sos i ve 44 
Circassians ae = ~ one sae se 21 
Jews ses Sas or a ba aoe ase 18 


449 time-expired men accepted re-engagement for periods varying 
from one to three years. In future, contracts of re-engagement will 
ordinarily be for not less than three years. 


66 


183 men were discharged on termination of contract or for other 
reasons, but 22 of them were enrolled in the Reserve. 


The discipline of the Force continues to be very satisfactory. 


Legislative provision now exists for the payment of pensions to 
men of the Frontier Force on termination of service. 


The general health of officers and men has given satisfaction, 
there being only 4,310 attendances upon Medical Officers and 518 
admissions to hospital. 


There were 16 cases of primary and 24 of secondary malaria. 


Canalization of the Wadi Zerga has brought about the practical 
disappearance of mosquitos in Zerqa Camp and in the village. 


Remounts.—No epidemics of contagious disease occurred among 
the 531 animals of the Force : there were eight deaths of remounts 
from various causes, and 15 horses were destroved. The camels 
suffered severely fron. mange in Ma’an, and nine died of debility 
following the outbreak. 


A British Farrier Staff-Sergeant teaches farriery to selected men 
at Zerqa and gives refresher courses to trained farriers. 


22. Operations and Training.—As the Desert Police now Patrols 
the Trans-Jordan desert, the Frontier Force has not been called 
upon to render assistance in minor raids among Beduin trikes. 


A relief column was successfully organized by the Frontier Force 
for the rescue of Royal Air Force pilots who had been forced to land 
during a blizzard in the northern basalt area. 


The dispositions of the Force in the course of the revolt of Ibn 
Rifada were designed to prevent the rebels from obtaining rein- 
forcements or supplies from, or through, Trans-Jordan territory 
and to protect the Southern Frontier cof Trans-Jordan from in- 
cursions. 


Continual patrols were carried out in co-operation with Royal Air 
Force Air and Armoured Car units and Desert Police. 


A large number of men and camels who were attempting to cross 
the frontier were captured and the passage of supplies from Trans- 
Jordan into rebel hands was effectively checked. 


Units of the Force accomplished changes of station by route marcn 
from time to time. 


Inspections were made by the High Commissioner, the Inspector- 
General, Royal West African Frontier Force and King’s African 
Rifles, and the Air Officer Commanding, Middle East. 


Individual, troop, and squadron training was carried out; recruits 
were instructed at the Depot, and personnel of the Reserve dis- 
charged their annual training at Zerqa. 








ee “ET aes femme) Siig TS Se Sone 


67 


A series of lessons and practices in air co-cperation, including the 
picking-up of messages and signalling between air and ground, was 
given to all units and air co-operation tactical exercises with troops 
were performed at Zerqa and Ma’an. A specialist course for 
mechanical transport drivers, a squadron field firing scheme and 
manceuvres in the Hosn and Ajlun areas were further items in the 
programme of training. Finally, officers of the Force attended 
demonstrations in tactics arranged by the Officer Commanding 
British Troops in Palestine. 


23. It has been decided to adopt the Hillman Commer Car, with 
modifications to increase speed and engine power, as the light 
vehicle for the mechanized companies. 


The introduction of a proportion of Light Armed Cars should 
conduce to economy in maintenance and increased efficiency in 
desert patrolling and operations. 


The heavy Crossley vehicles have proved suitable for the quick 
movement of infantry over long distances in the desert and for 
carrying out supply services. 


24. Education.—Good progress has been made in raising the 
standard of literacy among local personnel by means of regular 
classes held Ly part-time teachers, who work under the supervision 
of the Education Officer. 223 men have attended these classes, 
where the reading and writing of Arabic, simple arithmetic, ele- 
mentary history and geography, and general knowledge are taught. 
Out of 75 candidates, 55 passed the examinations for lower standard 
certificates of education. 


The Education Officer gives instruction in elementary English to 
selected local Officers and non-commissioned officers, and to 
British Officers in Arabic. 


Kvery facility is provided for games and recreation, including 
swimming, polo, football, and tennis, at all stations. 


2). Signalling.—Wireless telegraph communication has been 
maintained between the permanent stations at Zerqa—Jisr el 
Majamie—Rosh-Pina—Ma’an, and with Royal Air Force stations 
in Palestine and Trans-Jordan ; and all patrols and reconnaissances 
are accompanied by Wireless Telegraph Tenders or Pack Sets. 


Long distance visual communication has been established, during 
clear weather, between Zerqa and Rosh-Pina, Samakh, Jisr el 
Majamie, and Kawkab el Hawa (Baisan) in Palestine. 


During the operations in the Southern Desert, the station of the 
Frontier Force at Ma’an was used as Headquarters, operating 
several desert posts, aircraft, and the British ships at Akaba. 


Classes in wireless telegraphy were held at Zerga, in which men 
of the Trans-Jordan Arab Legion joined; amd refresher courses for 
trained Visual Signallers at Zerqa and Samakh. 


XII.—_INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS 


68 


AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements and Conventions concluded in the name 


Country. 


Egypt 
Syria 


Country. 


Syria 


Trans-Jordan 


Egypt 


Egypt 


France 


Great Britain 


‘Iraq 
Switzerland 
Syria 


Syria 


Syria 


Syria 
Syria 


of Palestine. 


(i) EXTRADITION AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Provisional Agreement 
Provisional Agreement 


Addendum 


Date of Signature. 
7.8.22, Ramle. 
11.7.21 (Palestine). 
15.7.21 (Syria). 
10.1.24 (Palestine). 
28.1.24 (Syria). 


(11) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 
Customs Agreement ... 


Transit Agreement ... 


(iii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 


Convention concerning the Reciprocal 
Enforcement of Judgments. 


Agreement concerning the Measures 
to be applied for the Control of 
Dengue Fever. 


Convention of Good Neighbourly 
Relations concluded by Great 
Britain on behalf of the Territories 
of Palestine on the one part and 
on behalf of Syria and Great 
Lebanon on the other part. 

Agreement between the Post Office 
of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland and the Post 
Office of Palestine for the Exchange 
of Money Orders. 


Parcel Post Agreement | 
Parcel Post Agreement 


Agreement concerning the Tape 
tion of Antiquities. 


Agreement to provide for the Distri- 
bution of certain Receipts from 
Animal Tax. 


Parcel Post Agreement 


Money Orders Agreement ... 


ment regarding Measures to 
combat Cattle Plague. 


Date of Signature. 
4.5.29, Jerusalem. 
18.5.29, Beirut. 


26.9.28, Jerusalem, 
Amended— 

18.12.28, Jerusalem. 

27.12.28, Amman. 


12.1.29, Cairo. 


29.1.31, Cairo. 


2.2.26, Jerusalem. 
Amended— 

14.3.27, Beirut. 

21.3.27, Beirut. 


10.1.22, London. 
23.1.22, Jerusalem. 


29.5.26/4.8.27. 
6.5.28/15.5.28. 
13.3.26, Beirut. 


30.3.27. 


28.10.29/7.11.29. 
Amended— 
30.6.30/7.7.30. 


17.1.30/25.2.30. 
30.3.27. 








69 


Name. 


Agreement for the 


Country. 


Tran-Jordan.., Taking 


of 
Evidence on Commission for the 


Date of Signature. 


purpose of any Criminal or Civil 


25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, Amman. 


Matter. 

Trans-Jordan Agreement as to the Circulation of 14.11.29, Jerusalem. 
Motor Vehicles. 

Trans-Jordan Agreement regarding the Inter- 25.2.29, Jerusalem. 
change of Judicial Documents. 6.3.29, Amman. 

Trans-Jordan Agreement regarding the Convey- 1.10.29. 
ance of Corpses from Palestine for 
Burial in Trans-Jordan and from 
Trans - Jordan for Burial in 
Palestine. 

United States of Convention regarding the Rights of 3.12.24. 


America. 


the Government and Nationals of 


the United States of America in 


Palestine. 
Agreement concluded in 1932. 


Syria and the Agreement for the Reciprocal Grant 


Lebanon of Gratis Visas. 


20.8.32, Jerusalem. 


5.9.32, Beirut. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Name. 


Date of 
Signature. 


International Convention prohibiting the Use of White 26.9.06, 


(Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches. 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Opium Convention and subsequent 
relative papers. 

Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 
Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. 


Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 
Waterways of International Concern. 

Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. 
Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 

having no Sea Coast. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 
Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 

matters). 

International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Formalities. 

Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol of 
Signature. 

Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways and Protocol of Signature. 


Berne. 
13.11.08, 
Berlin. 

23.1.12, 


Date of 
Accession. 
17.9.25. 
21.3.24. 


21.8.24. 


The Hague. 


20.3.14, 
Berne. 


20.4.21, 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 
Barcelona. 
20.4.21, 
Barcelona. 
12.9.23, 
Geneva. 
24.9.23, 
Geneva. 
3.11.23, 
Geneva. 


9.12.23, 
Geneva. 


9.12.23, 
Geneva. 


21.3.24. 
28.1.24. 
28.1.24. 
28.1.24. 
9.10.22 
(Ratification). 

23.56.27. 
12.3.26. 
29.8.24 


(Ratification). 
22.9.25 


22.9.25. 


70 


Name. 


Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Ports and Protocol of Signature. 

Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electric Power and Protocol of Signature. 

International Locust Bureau ae 


International Sanitary Convention 


International Commission for the Scientific Exploration 
of the Mediterranean Sea. 

International Convention for the unification of certain 
rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


Convention relating to the International Circulation 
of Motor Vehicles. 


International Radio-telegraph Convention 
Universal Postal Convention 
Agreement Concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 


Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial Navi- 
gation and Additional Protocol of May, 1920. 


International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 
International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works. 

International Convention for the Execution of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards. 

International Convention for the Amelioration of the 
Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Field. 


International Agreement for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Traffic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
White Slave Trafiic. 

International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Traffic in Women and Children. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25 

Geneva. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 
Geneva 
20.5.26, 18.8.27 
Damascus 
21.6.26, 9.10.28 
Paris 
26.4.29, 19.12.29 
Malaga. 
25.8.24, 2.6.31 
Brussels (Effective 
date). 
24.4.26, 4.12.30 
Paris. (Effective 
date) 
25.11.27, 15.8.30 
Washington. 
28.6.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
28.6.29, 3.12.30 
London. (Ratification). 
13.10.19. Palestine is not 
& party to this 
Convention, 
but certain of 
its provisions 
were applied to 
Palestine by 
the Air Navi- 
gation (Man- 
dated Terri- 
tories) Order in 
Council, 1927. 
22.11.28, 17.12.30. 
Paris. 
19.2.25, 25.9.28 
Geneva. (Effective 
date). 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 
Geneva. (Ratification.) 
2.6.28, 1.10.31. 
Rome 
26.9.27, 26.5.31. 
Geneva 
27.7.29, 23.6.31 
Geneva. (Ratification). 
(Effective 
date 23.12.31). 
18.5.04, 
Paris. 6.5.32 
4.5.10, (Effective 
Paris. date). 


30.9.21/31.3.22, 2.11.31. 
Geneva. 





71 


(0) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Palestine 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of Application. 
Between United Kingdom 22.7.26 29.1.27 (Ratification). 
and Albania. 
Austria ic 3.12.1873 ae 
26.6.1901 ? ao; 120: 
( 29.10.01, ) 
Belgium. am .. | 5.3.07, | 
Belgian Congo { 3.3.11, r 1.8.28 (Effective date). 
Ruanda- Urundi .. | 8.8.23 and | 
\ 2.7.28 J 
Bolivia 22.2.1892 18.2.28. 
Chile 26.1.1897 13.1.28. 
Colombia 27.10.1888 5.12.30 (Effective date). 
2.12.29. 
Cuba ... 3.10.1904 12.12.31 (Effective date). 
17.4.1930. 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24 15.7.27. 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Denmark 31.3.1873 10.2.28. 
Ecuador 20.9.1880 19.1.28. 
Estonia 18.11.25 10.3.27. 
Finland 30.56.24 ... .. 25.11.26. 
Germany 14.5.1872 and 10. 12. 1928 17.8.30 (Effective date). 
Greece 24.9.10 .. 19.428. 
Guatemala 4.7.1885 11.9.29. 
Hayti ... 7.12.1874 a .. 18.1.28. 
Hungary 3.12.1873 and 26.6.1901 5.4.28. 
Latvia 16.7.4 ... ... 7.6.26. 
Liberia 16.12.1892 16.10.28. 
Lithuania 18.5.26 29.3.27 (Ratification). 
Luxemburg 24.11.1880 28.1.28. 
Monaco 17.12.91 5.7.31 (Effective date). 
27.11.30. 
Netherlands 26.9.1898 27.1.28. 
Nicaragua 19.4.1905 12.1.28. 
Norway 26.6.1873 13.12.29. 
18.2.1907. 
Panama 25.8.1906 24.1.28. 
Paraguay 12.9.1908 16.1.28. 
Peru ... 26.1.1904 16.1.28. 
Romania 21.3.1893 11.1.29. 
San Salvador 23.6.1881 8.8.30 (Effective date). 
Siam 4.3.1911 wee 27.2.28. 
Spain a 4.6.1878 and 19.2.1889 13.2.28. 
Switzerland ... 26.11.1880 19.9.29. 
29.6.1904. | 
Yugoslavia 6.12.1900 1.11.28. 


In addition to the 


list (A) (i), the Palestine Baadition Law has been applied to the following 


countries set out in the foregoing list and to those in 


countries :— 

preentine, Mexico Tunis. 

Ttal : Portugal. United States of 
y- San Marino. America. 


Uruguay. 


72 


(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign — 
Countries which have been applied to Palestine. 


Country. 


Between Great Britain 


and 
Austria 


Bulgaria 
Czechoslovakia 
Egypt 

Finland 
Germany 


Greece... 


Greece... 
Hungary 

Japan 

Latvia 
Lithuania 
Poland see 
Spain 

Spain 
Yugoslavia 


Panama 


Name. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.5.24, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks 


Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 
12.11.25. 

Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 ; 

Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6. 30, Cairo 

Prolongation—14/22.2.31, Cairo ... - 

Prolongation—23.1.32 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
14.12.23, 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
2.12.24, London. 

Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 
Origin, 21.6.29. 


Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
16.7.26. 

Treaty of Commerce, 23.7.26 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
22.6.23, London. 

Agreement respecting Commercial Rela- 
tions, 6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
26.11.23. 

Agreement regulating the Treatment of 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27, and 31.5.28. 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 

12.5.27. 
Treaty applied in 1932. 
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 
25.9.28 


Date of 
A pplication. 


5.6.26. 


2.12.27- 
13.4.28. 
25.2.29. 


5.6.25. 
11.6.30. 
14/22.2.31. 
23.1.32. 
13.2.26. 


2.12.26. 


21.6.29, 
9.7.28 


2/19.9.32. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 


Country. 
Belgium 


Czechoslovakia 


Countries which apply to Palestine 


Name. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 21.6.22, 
London. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 


in Civil and Commercial Matters, 11.11.24. 


Date of 
Application. 
13.3.25 
(Effective 
date). 
17.2.27 
(Effective 
date). 








Netherlands .. 


Norway 


Spain... 


Sweden 


Austria 
Italy... 


Poland... 


73 


Name. 


Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 2.2.22, 
London. 

Convention respecting Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 20.3.28. 


Agreement concerning the Reciprocal 
Recognition of Passenger Ship Certificates 
and Emigrant Ship Regulations, 25.1.29. 

Extension to Overseas Territories of the 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, 
1.12.29. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 30.1.31, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings 
in Civil and Commercial Matters, 27.6.29, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 28.8.30, 
London. 


Conventions applied in 1982. 


Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 31.3.3], 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters 17.12.30, 
London. 

Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 
Civil and Commercial Matters, 26.8.31, 
Warsaw. 


XIII. ANTIQUITIES. 


Date of 
Application. 
22.3.23 
(Effective 
date). 
25.11.29 
(Effective 


date) 
11/25.8.30. 


1.12.29 
(Applicable to 
British sub- 
jects only). 
14.11.31 
(Effective 


1.4.32 
(Effective 


The policy of the Palestine Department of Antiquities continues 


to be based on the relevant provisions of the Mandate, which are 
given effect to by the Antiquities Ordinance, 1929, and the Regula- 
tions made thereunder. The texts of the Ordinance and Regula- 
Fe iwere printed in Appendices VII and VIII to the Report for 

The Department directs its efforts towards preserving unim- 
paired, so far ag is possible, existing opportunities for adding to the 
knowledge of Palestinian archaeology and history and towards en- 
suring that the best use is made of those opportunities. 

The Regulations have been amended in the following respects 
during the present year :— 


(a) the fee for a licence to deal in antiquities has been in- 
creased from £P.1 to £P.2; 





* Colonial No. 47. 


74 


(b) the Director of Antiquities is empowered to grant a 
licence for the exportation of antiquities found in authorized 
excavations prior to the division of such antiquities between the 
Government and the excavator, in cases where it may be desir- 
able to postpone such a division for scientific reasons. 


2. The work of the Inspectorate has been continued with a view 
to preventing damage to antiquity sites, acquainting the inhabitants 
with the terms of the law, and obtaining data for the compilation 
of an archaeological survey. 


3. The Department has continued the works of research and con- 
servation, begun in 1930, at the Crusaders’ Castle of Athlit. 
Accounts of this work and of other investigations are published, 
from time to time, in the Quarterly of the Department of Antiqui- 
ties in Palestine, of which the first number appeared in June, 1931. 


4. Licences have been issued for archaeological excavations at 
the following sites :— 


(a) Masada and Bettir, by Professor Shulten and General 
Lammerer, for the Deutscher Verein zur Erforschung Palaes- 
tinas. 

(b) Samaria, by Mr. J. W. Crowfoot, for the Harvard 
University, the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem, 
the Palestine Exploration Fund, and the Hebrew University, 
Jerusalem. 

(c) Wad: al-Mughara (Athlit), by Miss D. A. E. Garrod, for 
the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(d) Khurbet Minyeh (near Tiberias), by Dr. A. EK. Mader, 
for the Orientalisches Institut der Gorresgesellschaft zu 
Jerusalem. 

(e) Tall al-Nasbeh, by Dr. W. F. Bade, for the Palestine 
Institute of the Pacific School of Religion, Berkeley, 
California. 

(f) Magharet el Sukhul, by Mr. T. McCown, for the British 
School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. 

(g) Tell Beit Mirstm, by Professor W. F. Albright, for the 
Pittsburgh-Xenia Theological Seminary and the American 
School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. 

(h) Jerusalem (Grounds of the American School of Oriental 
Research), by Dr. Millar Burrows, for the American School 
of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. 

(1) Setlun, by Mr. Hans Kjaer, for the Danish Palestine 
Expedition. 

(j) El Hamma, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew Uni- 
versity, Jerusalem, 

(k) Wadi Khuraitun, by Monsieur Réné Neuville, for the 
Institut de Paléonthologie Humaine, Paris. 

(1) Qatana Village (near Kiryat Yearim), by Dr. E. L. 
Sukenik, for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 


15 


(m) El-Aisawiyyeh (Mount Scopus), by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, 
for the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. 

(n) Dahiriya, by Professor W. F. Albright, for the Pitts- 
burgh-Xenia Theological Seminary and the American School 
of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. 

(o) Tall al-Ayjul, by Professor Sir W. Flinders Petrie, for 
the British School of Archaeology in Egypt. 

(p) Al-’Affuleh, by Dr. E. L. Sukenik, for the Hebrew Uni- 
versity, Jerusalem. | 

(q) Tell Duweir, by Mr. J. UL. Starkey and Mr. H. 
Dunscombe Colt, for the Wellcome Historical Museum. 

(r) El Hamma, by Professor Nelson Glueck, for the 
American School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. 

(s) Tall al-Mutsallem (Megiddo), by Mr. P. L. O. Guy, for 
the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. 

(t) Tall al-Sultan (Jericho), by Professor J. Garstang, for 
the Institute of Archaelogy, University of Liverpool. 


XIV.—OFFICIAL LANGUAGES. 
The practice of the Palestine Government is in accordance with 


Article 82 of the Palestine Order in Council, 1922, which reads as 
follows :— 


‘‘ All Ordinances, official notices, and official forms of the 
Government and all official notices of local authorities and 
municipalities in areas to be prescribed by order of the High 
Commissioner, shall be published in English, Arabic, and 
Hebrew. The three languages may be used in debates and 
discussions in the Legislative Council, and, subject to any 
regulations to be made from time to time, in the Government. 
offices and the Law Courts.’’ 


As part of the complete recognition of three official languages 


which was announced by the first High Commissioner on his 
arrival in Palestine in July, 1920, the practice with regard to the 
use of English, Arabic, and Hebrew in the Law Courts was more 
exactly defined by a Public Notice as follows :— 


“In the Courts of Law and Land Registries of a trilingual 
area, every process, every official copy of a judgment, and every 
official document shall be issued in the language of the person 
to whom it is addressed, and written and oral pleadings shall 
be conducted in any of the three official languages. The Legal 
Secretary may from time to time issue rules* restricting the 
languages of pleading in any Court or class of Courts outside 
the trilingual areas. 

“In a trilingual area the public notary of the Court shall, 
and in any other area he may, accept a declaration and register 
a document in any of the three official languages.’’ 





* These rules are now issned by the Chief Justice. 


16 


2. The trilingual areas in which English, Arabic, and Hebrew 
may be used comprise the three principal towns, Jerusalem, Haifa, 
and Jaffa, and also the district of Jaffa and sub-districts of Tiberias 
and Safad. The recognition of the three languages in the Courts 
involves some complication in the hearing of cases, and occasionally 
trials are protracted. The rules have, however, on the whole 
worked smoothly. 

Under the Magistrates’ Courts Jurisdiction (Amendment) 
Ordinance, cases occurring in certain Hebrew-speaking colonies 
may be transferred to Courts where there are Hebrew-speaking 
magistrates. 


3. The Palestine Gazette, Reports of official Commissions and 
Committees, and Departmental publications are published in 
English, Arabic, and Hebrew. 


XV.—HOLY DAYS. 


A list of the days which are recognized as holy days by the various 
communities of Palestine will be found in Appendix IX to the 
Report for 19380. 


XVI.—TRANS-JORDAN, 
See Separate chapters on Trans-Jordan on pages 203 to 235. 


XVII.—LAB OUR. 


As foreshadowed in last year’s Report, a special Labour Officer 
has been appointed to the Department of Immigration for the direc- 
tion and guidance of District and departmental officers concerned 
in the collection of labour information. This is bringing about a 
yreater precision of unemployment figures. It will, however, be 
some considerable time before complete reliance can be placed upon 
these statistics. For this reason, it would not be prudent to make 
comparisons between the figures for 1931 and 1932, or to attempt 
to draw inferences from such comparisons. 


2. The accepted definition of unemployed is as follows :—‘‘ A 
man or woman of the working class who, being dependent entirely 
or mainly on his or her wages for his or her livelihood, is in need 
of and seeking employment at the time, or is employed for less than 
three days a week.’”’ 

This includes fellahin who normally work on their farms but 
happen to be in need of outside employment at the time of the 
return. But persons owning land or other means of production 
on which they are principally dependent, small traders or shop- 
keepers, craftsmen, and the like, working independently, who may 
at times be under-employed, are not included if they are not 
actually seeking employment. 








T7 


It is not found practicable to distinguish between men seeking 
employment who have small plots of their own on which they 
work at certain seasons and those who are entirely without land. 


3. Unemployment.—In 1931, the approximate estimate of Arab 
unemployment never fell below 11,000, and rose in September to 
as high as 35,000. Im 1932, the highest estimate was 21,000 in 
January and the lowest 10,500 in November. Among Jews, un- 
employment in 1931 ranged from 2,600 in November to 2,000 in 
March. In 1932, the highest figure was 2,400 in January and the 
lowest 950 in April. During the last five months of the year the 
range was from 1,100 to 1,400. Among Arabs, unemployment 
was most noticeable in the ranks of unskilled labour and also among 
clerks. Among Jews, it was at the end of the year practically 
confined to clerks and other sedentary workers, both men and 
women. 

The expansion of employment was limited almost entirely to the 
building trade with its ancillary occupations, and to citriculture. 
Employment under these two heads increased among Arabs and 
Jews, but mostly among Jews. This increase of employment and 
also the settlement in Palestine of persons with means, part of 
which they proceed to invest locally in various directions, provided 
additional openings for work in most other branches of activity. 
Representatives of organized labour felt themselves justified, there- 
fore, in pressing for improved conditions. 


4. Conditions of Work.—Apart from sporadic attempts to 1m- 
prove the conditions of work in individual industrial undertakings, 
there was a movement, which originated in the building trade at 
Tel-Aviv and spread but little outside of this town, to secure the 
desired terms through collective agreements covering entire trades. 

To the standard claims of the workers for increased wages, for 
an eight-hour working day, and for the recruitment and discharge 
of labour only through the Union, were as a rule added demands 
for insurance against accident, contributions to the employees’ 
sick fund, and annual leave with pay. 

An Unemployment Insurance Fund was established by the 
General Federation of Jewish Labour at the end of the year. 


5. Labour Disputes.—67 labour disputes came under notice, com- 
prising 46 strikes, of which four were in public institutions, 5 lock- 
outs, and 16 differences involving no stoppage of work on the part 
of workers or employers. In these 16 cases, which affected 20 
industrial undertakings, the Jewish Labour Organization, of which 
the workers were not members, nevertheless took issue with the 
employers. 

The 47 strikes and lockouts, excluding those in public institutions, 
affected 12 industrial undertakings and 1,300 workers. About 
10,060 working days were lost. 

The causes for these labour disputes were demands for better 
conditions of work, including the question of wages and hours of 


78 


work, reductions of wages, the demand for the employment of 
Union labour or Jewish labour, discharge of workmen, or the 
demand for the employer to insure his men against the risk of 
accident. 

In 33 cases of those which terminated during the year under 
review, the workers or the Labour Organization succeeded in 
securing their main demands, in 14 they failed, and in 17 the 
result was a compromise. 

In many instances, settlement was by arbitration, especially on 
the part of the General Council of the Jewish Community or the 
Local Council of Tel-Aviv. In others, the Government intervened 
with success. 

Arab labour was involved in 14 strikes, compared with three in 
1931. In ten cases, including two public institutions, Arab workers 
only were involved, and in four cases both Jewish and Arab workers. 


6. Census of Jewish Labour.—Estimates were made of Jewish 
workers in the Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa, and Ramle sub-districts, 
apart from clerks, shop assistants, hospital and hotel employees, 
drivers, domestic servants, etc. 

The following comparative figures for June, 1930, October, 1931, 
April and October, 1932, are indicative of the rise of employment 
among Jews during the past two years. 


April, October, April, October, 





19380. 19$1. 1932. 1982. 
Factories and larger workshops 4,407 3,929 4,707 5,236 
Building sae he .. 2,424 2.299 3,792 4,152 
Public works and similar works 928 1,166 877 1,039 
Agriculture ans eae ... 6,155 6,957 6,665 7,332 
In the service of small em- 2,582 2,472 2,555 2,810 
ployers (industry.) 
Government and Municipalities 579 662* 613 661 
(permanent labourers.) 
Total employed ... 17,075 17,485 19,209 21,230 
Unemployed (Membersoftrades 1,198 2,000 800 500 


covered by these estimates.) 
* This is a revised figure. 479 was given last year. 


7. Wages.—In the manufacturing industries the prevailing rates 
of wages remained for the most part unchanged, and the down- 
ward movement which had characterized the previous year ceased. 
In individual cases, especially in those in which there were dis- 
putes over rates of pay, wages were raised to the level generally 
prevalent in the trade. 

An outstanding feature of the year was an increased activity on 
the part of unorganized Arab and Jewish Oriental workers 10 
demanding higher wages. 

In the Jewish building and ancillary industries, wages increased 
slightly ; in some places the standard rates of building workers were 
raised: in others the rates were unaltered, but the number of 








79 


workers paid on the higher Union scale was increased. At Tel- 
Aviv, where building activity was continually extending, a collec- 
tive agreement was arrived at between the contractors and the 
Labour Organization, fixing minimum rates for both skilled and 
unskilled labour. By the end of the year a similar agreement 
fixing increased rates had been reached in the printing industry 
of Tel-Aviv. In Jewish agriculture, wages remained stationary. 


8. Hours of Work.—Hours of work remained in general without 
change. Among European Jews and other members of the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour they amounted as a rule to eight per 
day, at the most, nine. Among non-Jewish employees, especially 
skilled, of other larger undertakings, the hours are also, as a rule, 


eight per day. Among other working men and women they rise 
to eleven, sometimes more. 


An eight-hours working day was one of the items in the collective 
agreement in the building trade of Tel-Aviv. 

‘The Bakers’ Union of Tel-Aviv demanded a reduction in working 
hours in the bakeries from nine, with intervals for meals, to eight 
without intervals. Their attempts to enforce this demand on the 
bakery owners resulted in a ‘‘ general ’’ strike in this industry 
followed by a lockout. The dispute was still in progress at the 
end of the year, but an appreciable number of employers had 
accepted the demand and reduced the working hours. 


An eight-hours working day was introduced in the Jewish metal 
workshops of Jerusalem. 


A reduction of working hours from ten or eleven to nine or 
nine and a half took place in two large undertakings where Arab 
workers are employed, in both cases only after troublesome disputes. 


Under a local by-law, shops in Tel-Aviv, with the exception 
of those in specified trades, should close at 8 p.m. in summer and 
7 p.m. in winter. This had not been observed and the Union of 
Jewish Clerks and Shop Assistants in Palestine obtained its re- 
placement by a provision making 7 p.m. the closing hour, both 


in summer and winter, and took steps to secure the enforcement 
of the new by-law. 


In Haifa, a voluntary agreement which is widely observed was 
made by this Union and the shopkeepers under which shops close 
at 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. according to trade. Restaurants, tobacconisis, 
etc., are excluded from the agreement. The Arab merchants and 

opkeepers, although not parties to the agreement, nevertheless 
for the most part comply with the same conditions. The Union 

made efforts to the same end in Jerusalem where they had the 

Support of the Chamber of Commerce, and the majority of mer- 

chants and shopkeepers in the Capital now close their stores and 

shops at 7 p.m. throughout the year. Elsewhere in Palestine there 


38 a8 yet no approach to a common agreement on the subject of 
closing hours for shops. 


80 


9. Arab Labour Untons.—Relatively frequent demands for 
better conditions of work—mainly increase of wages and reduction 
of working hours—reflected activity in the direction of organization 
among Arab workers especially in the Haifa sub-district, where a 
considerable number of Arabs and Jews were engaged side by side 
in public works and other large constructions. It is therefore 
probable that these demands were stimulated by the Jewish 
example. 

The disputes to which the demands in some cases gave rise were 
supported by the Arab Workers’ Association of Haifa or directed 
by the General Workers’ Club and supported by the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour. 

No further development of organization among Arab workers 
was noted. Of the labour organizations whose membership is con- 
fined to Arabs, only two were active during the year, namely, the 
Christian Orthodox Labour Union of Jaffa and the Arab Workers’ 
Association of Haifa. Attempts were made to organize Arab 
Unions in other places, but with no success. 

There are other industrial organizations including only Arabs, 
such as the Arab Lightermen’s Association of Jaffa, the Union 
of Guides, and the Motor Car Drivers’ Association, but these 
consist mainly, if not entirely, of employers or owners and cannot, 
therefore, be regarded as Labour Unions in the technical sense; 
they are, rather, Masters’ Associations. 

Several ‘‘ mixed ’’ Unions, including both Jews and Arabs, 
exist in Palestine. The largest is the Union of Railway, Posts, 
and Telegraph Workers, affiliated to the International Union of 
Railway, Posts and Telegraph Workers, and with ‘branches in all 
the principal centres. This Union, which was founded in 1919 
and has about 300 Jewish and 200 Arab members, has not yet 
found itself able to comply with the conditions laid down by 
Government as precedent to official recognition of Trade Unions 
of Government employees. The General Workers’ Club of Haifa 
is mainly Arab (100 members) although it includes about ten 
Jewish members, irrespective of their trades. Two smaller mixed 
Unions exist at Haifa—the Sea Workers (founded 1932—150 Arabs 
and 100 Jews): the Bakers’ Union (founded 1924—15 Arabs and 
16 Jews); and a mixed Union of Quarrymen came into existence 
in that town at the end of the year. 

All these mixed organizations co-operate with the General 
Federation of Jewish Labour in Palestine, and medical aid is 
provided for those members who subscribe to the sick fund of the 
Federation. 

The Civil Service Association (Senior) and the Civil Service 
Association (Junior) are composed of Government officers, British, 
Arab, and Jewish, irrespective of race or faith. 


10. Labour Legislation.—The Labour Legislation Committee 
(see 1931 Report, page 73, paragraph 12) reviewed the provisions 


en Td 


81 


in force as regards the protection of children in wage-earning em- 
ployment, the prevention of the evils of sweating, compensation 
for industrial accidents, and compulsory sick insurance, in the 
course of the year. It also examined the questions (i) of creating 
a minimum wage fixing machinery in Palestine, (ii) whether 
measures should be introduced with a view to ensuring that in all 
Government and Municipal works, whether carried out by the 
Government or Municipality direct or through contractors, there 
shall be conditions of labour similar to those guaranteed in works 
carried out under the Palestine and East African Loans Act, 1926, 
and (111) whether the fixing of a higher minimum wage for Arabs 
would be likely to cause an influx of Arabs to the towns and thus 
swell the ranks of unskilled labour in the town. 


The Committee made four interim reports in the course of the 
year, but in no instance was there unanimity. The Committee 
was, however, agreed that amendments to the Industrial Employ- 
ment of Women and Children Ordinance, 1927, and to the Work- 
men’s Compensation Ordinance, 1927, were desirable and the lines 
on which amendments should be made were indicated. On the 
subject of minimum wage fixing machinery and the related pro- 
posal for a fair wage clause in contracts there was less agreement. 
The majority of the Committee suggested that an attempt should 
be made to deal with the question, but tentatively and as little 
more than an experiment. A minority considered any attempts 
to deal with these subjects at present premature. 


On the subject of health insurance the majority of the Com- 
mittee was of opinion that no legislation was in present circum- 
stances desirable. 


The Palestine Government is now examining the interim re- 
ports of the Committee with a view to the enactment of legisla- 
tion to give effect to such of the recommendations as it may be 
found practicable to adopt in existing conditions of Palestine. 


The Committee has in particular recommended that the number 
of Factory Inspectors be increased in order that control over the 
observance of the Ordinances intended to safeguard the interests 
of the working men and women should be more effective. This 
recommendation is now being considered by the Palestine 
Government. 


In the meantime, regular and thorough inspections are carried 
out under the Industrial Employment of Women and Children 
Ordinance, 1927, by the Director, Department of Immigration, the 
Government Inspector of Welfare Works, the District Officers, 
and Immigration Officers who have been appointed Inspectors. 
These inspections go to show that there is no problem of exploita- 
tion of child labour to be faced and that indeed child labour is 
practically non-existent in Palestine to-day, apart from children 
employed in domestic service, as assistants and errand boys in 


82 


small shops, and on light work with their parents on farms and 
roads. But the custom of children helping their parents on road 
work 1s fast dying out. 

This satisfactory situation 1s due to two causes, first, the cheap 
and plentiful supply of adult labour in Arab undertakings and, 
secondly, the organization of Jewish labour along modern trade 
union lines. 

To render the system of inspection more effective in future, 
the Palestine Government proposes to make the registration of 
industries compulsory, to require the production of official birth 
certificates as proof of the age of children employed in factories, 
and to arrange for books to be kept in all industrial undertakings 
so that Inspectors and other visitors may note any matter which 
appears to need attention. 


83 





*(ZuBpoy pure 
0F-02 09-08 08-09 a -_ OZI-09 | 021-08 — preog WIM) eTeAIes ULTE; pus eIaMoqey “6 
= 08-02 | OZI-08 II-6 GLI-OST | O002-2LI 6-8 _ [eros ‘sIaInoqvy °g 
= = —_ — OcI OSZ-OST | 00€-00c << i sia yIom Arreq *L 
ia na OS2-091 6-8 092-002 | 008-092 8 oi Smddeun pas Zurqoed eBavIQ “9 
09-09 08-09 | O0I-08 6-8 031-08 | 9LI-09T 002 8 +  Suryord efuwg °¢ 
09-07 OL-09 | O0T-09 OI-8 021-08 OST 00-OL1 8 sel 040 ‘SoUTA ‘seat[o) Zurqord ymiy “F 
— — O°T-001 6-8 GLI 00£-002 8 : yIOM Aros Mu ‘Zurjwe|d eoly, “€ 
OL-0F 08-09 | 021-08 II-6 a 002-081 | 008-002 6-8 Sonsiany ‘Suryeory} ‘Suidvor ‘Burysnog *Z 
= = 00€-002 6-8 — — 00F-0¢¢ 8 sormeqoom Surdumd ‘sopreqoour 1OPORI, 


:HIOM GUTOR “I 





"oprus us sobun finog ; 
‘WHOM 40 SHHONVUg 


‘MNOMV] OLLVISY 


“suoulfoldurg [em yMopIZy Uy YOM Jo sIMOR pus sosemM—'y 


ee ee 
| | 


| | 
a 
2 


z SS = ry lS Ree fe 


"Ud M "u2 WT 


"eppus us sobon ipod 





‘HQ0aW] OLLVISY 


01-6 5 00€ 

01-6 = OSF-09E 
01-6 xg 00E-096 
OI-6 = 00S-00F 
01-6 i OSE-00€ 
01-6 Pa 009-009 
0I-6 a OSF—-00E 
OI-6 = 00€-002 
01-6 mae 00€-006 
0OI-6 aa 00S-09€ 
01-6 = 00E—-006 
01-6 =F 00F-09E 
0I-8 =e 00€ 

0I-8 — OSE—-O0E 
y4on "UsUlo M "ua AT 

fo ssnoy | —_____ —_—_—____ 

Anoqg ‘opus us sabon hinog 


"aNOdvy] Nvagaouny 


“IO [enUBy 
""* YIOM OUIQORY : Surysul eft pus Hog 
** PeTTA{s-Taeg 


** seBjo pug 


° " S8BlO IAT > BIOYIOM 94010U0H * 
ne = ce laner pay Pena: TUEg 
POLAS + sosBppoUg - 


_ SyTUIeTEE PAV por[Tys-THIag 


PONS * Sa0sEpy * 
* BuIssarp ou0jg ° 


SuIYysNJo oud}g ; BIBINOGVT 


POETS 


: Surysrjod pus ‘Zurugisep ‘Buryeu 0748] g 
* Q[qIVU PUB 9U0}8 [BIOYIWIV ‘oly “Youg * 


bee se “+ giamoqey 


: SurAiienb eu0jg * 


‘SopDL], DANY pun bupng *] 


‘NOLLVd090Q GNV AWLSQAGNT 


[ame 


See ee ee ee 
“SOLISNPUT Pezoojog Uy FIOM Jo SINOH Fuyyeaclg pus sosem—'g 


85 


Itt | Ltt ek eR 


oe 


RTD eh ile te) 


** DerTys-Ta8g 
- Pes 
+ edowsy som [[BwUs ‘syHIOM [eJour [BIOTIEX) * 
a a TUES 
= * PSITAS * sayrusyovg_ ° 
PeT[Hys-Taaeg 
PPTAS * Sepunoy ° 
SSBlD PUG 


BSED IST + SUBIOLIZOOT ° 


SSO PU 


Ss¥]O IS] : SYIUISYOOT * 


buuanabug “ey4oM PoP — [TT 


S}STUTGOVU SUTHIOM-POOAA ° 
"* Surgsrarea ‘Surysyog ° 


SSD PUs 


sh BSB 48] : SIoyUEdIEO ‘BIOYVUI YOUTGRD * 


Pers “roquimid ; 


SsElO Puz 


SSO IST : SIOQUTeg ° 


* SBBTO PUG 


“** SHBTO 4ST 3 BIBIOISVUIT ° 


sevyo pug 


BsvlO Je[ * srouTof ‘groguediegQ “L 


18938 





OOT--08 00T—-08 





a 


Sutavo 
(4101809) Sinaia ‘Surqswmg ve 


Se Boyaroy Teorauooyy *9g 


0 2 @ 


_ age “+ moqey prtag 


g ese 82110408} eag : > SNOLIBA . Bappeut deog 

ne (ieee Suppoeg 

: a we SE Gikiness puelsunine eos "¥ 

g eee eee eee eee ST [Tua |] Vus ‘Zuisseld [1M 

g “"* pOLIOJOR] ‘Burayer pus Bureseid TO “8 
"NO pup dvog— 4 


moqyy PITTO 

“*  SYNpY + sloxvUT XOG-prBoqpIED “3% 
= SEBO PUZ 

SSB[D 48] ¢ AIOPUIQHOOg “1Z 


**  SBBIO BT: puvy ‘s10zIsodu0H 
asoyicTuide poyrys-q3ryq ‘s10;e10do0 edAjoury “0% 
"aa ‘Rsouonmy ‘Buszussqg—' AJ 


8 

8 

9 ses ane “+ geETD pug 
8 Se 

8 


eer eee (ee eee 


09 09 
@A0gS gB 
0ZI-O00I 002-021 
oa 09¢-09T 
= 00¢-00T 
08-09 08-09 
09T-08 09I-08 
ae OSZ—-OST 
— 009-09€ 
=— 009-09¢ 
"UJ "ua 
‘enw us sabon finog 
“aNOdV] OLLVISY 


O8I-O9I 
06S-0ZT <= 
0ZS-09T 009-093 
09T 092-006 
006 — = 
= 00F—-00€ 
7 00F-06E 
003-001 OFZ-091 
OST-O0T 003 
mae OSE-0SG 
= 09-081 
as 00F—-00€ 
aes 009-00 
"Un M "ua 
"opus us sabom finog 


finoqg "NOLLVAN00Q0 GNV ABLSAGN] 


‘aNnOdV] NVTIOUNT 





‘(penutzu00)}—sopysnpul pozoojeg Uy OM JO SINC FUpIeAeld pue sesem—'a 


87 


D2 





001-08 001-08 6 OST-02T = 8 “ Zurgsea ‘Bu11930q 
ani O8I-00T 6 006-081 00E-096 8 ; . s10j81edo ourgoeyy “1g 
ee ain? ee ae A 44D poyosap— YT] 
— 002-001 OI rk 00£-002 6-8 ece eee eve eee eco eee sI0IMogey] 
pas 008-002 Or = Oge 6-8 yor ™ oi - ™* ” PeOnPys “era °O€ 
“Sn sng —TITA 
0S-0¢ 6-8 as 8 *  amoqgey PITGD 
QOT-0¢ OFI-09 6-8 091-08 = 8 * syapy : Zurjeqe, “Baryoeg “6% 
OOI-0¢ 0OT-09 6-8 O8I-O0T a 8 shot tte see gous penaenr ‘Bupjio# wey “sz B 
a OST-00I 6-8 — 092-091 8 “* UEsIssy : 2 
ae, 00€-00z 6-8 — 009-098 8 ouTgouyy ‘Saryy o7301vF10 pure Baryyn5 oo0vyoOL, “LE 


‘sayzasvitsy pun ovongo,L—' [1A 


88 


XVIII.—_TRADE IN AND MANUFACTURE OF DRUGS, 
ARMS, AND LIQUORS. 


Drugs. 
The regulations under which the Palestine Government controls 


the traffic in dangerous drugs are comprised in the Dangerous 
Drugs Ordinance, 1925, as amended by the Dangerous Drugs 


Ordinance (Amendment), 1928. During 1932, acetydihydroco- | 


deinone (acedicone) which may now be imported with the per- 


mission of the Director, Department of Health, was added to the 


Schedule to the Ordinance. 


2. International Opium Convention.—171 import certificates were — 


granted in 1932. Imports were as follows :— 


Grammes. 
Opium medicinal ... ae Se ee ie 2,200 
Opium preparations... i = 4,460 
Morphine in the form of salts and preparations 1,930 
Heroin and the hydrochlorides ... ae me 750 
Cocaine in the form of salts and preparations Sere 6,342 


Cocaine in preparations containing more than 
0.1 per cent. of cocaine made direct from the 


leaf . at en a 165 
Pantopon and preparations a 69 ses 386 
Dicodid and preparations ... we es ee 160 
Eucodal and preparations ... 6s Ss 120 
Dilaudid and preparations ... ae ue et 0.75 
Extract of Cannabis Indica oe sas sai 25 


3. The penalty for offences under the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance 
is now five years’ imprisonment or a fine of £P500 or both; and 
offences against any enactment relating to dangerous drugs, and 
attempts to commit such offences, are extraditable. 


4. There is no manufacture of drugs in Palestine nor 1s there 
any custom in this country for the traffic in *‘ white ’’ narcotics 
The only noxious drugs locally known to any extent are hashish 
and, in a very much smaller degree, opium ; and of both drugs much 
less is consumed in Palestine than is conveyed through it by 
smugglers from Syria and the Lebanon to the lucrative market of 
ligypt. 

There is evidence that in certain low class cafés in Palestine 
hashish is served to customers in possession of a pass-word. Sus- 
pected premises are kept under the strictest watch, and the Police 
succeeded during 1932 in putting an end to the illicit traffic in 
several cases. The proprietor of a Jerusalem café was fined for 
keeping hashish on the premises, and his licence will not be 


renewed. In Jaffa, four café-owners were prosecuted for the same - 


ee » 








89 


_offence, and their establishments were closed down by order of 
“the Court; in Nablus, there was a similar prosecution, resulting 


in a fine. 


5. Hashish is still exported surreptitiously from Syria and the 


Lebanon over the northern frontier of Palestine, and much time 
_ and man-power are expended by the Palestine Authorities in 
constant efforts to intercept consignments en route. The lives 
of Police and Customs Officers on this service are exposed to grave 


_ tisk, for the smugglers are usually armed and fire without hesita- 
: tion to avoid falling into the hands of the Police. The smugglers 
“appear to be well-organized and to be well-informed as to Police 


movements, so that they not infrequently succeed in introducing 
the hashish into Palestine and dumping it in various hiding places 
close to the southern frontier, there to await a suitable opportunity 


. for transportation across the Sinai desert into Egypt. 


6. Both land and sea routes are used by the traffickers. Overland, 


‘ the Police are at a disadvantage owing to the long line of frontier 
and the innumerable tracks, and, in addition, the ingenious methods 


- of concealment employed preclude complete and thorough searches. 
- Parcels of the drug have been found built into the wooden frames 


or sewn up in the upholstery of camel-saddles, sewn up in the sides 


and seats of cars, hidden in the grease boxes of axles of railway 
. coaches, concealed in hollowed-out planks of timber, in false 
: bottoms and sides of travelling trunks, in sealed petrol tins, and 
. In luncheon baskets carried by engine drivers and their firemen. 


By sea, there are many miles of coast to the south of Gaza which 


_ afford easy landing for small craft, and although specially detailed 
' Police patrols are constantly on the look-out for smugglers and 


. occasionally lie in wait all night on receipt of information that a 
_ Consignment of hashish is about to arrive, seizures are few. The 
: Smugglers’ intelligence service is good, and they can afford to wait 


until vigilance is somewhat relaxed at the suspected place or, 
alternatively, land their cargo at some other point and transfer the 


hashish to some cleverly disguised cache. 


7. SEIZURES OF Noxious DRUGS DURING 19382. 





Drug seized. 





No. of |Amount of| Total amount 


. Hashish.| Opium. | Cocaine.| Sutal. Persons fines of imprison- 
} 











—|———_—_—_| Convicted.| imposed. | ment awarded. 
Kilo- Kilo- | Kilo- Kilo- 


Orams. | grams. | grams. | grams. 


ats Ce en a ae ee a 


” 


| 


128.07 | 108 | 16} 26 | 127 | gp2ge | 15 years and 
one month. 


18938 D3 


90 


The total number of persons prosecuted for possession of noxious 
drugs was 188, so that there were only 11 acquittals. The 
sentences of imprisonment ranged from seven days to three years. 
and the fines from 250 mils to £P50. 


8. The Central Narcotics Bureau in Cairo provides a fund to 
meet any extraordinary expenditure incurred by the Palestine 
Police in endeavouring to check the introduction of hashish into 
Egypt through Palestine. 

Arms. 


9. An intensive campaign was started early in the year to comb 
the country for unlicensed firearms and ammunition, and systematic 
raids and searches were carried out with the following results :— 


FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION SEIZED DURING 1982. 


I. Arms. 

Description. Serviceable, Unserviceable. Totals. 
Rifles oe ae Se 263 19 282 
Pistols and Revolvers _... 335 30 365 
Shotguns... sie ae 221 14 235 

Il. Ammunition. 
Description. Number. 

Rifle s.a.a.... es wae jae Be ead ae 8,480 rounds. 
Pistol and revolver ammunition ... sale ae “ii 4,955 rounds. 
Bombs Bee ae sie owe sits mr we 27 


10. These figures exclude a consignment of arms and ammunition 
found in a valise which was left by a passenger in charge of the 
purser of a Lloyd Triestino steamer on its arrival at Jaffa in 
October. The valise contained two rifles, three automatic pistols 
and 1,500 assorted cartridges. 


Liquor TRAFFIO IN PALESTINE. 


A.—Present Situation. 


11. The population of Palestine in October, 1922, was 757,182, 


of whom 387,118 were males. Of the total population, 590,890 were 
Moslems, and the rest Christians and Jews. The Christians 
included a British garrison of 1,560. 


The population of Palestine in Novémber, 1931, was 1,035,821, | 


of whom 526,680 were males. Of the total population, 759,712 were 
Moslems, 91,398 were Christians, and 174,610 were Jews. The 
Christians included a British garrison of about 2,000. 


12. There is a general Police supérvision over licensed premises. 


and penalties are provided for abuse of licence and for permitting - 
disorderly conduct on the premises. The grant of licences ik . 


generally regulated by the District Superintendent of Police without | 


whose authorization no licence can be granted. The consent of 
the Department of Health is also required. The applicant must 


— 


91 


prove his respectability, and objection to the grant of a licence in 
any case may be lodged by any two persons resident in the 
neighbourhood, and the District Superintendent of Police must take 
note of the objection. | 


13. Regulations limiting the hours of sale of intoxicating liquors 
have been enacted under the Intoxicating Liquors and Public 
Entertainments Ordinance, 1922, in all municipal areas of 
Palestine. 


The following are the standard terms of the Regulations :— 


‘* Notice is hereby given that in pursuance of the provisions 
of section 8 of the Intoxicating Liquors and Public Entertain- 
ments Ordinance, 1922, as from the date of publication till 
further notice, the hours during which licensed premises may 
be opened for the sale of intoxicating liquors for consumption 
on the premises, within the Municipal Areas of.................. ; 
shall be from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. 


‘* Provided that the Municipality, with the approval of the 
District Superintendent of Police, may grant an extension of 
hours during which certain hotels, coffee houses and restaurants 
may be opened for the sale of such liquors up to 12 midnight. 


‘“ Provided also that where the licensed premises are used 
as a hotel in which the daily inclusive charge for accommoda- 
tion is 500 mils and upwards and fall within the terms of IITA 
of the schedule attached to the said Ordinance, intoxicating 
liquors may be sold to bona fide residents for their personal 
consumption at all times. 

‘“ The hours for the sale of intoxicating liquors for con- 
sumption off the premises within the Municipal Areas of 
ous eae Sadat shall in all cases be from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.”’ 


In rural areas, there is no appreciable consumption of intoxi- 
cating liquors so that the necessity to prescribe hours of sale has 
not arisen. 


14. An applicant for a licence to sell intoxicating liquors is re- 
quired to fulfil the conditions of three separate Ordinances, viz., 
the Intoxicating Liquors and Public Entertainments Ordinance, 
1922, the Intoxicating Liquors Ordinance, 1927, and the Regulation 
of Trades and Industries Ordinance, 1927. Under the first 
Ordinance the Licensing Authority is the Municipal Council in 
municipal areas and the District Commissioner elsewhere, under 
the second it is the Director of Customs, and under the third the 
Police and the Department of Health have power to attach special 

_ conditions to any licence in the interests of public health and order. 


The power of the Licensing Authority under the first Ordinance 
_ to refuse a licence in his absolute discretion has been brought into 
- doubt by a recent action in the High Court; the necessary amend- 
“ ment of the law is therefore being made. 


18938 D 4 


92 


15. There are 38 establishments for the manufacture of intox- 
cating liquors in Palestine, including distilleries for making alcohol 
and spirits, and wine-presses. There are no breweries in Palestine 
of commercial importance. 


16. In 1922, there were approximately 660 licences for sale of 
intoxicating liquors in Palestine; in 1925 there were 846, in 192s 
there were 916, in 1931 there were 965, and in 1932 there were 958. 
The corresponding figures for the Moslem and non-Moslem popula 
tion of Palestine in those years were the following :— 


Moslems. Non-Moslems. 


1922 Census sed don ... 590,890 166 ,292 
1925 (Estimated) de ... 650,000 197 ,O00 
1928 (Estimated) sas ... 10,000 228 ,000 
1931 Census aa ... 159, 712 276,109 


Very many licences (vide ee in Appendix IV to this Section) 
are off-licences for the sale of wine in bottles by grocery shops. 
and many are for hotels, cafés, and clubs. Moreover, public bars 
in Palestine are single rooms incapable of accommodating more 
than a few customers. 


17. In the Appendices to this Section are given comparative 
statistics of issues of off- and on-licences in the principal centres, 
with special reference to Moslem licensees, employment of women, 
nature of premises, and consumption of arak. 


No licences are granted in respect of premises in the immediate 


neighbourhood of a Mosque or in an exclusively Moslem quarter 


or village. In Jerusalem, where the Moslems are 22 per cent. of 
the population, 8 out of 262 licences are held by Moslems, which | 


is less than 4 per cent. Of these 8 licences all, with one exception. 
are for hotels or restaurants. 


18. The following are comparative figures of imports, local pro 


duction, and exports of intoxicating liquors in litres. 


Imports. Production. Exports. 
Wines Wines Wines 
Arak, and Arak, and Arak, and 
etc. Beer. etc. Beer. etc. Beer. 
1923 ... 930,000 1,550,000 47,400 616,000 61,000 1,836,000 
1927 ... 37,000 706,730 459,871 2,228,000 23,000 917,000 
. 1931 ... 44,000 871,400 395,000 2,839,000 21,600 1,015,000 
1932 w. 40,623 891,576 634,576 38,155,928* 30, 7101, '376, 198” 


* Wines only. 


It cannot, however, be assumed that the quantity imported and 


produced, less the quantity exported in the year, was locally con- 
sumed ; a certain quantity remains in bonded stores and in manu- 
facturers’ vats under Excise control. 


93 


19. The following are figures of liquors released, on payment of 
-duty, for consumption :— 


1928... 
1929... 
1930 ... 
1981... 
1982... 


ce 


Litres. 


Locally Manufactured. 


Wines. 


876,636 
858,354 
918,467 
724,831 
795,772 


Spirits. 


369,467 
392,504 
351,361 
350,136 
359,957 


Arak 


(included in 
previous 
column). 


86,609 

78,251 
184,273 
243,743 
242,967 


* 10 months. 


Spirits. 


29,611 
36,775 
34,461 
35,584 


Litres. 
Imported Liquors. 
Wine. Beer. 
49,801 491,611 
110,637 623,588 
54,669 888,181 
43,691 829,377 
*33,046 687,973 


31,610 


_ 20. The amounts payable for licences for the sale of intoxicating 
"liquors and the classes of establishments licensed are the follow- 


ing :— 
: £P. 
Hotel, lst class 30—50 
,» @nd class ... 15—25 
» ord class oe i _ he 5—10 
Bars, off-licence.... = me es age 5 
»  on-licence be ght se wee 5—10 
Clubs, boarding-houses ... es ae 2 5 
Cafés, restaurants ... sin he ade re 5—10 


In addition, there is a fee of £P1 a year payable under the 
. Ordinance of 1927. 


The annual licence fee for manufacture of spirits is £P100, and for 
| manufacture of wine and beer £P50. 


B. 


21. It has been stated that the sale of alcoholic liquor has in- 
creased twelve-fold since the War, and that this increase is specially 
marked in Jerusalem. 


_ There are no statistics Available to the Palestine Government of 
_ Pre-War sales, but the figures given in the preceding paragraphs of 
- this Section do not indicate such a rate of increase. The con- 
 Sumption per head per annum based on the urban population alone 
_ ‘roughly estimated at about 5 litres. 

Any increase in total consumption may reasonably be attributed to 


~ the increasing European and non-Moslem population, as the 
lollowing table indicates :— 


Christians. JEws. 
1920 77,801 66,500 
1929 73,024 83,794 
1931 91,398 174,610 


94 


The pre-War figure of licences for sale of intoxicating liquors is 
not known. The figures for 1932 for Jerusalem city were 156 off- 
licences and 106 on-licences. In the Old City there were 28, includ- 
ing 20 on-licences. Of the on-licences, 35 were for restaurants, 46 
for bars, and 25 for hotels or clubs. Most of the on-licences are 


groceries. In the Christian street in the Old City there are 25, 
but there are practically none in the rest of the Old City. Ten of 
the shops in the Christian street were in existence before the British — 
Occupation, and eleven of them are grocery shops catering for the © 


Greek (Orthodox) community. 
Out of a population of 90,000 in Jerusalem in 1931, 56.6 per cent. 
were Jews, 21.4 per cent. Christians, and 22 per cent. Moslems. 


22. Neither District nor Police authorities have discerned any 
growing tendency among Moslems to consume drink in public places, 


and the Police consider that there 1s no serious drunkenness among 
the Moslem population of Jerusalem except for a few habitual 
drunkards. Drunkenness is rare among Arab Christians and is — 


rarely seen in public. There is very little among Europeans. 


Prosecutions for intoxication in the Courts are not very numerous. — 
and any increase of crime which may have occurred in recent years — 


can be almost entirely ascribed to the growth of the population and — 


to poverty due to three consecutive crop failures. 


Only six cases of crime in 1931 out of a total of 33,000 indictable 


and non-indictable offences, excluding drunkenness itself, were 
connected with drink. Of 668 motor accidents which occurred in 
1932, 5 only were due to drunkenness. 
Drunkenness by itself is an offence under the law. 
The following are statistics of cases of drunkenness in 1931 and 
1932 in the principal towns :— 
Moslems 


1931. 1982 included in Non-Moslem Total 
; "preceding population. population. 


column. 
Jerusalem wie &9 108 40 70,609 90,503 
Jaffa ue en6 108 139 86* 16,943 55,346 
Tel-Aviv ... as 18 4 — 45,995 46,101 
Nablus ... xk 9 2 1* 790 17,498 
Haifa... es 104 136 54* 30,082 50,483 
Nazareth se 10 4 1* 5,549 8,894 


* Six months only. 
Cases of drunkenness are negligible in number in Arab villages 
and Jewish colonies. 
The statement has been made that Jews are expected to get 





the worse for drink at Purim: this is untrue; Jews indulge in — 


conviviality at this feast, but not with drunkenness as an object. 
There has been an increase in the number of wine shops kept by 
the Jews, resulting from the large immigration of Jews in recent 


years, but there is no evidence of excessive drinking among Jews | 


whether old residents or new arrivals. 


Per me ae” an 


95 
23. It is true that the use of low 


class hotels as places of 


~ assignation appears to be established in Haifa, but not the con- 
“sumption of drink at these places, although young girls between 
the ages of 15 and 20 have been found serving drinks in hotels 


~ and cafés. 


In Jerusalem, where there are 106 on-licences, only 6 women 


“1m all are employed to serve drinks. 
_ Jewesses, 6 Christian, and 8 Moslem 


In Haifa, 52 women (38 
women) are employed in 


~ licensed premises, Moslems being 40.3 per cent. of the population 


- at Haifa, Jews 31.6 per cent., and Christians 27.4 per cent. 


The 


fumbers of women employed on licensed premises in other towns 


are as follow :—Nablus 1, Tel-Aviv 10, 


Jaffa 18, Nazareth 2. 


_ 24. It has been alleged that the local population, particularly 
~ the effendis, are forsaking arak for whisky and gin. 

The correctness of this allegation is open to doubt, if only 
" because arak is the cheaper drink. Arak, which is more potent 
~ than whisky or gin and more harmful, is not by any means drunk 


exclusively by Moslems. 


t 


The vast majority of Moslems, effendis 
or fellahin, do not take intoxicating liquors. 


Arak is consumed 


- mostly by Christian Arabs and by the new European population, 
~ and the figures of its consumption from 1928 to 1931 show very 
‘little variation. They are as follow (in litres of alcohol content for 


Purposes of assessing Excise Duty) :— 
1928 
1929 
1930 
1931 


324,700 
363 ,000 
317,700 
315,800 


By towns (in litres of quantity actually prepared for sale) :— 


1932 

Haifa Sie 

Nazareth ... 

Jaffa 

Tel-Aviv 

Nablus 

Jerusalem ... Aas Ses ah 
The importation of gin in litres was 

1928 a 

1929 

1930 

1931 

1982 


In 1923, 1924, and 1925 the average importation of gin 


litres a year, 


2.43 ,000 
8,000 
81,000 
81,000 
2,400 
ae 138,000 
as follows :— 
2,989 
3,217 
3,104 
4,838 
7,199 
was 9,000 


25. The increase in consumption of arak in 1931 over 1930 as 
: shown on page 82 of the 1931 Report is only apparent. The 
~ Consumption of arak distilled from fruit continues to increase, whilst 


96 


the consumption of arak redistilled from other spirits is steadily 
decreasing. This preference is due to some extent to the lower 
Excise Duty on fruit arak, which is 75 mils per litre; the Excise 
Duty on other arak is 100 mils. 


It was suggested that legislation should be introduced in Palestine 
limiting the alcoholic content of intoxicating liquors. In view oi 
the relatively low per capita consumption, and the infrequency of 
drunkenness, such a measure hardly appears to be necessary at 
present; the system of levying Excise Duty on the quantity of 
absolute alcohol contained in liquors constitutes sufficient control. 


C. 


26. The Government of Palestine has decided to adopt the 
following measures with a view to controlling the liquor trade and 
diminishing attendant excesses :— 


(i) It will take power by Ordinance to restrict the number 
of licences for the sale of intoxicating liquors issued in 
Palestine or to refuse such licence, whether on first application 
or renewal, without assigning any reason, regardless of the 
character of the applicant, but subject to an appeal from the 
Licensing Authority to the High Commissioner. 


(ii) It will regularize by Ordinance the power implicit in 
the Regulation of Trades and Industries Ordinance, 1927, and 
already exercised, to limit licences where necessary to— 


(a) the sale of only certain liquors or of one kind of | 
liquor only, so as to reduce the consumption of strong — 


arak, and 


(b) the sale to certain classes of persons only, with 
particular reference to members of His Majesty's Forces 
in uniform. 


(111) It will increase the scale of licence fees, especially for 
sale for consumption on the premises, but also for off-licences 
as a further means, additional to (i), of eliminating or reducing 
the numbers of small on-licence houses. 


(iv) It will remove the existing diversity of licensing 


authorities and legislation, and set up Licensing Boards, oD © 


which the Police and, as necessary, Municipalities would be 
represented, thus maintaining the necessity for consent of the 
District Superintendent of Police to any grant of licences. 


(v) It will take steps to regulate the employment of young © 


girls for serving liquor in on-licensed premises, in any case in 
which the Licensing Authority deems it desirable that such 
regulation should be ordered. 


Certain licensees have already been warned that their licences 
will not be renewed next January. 


Comparative Statistics of Licences issued 


97 


ApPrenprx I. 


in Palestine for Sale of Intoxtcating 
8. 


On-Licences. 
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
120 118 134* 
— = — 40 
= == — 57 
49 713 64 79 
17 15 17 16 
4 4 3 3 
* Includes 28 in Rural Area. 
Off-Licences. 
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
— 127 132 162* 
— — — 14 
— — — 164 
125 141 107 112 
ll 12 11 “10 
1 1 1 1 
se — — —— l 
* Includes 6 in Rural Area. 
Total Number of Licences Issued. 
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
247 240 296* 
— — — 54 
— = — 221 
174 214 171 191 
28 27 28 26 
5 5 4 4 
be — — — ] 
* Tocludes 34 in Rural Area. 
APPENDIX II. 
Statistics of Licences held by Moslems. 
On-Licences. 
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
— — — 15* 
— — — 2 
_ — = Nil 
3 Nil Nil Nil 
oe eae as Nil Nil Nil Nil 
* (1) Includes 3 for the Rural Area. 
(2) Off-licences are also included. 
Off-Licences. 
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
— — — Nil 
= = — Nil 
Nil Nil Nil 4 
Nil Nil Nil Nil 


98 


Aprrenprx ITI. 
Comparative Statistics of Women employed on Licensed Premises. 

1927. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
Jerusalem... sas es — — — 6 
Jaffa oe see gee — — — 13 
Tel-Aviv ee sie bsg — — — 10 
Haifa oss Pay ve 50* 50* 50* 52 
Nazareth... sl is l 1 2 2 
Nablus sae es — — -—— l 


* The figures are approximate only. 


APPENDIX IV. 


Comparative Statistics of Off- and On-Licences issued during 1932. 
Distribution of On-Licences. 
Bars. Cafés. _ Restaurants. Clube. Hotels. 


Jerusalem : eas 
Jaffa or aie oe 15 13 6 Nil 3 
Tel-Aviv wha ts 2 23 12 Nil 3 
Haifa... nts oe 23 30 12 2 12 
Nazareth a iets 1 il 2 Nil 2 
Nablus ... in ite — — l 2 — 
Off-Licences issued to Grocers. 
Jerusalem ... me . 0U[U Haifa ie sa . 8 
Jaffa wes ae ses 5 Nazareth... = . 10 
Tel-Aviv... fae ... 150 Nablus be seis er l 
APPENDIX V. 

Statistics of Drunkenness among Moslems—siz months ending 31st December, 1932. 
Jerusalem... an ... 40% Haifa oe see ... 64 
Jaffa oss ibe .. 86 Nazareth ... fen en l 
Tel-Aviv... ee ... Nil Nablus sane ea a 1 


* For the whole of 1932. 


AprEnpDIx YI. 
Comparative Statistics of Consumption of Arak. 
Six months ending 
1931. 1932. 3lst December, 1932. 

Litres. Litres. Litres. 
Jaffa ois aes bas ea — — 40,508* 
Tel-Aviv ye sate is 40,504* 
Haifa... ia So wee =—.243,743 242,967 121,483* 
Nazareth = aes a 6,858 8,100 4,050* 
Nablus ... a ae — — 1,206 


* Approximate figures only. 


XIX.—EDUCATION. 


The educational work of the Government Department during 
the academic year 1931-32 has been normal and general progress 
has been made. 








99 


9. An Education Ordinance, superseding the Turkish legislation 
followed heretofore, is to come into force in January, 1933. The 
text is printed in Appendix I to this Report. 


8. The number of classified officers employed by the Department 
on the 31st December, 1932, was 796, of whom 12 were British. 
The remainder, with very few exceptions, are Palestinians. 


4. The expenditure by the Department in the academic year 
1931-32 on educational objects was as follows :— 








(a) Administration and Inspectorate £P. £P. 
(Arab and Hebrew) :— 
Salaries ... ae sis bia 14,007 
Other charges... — ae 994 14,301 
(6) Schools :— 
(i) Government :— 
Salaries... Se ae 99,414 
Books and equipment. ... Gs 4,673 
Scholarships, maintenance, 
allowances. etc. pee sr 8 840 
107 ,927 
(ii) Non-Government :— 
Block grant to Jewish Agency ... 19,190 
Per capita grant to other schools : 
Moslem e - ae 703 
Christian iat oe se 1,103 
Jewish ... beti _ es 1 325 
22 321 
(c) Miscellaneous :— 
Grant to Board of Higher Studies 500 
Transport and travelling or 3,392 
Other minor charges... ” 548 
—_—— 4,440 


Total... re on £P.148 989 


The revenue from the sale of books and school materials in 
Government schools amounted to £P.1,357, and that from Govern- 
ment school fees to £P.2,800. 


0. There are no exact figures of the total expenditure of private 
bodies and foreign organisations on education in Palestine. The 
figures for the Jewish Agency are given in paragraph 26 below. 


100 


6. The following additional amounts were expended in 1930 and 
1931 by Government upon educational services outside the budget 
of the Education Department :— 

1930. 19381. 
£P. £P. 
Hygienic and medical care of pupils 
(mostly in Government schools)... 1,520 1,458 
Supply of trees for Arbor Day (Govern- 
ment schools) ... sae sta se 10 92 
Printing and stationery die es 262 225 
Cost of living and house allowances 
(personnel of Department and Gov- 








ernment teachers) : See aad 8,584 7,916 
Rents, repairs, furniture and water- 

supply (Departmental offices and 
Government schools) aie oT 5 ,860 8,405 
Total ... ie ... 16,236 18,096 








7. The figures of children of school age (5 to 15) in the country 
at the time of the census of 1931 were approximately as follows :— 


Boys. Girls. Totals. 


Moslems ... “— ce 85 ,700 71,900 157 ,600 
Christians a os 9,940 9,140- 19,080 
Jews ae + Boi 17,160 17,440 34,600 


The pupils attending schools in 1931-382 were as follows, classified 
by religion. The age range is 3-20, but the bulk is in the range 
5-15. 

Boys. Girls. Totals. 


Moslems ... ee = 26,623 6,477 33,100 
Christians wa shi 8,614 8,146 16,760 
Jews os es an 18 ,683 16,545 35 ,228 


Arabic (Government) Public System of Education. 


8. At the beginning of 1931-32, ten additional teaching posts 
7 filled, and at the beginning of 1932-33, twenty new posts were 
filled. 

Of the 738 teachers employed by the Department in July, 1932, 
734 were Arabs (535 Moslems, 194 Christians) and four were 
British. 

In the summer of 1932 two Arab Assistant Inspectors were 
appointed to supervise gardens attached to Government schools (see 
paragraph 46 below). 


9. Hlementary Edacation.—In the summer term of 1932 there 


were 303 elementary schools with a roll of 24,696 pupils, as against 
306 schools with 24,153 pupils in July, 19381. 


101 


In September, 1931, 9,667 new pupils applied for admission to 
Government schools, but it was necessary to reject 4,310 owing to 
lack of accommodation. In September, 1932, the number of new 
applicants rose to 11,502, and of these 5,271 were refused admission 
for the same reason. An account is given at the end of this Section 
of the steps taken by the Government to enlarge the accommodation 
in its schools. 


10. Lack of accommodation has also checked the improvement 
effected two years ago in the grading of classes by age. 


ll. Wastage no longer offers a serious problem, but the number 
of pupils who repeat the preparatory class is excessive. The figures 
for other classes were more satisfactory, but remain high owing to 
the prolongation of school life unaccompanied by a corresponding 
Increase in the number of places. The average length of school life 
is now over four years, even in rural schools. 


12. Town Schools.—The following are comparative figures for 
two years :— 








1930-31 1931-32 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Town schools for boys ... 30 6,124 31 6,608 
Town schools for girls ... 21 4 209 1 4,436 
Totals .... 51 10,338 52 11,044 





There was a sixth class in 23 schools (17 for boys and 6 for girls) 
with an attendance of 265 (202 boys and 63 girls). Of these senior 
pupils, 120 boys are continuing in 1932-33 their studies in Govern- 
ment secondary schools, and 15 in other schools; and 31 are known 
to have found employment. 


13. Headmasters of town schools for boys are authorized to 
collect an annual fee of 100 mils from well-to-do pupils to meet 
expenses on the school library, sports, garden, and the like. 


14. Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by want of space, 
it has been possible steadily to increase the number of children 
under education, mainly by internal reorganization in the schools. 
The two upper elementary classes are restricted to chosen pupils, 
superannuation is applied, and pupils are admitted to the lower 
classes to the numerical limit allowed by the health regulations. 


15. Achievement tests in arithmetic and Arabic were apphed 
to 5th and 6th elementary classes and to the Ist secondary class 
in boys’ schools. The results in general were satisfactory in 
arithmetic and showed an improvement over those of the preceding 
year, whereas those in Arabic were less satisfactory. 

15a. Domestic science has been introduced into four girls’ schools. 
A new text book on infant welfare has been distributed to the 
upper classes of all girls’ schools, and practical instruction has 
been given in one school. 





102 
16. ‘T'wo vacation courses in English were held for women and 
men teachers, respectively. 
17. Rural Schools.—The following are comparative figures for 
two years :— 
1930-31 1931-32 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Village schools for boys ... 247 18,151 244 12,972 
Village schools for girls 8 669 7 680 





Totals ... 255 13,820 251 13,652 











Five schools were closed during the year, either on account of 
low attendance or on the recommendations of the Department of 
Health: two were re-opened and seven new school buildings were 
erected. 

£P.1,098 was raised in various villages, either for school repairs 
or for school furniture, and 26 teachers were appointed and paid 
by villages to work in Government schools. 


18. Most rural schools have now developed a third class, thus 
affording four years of instruction. In 1927, 93 such schools had 
no second class; in 1931-32 there were only three without it. 


19. During the period 1930-32 an inquiry was made into the 
persistence of literacy in the Arab rural population, and some 900 
ex-pupils of village schools in all parts of Palestine were subjected 
to standardized individual tests in Arabic and arithmetic. Of the 
examinees educated in the Turkish time 53 per cent. failed in 
Arabic and 34 per cent. in arithmetic. Of those educated since 
the occupation 24 per cent. failed in Arabic and 18 per cent. 0 
arithmetic, but if the Gaza and Hebron areas, which are back- 
ward, are excluded the failures in Arabic are only 16 per cent. 
The average period of schooling among post-occupation examinees 
was about 5 years. 

20. The seasonal holidays in rural schools are subject to local 
arrangements and vary with the time of the harvest; the total 
period allowed is ten weeks in the year. 

21. Secondary Education.—There was a total attendance of 317 
pupils (all boys) in the 12 schools with secondary classes. 

22. Government Arab College.—Twenty-eight new students were 
admitted to the College in September. 

Twenty-six students of the fourth class were entered for the 
Palestine matriculation examination ; 23 passed and 3 qualified for 
the school certificate. Twelve of these students were selected for 
training in the fifth class of the College, and two were elected 
Government scholarships at Beirut. | 

Eleven students of the fifth class obtained the teachers’ certif- 
cate and were appointed to permanent teaching posts. 


er 


103 


23. Women's Training College.—In September 1931, there were 
63 students, of whom 23 were new-comers. 

Eleven students in the fourth class passed the College diploma 
examination and were offered teaching posts under the Department. 


24. Scholarships.—Three Government scholars were maintained — 


- Muniversities or training colleges in Great Britain, seven at Beirut 


¢ University, and two at the Institute of Education of Cairo. 


With 
one exception, these students will be absorbed in the teaching stafi 
of Government schools. In addition, one boy was given a scholar- 


. ship to the School of Weaving at Mehalla al Kabira, Egypt, and 


three boys were given scholarships to non-Government secondary 


schools in Palestine. 


a 


Hebrew Public System.: 


25. At the end of the summer the Jewish Agency had to reduce 
drastically its contribution to education and the schools were not 


_teopened in time. The teachers opened them on their own responsi- 


bility, but as the negotiations were protracted they went on strike 


- for a few weeks. Eventually, a compromise was reached between 


the Agency and the teachers, the latter contributing one month’s 


» salary, and the Agency formally opened its schools in February 
1982; but the financial difficulties continued throughout the school 


Vear. 
26. The Jewish Agency’s education estimates for 1931-32 showed 


- a decrease of over £P.20,000 as follows :— 


Revenue (ordinary)— 1930-31 1931-32 
£P. £P. 
Centra] Authorities :— 
Jewish Agency 74,365 39,811 
Government ve 19,175 19,175 
Palestine Jewish Colonization 
Association 5 ,620 5 500 
99,160 64,486 
Local Authorities :— 
Tel-Aviv Township - 14,000 18,200 
Other local authorities ... 4,199 6,242 
School fees 12,017 12,350 
30,216 36,792 
Miscellaneous :— 
Rents and donations... 51 245 
Teachers’ contributions ... — 7,731 
51 «7,976 
129,427 109,254 


Totals 






































104 


kazpenditure (ordinary) :— 
























































Administration :— £P. £P. 
Staff : 5,493 4,060 
Other charges 1,759 1,344 
School Secretaries 588 378 

7,840 5,782 

School Personnel :— 

Kindergarten Teachers 7,943 2,024 
Klementary Teachers ... wae 13 637 69,830 

Secondary and Training Col- 
lege Teachers ... is i 8,916 6,562 
School servants ... 6 ,025 4,597 
96 ,521 83,013 

School buildings, etc. :— 

Rent aie aes 7,690 5,450 
Repairs, etc. bos a 1,150 610 
Furniture and equipmen 4,755 1,707 

13,595 7,767 

Grants-in-aid :— 

Labour schools ... 4,935 4,677 
Other schools 3,810 6,230 
8,745 10,907 

Miscellaneous :— 

Pension Fund, Compensations, 
etc. : ae 7” i 2,470 1,565 
Unforeseen expenses 256 220 
2,726 1,785 
Totals ... 129,427 109,254 








The extraordinary estimates, covering expenditure on various 
educational activities, were reduced from £P.10,451 in 1930-31 to 
£P.1,034 in 1931-32. | 

27. By the end of the school year there was a deficit in the 
estimated revenue amounting to £P.35,300 of which £P.32,38 
was due from the Jewish Agency. 

28. The Government Department elaborated a detailed scheme 
for the reorganization of the Jewish public system on a conservi- 
tive financial basis. The Jewish Agency has agreed in principle — 


105 


to most of the recommendations in this scheme, and it is expected 
that they will be carried out by the General Council (Vaad Leumi) 
' of the Jewish Community to which the Jewish education system 
- has now been handed over by the Jewish Agency. 


29. There was a slight increase in the number of schools and 
pupils, as the following tables show :— 


TABLE I (Administrative Groups). 


1930-31. 1931-32. 
Group Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
General ... sie ae 138 13,856 138 14,180 
Mizrahi... ves ce 60 6,739 62 6,821 
Labour... ise ‘ie 59 1,798 63 2,119 
Totals ae sais 257 22,393 263 23,120 


TABLE II (Types of Schools). 





1930-31. 1931-32. 
Type Schools Pupils. Schools Pupils 
ergartens 138 5,000 139 5,149 
Elementary 106 15,031 109 15,576 
4 1,489 5 1,5 

Training College 4 500 4 403 
Commercial 2 269 3 359 
Trade... 3 104 3 104 
Totals ... cay 257 22,393 263 23,120 


Roughly speaking the sexes are equally distributed in all the 
schools, according to both classifications. 


30. On the initiative of the Government Department, a confer- 
ence of teachers of English in Jewish secondary schools was called 
and a memorandum on aims and methods was approved. The 
Teachers’ Organization also held an educational conference at 
which the teaching of modern history was discussed. 


31. The age range of classes in the Jewish Agency schools is 
approximately the same as in the Government Arab schools, but the 
median age in each class is about two years lower. 


_ 82. Some new school buildings were erected by local authorities 
in Jewish colonies of the orange-growing belt. 


Several new text books for schools were published during the 
year. 


33. Kitchens which served over 3,000 children with meals were 
maintained in 13 elementary schools and 51 kindergartens, and 
over 4,000 children received instruction in cooking and dietetics. 
This work is carried out by the School Luncheons Fund. 


106 
Other Schools. 
I.—MOSLEM SCHOOLS. 


34, Comparative figures for two years :— 


1930-31. 1931-32. 

Pupils. Pupius. 
(oe = 
Schools. Boys. Girls. Total. Schools. Boys. Girls. Total. 

Schools other than 

of Kuttab type... 31 = 3,427 923 4,350 38 4,302 910 56,212 
Kuttabs ... .» 106 2,785 184 2,969 119 = 3,724 260 3,984 
Totals ... 137 = 6,212.—«-:11,107 = 7,319 157 = 8,026-—-:1,170 9,196 


II.—CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS. 


35. The following table excludes schools managed by the Latin 
Patriarchate of Jerusalem, the Greek Catholic Bishopric of Galilee, 
and the Jesuit Order which have rendered no statistical returns. 


1930-31. 


Group. Schools. 
Catholic ... 70 
Protestant 50 
Orthodox... 27 
Others... ie 2 

Totals ... 149 


Boys. 
3,853 
2,122 
1,491 

56 





7,522 


Pupus. 





5,155 
2,159 
1,013 

29 
8,356 


9,008 
4,281 
2,504 

85 


15,878 


————_, 
Girls. Total. Schools. 


72 
47 
28 


4. 


151 





1931-32. 
Pupils. 


oc inc iota ey 


Girls. Total. 


Boys. 
4,508 
1,991 
1,675 

83 


8,257 


5,619 
2,141 
1,130 

36 


8,926 


10,127 


4,132 
2,805 
119 


—— 


17,183 


— 


36. Particulars of Christian schools maintained by Palestinian and 
foreign bodies, except those excluded in the last paragraph :— 


(a) Palestinian. 


1930-31. 
Schools. Pupils. 
Greek Orthodox 
Patriarchate... 16 1,191 
Syrian Orthodox 
Patriarchate 2 98 
Armenian  Ortho- 
dox Patriarchate 4 502 
Orthodox Societies 5 693 
Custodia di Terra 
Santa... ais 15 2 033 
Protestant Native 
Council ... si 1 65 
Frivate Christian... 3 158 
Totals 46 4,760 





1931-32. 
Schools. Pupils. 
16 1,241 
2 112 
4 610 
6 842 
15 2,613 
1 69 
5 243 
49 5,730 


107 
(b) Foreign. 





1930-31 1931-382. 
Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
French _... Shc 38 4,709 38 4,990 
British... se 22 2,071 20 2, 020 
German ... = 21 2 ,007 21 1,934 
Italian... - 13 1,751 13 1,794 
American abe 8 421 9 546 
Swedish ... Bi 1 159 1 169 
Totals eck 103 11,118 102 11,453 





IiI.—JEWISH SCHOOLS (NOT UNDER THE JEWISH 
AGENCY). 


37. Comparative figures for 1930-31 and 1931-32 :— 
1930-31 1931-32. 


Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils. 
Alliance Israélite 


Universelle __... 8 3,695 7 3,793 
Anglo-Jewish As- 
sociation 1 414 1 363 


Women’s Inter- 
national Zionist 


Organization ... 2 113 2 113 
Jiidische Waisen- 

hilfe, Berlin... 1 226 — — 
Junior Hadassah of 

U.S.A. ... an 1 109 —~ — 
South African 

Jews Committee 1 79 — — 
Agudat Israel Or- 

ganization... 10 766 9 800 


Talmud Toras 
(other than 





Agudat Israel) ... 47 3,822 39 3,998* 
Private Schools and 
Kindergartens 46 2,213 53 2,903 
Totals .. 117 11 ,487 111 11,970 











The *' children’s village ’’ at Giv’at ham-Moré, supported by the 
South African Jews’ Committee, was closed for lack of funds. The 


rer two “children’s villages ’’ are mentioned in paragraph 48 
elow. 








* The numbers for 1931-32 exclude Yeshivas (for adults) formerly included 
in the category of Talmud Toras. 


108 


A new large private secondary school was erected at Tel-Aviv 
during the year. Other private kindergartens and elementary 
schools were also opened in towns and colonies. 


Secondary and Post-Secondary Education, and Examinations. 


38. The following are lists of schools in which secondary educa- 
tion is given :— 


ARAB PUBLIC SYSTEM (Government Schools). 
1930-31. 1931-32. 
No. of No. of 
School. secondary No.of pupils. secondary No. of pupils. 
classes. Boys. Girls. classes. Boys. Girls. 
Government Arab College, 


Jerusalem ... 2 53 — 2 55 _ 
Women’s Training | ‘College, 
Jerusalem ... 2 — 33 2 — 26 
Elementary - Secondary Day 
Schools for oka at— 
Acre 2 21 —- 2 17 —_ 
Gaza... 2 26 — 2 27 — 
Hebron ... 2 22 — 2 18 _ 
Jaffa 3 39 — 3 32 — 
Jerusalem 2 57 — 2 53 _— 
Nablus ... 2 37 — 2 27 — 
Nazareth 2 24 — 2 25 — 
Ramle l 10 — ] 10 + 
Safad 2 15 — 2 15 — 
Tulkarm 2 28 — 2 29 — 
Totals 24 332 33 24 308 26 
HEBREW PUBLIC SYSTEM (Jewish Agency Schools). 
1930-31. 1931-32. 
No. of No. of 
School. secondary No.of pupils secondary No. of pups. 
classes. Boys. Girls. classes. Boys. Girls. 
Gymnasia Ivrit, Jerusalem... 5 106 77 5 108 73 
Hebrew Men’s Training Col- 
lege, Jerusalem 3 55 9 3 43 30 
Mizrahi Women’s Training 
College, Jerusalem 5 — 136 5 — 82 
Mizrahi Men’s Training Col- 
lege .. wa 5 110 — 5 90 _ 
School of Conitieree, Jeri. 
salem ve 3 32 16 2 19 20 
Gymnasia Herzlia, Tel-Aviv 5 232 146 5 206 139 
Hebrew Women’s sigan 
College, Tel-Aviv . 5 — 154 4 — 128 
Tahkemoni Reali “School, 
Tel-Aviv 4 67 — 4 61 _ 
School of Commerce, Tel- 
Aviv 3 69 78 5 46 42 
Beit Sefer Reali Haifa 5 104 56 5 96 53 
Totals 43 775 672 43 689 567 


109 


OTHER SCHOOLS. 


(i) Moslem. 
No. of No. of 
School. secondary No.of pupils. secondary No. of pupils. 
classes. Boys. Gurls. classes. Boys. Girls. 
Rawdat al Ma/arif, Jerusalem 3 60 ~—— 3 71 — 
An Najah, Nablus 3 80 — 3 72 — 
Totals 6 140 — 6 143 
(ii) Christian. 
1930-31. 1931-32. 
No. of No. of 
Schools. secondary No.of pupils. secondary No. of pupils. 


classes. Boys. Girls. classes. Boys. Girls. 
Teaching in English :— 
St. George’s School, Jeru- 


salem sit... 4 72 — 4 61 — 
Jerusalem Girls’ College .. 5 — 99 5 —- 91 
Bishop Gobat School, 

Jerusalem sae fos 3 59 — 3 62 — 
Schmidt’s Girls’ School, 

Jerusalem see 4 — 42 4 — 45 
Terra Santa ia Jeru- 

Balem sit... 5 67 — 4 76 — 
Friends Boys’ “ School, 

Ramallah 4 60 — 4 64 — 
Friends Girls’ ~ School, 

Ramallah 3 — 34 3 — 30 
English High School, Jaffa 2 — 16 3 — 19 
Tabeetha Mission School, 

Jaffa... 2 — 28 3 6 42 
English High School, Haifa 4 — 15 3 — 19 
Scots College, Safad ss 4 71 — 4 54. — 

Teaching in French :— 
Collége des Fréres, Jerusa- 

lem 4 88 — 4 83 —~ 
Collége des Freres, J affa .. 3 65 — 3 71 — 
Collége des Fréres, Haifa... 3 46 — 3 51 — 
Pensionnat N.D. de Sion, 

Jerusalem eee ‘ae 4 — 14 4 — 14 
Ecole St. Joseph, Jaffa ... 2 —_ 8 3 — 8 
Ecole St. Joseph, Bethle- 

hem 5 — 685 5 — 2) 
Pensionnat. Carmelito, Haifa 1 — ] — — — 
Pensionnat Dames de Naz- 

areth, Haifa... ] — 8 ] — 6 


yaa du eas © Coeur, 


Schools. 


Teaching in German :— 
Deutsche Evangelische 
Gemeinde Schule, Jeru- 
salem... 
Lyceum Tempelatift, Jeru- 
salem... ai 
Deutsche Schule, Haifa as 
Deutsche Schule, Bethle- 
hem, near Haifa 
Deutsche Schule, Waldheim 
Deutsche Schule, Sarona.. 
Deutsche Schule, Wilhelma 


Teaching tn Arabic :— 
Talitha Kumi, Jerusalem... 
Greek Orthodox Boys’ 

School, Jaffa ian 


Syrian Orphanage, Jerusa- 
lem 


Teaching in Greek, English, 
and Arabic :— 
Greek Gymnasia, Jerusalem 


Teaching in Arabic, English, 
and Italian :— 

Scuola Italiana Maschile, 

Haifa... ne aie 


Totals 


Evelina de Rothschild School 
for Girls, Jerusalem eee 
Girls’ Gymnasia, Jerusalem... 
Alliance Israelite Universelle, 
Jerusalem ... 
Gymnasia Nordiya, Tel-Aviv 
Gymnasia Talpiot, Tel-Aviv 
Gymnasia Humanistit, Tel- 
Aviv se 
Gymnasia Balfour, Tel- Aviv 
Gymnasia Binyamina, Rishon 
le Tsiyon ... si 
Gymnasia Ahad Ha ’Am, 
Petah Tiqva es 
Commercial and Technical 
School, Haifa ee 


Totals 


No. of 

secondary No. of pupils. 
classes. Boys. G4rls. 
1 l 2 

1 17 17 

l 8 8 

] 4 3 

1 5 1 

1 6 9 

1 4 3 

] — 15 

l 12 — 

3 22 — 

4 16 2 

2 17 — 
82 640 392 

(iii) Jewish 

— 23 

4 52 54 

2 — 42 

2 17 12 

2 16 14 

4 28 35 

3 14 21 

18 127 201 


110 


No. of 
secondary No. of pupils. 
classes. Boys. Girls. 
3 5 8 
2 9 16 
l 8 7 
1 5 4 
l 5 ] 
1 4 2 
1 3 5 
I — 17 
I 9 — 
2 ll — 
4 20 2 
4 20 — 
87 607 388 
2 — 28 
] — 15 
] 23 22 
4 49 63 
3 — 49 
5 26 46 
3 58 68 
3 22 15 
5 40 27 
3 15 26 
30 233 = 359 


111 


39. Post Secondary Education.—No fresh development occurred 
during the year. During 1931-32 there were 261 Palestinian 
students in the upper departments of Beirut University. 


40. Palestine Board of High Studies.—Two candidates, presented 
by the Jerusalem Girls’ College, entered for the final diploma ex- 
amination, and one passed. 

There were no candidates for the intermediate examination. 


105 candidates sat for the Palestine matriculation examination, 
and of these 43 obtained the matriculation certificate and 26 were 
given school certificates. The following tables analyze the 
results :— 


1931. 1932. 
Examined. Passed. Examined. Passed. 
Matricu- School Matricu- School 
lation. certificate. lation. certificate. 
Moelems wa 34 15 10 38 22 10 
Jews ... ee 28 8 3 41 13 6 
Christians =... 17 7 5 26 8 10 
Examined 
through :— 
English 29 5 10 38 10 17 
Arabic 30 19 7 34 24 6 
Hebrew 20 6 — 33 9 3 
Presented by 
schools Sea 61 24 18 V7 37 26 
Unattached 
candidates ... 18 6 — 28 6 — 


41. Hebrew Universtty.—In the Faculty of Humanities, includ- 
ing the Institute of Mathematics, there were, in 1931-32, 132 
regular students and 27 ‘* auditors’’. The first graduation cere- 
mony was held in Jamuary, 1932, when thirteen degrees of Magister 
in Artibus were conferred ; and the second was held in December, 
when eleven such degrees were conferred. 22 students attended 
the first year course in biological studies. A new laboratory in 
comparative anatomy has been added. 

Owing to the financial depression, the University estimates of 
expenditure were reduced from £P.45,000 to £P.36,000. 


42. Language Examinations for Government Officers.—17 out 
of 19 candidates passed the elementary examinations in Arabic and 
9 out of 11 passed in Hebrew. 

Five sat for the advanced Hebrew and one for the Advanced 
Arabic examinations ; all passed. 


43. Teachers’ EHxaminations.—For the teachers’ Lower Certi- 
ficate Examination, 14 candidates sat and five passed in Part II 
(school subjects) . 

Seven entered for the Higher Certificate Examination in Part I 
and three were successful; and eight entered in Part II, of whom 
one passed. 


112 


44. Foreign HEzxaminations.—Details of foreign examinations 
arranged for and supervised by the Government Department :— 





Number of Candidates. 
Body. Examination. | 
Entered. Passed. 
Matriculation : 
January 1932... 12 3 (2 Palestinians). 
June 1932 24 3 (2 Palestinians). 
| Intermediate : 
Arte he 4 — 
Science ... 3 ] 
Engineering 3 2 
oe Commerce | l 
University of London Economics 5 . | 2 (Palestinians). 
Geography | 1 
Law ae 1 = 
|) Final : 
| B.Sc. General l 1 (Palestinian). 
| B.Sc. Special ] ] 
B.Sc. Engineering l == 
|} LLB. ... 1 = 
(| Final: 
City and Guilds of Radio - Communi l 1 (Palestinian). 
London Institute. cation 
Telegraphy 1 1 (Palestinian). 
Intermediate : 
Tondoh: AasicinGon: ot A 1931 22 2 (Palestinians). 
Eocene. December 1931 ... 3 | 1 (Palestinian). 
June 1932 | 2 2 (Palestinians). 





‘* Palestinian ’’ means resident in Palestine; the others are 
mostly resident in Egypt. 


Agricultural Education. 
GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS. 


45. The High Commissioner gave a donation of £P.300 towards 
the improvement of school gardens and of this £P.200 was allocated 
to Arab (Government) schools and £P.100 to Jewish schools. 


46. Over two hundred village schools now possess land for 
gardens, the area varying from one to ten dunums, and two tel 
porary assistants to the Supervisor of School Gardens have beeD 
appointed to ensure the due care of the gardens and to impart a0 
elementary agricultural training to the pupils. 

Over 12,000 trees were planted in Government school gardens 
on Arbor Day. 

The syllabus of the Kadoorie Arab Agricultural School was re 
vised. Ten boys completed the junior course at the end 
of 1931-32, and eleven boys have been accepted to replace them. 


113 


- Fifteen village school teachers spent the year in training at the 
school. (See also under Section XXV, paragraph 8). 


47. The grant of £P.1,000 from the Institute of Rural Life of 
the American Near East Foundation for 1931-32 was used in part 
- on special village work in educating villagers in cleanliness and 
sanitation, and in part in aid of the training of village school 
‘teachers at the Kadoorie school. 


OTHER SCHOOLS. 


48. The following non-Government schools give instruction, 
either entirely or to a great extent, in theoretical and practical 
agriculture :— 

No. of Pupils. 


(i) Christtan Schools :— 1930-31. 1931-32. 
Agricultural School at Bait Jamal (Salesian 
Order) ant Sos ss zat .. 45 45 
Agricultural School at Rafat (Latin Patri- 
archate) sda ns aay baa .. 18 31 
Agricultural School at Latrun (Trappist 
Order) a ae side rm S. 6 


(11) Jewish Schools :— 
Agricultural School at Miqve Israel (Alli- 
ance Israélite Universelle) ee ... 194 183 
Agricultural School for Girls at Nahalal 
(Women’s International Zionist Organi- 
zation) ba ae 1a sep vend “AO 66 
Children’s Village at Meir Shfeya (Junior 


Hadassah of U.S.A.) a. ... 109 104 
Children’s Village at Ben Shemen 

(Jiidische Waisenhilfe of Berlin) ... 226 233 
Children’s Village at Ramat Gan (privately 

owned ) ha he she oa: oo 33 


Manual Training and Technical Education. 


49, Satisfactory progress was made in the teaching of drawing 
and handwork in Government schools, and an exhibition in which 
twenty-five town schools were represented was held in the spring. 


An advanced summer training course was held for teachers in 
technical work. 


sch Veaving was introduced during the year in the Ramle girls’ 
ool, 
Satisfactory reports were received on the three boys who went 
rom Majdal to study weaving in Egypt. 

© weaving section of the Alliance Israélite technical school 


: ' Jerusalem has continued to work although the main school was 
— Cosed down in 1931. 


Be ‘ The Government Department took a prominent part in pre- 
_ "ng an Exhibition of Arts and Crafts at Jerusalem in the winter. 


114 


Education of Defectives. 


52. Blind.—Instruction was given to the blind in the following 
institutions :— 


Boys. Gtrls. 
Moslém Orphanage, Jerusalem i a 5 3 
Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul, Jerusalem ... 8 15 
Syrian Orphanage, Jerusalem (Christian) ... 7 6 
Jewish Blind Institute, Jerusalem ... fu 24 20 


At the first two institutions onlv handwork is taught. At the 
other two institutions, academic instruction of an elementary school 
standard is given in addition to vocational training of an advanced 
nature. Two girls of the Jewish Blind Institute, which is now 
housed in a new and more suitable building, completed a course 
of training as teachers at the Mizrahi Women Teachers’ College, 
and one boy is attending the Hebrew University. 


53. Deaf and Dumb.—The Tel-Aviv School for the deaf and dumb 
has been moved to Jerusalem, where it is administered by the 
Alliance Israélite Universelle from a special endowment fund. 
It is directed by a German specialist. 

An English lady has started a new school for the deaf and dumb 
on a small scale, in Jerusalem. 


The Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul continue to teach about 
fifteen deaf-mutes. 


54. Mentally Defective.—The only school for the mentally de- 
fective is at Tel-Aviv. Plans are being made for new buildings. 
including a boarding section. 

At the Strauss Health Centres at Jerusalem and Tel-Aviv psychia- 
trists attend to cases sent up by schools. So far only Jewish schools 
have taken advantage of this facility. 


Physical Training, Athletics, etc. 


55. Recreation grounds have been secured for most Government 
schools and a summer course of instruction in playground training 
was held, attended by 29 teachers, including some from non- 
Government (non-Jewish) schools. 


Three new playgrounds were opened in Jewish colonies by the | 
Guggenheimer Fund. 


56. Summer schools for Moslem and Christian children were 
opened in August 1932 in 20 centres and were attended by about 
1,500 pupils. The schools worked for four hours a day, staffed — 
by volunteers, and the instruction was in religion, handwork, games, | 
and songs. 





115 
Accommodation in Schools. 


In July, 1932, the number of Arab elementary pupils in Palestine 
was a8 follows :— 


Government schools ... oe aes sae ... 24,514 
Moslem private schools ae bes a ... 9,205 
Other private schools is : oes ... 17,000 


The lack of accommodation in Government schools has made it 
necessary to defer or reject applications for admission, and notwith- 
standing the increase of numbers in classes to the utmost limits 
allowed by Health Regulations, and beyond pedagogic capacity, 
the percentage of applicants who have had to be turned away rose 
as high as 65 per cent., in schools situated in the larger towns. 

It was only to be expected that persistent complaints should be 
made by Arab bodies and individuals of this state of affairs. 
Government was actually charged with a deliberate policy of 
keeping the Arab population in a state of illiteracy and 
ignorance. Three factors have tended to aggravate Arab 
feeling on the subject: first, the normal growth of the Arab 
population; secondly, the greater demand by Arab parents for the 
education of their children which has latterly swollen the number 
of applications for admission to town schools, so that the effect of 
unavoidable rejection has been more widely and keenly felt; and 
thirdly the interruption, on financial grounds, of the programme of 
expansion of village education, coupled with the imability of Govern- 
ment to construct any new town schools. 

The Government is anxious to give sympathetic consideration 
to the demand for increased educational facilities and as a first step 
a Committee was appointed in October 1932 to inquire into the 
need of additional accommodation for Government elementary 
schools in the principal towns of Palestine, and to make recom- 
mendations as to the steps to be taken for the purpose of providing 
such accommodation. 


XX.—PUBLIC HEALTH. 


Epidemic Dtseases.—The general incidence of communicable 
disease was lower than in 1931, principally owing to the decline in 
_the prevalence of measles. 4,507 cases of measles were notified, 
with 337 deaths, compared with 731 in 1931: the case mortality 
rate was 7 per cent. Scarlet fever was also less prevalent, the case 
mortality rate being 0.8 per cent. ; the type of disease remains mild. 
Diphtheria was slightly more prevalent, the case mortality rate 
remaining about 10 per cent. 16 sporadic cases of acute 
poliomyelitis, none fatal, were notified, half of them in Jerusalem. 
There were five deaths from hydrophobia. 

Influenza was epidemic during the first quarter of the year. 
Though the disease was more severe in its effects than in past 
years, mortality was fortunately low. 


116 


Dysentery was more common in the summer months, and ther 
were 1,212 cases of typhoid fever compared with 905 last year. 
Haifa, J erusalem, and the Jaffa-Tel-Aviv area were principally 
affected. The incidence of typhus and relapsing fever was less. 

The general situation as regards malaria remained favourable: 
The spleen index of school children in towns continued to fall. 
being 0.745 compared with 1.41 in 1931; in village schools the 
index was 5.5, as last year. 

There were no cases of plague, smallpox, or cholera. 




















Diseases. 
Acute Poliomyelitis .. 
Cerebro-Spinal iia ce 
Diphtheria 
Dysentery 
Encephalitis Lethargios 
Influenza 
Measles 
Paratyphoid Ste a sigs 
Pneumonia... sie dns icy ie i 4 414 | 722 433 
Puerperal Fever teh, oo) Se GE Daas 21 35 18 
Relapsing Fever - sos ee in i. — 3; — 
Scarlet Fever ... re sl ss ‘ids 372 | 4 243 2 
Typhoid... ee bea 68 ‘ei re 905 76 1,212 | 119 
Typhus .. és exe eee paz bag 51 — 30 | ] 
Undulant Fever is foie eon ve 16: — | 5 p> = 
Totals... + | 10,088 1,285 | 8,384 | 980 


2. The Permanent Mandates Commission has asked for further 
information about the malaria campaign, ankylostomiasis, and 
tuberculosis. | 


Malaria.—The Government Department undertakes regular in- 
spection of all mosquito-breeding places and prepares and super- 
vises anti-malarial drainage schemes. In towns and villages, wells 
and cisterns are required to be kept mosquito-proof. In rural] areas, 
water collections are drained or filled and springs and streams 
cleared and canalized under the supervision of a trained staff. 

Wells and cisterns liable to breed mosquitoes are regularly oiled 
by sub-inspectors or by oilers working under them, and Paris Green 
larvicide is applied to streams and water courses which have been 
brought under control. Permanent and semi-permanent schemes 
of drainage have been carried out in all parts of the country. 
Where mosquito breeding cannot be controlled, free treatment 
with quinine is provided. 

There has been a considerable decline in the incidence of malaria 
in most controlled areas. The percentage of malaria cases attend- 
ing dispensaries for treatment has dropped from 7 per cent. in 


117 


_ 1922 to 3 per cent. in 1982. In 1924, the spleen rate of school 
; children in 10 towns and 15 sub-districts was greater than 4 per 
cent. In 1932, Beisan and Tulkarm towns alone provided spleen 
- indices above 2 per cent. and in 5 sub-districts only was the rate 
- above 4 per cent. A high incidence of malaria still prevails in 

certain districts of the country, notably Northern Galilee and the 
Jordan Valley from the marshes of Lake Huleh southwards. 

Routine measures of control in 1982 involved the oiling of 282,200 
potential breeding places in rural areas and 752,430 in towns. 
_ 11,157 cisterns were made mosquito-proof, and 501,287 metres of 
canals and drainage ditches controlled. 94,325 kilos of Solar Oil 
_ and 1,562 kilos of Paris Green were used in these operations. 


Ankylostomiasis.—In the autumn of 1931, 323 persons in seven 
quarters of Jaffa town and 943 persons in 16 villages in the sur- 
rounding neighbourhood were examined and 31.6 per cent. were 
found to harbour hookworm. In certain villages the percentage 
reached 70-80 per cent. 

In March and April 1932, a more detailed survey of 2,400 persons 
was made in selected villages with the assistance of the 
Ankylostomiasis Unit of the International Health Board at present 
stationed in Egypt, special attention being paid to the intensity 
of infection, and the conditions contributing to the high incidence 
of infection in certain villages. The results confirmed the general 
incidence previously found. 

In a group of four heavily infected villages, 60 per cent. of the 
1,500 persons examined were found to have the disease, and in 
15 per cent. of these cases, the intensity of infection was sufficient 
to cause disability varying in degree from sub-normal health to 
severe incapacity. The incidence of the disease was definitely 
associated with citrus cultivation and deficiency of sanitation in 

villages. 

In the programme of work now being undertaken, the installa- 
tion of sanitary conveniences precedes mass treatment. 

During the year active propaganda by means of lectures, de- 
monstrations, and the exhibition of lantern slides was undertaken 
in selected villages in order to secure the co-operation of the in- 
- habitants for the sanitation campaign without which permanent 
- Teduction of the disease cannot be accomplished. The ‘‘ bored 
~ hole’? type of latrine was chosen as a standard for installation on 
- account of its cheapness and the rapidity with which it can be 
- constructed by trained workmen. 

By the end of the year, 500 latrines had been constructed in 
seven villages. In those villages in which 90 per cent. of the house- 
holds have been provided with latrines, it 1s now proposed to embark 

ona treatment campaign the results of which will be carefully con- 
trolled by stool examinations. If the results are satisfactory, the 
ewompletion of sanitation in a village will be followed by routine 
mass treatment. Provision has been made for the further exten- 

sion of the work of survey, sanitation and treatment in 1933. 

18938 E 


118 


Tuberculosts.—For financial reasons, the Preliminary Tubercv- 
losis Survey begun in 1931 had to be interrupted after 772 cases of 
tuberculosis in the Northern District bad been investigated and 
classified as follows :— 


Per Cent. 
Respiratory system ... — 51.68 
Meninges and central nervous system, generally Nil 
Intestines and peritoneum ... aes i _ 2.2 
Vertebral column _... ai ee 6.1 
Bones other than the vertebral column a a 10.2 
Lymphatic system... ae ee Son ues 20.6 
Joints ... aoe a6 i es a seis 5.2 
Other organs ... dhe ee ae or 2.46 
Disseminated tuberculosis... “ie = ae 1.56 


215 deaths from tuberculosis, classified as under, were notified 
during 1932 :—. 


Respiratory system... — 157 
Meninges and central nervous s system, generally .. 1] 
Intestines and peritoneum = os oe 24 
Vertebral column 4 
Joints 2 
Skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue sass 1 
Bones (excluding vertebral column) re 4 
‘Lymphatic system (excluding mesenteric and retro- 
peritoneal glands) 2 
Genito-urinary system 2 
Disseminated, acute 4 
Disseminated, chronic 4 


Total sate 915 


As certification by a medical practitioner of the cause of death 1 
only possible and is required only in the case of deaths occurring 
in towns, these notifications do not represent the total number of 
deaths from tuberculosis. 


3. Births, Deaths, and Infantile Mortality rates for the period 
1928-1932. 


Infantile 

mortality, 

Birth. Number Estimated Death- i.e., deaths 

rate of popula- Number rate Infantile of childres 

Year. per 1,000 births tion of _ per 1,000 deaths. underly 
living. registered. (Mid- deaths _ living. of A + 

year). registered. # ~ 

t 


1928 ... 48°78 42,895 879,532 23,054 26-21 7,903 186-33 
1929 ... 46-32 41,742 901,080 21,632 24:00 7,784 186-47 
1930 ... 48:03 44,587 928,148 19,513 21:02 6,879 154% 
1931 ... 48-07 46,011 957.181 21,149 22-09 7,826 170° 
1932 ... 44:14 43,538 986,319 21,958 22-26 6,669 153-17 


_ Estimated population, 30th June, 


119 


BIRTHS AND DEATHS BY RELIGIONS, 19382. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 


1932 2... 90,624 704,621* 180,793 10,281 986,319* 
Deaths 2. gw «441 (18,542 1,748 229 21,958 
_Death-rate per 1,000 of popula- 

tm ow ee «590 28-1 9:65 22-27 22-26 
Births .. 0. aes, 8,808 © 34,505 5,281 449 43,538 
Birth-rate per 1,000 of population 36-44 48-96 29-21 43-67 44-14 
Deaths of infants under l year... 467 5,674 453 75 6,669 
— Infantile mortality-rate per 1,000 
- births .. ou. 141-38 (164-44 85°77 167-04 153-17 
Natural increase per 1,000 of 


population 20-54 22-65 19-55 21-39 21-87 


* Not including nomadic Beduin population numbering 66,553 at the date of the 
census, November, 1931. 


The population figures given in the tables are estimates of mid- 


year populations based upon the census of November 1931. They 


differ from the figures published in previous reports which were 
based upon the census of 1922. 
The readjustment results in reducing the crude birth- and death- 


_Tates of the country and principally those of the Moslem com- 


“ 


munity. The figures indicate a decline of the birth-rate from 48 
per mille in 1931 to 44 in 1932, which in the main affects the 
Moslem and Jewish sections. The death-rate remained stationary 
at 22 per mille for the country as a whole and at 15 per mille 
Christian, 26 per mille Moslem, and 9 per mille Jewish. The 
infant-mortality rate for the country has declined to 153 per 1,000 
ive births but it is higher in the Jewish community, 85 compared 
with 81 in 1931; and in the Christian community, 141 compared 
with 133. In the Moslem community it has fallen from 187 in 
1931 to 164. 

For purposes of comparison with the figures for 1932, a revised 
table follows of statistics by religious groups for the year 1931, 
based upon the census of November 1981. 


BIRTHS AND DEATHS BY Retiaions, 1931. 
Christians. Moslems. Jews. Others. Totals. 


Estimated population, 87,870 687,259* 172,028 10,024 957,181* 


30th June, 1931 
(based on census of 
November, 1931). 


. Deaths sie oe 1,330 18,014 1,647 158 21,149 
| Death-rate per 1,00 15:18 26°21 9°57 15:76 22-09 
_, . of population. 7 
* Birth... Oe 3,310 36,668 5,339 494 46,011 
"” Birth-rate per 1,000 37°66 53°35 32-19 49-28 48-07 
of population. 
ths of infants 442 6,876 452 56 7,826 
- under 1 year. 
afantile mortality 133-53 187 °52 81-60 113-36 170-09 
rate per 1,000 births. 
atural increase per 22°58 27°14 22-04 33:51 25°97 
1,000 of population. 


Not including nomadic Beduin population numbering 66,553 at the date 


of the census of November, 1931. 
18938 E 2 


120 


4. Trades and Industries.—The total number of trades licensed 
in Palestine was approximately 14,780, an increase of about 40) _ 
over last year. Attention was paid to improving the methods of | 
producing milk products, the hygiene of cattlesheds and the recon- 
struction on better lines of manufacturing dairy establishments in 
Jerusalem, Jaffa, and Haifa. An Order was published requiring 
consignments of imported butter, samneh and artificial butter to 
conform to the standards of quality applied to the same local pro- 
ducts. The general control of trades dealing with articles of 
food and drink was satisfactory and the level of hygiene in hotels 
-and other public establishments was adequately maintained. 


5. Drainage and Water-Supply.—Construction of a main sewer 
system to serve the western section of Jerusalem was begun and 
was approaching completion at the end of the year. 


The existing sewer outfalls at Haifa, which discharged into the 
future harbour basin, were intercepted and the sewage was pumped 
to a temporary outfall discharging outside the main breakwater. 
Minor extensions of sewer lines were carried out in Jaffa and plans 
prepared for the improvement of the principal sea outfall so as to 
provide for the projected extension of the sewer system to areas — 
in both Jaffa and Tel-Aviv. 


In rural areas of Jaffa District considerable progress was made 
in the installation of the ‘‘ bored hole ’’ latrine which previous trial 
had shown to be eminently suitable for villages in the plains. 


Towards the end of the summer, a serious shortage of water in | 
Jerusalem necessitated an emergency extension of the pipe line — 
from Ain Fawar to Ain Kelt: an additional quantity of 170,000 — 
gallons a day was made available from this source. In Jaffa an — 
additional bore was sunk to amplify the present main supply. 


The plans for the main supply of Nablus were completed and 
the Municipality has been authorized to contract a loan of £P.20,000 
from a Bank to put the scheme into execution. 


The practicability of providing additional water for Hebron from 
neighbouring springs was fully explored, but in regard both to 
quantity of water available and relative costs, the outcome was 
disappointing. 

A beginning is being made by Government to provide funds for 
improving village water-supplies, and surveys have been carried 
out by the Department of Health with a view to determining how 
best those funds may be applied. 


6. Municipal sanitary services were well maintained. The new 
destructor plant for Jerusalem was brought into operation during 
the year, and the Municipal Council of Jaffa is arranging to instal 
_ @ modern destructor plant next year. Municipalities co-operated 
in anti-mosquito control by providing labour gangs and oilers who 
work under supervision of the Government staff. 





121 


The new slaughter-house in Jerusalem was completed. Improve- 
ments to the slaughter-houses at Hebron and Gaza were effected 
and new premises were provided at Bait-Jala. 


1. Pilgrimage.—Hejaz pilgrims were placed under medical 
supervision as usual. 1,282 Palestinians and 24 Trans-Jordan 
subjects went on pilgrimage under official arrangements and 37 
Palestinians proceeded independently. 


All pilgrims were submitted to prophylactic vaccination against 
cholera and smallpox before leaving Palestine. 


One hundred and seventy-two foreign pilgrims entered Palestine 
en route, and 25 foreign pilgrims passed through Palestine via 
- Kantara on the return journey from the Hejaz and were kept under 
medical surveillance until reaching the frontier post of departure. 


Iwo Palestinians died during the pilgrimage and three have 
failed to return. The remainder were found on completion of 
medical surveillance, after return, to be free from communicable 
diseases. 


8. Medical Practice.—At the end of the year, 658 doctors, 214 
dentists, 194 pharmacists, and 333 midwives held licences to prac- 
tise. In addition, there are 1,195 unqualified midwives working 
under Government permit, principally in villages where qualified 
midwives are not available. Sixty-one new licences were granted 
to doctors during the year. The triennial revision of the lists of 
persons actually practising in the various professions was under- 
taken during the year, resulting in the cancellation of the licences 
of 72 doctors, 15 dentists, 6 pharmacists and 31 midwives no longer 
In practice in Palestine. 


The Permanent Mandates Commission enquired whether there 
Was any connection between the high mortality from puerperal 
fever and the number of dayas permitted to practise midwifery. 


It is only in the case of deaths occurring in towns that the 
cause of death is required to be certified by a medical practitioner. 
Deaths from puerperal fever may therefore be considered in rela- 
tion to the number of live births occurring in towns, and so regarded 
do not indicate a high mortality. In 1932, 15,387 live births 
occurred in towns and there were 18 deaths, giving a puerperal 
fever death-rate of 1.1 per 1,000 live births. 


On the other hand, the practice of midwifery by dayas is prin- 
“pally, though not wholly, restricted to the villages where trained 
midwives are not available. The majority of towns are prescribed 
areas under the Midwives Ordinance and since the enactment of 
the Ordinance, additions to the register of unqualified midwives 
are not permitted in these areas. While it is not possible, there- 
‘ore, directly to associate a high mortality from puerperal fever 
With the practice of dayas, there is not infrequently delay, in 
abnormal confinements, in summoning skilled attention, and 
18988 E 3 


122 


unnecessary suffering and deaths occur on this account. In such 
cases, if the daya is blameworthy, her name is removed from the 
register of persons permitted to practise midwifery. 

The number of qualified midwives in practice has increased from 
69 in 1922 to 333 in 1932. The number of dayas practising in 
towns is 169 and is slowly decreasing. 


Unqualified midwives are given lectures by Medical Officers 
each year when their permits are renewed, and emphasis is laid 


on simple rules for their work. The standard equipment which 


they are required to maintain is subject to periodic inspection. — 
In two centres their work is under the close supervision of Super-— 


intendents of Midwifery, and in 1933 two further appointments of 


this nature will be made to extend the work of superintendence | 


of dayas in other parts of the country. 


9. Infant Welfare and Maternityn—The Government maintains 
10 infant welfare centres and participates in the work of eight 
private centres. There are, in addition, 22 centres maintained 
by the Hadassah Organization, and five by voluntary committees. 


The work of the Government and Government-assisted centres 


is under the supervision of Superintendents of Midwifery in Jerv- 


salem and Nablus districts, and 18 co-ordinated with ante-natal and 
district midwifery services. It is intended to appoint Superinten-— 
dents of Midwifery in Jaffa and Hebron districts in 1933 (see 


preceding paragraph). 


In Jerusalem, the maternity section of the Government Hospital 
(16 beds) dealt with 460 cases. Sixteen midwives graduated after 
a six months’ course of training at the Government Midwives 


Training School. 


10. Hospitals and Dispensaries.—Progress was made with the 
permanent extension of Haifa Government Hospital by 50 beds 
and the new accommodation will be available for occupation early 


in 1933. 


Additional accommodation for 50 lunatics was provided by 


opening a second hospital in Bethlehem. The overcrowded 
voluntary mental hospital in Jerusalem was thereupon relieved of 
30 cases and 20 beds were held at the disposal of public patients. 


Owing to pressure on infectious disease accommodation in the 
north, the infectious hospital at Haifa was enlarged, temporarily, 


by taking the adjacent premises in use. 


The formal transfer of the Hadassah Hospital at Tel-Aviv to the 


township authorities took place during the year. 


The Municipal hospital of 12 beds at Beersheba was closed for 
financial reasons. ‘The premises have been retained by the Depart 


ment of Health as a casualty and epidemic post to dea] with 


emergency cases which are not suitable for transfer to hospitals 


in Gaza or Hebron 








123 


The following is a summary of new patients admitted to hospital 
or attending dispensaries and clinics during the year :— 


Unclassified 


Christians. Moslems. Jews. and Totals. 
others. 
in-Patients :-— 
Government and municipal 
hospitals... see .- 1,611 4,831 6,532 36 12,910 
Voluntary hospitals ... we ©6047 7,158 12,448 2,508 25,661 
Qut-Patients :— 
Government and municipal 
hospitals... see .-. 11,237 87,009 3,581 74 101,901 
Voluntary organizations .-- 20,563 658,922 170,647 £5,244 255,376 


The Government Ophthalmic Service was augmented by the 
opening of a new clinic in Jaffa town. 

23,542 new patients were treated at the ophthalmic clinics and 
the total attendances numbered 201,578. In addition, a valuable 
amount of routine preventive treatment is carried out in schools 
by the Government School Medical Service. 


ll. Laboratory Section.—During the year, the Bacteriological 
Division carried out 116,583 investigations and prepared 225,000 
doses of calf-lymph, 150,220 c.c. of anti-rabies vaccine (over 2,000 
courses of treatment), and 80,000 c.c. of anti-enterica, anti-plague 
and anti-cholera vaccines. Special inquiries have been pursued into 
the histology of certain affections of the central nervous system, the 
serological relationship between rabies and typhus fever, the 
incidence of tubercle bacilli in raw milk supplies, the etiology of 
renal calculi with bony core, the anti-rabies immunity index and 
the nature of an outbreak of oriental sore near Jerusalem. Over 
60,000 doses of calf-lymph were supplied in one month to Trans- 
ordan as a result of the country’s epidemic requirements, while 
the number of provincial anti-rabic centres has now risen to 380. 

In the Entomological Division, the work was mainly confined to 
an identification of anopheline and culicoid species and to a 
e eaton of the rat fleas collected at the ports of Jaffa and 

alfa, 

In the Chemical Division, 5,710 examinations have been per- 
formed, viz., 4,981 in the chemical branch, 399 in the biological, 
and 330 in the agricultural. In addition, 4,200 samples of milk 
have been analysed. Special work has included an estimate of the 
quality of imported butter and samneh; experiments with various 
alloys submitted by the War Office—the result of a previous 
investigation into the internal corrosion of aluminium radiators 

om the use of Palestine waters; an improved technique in the 
®xamination of firearms and projectiles for forensic purposes; and 
‘enicultural determinations such as honey-grading, composition of 
"range juice and of olives in relation to fertilizers, composition of 
“aves and soil in relation to chlorosis, and the bleaching of 


almonds. 


18938 E 4 


124 


12. The Commission of Inquiry into the traffic in women and 
children in the East, appointed by the League of Nations, visited 
Palestine in March, 1932, and in the course of their visit examined 
the conditions in Jerusalem, Tel-Aviv, Nablus, and Haifa. The 
Commission was provided with accommodation for its inquiry in 
Government Offices and was attended by the Government Inspector 
of Welfare Works throughout its visit. It heard evidence from all 
Government officers concerned and was given facilities for hearing 
the testimony of heads of the various religious communities and 
of persons connected with welfare work in Palestine. The Com- 
mission also inspected the women’s prison at Bethlehem and repre- 
sentative orphanages and girls’ settlements and schools. 


There is no regulation of prostitution in Palestine by means 0 
reserved districts or licensed houses; nor is there any registration 
of prostitutes or compulsory medical examination. 


The law provides, severe penalties against procurers and against 
those living on the earnings of prostitutes, under the Criminal Law 
Amendment Ordinance, 1927. 


Brothels are illegal, a brothel being defined as a place 
two or three prostitutes carry on their trade.”’ 


All possible steps are being taken to reduce prostitution by special 
vigilance on the part of the Police ; special precautions are taken to 
prevent the surreptitious entry of foreign prostitutes ; and the admis- 
sion of prostitutes is forbidden by the Immigration Ordinance, 1925. 
Those who contrive to enter are invariably from Egypt and Syria, 
and generally of Egyptian, Syrian, or Turkish nationality, but ther 
very often contract marriages with Palestinians so as to avoid de 
portation. Some of them are so-called artistes and dancing-girls, 
who have been allowed to enter with a view to performing in cafés 
for a limited period. It is believed that in most cases these womet 
come to Palestine on their own initiative. 


Supervision is exercised by Police and Health authorities over 
places of amusement and persons employed at such places, and 
enforced by Regulations under the Intoxicating Liquors and Public 
Entertainments Ordinance, 1922; and all employment agencies 12 
Palestine are subject to Police registration. 


No traffickers are known by the Police to operate in Palestine: 
the traffic in young girls from Palestine to Egypt and Syria or else 
where for immoral purposes is practically non-existent, although 
it is attempted from time to time by traffickers operating outside 
this country. Where attempts have been made to entice girls 0 
leave the country, it is always with a promise of lucrative work. 
No instance of the use of force has come to notice. 


There is no traffic in women and young girls through Palestin 
as the sea route is considerably cheaper and obviates the neces!!! 
for passports and for immigration papers and visas for Palestine 
which are difficult to obtain. 


* where 


125 


It has not been necessary for the Palestine Government to evoke 
the processes of extradition against traffickers in any case. 

The following institutions and officials in Palestine concern 
themselves with the problem of combating the traffic in women 
ind children :— 

(a) The Social Service Association, which is composed of 
women representing all communities in Palestine, and which 
includes in its activities the protection of women and children 
from all forms of vice. 

(b) The Government Welfare Inspector. 

(c) Various Jewish societies which are not primarily for 
the purpose of protecting women and children but include it 
in their activities. 

The Jewish Agency affords protection to Jewish immigrants to 
Palestine through reception agents at the ports; and Christian and 
other girls are given protection by the Y.W.C.A., of which there 
are branches in the three principal towns. 


13. The expenditure of the Palestine Government on Health 
Services in 1931 was as follows :— 


£P. 

Administration ae sa Xe Lee ... 20,426 

Hospitals and dispensaries et sk ... 26,130 

Sanitary and epidemic a ses £6 ... 21,074 

Quarantine... — si ‘ah ve .. 4,801 

Laboratories __ sie a sil aol .. 6,145 
Other charges (such as hospital diets, clothing, 
disinfectant apparatus, drugs, dressings, and 

instruments) a aa pl ... 32,201 

£P110,777 

The expenditure in the financial year 1932-33 is shown below :— 
» SP: 
1932-33. 

Administration es ae se ste ... 19,850 

Hospitals and dispensaries ‘ne dee ... 29,354 

Sanitary and epidemic... si i ... 20,276 

Quarantine... ae = ie : ... 4,718 

Laboratories ey sen oe ar . 6,298 
Other charges (such as hoagpital diets, clothing, 
disinfectant apparatus, drugs, dressings, and 

instruments) ne ane nag 33,951 

£P114,437 


_ 14. The following tables provide as complete information as is 
available to the Palestine Government regarding private and other 
charitable institutions, and Government and Municipal hospitals. 


126 








870 6-688 
6 L°9T 
4 6°91 
8T 8-23 
9 1 ae 
68 0-99 
13! T-2T 
Ww 3°98 
08 0-18 
OF 8-88 
L 0-61 
99 »-OF 
9 O-IT 
08 0-08 
oF 0-69 
99 8-249 
os 8-S¥ 
69 9-9 
Ls 9-96 
6T 8-8T 
oT 9-LT 
8T 8-LT 
13 8-93 
8¢ 8-19 
OF 8-68 
StI 0-°3bT 
‘seh fo | ‘pordnsoo 
pus w speq 
perdnz0o fo ON 
speq 9604000 


Orley Be0'T 








4) 


EE | ere | eee | ce eeeanee 
es | omens | eee | 








CIv‘st| secs 629'T jem 
T8 0s bd ad 3 § 
OL 09 Wloyesnser 
rTs 0s Oye 
9 03 vyee 
63 00 Wovens fr 
4 99 POTEET NT 
68 06 sper 
T 08 meqery7°"g 
ZL OST ‘op 
6T 03 “op 
ere'T 7A ‘op 
38S ss ‘op 
8&6 $9 ‘op 
S83 'T OL UloT¥sTLe sr 
O10 T 9 6270 
T80'T oF omyy 
= 09 SBLIOQLL 
os 0g YJOIVZBN 
S 3S wo1lqoH 
ay hf sniqeNn 
= £9 BZBL) 
= 29 epee 
SEF, gg peyeg 
LogTt OF Be H 
330 Sel wlorusnier 


‘oun 
“MY 


"S86h ‘steyjdsoy jerouey ArejunfoA (¥) 





eee ete aee SIQ0]L 


oulioy, 9p ‘od 
UVI[EZ] B[VUOMVN UOlZvpOSsSy 
_ B94 “98 JO S1O}STg JO JEpIO 
oe : Ayooog o[durey, 
"Uo Y Wie YRIOMIOSTUYy Jog UyoIOA 
wassaUO Av] royosTTEy dy89 M Yospayoy yy 
‘od 
oep at “OG 


“ “op PIO 
« VSO puv “yn Apsour ‘peoiqe 
pue spuny [eoo,) wWTyouD Mog MON 

*‘([BWUIE}X9 PUB [BOOT 
‘SUOTJVUOP OFVALIG) ‘“VoupeyT quasi 

‘ueploysuly ‘puwy Alo 

oyu Ul AglanurM0g YstIMer oj Jo 
8.10}99}01 pus s10jny, “yepez orvevys 
BAO O} UOISSIY UVIBSTIYD 

‘od 

‘OUT}SOTVq Ul IMogeVyT ystmosr 
jo uo}#Vlepegq [Visues) Jo puny” HAoIg 
puvlzoog JO YoIMYO v1 pea 
* Ajapoog UOlssl, [BOIpeyy ysInquipy 


“UOISSTAY JSboL 
ou} puv ul ajusnier jo doysigq uUvoysuy 
‘od 
‘od 
Ayooog Areuojsst yomyH 
og 
"0d 
*BOLIOUTW JO UTS 


-BZJUBSIO {SPUO]Z UOMO M Yessepey 





“MO}WDZ3UOLSQ fo7d90 7 


127 





60r | 9-89 ogc‘zI| 929 | O16ZT| 98 zec’9| TI9t| Est 79 3S 621 ee j °° STRIOT, 
19 | 9-€9T | 92F'9 | 91% | gPO‘o oe = 0% €L | °° diysaaoy, ary-oy, 
¥E 0: POUT 06 €61'T ¥ = 4 Lg "re 89° TBAB AA SNIGBNT 
st 9-LT ZLa Ig 309 3 z 6 03 a (redtorunpy) ezex) 
ST 1-91 00F £6 GCP ae a g ¥ as [edrormmyy) a10¥ 
+9 6-09 SPOT €8 Ge0'T = L GZ I? eee (jedrorany]) eye 
¥9 F-08 896'T 88 GLFT = L gg SP "** (queuIUI8A04) Bley 
89 6°L9 SEs‘T ¥6 866'1 91 9 Il OL (yUeUIMIOAOY)) WIe[EBNIEL 

“svah fo| -padna00 . ‘fine "uo |. 

pus PA (fren 1710.7, soo pg | EME | og | MD 

Paranaoo 0 °ON FADLDYO | , | Oe OOO eee SO "FO $7034.80 
$poq 2Bbn4ai0 “91 Syme H 

fo-on | f&nog "ypbuadys-pag poUsuo Ny 








"eet ‘steyjdsoy jedjoyungy pus yuowmszea0y (gq) 


128 





“tUNASY WHTYSBN YWwIZH MoI paLIoysuVIT, 1z sopnpouy { 
“MOYyOTyIOT ‘yeydsoy [wyUIP JUOUTUIAAOH 0} porIOJsUBIL, ZZ SOpNOUT « 





107 T- SOT tF re b29 — ‘ 
ee he SS a ee *(ZE61 *10q 
PF 0:93 me = eF — GZ Or 8 Tg — = "3 “ON ‘0d 
8¢ T-08 tf rd 3 = t 61 i 08 te — * TON TezdsoH [eyue_ WoYyoryjog 
‘sqondsoH poweds Juewuseaos (q) 
88 OZL 69F'T £ TPPT — ¢9 oT T33'T ccl 
‘so[quImouy puv souvsUy 
St 39 #99 € 9& a 9¢ — =r 0g Mle[esn.tIo fr ousyseTVq | Joy oMOH “Ajajoog UYysUN ypVIZT 
‘uopuoT ‘A30100g UTA 
03 13 8 —_. 8 = £ = g 09 Woe[vsnIef |[VUO};vUIOZUT | -BIOW [VUOTZeUIEZUT ‘Tey;dsoH JedoT 
‘puvsug Uy Waresnier Jo uyor 4g 
0% LE SOFT = 168'T = 93 gs 91Z'T cy Ue] Bsns ¢ Ys | JO JopIO 944 Jo [eydsoy opmyeygydo 
"sppzudso HT poroeds Asvzunjo, (®) 
4vaf fo | *padnav0 m7. | “84ayIQ | ‘smar ate sula]80 FY 
pardnavo fo ‘ON su “syywod paq U0dpDI0T “Apypouor “‘uOrDZUDILO TORVL30 
spoq 9bp49aD ‘ ‘guorssmip F [DULULO AT 





BSG} ‘sieidsoR ejoods (0) 


Digitized by Google 


129 


15. Houstng Conditions.—There is a considerable diversity in 
housing conditions in Palestine. The choice of material ranges 
over goat-hair for the tents of the nomadic tribes, reeds for the 
huts of the marsh dwellers of the Huleh region, sun-dried bricks 
in Arab villages on the plains and rough-hewn stone on the hills, 
timber for barracks or canvas for tents in new Jewish agricultural 
homesteads, concrete or cement bricks for a later stage of settle- 
ment, bricks and red tiles in the larger colonies and the German 
farms, stuccoed silicate and reinforced concrete for modern ‘Tel- 
Aviv, and impressive and skilfully dressed limestone for Jerusalem. 
The old-fashioned village dwelling is often an ill-ventilated building 
of one or two rooms to which poultry and livestock may have access. 
Thick stone walls and vaulted roofs afford protection against the 
heat. 


In towns, permits to build are granted by a sub-committee of 
the Municipality, and elsewhere by the Local Council. For 
Jerusalem, Haifa, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv, and Tiberias there are Town 
Planning Schemes, approved by the Central Town Planning Com- 
mission of the Government. 


The construction of all buildings in these areas is regulated by 
modern by-laws, prescribing stringent conditions for the density 
of the buildings, the height of the buildings, building lines, ventila- 
tion, sanitation, water-supply, foundations, water-proofing, and the 
like. Plans of the lay-out of residential quarters are approved as 
detailed schemes and become part of the previously approved Out- 
line Town Planning Scheme. Residential areas are grouped into 
three or more zones, each with a minimum prescribed area of 
building plot and minimum percentage of allowed built-up area. 


In Jerusalem, Tel-Aviv, and Haifa, new suburbs are growing 
quickly, but the supply of houses does not yet meet the demand. 
New houses generally maintain a fairly high standard of domestic 
architecture. The combination of ground floor shops with resi- 
dential flats is common, so that large numbers of people are housed 
in commercial quarters. 


In the early stages of Jewish colonization, the vanguard is 
content with a minimum of comfort and convenience in tent or 
barrack. Sanitation installations are often primitive. Later, two- 
roomed dwellings o ple standard design are erected and less 
inadequate e made for sanitary and hygienic needs. 






In the established colonies, conditions resemble those in the 
smaller towns and the standard of Kuropean working class rural 
areas may be said to prevail. This is true also of the German 
settlements. . 


130 


In modern town houses a reasonable style of sanitary installation 
is maintained. The use of electric light is spreading, and an 
adequate piped water-supply is available in Tel-Aviv and some of 
the larger Jewish colonies, but in other towns the main water- 
supply is limited. In consequence, rain-water cisterns and wells 
are still largely used to supplement supplies. Owing to lack of 
capital funds, main drainage is developing slowly and houses must 
be provided with septic tanks and percolating pits which require 
periodical attention and emptying and are not a satisfactory sub- 
stitute for main drainage. 


In the old quarters of Jerusalem town, in Safad, Hebron, Nablus, 
and Tiberias very few new houses are erected, but minor sanitary 
improvements are continually being made. A large number ol 
families are moving out of the old houses into modern suburbs. 
Nevertheless a considerable proportion of the population are still 
housed in overcrowded and unhealthy dwellings. In Town Plap- 
ning Areas slums have been scheduled and an effort is being made 
by Local Authorities to prevent their growth. Progress in these 
matters must inevitably be slow in the absence of large capital 
funds. 


New blocks of flats, each with four or five rooms often providing 
accommodation for several families, are common in Jerusalem, | 
Tel-Aviv, and Haifa. In older quarters of certain towns large 
blocks of appartments similar to ‘‘ tenement houses ’’ exist, having 
been constructed years ago by charitable or communal organizations. 
Helped by co-operative societies and by institutions, which make a 
speciality of granting long-term loans, large numbers of Jews 
construct their own houses and become their own landlords. 


The legislation for the control of the construction of new settle- 
ments and new quarters outside the Town Planning Areas and of 
buildings in small towns is not yet adequate, and measures to 
inprove control are under consideration. 











131 


XXI.—PUBLIC FINANCE. 


1. The totals of the annual revenue and expenditure from 1st 
July, 1920 (the date of the formation of the Civil Government), to 
dlst ‘March, 1932, are set out below :— 


Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P, £P. 
Ist July, 1920, to 31st 
March, 1921 __.... 1,186,951 1,259 587 
1921-22 — 2,371,531 1,929 ,341 
1922-23 1,809 ,831 1,884,280 
1923-24 1,675 ,788 1,675,105 
1924-25 2,154,946 1,852 ,985 
1925-26 2,809 ,324 2,092 ,647 
1926-27 bis a ... 2,451,365 2,123 568 
1927 (April to December) 1,739,380 1,944,397 
1928 se o ... 2,584,317 3,381 ,993 
1929 2,323 572 2,140,032 
1930 2,389 ,546 2,536,504 
1931 sie see ... 2,833,895 2,374,867 
1932 (1st January to 31st 
March)* ... a 657 ,289 511,656 
26 437 ,735 25,706 ,963 
Surplus Balance at 31st March, 1932 ... 730,772 


Total £P26 ,437 ,735 


* The financial year which formerly coincided with the calendar year has 
been changed to run from lst April to 3lst March as from Ist April, 1932. 
This change necessitated an interim financial period for the three months 
Ist January, 1982 to 83lst March, 1932, and, since the next financial period 
will not end until 8lst March, 1933, the statistics in this report and the 
financial review are necessarily confined to the period lst January, 1932 to 
3lst March, 1932. 


Revenue and Expenditure. 
(lst January, 1932 to 3lst March, 1932.) 


2. Summaries of the revenue and expenditure under Heads are 
contained in Appendices I and II to this Section, and explanations 
of variations of note are appended thereto. 


3. The revenue for the period under review aggregated £P657 ,289 
and the expenditure amounted to £P511,656 or an excess of revenue 
over expenditure of £P145,633. 


4. The revenue under Head I, Customs, shows an increase of 
£P26,727 over the revenue from that source in the corresponding 
period in 1931. The increase is mainly due to larger imports of 
Wheat, flour, and sugar, and to increased duties on motor vehicles 
and accessories and on silk tissues. 


132 


The amount of £P9,789 collected under Head IJ, Port and 
Marine, includes the payment of an amount of £P7,262 in respect 
of lighthouse fees and interest received by the Administration 
General des Phares de 1’Empire Ottoman during the period 6th 
August, 1924, to 3lst October, 1928. 


The revenue from Licences, Taxes, etc., amounted to £P173,355 
as against £P145,675 in the first three months of 1931. The main 
increases are £P16,170 under House and Land Tax, £P7,606 
under Tithes, and £P10,563 under ‘Tobacco Excise. The increases 
under House and Land Tax and Tithes are due to the collection 
of arrears from 1931, and the increase in Tobacco Excise to in- 
creases in the rates of Excise Duties. On the other hand there is 
a decrease of £P5,625 under Animal Tax owing to the late enumera- 
tion and collection of the tax and to a smaller number of flocks owing 
to disease and death resulting from the lack of rain and pasture. 


The receipts under Head IV, Fees of Court or Office, etc., 
approximate to receipts under this Head in the corresponding period 
in 1931. Increases which occurred under Fees of Court (£P1,918), 
Fruit Inspection (£P2,409) and Reimbursements—Miscellaneous 
(£P1,284) are set off by decreases under Registration of Land 
(£P2,132) and Contribution from Empire Marketing Board 
(£P1,000) and a number of minor decreases under other items. 
The increase under Fruit Inspection Fees is due to the increase in 
the rate of inspection fees of oranges exported. 


The revenue from Head V, Posts and Telegraphs, at £P55,254 
is £P3,415 in excess of the amount collected in the corresponding 
period in 1931. There are increases under receipts from Telegrams 
and Telephones of £P1,890 and £P2,198, respectively, and de- 
creased receipts from the Sale of Stamps amounting to £P615. 


The revenue from Head VI, Revenue from Government Pro- 
perty, shows an increase of £P802 mainly due to the collection of 
arrears of rental tithes. 


Head VIII, Miscellaneous, which shows an increase of £P25,495, 
includes an item of £P25,061 from appreciation on investments. 
At the 3lst December, 1931, investments of the Government of 
Palestine had depreciated by £P19,772 and the value was written 
down by this amount. During the period under review, however, 
the market value of investments improved generally, and the value 
of investments at the current middle market price in London at 
the 31st March, 1932, was £P25,061 greater than the value of 
these investments as recorded in the Treasury books. The invest- 
ments were therefore written up by this amount at the 31st March, 
1932. 


Under Head IX, Land Sales, the revenue in comparison with 
the corresponding period of the previous year shows an increase of 
£P1,331 due mainly to collection of arrears of instalments due from 
the sale of Baisan lands under the Ghor-Mudawwara Agreement. 


133 


The excess of revenue over expenditure under Head X, Rail- 
ways, amounted to £P27,600 as against an amount of £P28 877 in 
the first quarter of 1931. It should be noted that no debt charges 
in respect of that part of the Palestine Loan used for Railway 
purposes were payable during the period under review and that 
no contribution was made towards the establishment of a Railway 
Renewals Fund. 


The revenue under Head XI, Grant-in-Aid, consisted of the 
following :— 
£P. 
Balance due by His Majesty’s Government for the 
year 1931 ... 1,084 
Three-quarters of the expenditure under Head XIX, 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force, during the period 
January to March 1932 (£P35,599) ... aa ... 26,700 





£P27 ,734 





The fourth and last instalment of the Parliamentary Grant for the 
year 1931-82 amounted to £P29,600, and a balance of £P1,866 was 
therefore due to His Majesty’s Government. 


5. The proportionate variations in expenditure in the first quarter 
of 19832 as compared with the total expenditure in 1931, vide 
Appendix IT of this Section, are due to the following causes :— 


Public Debt and Loan Charges.—No payment of debt 
charges was due during the period. 


Education Department. —The grant-in-aid to the schools of 
the Palestine Jewish Agency for this period was not paid until 
the subsequent quarter. 


Police and Prisons.—The cost of the Department of 
Immigration previously included in this vote is now shown 
separately. 


Trans-Jordan Frontier Force.—Savings occurred under a 
number of items under this Head, and certain commitments 
for the purchase of stores during the period were only brought 
to account subsequently. 


Defence.—The expenditure under this Head includes a con- 
tribution of £P13,750 to His Majesty’s Government towards 
the cost of the Defence Forces in Palestine and Trans-Jordan 
in respect of the quarter ended 31st December, 1931. 

Miscellaneous.—The expenditure in 1931 included £P19,772, 
the amount by which the investments of the Palestine Govern- 
ment were written down in that year. 

Department of Development.—The expenditure in 1931 was 
only for part of the year as the Department was only formed 
during that year. 


134 
Railways. 


6. The revenue and expenditure of the Palestine Railways proper 
for the period Ist January, 1932, to 3lst March, 1932, were as 
under :— 





£P. £P. 
Revenue— 
Coaching and Goods ... oa ... 86,659 
Miscellaneous _... 8 ee ... 6,926 
93,585 
£P. 
Expenditure— 
Ordinary— 
Ordinary se ... 65,716 
Debt Charges ... oo 65,716 
Capital Improvements __... 269 
——— 65,985 


Surplus ... £P27,600 


The surplus of £P27,600 has been taken to revenue in the General 
Accounts of Government. No payment was made during the 
period in respect of debt charges. 


7. The capital expenditure on the Palestine Railways proper to 
31st March, 1932, is appended :— 
From Loan Funds— £P. 
Purchase of Assets from His Majesty’s Govern- 
ment (included in Item II of Appendix VI) 840,647 


£P. £P. 
Other Expenditure (see 
Item I of Appendix VI) .... 1,599,658 


2,440,308 
From Revenue— 
Capital Improvements to 
3lst December, 1931... 552 ,948 
Capital Improvements in 
the period Ist January, 
1932 to 3lst March, 1932 269 
SSS 553,217 


Total se ie — ... &P2,993,522 


135 


8. The revenue and expenditure of the Petah-Tiqva Railway 
were as under :— 


£P. 
Revenue for the period lst January, 1932 to 
31st March, 1932 tee 471 
Expenditure for the period Ist J january, 1932 
to 3lst March, 1932... " 210 
Net Earnings Se es es see £P261 


ee 


In the terms of the agreement the earnings are to be applied in 
payment of interest charges on the capital provided by Govern- 
ment and the landed proprietors of Petah-Tiqva, namely, 
£P34,089 and £F20,513 (£E20,000), respectively, and in amortiza- 
tion of the latter sum which was provided by way of loan by the 
colonists. 

The earnings have proved inadequate to meet the interest charges. 


9. The revenue and expenditure of the Hejaz Railway were as 
under :— 





£P. 
Revenue for the period 1st January, 1932 to 
31st March, 1932 at 20,668 
Expenditure for the period Ist J January, 1932 
to 3lst March, 1932... 21,285 
Deficit of tes is et = £P617 





The deficit at the 3lst March, 1932, was therefore increased to 
£P45,176. 


10. The revenue and expenditure of the Sinai (Kantara-Rafa) 
Railway were as under :— 





£P. 
Revenue for the period Ist January, 1932 to 
31st March, 1932 shes — 27,815 
Expenditure for the period Ist J January, 1932 
to 3lst March, 1932 ... a 23 673 
Net Earnings...  ... see P4142 





The net earnings have been apportioned in accordance with the 
financial scheme and accounted for as follows :— 


£P. 
Renewals Fund ph _ a2 a 2,071 
His Majesty’s Government ne one ae 2,020 
Palestine Government se Sie fe, bad 51 





£P4,142 





136 


Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones. 


11. The revenue from the Posts and Telegraphs Department 
amounted to £P55,254 and the expenditure, other than from loan 
funds, amounted to £P42,289 as under, or an excess of revenue of 
£P12,965 :— 


£P. 
Posts and Telegraphs ... a as 39,611 
Posts and Telegraphs Extraordinary ee a 2,678 
Total... s as = as ... £P42,289 


The Department does not, however, bear any direct charge in 
respect of interest on the capital expenditure of £P188,126 defrayed 
from loan funds (see Appendix VII). 


Taxation. 


(For the period 1st January, 1932 to 31st March, 1932. For 
previous periods see paragraphs 9 to 16 on pages 144 to 147 
of the Annual Report for 1930 and paragraphs 9 to 11 on pages 
114 and 115 of the Annual Report for 1931.) 


12. Under the Customs Tariff (Amendment) Ordinances, 1931, 
and in the interests of local producers, the import duties on eggs 
and cream of milk were increased and the duty on leather used 
for upholstering and the manufacture of fancy leather goods was 
reduced. In order to assist the readjustment of taxation of the 
motor transport industry, the import duty on motor cars was in- 
creased from 15 to 25 per cent. ad valurem and reductions made in 
the rates of annual licence fees and in the import duty on tyres 
and tubes. 

The import duty on spirits and silks and artificial silk goods and 
the excise duty on matches and tobacco manufactured and sold in 
Palestine were increased for revenue purposes. 

The following articles were added to the Schedule of exempted 
articles under the Customs Duties Exemption Ordinance, 1924 :— 

Chlorine and sulphuric acid (the main uses of which are 
chlorination of water and fumigation of fruit trees respectively) 
and furniture and equipment for use in the canteens and busi- 
ness Offices of the Navy, Army, and Air Force Institutes and 
stationery for the purposes of their business. 


13. Under the Urban Property Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 
1932, an addition to the Urban Property Tax for the period 
Ist April, 1931, to 3lst March, 1932, was imposed for revenue 
purposes as under :— 

(a) All house property including the site, except house 
property constructed and used solely for the purpose of an 
industrial undertaking in which mechanically-driven machimery 
is used :—38 per cent. of net annual value; 


137 


(b) House property constructed and used for the purpose 
of an industrial undertaking in which mechanically-driven 
machinery is used :—2 per cent. of net annual value; 


(c) Land which is not the site of house property, or which 
is used for the cultivation of crops and is subject to the pay- 
ment of tithes :—14 per cent. of net annual value. 


14. The Permanent Mandates Commission asked (a) if it would 
be possible to ‘‘ reform the tithes and establish a permanent form 
of tax ’’ and (b) if ‘‘ the Budget contained a complete account of 
the tithes paid by the taxpayers or whether it contained the amount 
-Teceived after the deduction of the fraction granted to the Supreme 
Moslem Council had been made ”’ :— 


(a) The substitution of the Commuted Tithe and the House 
and Lamd Tax in rural areas by a Rural Land Tax is at present 
under consideration. 


(b) The Revenues from Tithes assigned to Waqf and paid 
over to the Supreme Moslem Council have in the past been 
treated as revenue refunds but will from the year 1933-84 be 
shown separately in the expenditure. The amounts collected 
in the years 1928 to 1931 and in the period lst January to 
31st March, 1932, are shown in footnote (d) to the Summary 
of Revenue at Appendix I. 


The Commission further requested that ‘‘ in future all informa- 
tion about tithes might be placed in the same paragraph of the 
chapter on Finance instead of being scattered throughout the 
Whole report ’’. 

In future full information will be given regarding the Tithes 
in the Financial Chapter of the Report. The period under review 
in this Report is only in respect of the quarter ended 31st March, 
1932, in which no changes took place. 


15. The Permanent Mandates Commission asked for an explana- 
tion of the increase in the Grant-in-Aid towards the cost of the 
Trans-Jordan Frontier Force in 1931. The reason for the increase 
of the grant-in-aid from £P37,000 in 1930 to £P231,250 in 1931 
is that His Majesty’s Government increased the grant as from the 
Ist April, 1930, from one-sixth to three-quarters of the ordinary 
expenditure and the whole of the capital cost of the Force in Trana- 
Jordan, and that receipts in 1931 also included an amount of 
£P89,346 due on this account in respect of the nine months ended 
the 81st December, 1930. 


Defence. 


16. The Palestine Government’s contributions towards the cost 
of the Royal Air Force units and Army units in Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan are in accordance with the arrangements referred to in 
paragraph 15 on page 116 of the Annual Report for 1931. 


138 
17. The following contributions have been made :— 


Financial 
period in 
which Amount. Financial year in which liability was incurred. 
payment 
was made. 
£P. £P. 
1928... 53,500 1927-28 (1 year) see sh 5 31,000 
1928-29 (9 months) ... a Seu 22,500 
1929... 30,375 1928-29(3 months) _.. sun aha 7,500 
1929-30 (9 months) .... mh 2 22,875 
1930... 24,375 1929-30 (3 months) 7,625 
1930-31 (payment for 6 months at the 16,750 


original rate of £P33,500 per 
annum which was subsequently 
revised to £P75,250 per annum). 


1931 a... 86,000 1930-31 (payment of balance of con- 58,500 
tribution for the year at the revised 
rate of £P75,250 per oa 


1931-32 (6 months) ey as 27,500 
1932 27,500 1931-32(6 months)... ee des 27,500 
(January 
to March) 


Total ... £P221,750 


Assets and Liabilities. 


18. The assets and liabilities are set out in Appendix III. At 
81st March, 1932, the surplus balance amounted to £P730,772 as 
under :— 

£P. £P. 
Surplus balance at 3l1st 
December, 1931... on 585 ,189 


Revenue for the period Ist 

January, 1932 to 31st 

March, 1932 ie 657 ,289 
Expenditure for the me 

Ist January, 1932 to 31st 

March, 1932 sae 511,656 





Surplus for the period Ist 
January, 1932 to 31st 
March, 1932 she i 145,633 





Surplus Balance at 3lst March, 1932 — ... £P730,772 





139 


Municipalities. 


19. The outstanding advances due by Municipalities are sum- 


marized as under :— 





J erusalem— £P. 
Ain Farah Water Supply— 
purchase of plant from Sir 
John Jackson Ltd. 10,785 
Main Drainage Scheme . 12,063 
Old Abattoir and Incinerator ... 4,581 
New Abattoir and Incinerator... 4,474 
El Wad Sewer T 200 
Other Advances 2,032 
Haifa— 
Oil Storage Area .. 8 ,692 
New Access Road» 1,369 
Part purchase of land for Muni- 
cipal Offices 457 
Petah-Tiqva— 
Construction of Internal Roads... 
Other Municipalities 
Total 
Agricultural Loans. 


20. The outstanding balances due by cultivators in respect of loans 


are summarized as under :— 


(a) Agricultural Loans 1919-23, 
£P576 319 :— 


(Northern, Southern, and 
Jerusalem District)— 
Outstanding at 3lst 
December, 1931 
Repayments during first 
quarter of 1932 


(Percentage of arrears to 


the total loans 6.7 per 
cent.), 


£P. 


40,160 
1,386 





£P. 


41,135 





10,518 


12 
1,201 


£P52,866 


£P. 


38,774 


140 


(b) Agricultural Loans 1927, 
£P19,995 :— 


(Beersheba Sub-District)— 
Outstanding at 31st 
December, 1931 ; 
Repayments during first 
quarter of 1932 


(Percentage of arrears to the 
total loans 3.3 per cent.). 


(c) Agricultural Loans 1928, 
£P19 366 :-— 
(Northern District)— 
Outstanding at 31st 
December, 1931 
Repayments during first 
quarter of 1932 


(Percentage of arrears to the 


total loans 62.1 per cent.). 


(dq) Agricultural Loans 1930-31, 
£P29 979 :— 
(Northern and Southern 
Districts)— 
Outstanding at 31st 
December, 1931 
Repayments during first 
quarter of 1932 


(Percentage of balance to 
the total loans 71.2 per 
cent.). 

(e) Agricultural Loans 1931-32 


(Southern District)— 
Issued in 1931 
Issued in 19382 


Total 


£P. 


672 


12,086 
68 





12,466 
4,670 





£P. 


664 


12,018 


25 615 


17,136 


£P94,207 


With the exception of an item of £P20 under (a) the instalments 
comprising the outstanding balances of (a), (b), and (c) are now 
overdue. The loans under (d) are repayable in two equal instal- 
ments; the first instalment fell due on the Ist August, 1931, and 


141 


the second instalment fell due on the Ist August, 1932. The loans 
under (e) are also repayable in two equal instalments on the 
Ist August, 1932, and the Ist August, 1933. . 

A Committee was appointed in February, 1932, to enquire into 
the arrears of agricultural loans and the causes thereof and to make 
recommendations as to the principles that may be applied in 
writing-off or waiving such arrears. 


Earthquake Reconstruction Loans. 


21. The position with regard to advances made on account of 
earthquake reconstruction loans may be summarized as under :— 


EP: 
Advances outstanding at 3lst December, 1931 ... 23,054 
Repayments during the first quarter of 1932... 621 
Settee: 
Total outstanding ve 34 oe £P22 433 





The arrears of due instalments at 3lst March, 1932, amounted to 
£P7,550. 


Deposits. 


22. Palestine Archaeological Museum Endowment Fund.—Mr. 
John D. Rockefeller, Jr., generously undertook to provide an 
amount of $2,000,000 for the construction, equipment, and endow- 
ment of the Palestine Archaeological Museum. The portion of 
the gift made available for the Endowment Fund, namely, 
$1,000,000, at the exchange rate of 4.883 realized #204,865 11s. 1d. 
The amount has, however, been increased to £230,165, by the 
writing up of the investments at the 31st March last to the mean 
market values. The interest received from the investment of the 
Endowment Fund is carried to a separate current account. 


23. Palestine Archaeological Museum Current Account.—The 
amount of £P9,843 shown in the statement of assets and liabilities 
Tepresents the balance of interest made available to meet the 
salaries of the staff engaged in carrying out the preliminary work 
of arranging and cataloguing the material. 


24. Palestine Archaeological Museum Construction Account.— 
The balance of this account, namely, £P26,205, represents the 
amount available locally from which the cost of construction is 
being defrayed. Remittances are obtained from Mr. Rockefeller 
as and when required. 


25. Sir Ellis Kadoorie Bequest.—The bequest was made to His 
Majesty’s Government, who have appointed the Officer Administer- 
ing the Government of Palestine to be their local representative 
for the administration of the Trust. 


142 


The balance of £P10,841 shown in the statement of assets and 
abilities represents the amount available locally at 31st March, 
1932, from remittances made by the Crown Agents, London, for 
defraying the construction expenses of the Arab Agricultural 
School at Tulkarm, the Jewish Agricultural School at Mount Tabor, 
and part of the maintenance of the Tulkarm School. 


The Trust Fund invested by the Crown Agents at 31st March 
last was £P107,000 and the cash balance held by the Crown Agents 
was £P30. 


Investments. 


26. The total investments amounting to £P1,630,620 consist of 
securities held by the Crown Agents and fixed deposits at Barclays 
Bank (Dominion, Colonial, and Overseas), Jerusalem, as shown 
in Appendix V. 


Statement of Expenditure from Loan Funds. 


27. The expenditure from loan funds is shown in Appendix VII. 
The Palestine Loan of £4,475,000 5 per cent. guaranteed stock, 
issued at £100 10s. per cent., realized £P4,497 375. 

The expenditure during the period amounted to £P88,071 as 
under :— 





£P. £P. 
Railway Workshops in - 11,576 
Harbour Construction and Port 
Improvements :— 
Jaffa Port Improvements ... 3,507 
Haifa Harbour Construction... 72,988 76,495 
Total bad ee et ae £P68,071 


28. The total expenditure at 31st March last amounted to 
£P3,714,379 leaving a balance of £P782,996. 


Currency. 


(See paragraphs 29 and 30 on pages 28 and 29 of the 
Annual Report for 1929.) 


29. During the period under review no payments were made bj 
the Currency Board in aid of the revenue of Palestine. 


30. It will be seen from the particulars appended that the totsl 
currency in circulation at 31st March, 1932, amounted to 


143 


£P9 408,664 or an increase of £P39,000 as compared with the 
currency in circulation at the 3lst March, 1931 :— 





Coins and Coins and 
Notes in cir- Notes in cir- 
Denomination. culation at culation at 
81st March, 31st March, 
1931. 1932. 
£P £P 
Silver Coins— 
100 mils at ae big 123,000 144,000 
50 mils ae ve — 118,000 139 ,000 
Face value of silver coins ... ins 241 000 283 ,000 
Nickel-bronze Coins— 
20 mils cat is a 13 ,600 15,200 
10 mils ae oy ak 15 ,900 17 ,600 
5 mils Sia sciue as 11,500 12,200 
Face value of nickel-bronze coins... 41,000 45 ,000 
Bronze Coins— 
2 mils aoe a ve 1,040 1,072 
1 mil a Aas 8 bie 1,296 1,424 
Face value of bromze coins... sos 2,336 2, ,496 
Face value of all coins... ... £P284,336 £P330 ,496 
Notes— 
£P100 ... a nee Sus 12,000 . 9,500 
£P50 a... ~ ae ss 88 ,350 76,850 
£P10_... 7 oad aoe 931,880 244,710 
£P5 vie ote cud aoe 648,770 643 815 
£P1 ny sie we 999 ,943 985 ,514 
£Ph oe Ss a wat 104,385 117,779 
Face value of notes ... ne £P2,085,328 £P2,078,168 


Face value of coins and notes... £P2,369,664 £P2,408,664 


144 


Monopolies. 
(See paras. 33 and 34 on page 31 of the Annual Report for 1929.) 


31. It should be noted that the excise duty of 250 mils per 
kilogram of tobacco, including imported tobacco amanufactured 
and sold in Palestine, referred to in paragraph 33 on page 31 of 
the Annual Report for 1929, was increased to 350 mils per kilogram 
under the Tobacco Amendment Ordinance, 1932. 


145 


Append I. 


Summary of Revenue for the years 1928 to 1981 and for the period 


1st January to 81st March, 1932.(ca) 








8,677 


761,823(d) 


230,844 
207,288 
29,195 


16,541 


ES |S | free rane | re 


Head of Revenue. 1928. 
£P 
Mm... . | 892,278 
and Marine i 5,468 
ee, Taxes, etc : 709,974(d) 
of Court and Office, 
ase ae ; 234,298 
>and Telegraphs 186,554 
tae “sates 435,150 
fue from Govern- 
Property 17,092 
Sie» sane 57,194 
daneons 6,001 
Bales 4,511 
bin-Aid 35,797 
Total ..  £P] 2,684,317 


2,323,572 


1932. 
1930. 1931. (1st January 
to 
31st March) 
£P £P £P 
991,688 922,080 257,107(b) 
9,703 10,531 9,789(c) 
7140,664(d) | 604,771(d) | 173,365(d) 
248,371 248,631 68,807 
220,384 207,758 55,254 
ae —_ 27,600(e) 
14,613 13,591 3,595 
87,485 52,793 4,27 1(f) 
28,465 42,001 26,395(g) 
6,887 8,830 3,382 
41,286 222,909 27,734(h) 
2.389,546 2,333,895 657,289 





(s) The figures for the periods prior to 1928 are shewn on page 156 of the Annual 


Report for 1930. 


() The proportionate increase is mainly due to larger importa of wheat, flour, and 
sugar. Moreover there were increased duties on the import of motor vehicles 


and accessories and silk tissues. 


(¢) Includes £P7,262 in respect of Light Dues for the period August, 1924, to 


October, 1928. 


(¢) The proportionate increase is due mainly to an increase in the Excise Duties on 
tobacco and matches. The totals for the periods under review are exclusive 
of tithes assigned to Waqfs and collected by Government. The amounts 


80 collected were as follows :— 


1928 
1929 
1930 
1931 


Ist January to 3lst March, 1932 ie 


Total ... 


£P 


39,787 
35,363 
29,220 
7,721 
3,843 





£P115,934 





(¢) No payment of debt charges in respect of Palestine Loan fell due during the period. 
(f) No interest was received during the period in respect of investments. 

(9) Includes £P25,061 from appreciation on investments. 
(4) The expenditure in 1931 included £P89,346 in respect of the year 1930. 


146 


Appendix II. 


Summary of Expenditure for the years 1928 to 1931 and for the Period 1st January 
to 8ist March, 1982.(a) 


Heads of Expenditure. 


Pensions ... ~— 
Public ta and Loan 


His Hevcieaey the e High 
Commissioner .. 
Secretariat wise 
District Administration... 
Legal eee 
Judicial ... 
Treasury 
Audit Department. or 
Customs, Excise and Trade 
Health Department 
Education Department... 
Agriculture and Forests 
Antiquities Department 
Land Settlement... = 
Lands Department 
Survey Department 
Police and Prisons dae 
Dept. of Immigration and 
Travel . 
Gendarmerie (Brit. Sec.). 
Trans-Jordan Frontier 
Force ... beg 
Defence ... 33 
Posts and Telegraphs ve 
Public Works Department 
Public Works Recurrent 
Railways .. 
Miacellaneous sii 
Posts and Telegraphs 
Public Works Extra- 
ordinary 
Railways Extraordinary 
Trans - Jordan Frontier 
Force Extraordinary ... 
Railways (Excess of Ex- 
penditure over Revenue) 
Department of ae 
ment 


Total 


1928. 


£P 
16,461 


820,178(b) 


6,858 
17,897 
93,527 

8,554 
78,076 
16,489 

8,953 
63,535 
98,581 

137,115 
72,360 


17,931 
188, 126(c) 
342,795 


360(d) 


140,058 
53,500(e) 
139,712 
34,328 
141,250 
265,023 


332,445(f) 
16,526 


167,136 
29,586 


53,187 


£P| 3,381,993 


1929. 


£P 
17,797 


100,910 


8,739 
19,534 
88,528 

8,959 
80,598 
16,090 

8,652 
66,803 


39,245 


376,060(9) 


140,562 


37,070(h) 


141,206 
40,261 


145,996 


— (8) 
289,896(7) 


25,978 
114,690 


— () 


8,616 


2,140,032 


1930. 


206 
475,851(1) 


209,212(m) 
109,675(n) 
147,338 
48,662 
164,649 


— (3) 
_ 268,768(0) 


26,096 


169,671 
— () 


22,868 
19,592 


2,536,505 


| 


1931. 


44,947 
469,516 


174,815 
121,681(p) 
161,631 
48,720 
180,686 
151,404 
11,452 


104,947 


8,078 
67,916(q) 
1,910 


| 2,374,867 


1932 
(1st Jonva 


lo 
31a Mord 


511,68 


147 
(a) The figures for the period ‘prior to 1928 are shewn on pages 156-157 of the Annual 
Report for 1930. 


(b) Includes £P648,823 in respect of the share of the Ottoman Public Debt attributed 
to Palestine and £P170,050 in respect of interest charges on the Palestine 
Loan. 


(c) Includes £P149,121 in respect of expenditure during the period 1920-27 transferred 
| from Loan Account. . 


(¢) The Gendarmerie were disbanded in 1926. 


(¢) Contribution towards cost of Royal Air Force and Armoured Cars in Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan. 


(/) Includes £P206,541 being deficit during military administration. 

(g) Increase due to increase in the strength of the British Section of the Police. 

(h) Expenditure in 1928 represented two years’ contribution. 

(1) The excess of Railway revenue over expenditure has been incorporated in the 
accounts and not the gross receipts and disbursements as hitherto. 

(j) Includes special grants to Tel-Aviv Township (£P75,619) and Jerusalem 
Municipality (€P55,211). 

(t) Includes £P26,848 in respect of anti-locust measures. 


(!) Increase due to further increase in the strength of the British Section and to 
increase in the strength of Palestine Police. 

(m) Increase due to increase in establishment and purchase of mechanical transport 
(€P27,776). 


(n) Includes coat of local services to British troops in Palestine (£P68,193) and 
difference between public rates and preferential rates on the Palestine 
Railways for Royal Air Force and Army Units (€P17,107). 

(0) Includes compensation on account of damages incurred in riots (£P101,135) 
and special grant to Jerusalem Municipality (£P31,178). 


(p) Includes cost of local services to troops in Palestine (£P25,423) and difference 
between public rates and preferential rates on the Railways for Royal Air 
Force and Army Units (£P11,158). 


(7) Due to economic depression. 

(r) No payment of debt charges was due during the period. 

(*) Decrease due to non-payment of the grant to schools of the Palestine Jewish 
Agency during the period. The amount was paid in the subsequent quarter. 

() F ormerly included in the Police and Prisons estimates. 

(u) Decrease is mainly due to delay in payment of claims for material purchased 
during the period. 

(») Includes the contribution to His Majesty’s Government in respect of the last 
quarter of 1931 (£P13,750). 


(w) No debt charges were payable during the period and no contribution was maed 
towards the establishment of a Railway Renewals Fund. 


BF MBSVL 


148 


68066082 


10'S99'F 


amu = ds 


TZ0°L19°S 
L¥9'TR9°e 
TO LOTTL 
TOL’ ZEF CS 


£LE°L0Z‘F6 
840'998°Z9 


spas = d3 


sLemuawy |) 


- sunoooy Arpung 
einyipuedxg Areq TTY] 
flounoD sLreqg woso~ oureadng 
* preog Souatmy ouysopeg 
qUNoOoOY es10x eoyog 
"yUNOoOW 
eomespy sydvisejoy, pus 93907 
*** TBIOUOX) J0seUTs0g 
"-- ghemirey Jeseuepy [erouer) 
*SUBO’T 
ToHonySU00eY erik! 
oni ta*) % srEC] ciate 
sorted roranyy] 
SHONVAGY 


986° Lee 


€29°886 
T90°OLE_ 
OLI'910‘'I9 
ZOO'PLL'O 
S81'98¢ 
LOT'S98 ‘6S 
669° 10'S 
9LL'660‘9T 
GIZ' SFL ‘ES 


ZBL'EL HS 
TE0'E0FS 


su dz 


“S86T “ToleAl ISTE IV SOHMIGVTT pus sjossy Jo yuouIE}E;g 


UNLLSTIVG 40 INHANUHAOS) 


II] ztpuaddy 


_ sonddng IOVEAA OBST A 

ane 990g Sonod. oo 
SOUL OO1O FF 19OIQUOLT aepion feos SUBLY, 
“PUA SULT suosiig PUY Sorod 
ese eee 9}ts0deq, ,8107 0813 M07) 


g[eMouey o7N0y aie: TSUIS 
“suMOD0y 

qeodeq sqdvisejoy, pus 990g 
*98010}U] 

suvOyT TOMNONIYsuOCSeY OHeNbYzIEG 

""*  qgedeqUy suBOT pemmynoLay 

yuvg [eInyMoLsy weU10;30 
"(pry-ul-4queiy) 

Ox0g  JYUCLY  Ueplor-suvIy, 

ore "+ qUeUIMLIeAOy) peLIedwy] 


"gLISOda(] 


“POST IOVT 


149 





OFF E88°66'T 


62189108 


GLE°0Z9‘0E9'T 


ds 


I6LIL9‘°9T 
SEF 298°C 
009°FES ‘TT 


000°000°L 
G0S'8SF'9 
ZIO'LIS E 


6L0°991 ‘0&2 
6L¥6LL‘E8E‘T 


grr ess‘ece'l lazy 


9F2'SLL‘OEL 
801°966Z8L 
C6L' FLL ‘OSF 
; sydeisejoy, pus s}s0g 
yunoooy Arrend syxI0M oqng 
881079 [BIOUH) SHIOM ONGnG 
‘SWHOLG CHELVOOTIVNG) 


-IeNt) sorued u0, eouBINsUy 
— WoTsEnior “Wav 
skgpieg — sywodeq pexly 
ae “* -_pung seulq eorog 
‘puny jueumopuy—-umoesnyy 
Teorsojoeeyoly oUulmsoleg 
“‘spunyy 
UvOT pus socoULEg o[qureay 
—! uesY UMOID 


68600102 
SZL'ShF'P 
Z9o'SOl F 
SE1'869'S 
6LZ F801 
V6E'90S ‘92 
SFS SF8'6 
6L0°S9T ‘OE 
929°99T‘G 
OL6'E89‘E 
LI¥‘’Z8'9 


90° 83F‘9 
8FL°S99'9 


“OS6I ‘TequIaAoN 48ST e473 woy 
sv uedoq umqueo ied ‘pp ‘se IF 
jo ojvr 04} 98 pung ZurquIg 
eq} 0} UOMNQLAUOO ;eNUUe oT], 





000°S LFF 
5 
BISP[OYZOO}H-Wvo9T ourseyed 
IPC popung 


‘(eouureg snjdimg) ‘SsaLLI 
eabdl 9 aHAO SLESSY 40 sSaOxnT 
"**  ENQOOOW NVOT 


eee wee "** squmoooy Arpung 

[°° “PHT Ysejog eursepeg 
‘erqorndeg 

AOR em Jo YomyD 0} suedey 

"* SybeAA oat 

qsonbeg oLloopey styq JIS 
‘guMODOY TOHONYSU0; 

“unesn]T [Vosofoowyory eurysopeg 
"gunoooy 4ueLMAQ— 

UMesnAY [eoojoewygory ouryserez 
“puny yueuLMopuy— 

cmnesn AY [eoIsojoesyoly ourseey 

“swodeq SUILIS[Iq B000pT 

| vee 8907} FUITAOL) uoHnvonpy [e007 


oop UBIETE) sormvdmo0p somumsuy 
4g10d 01g ome cole oiled | 


150 





IFO LOL ILdS ** 





Q2P'991S 


(JJ xpueddy) senriqery 


pues acy jo yueuEy4g 043 UT oe 88 yunooCOy ee g.leseuBy jeleusy) jo ocouvyeg 


(poysnfpe Sutoq) sXemyrey Aq suroq! pojen[peug =: ppy 
OAOGS JUCTIO}B}G Ul WAOYS SB JUNOOOY #,Jomsvely, 


"fanevasy 24} Us QUNOIIP 


gouvapy § LIO0UD AY 10L9U9H) YF YRIM SzuNDIIp AvajInsy ay? Ut 2UNOIIP &.tainsDILT {0 W01}01{10U099EF 





T9198 Folds 











IST'€98'FOldF 
_ STeLOFEIT pus saloyg poysoopfwun) “9 | 9IFIIO‘69 “" suMoooW 8,Jomsvar] 
eee ssOUBAPY a L¥Z 929'F eve eee eee eee * puny souly 
*** eearrey ag ueydisy -¢ | F86SISFI "s+ sytsodecy 
ea Avarey zefon °g | IS6LLO°6I °° "+ gumoo0y nis enbiy-qajog 
We) ‘I | SsL’EeL‘99 puny spemoucy Avalrey (epey-erezUeyy) reurg 

“oT IF 
"979897 “SOMfVQDVT 


"“SSGF “YSIVA ISTE IV FUOWMUIOAOS OUT}seI¥q OY} Aq pozeledo SABATTEY OY} JO SONTTIQeP] pus sjossy oq} Jo juETIE}EIS 


‘ENLISTIVY 40 INSWNEHAOS) 


"AI utpuaddy 


ea Koc '-) 


151 


Appendiz V. 


GOVERNMENT OF PALESTINE. 


Statement of Investments. 


A.—Securities held by Crown Agents : 


(1) Available Balances and Loan Funds. 


. Middle Market 
= Nominal Cost Price on 
Value. Price. 3lst March, 
1932. 
£ «4d. £P mils £P mils 
Tstasury Bonds 4% 1931/33 ... 278,601 1 9  277,297.946  281,387.008 
Ta#easury Bonds 6% 1933/35 ... 100,000 0 0  101,562.500 _—101,750.000 
, Mweasury Bonds 4% 1934/36 ... 200,075 12 2 201,507.546 — 201,576.171 
; \ondon County 44% 1945/85 ... 18,630 0 0 17,606.250 18,816.300 
New Zealand Bonds 5% 1932/34 50,000 0 0 49,515.625 49,250.000 
647,306 13 11  647,489.867  652,779.479 
Cash lent to Joint Colonial Fund 731,000.000 
1;383,779.479 
. (2) Paestine Archaeological Museum 
Em dowment Fund. Middle Market 
Nominal Cost . Priceon ° 
Value. Price. 31st March, 
1932. 
£ 3s. d. £P mils £P mils 
Consolidated 4% 1957 or after ... 50,000 0 0 41,626.000 47,125.000 
Guaranteed 3% 1939 or after 20,000 0 0 12,375.600 13,800.000 
Guaranteed 23% 1933 or after ... 25,000 0 0 — 14,063.200 16,000.000 
Local Loans 3% 1912 or after ... 55,001 5 6 33,864.892 38,363.400 
London County 3}°%, 1929 or after 20,000 0 0  14,325.700 —_16, 400.000 
London County 3° 1920 or after 77,200 19 9 47,176.237 53,268.679 
Metropolitan Water Board “ B ” 
3% 1934 or after + «se 50,000 0 0 31,626.600 35,500.000 
Indis 3h-% 1981 or after... ... 14,489 11 2 9,807.325 9,708.000 
311,691 16 5  204,865.554 230,165.079 
_ 8) Police Wines Fund. Middle Market 
_ Nominal Cost Price on 
a Value. Price. 3lst March, 
a | 1932. 
“i £ ~s.d. £P mils £P mils 
{New South Wales 4% Stock 1983 1,829 5 5 1,742.379 1,600.612 
i: Victoria 649% Stock 1924/34 1,800 0 0 1,755.000 1,647.000 
i: 3629 5 5 3497379 3.247.612 
i B.—Fized Deposits at Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.), Jerusalem : 
ss yy £P mils £P mils 
‘B ASUranCE <“ompanies’ Guarantee Deposits 6,428.205 
/ (Depot by>- order of Court wwe 7,000,000 
—___—— 13,428.205 


Total 


893g 


ane £P1,630,620.375 


F 2 


152 





6S S66'PSL -_--——o- *uo!Ij0onI48 000‘OF9'T 


I6U'LL9‘Z0L “UoQ snoqreH ee S 680°F "7 peyBooT[eaH, “Eg 
‘eu UCT 
890 1ZP‘S8 eaolduy WOg VBVe *T "SHIOM 
ee pveo'res'T Avayrey = eNO 3 
-eaoldWIy 410g pues 
uoHonIysu0D }«=69moqieyy -edoys 
“TH wey] LLOTWe “410M «= Aue *] 
*4UOUIULIOAOS) —: sheapiery 
sAysaleyy stqR woy ds ds 
s}osse [ezIdvo 107440 "J Wy 
000°000‘000'T pue Avmjres Jo eseyomd 
“TT Woy] 
24819 Jo Alsyal0eg 
169°L99°669‘1 | ————_- *(poqorduroo) ey} Aq peaoidds se uvoy jo uoneooyy 


GOL'ZIG‘*F6E'T = SHIOM AVaTIEyY 10430 °Z 
986'FF1‘S0Z sdoysyioM, Avarey “| 
"(LZ6I ‘eouvUIpPIQ uWeOT 


— shem rey eujsereg Aq posioyyne) “yu00 sod 3 

"Yoreyy] ‘BOT OOTS 3% POnseT OOO'SLF'FS JO HOG =| “gore 

‘I ™m3] | ss1e || OOO'SLE'LEF | Peony) oUTySeIeq %G JO spoooolg | 481 

qa FCSN dF ‘seer «|| sr ds “SE6I 





“SEGT WoreW ISTE 38 JUNODOY ULOT 


“ENLISZIVG 40 LINENNUMAOL) 


‘IA @ipuaddy 


153 





000°SLE°LEF'F| dF 


SO1'986°Z8L 


268°SLEFIL'E 





696'SZL‘6ZE 


000°00¢‘TZ 


PAP'O2T og, 


Sor’ 206 ‘0ZT 


°** WBOT Bursrer Jo 4901) 


"9918 Jo uoMEMboy 


ts Lee 


oouLRlegd 


000°SL8°L6FF 


d3 





QLE‘LOFV tds 








GLE°909 
G06‘0ZI uv0'T Surwrez jo 4807 
‘soyoO Suyug 
jo yueudmby pue 
UOITZON.I4sU0,, +puUe 
I¥8‘L61 B90IJQ + JUOUIMIGAOY) 
“sauoyd 
TES‘S8I  -919,, pue sydexsojoy, 
"AI WOT 





"WOT}ON.I4sU0Z) 
000‘0S2°T MoqreyH =: BVH“ 
9] T9TIEAOId 
OOO'IOT “WL Mog VyVe ‘T 
—: syuomeAold 
-W] }10g pus u0y 


000‘TSS‘T 


é 
000‘000‘r as, SOE 
_ pe ever” & Louch > 


F 3 


LR 








6SL‘6GEd SF 





£08 ‘021 
00°13 
9Z1‘88T 

ds 


6LEFIL‘S 


(2)6ZL‘6ZE 


154 


266 F8L 


000‘000‘T 
899'669‘T 
dZ 
"3861 


0} aanpepuadz iy 
ponpy 





‘Youvyy 1g 





gLe‘902ds 
€0S‘0OSI °° 


1¥8°L61 
1€3‘S8I 





ds 
QLE‘LOvF 


(2)9L8°909 


000‘T9E‘T 


000°000‘T 


000‘0+9‘T 
ds 


"unoT fo 
- Spae004d 

ronzon fo 
UorzD001]/ F 


000‘009‘F 


_— 


000°SFL 


000‘STI‘I 


000‘000‘T 


000‘0%0‘T 
3 


"9Z6I ‘PY suvoT 
DY WOT puv 


000‘009F 





UVO'T Burwrei JO 480 
*eOWO 


iat dat: jo quourdmby paw to}ons48U0) pus seoyjO JUSUTUIEAOL) 
a souoqdepey, pue sydevisojoy, 


— Jopun se dn ope (2) 


“weO'T eG} JO Zureres oy} Zurpnypout 
‘ejapeqog sq} Ul peuoyueut sosodind 
eq} jo Aue qyIM poyoouu0d JO 04 
[eyueprour sesod.imd puv “yuourdojesep 
jo syzoM Jour ‘sfoams ‘seuoyd 
-ojo} pus sydeisepoy ‘sturpimq omqud > 


*s}UemIeAOId 
“Wy WoT pus woronijsuo) imMo0qivH *€ 


“JUOUITLIOAOY) 8 Aq80feTy SIF] Wl; s}0888 
[eyideo i0oq}0 pus Avamrel Jo oseqoIMg °Z 


* aheaprey *] 


"SY4OM 


"ZEGT ‘WOUW ISTE 18 SOULE ULOT Jo JUOMIE;EIS 


‘ENLLSTIVG 40 LNHANAHAOS) 


‘ILA tipuaddy 


"I3=dF ‘zed 4¥ Buy1078 F [L910-1= "AF I : spunod uvruysopeg puwe uvydASq ul ere AMAL » 





= = = 9LE‘96I = LOOEFS Z96°90C'T| TerTse’s | TOS*SST | OZ6'SOL‘L | ZLE‘ZR0‘T ocel 
= = — COLLLI = SEE‘T9% LO¥‘OSS | IB0‘SLO‘T | 920% 000‘0F6‘E | 000‘SE0'T TS6I 
— = 3 98 ‘OCT 89 OG OSI 799‘ 960°868‘T | 622°E 892‘e86'9 | 00096 OC6I 
= = = 109°S9Z = IL9‘6LI L99°SIZ | 29S‘ FG9'T O1g‘ZI €69°99I‘L 000026 6661 
— a = LPV‘LLI 06 CO8*LLI ¥93'3S LOS LS¥'T | 6FO'LT SI8‘OLL‘9 | 000006 8261 
= = = 6Z0‘I§T == G6L‘OFS Oer’s 69L‘668‘I | 699°C9S | FEP‘FSI‘O | 000‘068 L261 
ds ds d3 d3 d3 ds ds d3 d3 ds 
6 I18‘é 00g 1S3‘6L CII 6ZI‘SLI 9ce‘sl QZ9‘SLZT | GEs‘OI GhZ‘6SF'9 | 000°L88 9c6T 
OLES SOL‘SP = QLL‘IL ol 10L‘6ET GFI‘SOI | B99°L6S‘T | 9G9°E6I | Ter see‘ Pai 9261 
= 20019 = SSI ‘9SI ¥ ors IFT GLOLIL | Z18°00ST | ZZSL8I | 6FE'99z°9 | OFZ‘TSO FBI 
o6I QIP'oP — 089°68T Ss $16°SES OCF IIF | FESEFI‘T | OSOOIT | S8I‘SzsF = 261 
802°C LOS‘LP = 669‘L¥E ZIG‘T 8ZE‘L81 LOU‘E8S | ITLT‘OLO'T COF6OI | LOO‘ILF‘'G CSI‘LOL co6l 
as 9EL‘E = 689 I FI = 898°Z8 = S96 ‘OIF'T = SL8°TL8°9 | O6L‘IOL 1261 
ag = = = = = aa 029°8STE‘T — L86‘60r'S | S6I°EL9 0C6I 
G us as CK us as us us as us 
noodg lsepunyosyr| swedg japunyoayy| swodg jestpunyouyy| awodg laspunyosayT| awadg | sespunyosopr 
pug wosf feuds 7, oul Of EUDsT, "94400X0-9n7 “‘40dxoy "9400uT uorgondog “sv0h 
SS SSS SS SS SS SS eee sppuaqvny 
» PPOs], 
(sorry “bs ggg‘ez) sorta “bs Q10‘6—: vary 
‘WO]JVUIIOJUY [VOWSHeIS Jo AIeMUING 
‘(NVadOr-BNVA, ONIGOI0xG) 
grt TSTIV 
ae wth v finscatev es 


ITA ae cease 
oF Bae PY eae get 
ase seeect E Wi Ss ee AA oe: win bag paeeeeen es wus oh Pup cL 


\eaag 


156 





ee ES 
ET 


uo yuads yunowPp 


Zoe 0E 

886'9FI 
gaa*erl 
68L‘6EI 
GII‘LET 
680‘00T 
OIs‘9II 


Qn "asngmnonibpy | “wosyponp 


TEa‘I LES 


"sORSHeIg [ejoods 


‘XI tipuaddy 





‘spuny Woy 07 pe#reyo puv erved snoracid ut Usye}Jopun sxIOM sNoLIVA Jo yoodsex Ur 1Z6'ZOSAF JO JUOUNSN[ps ue sepnpoUy , 


GE6I ‘Woe 03 Arenuer 


[61 
0€6I 
6661 
8261 


LEI “Joquiee({ 04 judy 


LG6I-9Z6I 
9661-SZ6T 


 9S61-F26T 


Fe6I-€Ec6I 
€261-Z261 
6661-1361 


1261 ‘GoreW] 3TE 07 ‘OZEL ‘Aja 48T 


“sak saynyonuup 
40 PLOUDUST 


157 


XXTI.—_ DEMOGRAPHIC STATISTICS. 

Attention is invited to pages 135-138 of the Report for 1931. 

2. The compilation of the records of the census taken in 
November, 1931, was concluded in November, 1932, and the details 
of procedure will be found in the separate report which has been 
published on the census and of which copies have been furnished 
w the Permanent Mandates Commission. _ 

3. On page 139 of the Report for 1931 occurs the following 
sentence :— 

‘* The nomadic Beduin, who were estimated at the time to 
number in the neighbourhood of 103,000, were not included 
in this (the 1922) census.’’ 

This statement requires correction :—The Beduin were all in- 
cluded in the 1922 census in the total of 103,000 persons classified 
in that census as dwelling in tribal areas. In Beersheba, however, 
the nomads were not enumerated, but their number was estimated 
to be about 75,000 on the basis of tithe records. 

4. According to the records kept by the Department of Immigra- 
tion, 15,908 more persons entered the country than left if during 
the year. Of this excess, 6,730 persons (5,823 Jews, 805 Christians, 
101 Moslems, and one other) registered as immigrants, falling into 
one or other of the approved categories. A proportion of the 
remainder were travellers who found their way into the country 
without permission over the northern or eastern frontier. 

5. Vital Statistics.—The following are the vital statistics since 
1921; those from 1923 onwards include estimates of population, 
other than nomadic Beduin :— 


Infantile 
mortality 
| Birth Number |. Estimated | Number Death | i.e., death of 
Year, rate of births | popula- | of deaths rate children 
per 1,000 | registered. tion registered. | per 1,000. | under 1 year 
living. (mid-year of age per 
estimates). 1,000 birthe. 
1921— 
Town... 27-4 _— — — 16-1 209-6 
Coun 98-4 — — — — 123°3 
1922, = — — — 18-75 — 
1923, 47-43 31,402 | 662,013 16,994 25-67 184-76 
194, 51-31 34,955 | 681,245 17,672 25-94 184-83 
1925, 49-3] 35,479 | 719,508 19,611 27-25 188 - 64 
1926... 53-47 40,471 761,896 18,620 24-43 163-03 
1927, 50:35 29,193 778,369 21,806 28-O1 200 - 46 
1928* 48-78 42,895 | 879,532 23,054 26-21 186-33 
1929, 46-32 41,742 | 901,080 21,632 24:00 186-47 
1930... 48-03 44,587 | 928,148 19,513 21-02 154-28 
1931... 48-07 46,011 957,181 21,149 22-09 170-09 
1932, 44-14 43,538 | 986,319 21,958 22-26 153-17 


*The figures from 1928 onwards are estimates of mid-year populations based 
Upon the census of November, 1931. They differ from the figures published in 
Previous reports which were based upon the census of 1922. 


158 


6. Immigration and Emigration.—The following is a table show- 
ing immigration and emigration in respect of Palestine of Jews and 
non-Jews for the years 1920 to 1932 inclusive :— 











Immigration 
Year. 

Jews. 
1920 (September—October) ... 5,514 
1921... 5h ea an 9,149 
1922 7,844 
1923 7,421 
1924 12,856 
1925 33,801 
1926 13,081 
1927 2,713 
1928 2,178 
1929 5,249 
1930 4,944 
1931 4,075 
1932 9,553 

| 
* Figures for July to December. 


{ No statistics of emigration were compiled. See last table appended to 
Section IV of this Report. 


XXIII. CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE 

The net revenue of the Department of Customs, Excise, and 
Trade in 1932 was £P1,511,149, compared with £P1,169,924 in 
1931 ; the receipts from import duties were £P1,193,683, compared 
with £P9Z1,945 in 1931. 7 

The expenditure figures of the Department were. £P71,596 in 
1932, and £P70,961 in 1931. 

2. The following are statistics of tonnage handled and the 
revenue collected at the two principal ports since 1927 :— 





Jaffa. Hasja. 


Year. a ar een «ee 
Import. Export. | Revenue. Export. 






Tons Tons £P 


Tons 
1927 a 95,322 31,073 450,136 124,057 
1928 .-- | 113,269 33,069 547,352 137,330 
1929 .-. | 129,625 715,841 562,701 154,069 
1930 ... | 133,241 100,020 635,695 174,862 


1931 eee | 151,975 77,873 535,680 | 214,893 
1932 .- | 221,113 106,824 755,140 | 273,411 





Revenue at Haifa is low compared with import tonnage for the 
reasons that the duty on bulk benzine and kerosene is paid directly 
to the Department, and that all coal for the Palestine Railways, 
materials for the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, and a large proportion 
of such duty-free articles as machinery, are imported at Haifa. 





159 


3. As opportunity offers, the Government continues to substitute 
specific for ad valorem rates of import duty in the Customs tariff. 
This substitution is accompanied, if the need exists, by adjustments 
of rates designed to protect local industry. Such protection was 
granted in 1932 to manufacturers of footwear, hose, and oxygen, 
and to millers; and directly, without changing the basis of duty, 
_tomanufacturers of bentwood furniture, perambulators and go-carts, 

ron nails, and methylated spirits. 
_A large number of articles were exempted from payment of 
mport duty in the interests of local manufactures, such as chlorine 
and sulphuric acid for the Dead Sea Concessionnaires, paper bags 
ior the cement works, sewing cotton for the textile factories, print- 
ing metals for the presses, sodium cyanide and sodium bisulphate 
for fumigation enterprises, rattan for chairmakers, plant and 
machinery for hotels, and seed pearls for jewellers. 


_ 4. The value of goods admitted duty-free for charitable and 


on institutions, consuls, and archaeological societies was 
P 49,043. 


0. £P9,000 worth of import duty was waived on benzine, kero- 
“ne, and lubricating oil drawn from bonded installations by the 
Iraq Petroleam Company, the Navy, Army, and Air Force In- 
‘tates and the Lighthouse Administration. 

Excluding such withdrawals from bonded installations, the value 
ind classification of goods imported duty-free during 1931 and 
1932 were the following :— 
aa ce ee 


Exemptions under | Hxemptions under 
the Customs Duties | the Syro-Palestine Total. 
= Exemption Ordinance.| Customs Agreement. 


SE Sos | ee | ES |e a ES 


a Se ee 
£P £P £P £P £P £P 
Food, drink, and 
tobacco =. | 249,000 | 220,000 | 444,000 | 402,000 | 693,000 | 622,000 
Goods mainly un- 


manufactured -+- | 220,000 | 274,000 2,000 5,000 | 222,000 | 279,000 
factured... --- | 658,000 | 752,000 | 198,000 | 191,000 | 856,000 | 943,000 


cous and 
unclassified  ... | 707,000 11,484,000 om — 707,000 |1,484,000 
Total... £P!1,834,000 |2,730,000 | 644,000 | 598,000 2,478,000 (3,328,000 


Se a ee ee ee 








TEL‘L 631‘800'S OSP‘LZEF | 8ZO‘'LZS‘S 99¢‘Sez‘% TOU‘oes's | Oos*mesT | dF MIO 
— S8F'6L2'T 296'S09'I LOF‘OZS ¥90‘T L99‘Z1Z 7938'S sts tee eee eee groadg jo syiodxq 
T&L'L LOO‘EFS SEE‘192 SOC OST IL9‘L6I Z68‘LLI ss te" SPOON) UBIeIOg Jo sylodxy-oy 
453 61 9L6‘96T ZOULLI GRE‘aaT 109°99z LI¥F‘LLI a eee qisuely, Ul syz0dxq 
—< ‘ eee eee eonpolg OulysoT eq jo 910d x97 
d3 
L€6I sopun | “Teg 4eO "SEG "TE6T “O&6I "6861 "8861 “9340027 
aene.wey aeDaLuUy 
3 
r= 
= O19‘100‘ L6L‘OZ1‘8 LSI‘BII‘9 | SLS‘EFI‘L pOr‘cer’L | FIZ'9089 | dF "7 o OL 
— OLF'ESI LoS‘eoT GZ0'S 62'E O1e’Z1 6F6‘LI res ate nee eee groped jo syrzoduiy 
—_— F1Z'6I OLE‘O6T COT‘LLI G8E‘ooT 109°99z LIP‘LLI ore se ee qIsuely, ut syoduly 
= 026‘828'‘T OZ6‘SOL‘L | 000‘OFE'S 897‘a86'9 €69991‘L SISOLL'9 | °° ‘* *** uorRdumsuoy Jo; sy0dmy 
dF ds d3 d? d3 dF d3 
"TE6] 4opun | “Teg 4o00 "SE6T "TE6I "Of6I "6261 "8261 "spsoduy 
seneKWoCTT BDILOUT 


“CS6I ANV ‘IS6I ‘OSGI “6Z6I ‘SZ6I AOd WIV], AALLVAVAWO) SLYOUXY GNV SLUOMM] TVLOT, 40 GOIVA 


161 





re | ES | | oS | LS 
_— 


ES |S |S | LL | 
—_— ae 


cee es | ae |S | | RS | A 
— 


G96‘LZ8 


"T&6T 4000 
aSDaLUT 


026°828'T 


Teo*16L 
929°849 
690'6ET 


IOL*6¥Z 
d3 


16F188°S 


d3 


EIL‘Org'l 
IT¥‘016'S 
996'999 


O€8°FSL‘T 
d3 


190°SL9'T 


892° 
SEF‘08Z 
269°89 


Z81°OSL 
G8L*19S°E 
F06'LIF 


960°968'T 


26619 


OLO‘OLFT 
d3 


PLO*LEG 


600°66E'T 
ds 


ds 


ds 


LOZ‘LSP‘T 


d3 


af ca ves 1010 J, 


°° = peissejouy) puv snoeULT|COsIPY 

pamjouynueut Sqoyeur io ATjoyA seprnzy 
“* = pemmyoujnueuUl 

“un AlUTSU SeMIY PUE STVLIGVV_ AV 

_ oooBgo], pus sxULIC “pooy 


"94400 XxT 


qaofw ews bss 0,7, 


a °° PEIsSSBjOUL) pus sNosWe]I0sTFY 

pammjourniwur jarew io Ajoya sepniy 
“*  perngoejnueu 

-um Ajuyeur SEI pus S[TVLIOVVyY AMVty 

oooeqo], pus sxULIC[ “poo 


| Es | eS | Rs | aS |e SS | SS 


“T&6l 4epun 
ENG f 





“1&6L 400 
DEDOLIUT 


“OS6L 


"40duy 





‘SEGI ANV ‘TEGI ‘OLB ‘BZGI ‘8SZ6I SKIAVL HALLVUVANOD ‘saSSVID AG SLUOAXG GNV SLUOAIA] £0 AATVA 


PRINCIPAL ARTICLES OF IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION. 
TABLE, 1931-1932. 





Article. Unit. 
Barley tons 
Rice ... ae sok a ‘5 
Wheat 3 ae wet oe 
Wheat flour... wie at _ 
Cattle for slaughtering - dee no. 
Fish in brine, dry, suai 
fresh and tinned... a tons 
Coffee be i oak By 
Sugar a os = hes ae 
Potatoes... oe oes a 
Coal .. me 
Wood "prepared for citrus 
fruits m3 


Wood and timber for building ‘eo 
Tron bars, angles, and rods 
Iron tubes, pipes, and ae 
thereof... »” 
Cotton piece- -goods, grey, 
bleached, dyed, and printed 
Woollen tissues, ess of 


wool and mixed .. PP 
Silk tissues, wholly of silk 

and mixed mm 
Outer garmente and under 
Wf garments — 
Boots and shoes of leather — 
Kerosene oe . | litres 
Benzine ae ein oe ‘3 
Motor cars ... sce no. 
Rubber tyres and tubes re tons 
Chemical fertilizers ar - 
Government stores.. eae om 
Military stores sie — 


‘Iraq Petroleum Company 
stores... a 
Military canteen stores as — 


162 


1931. 
Quantity. 


16,893 
9,788 


38,650,573 
15,635,386 
665 


206 
3,729 


Value. 


£P 

76,800 
117,092 
165,634 
151,973 
206,452 


62,490 
37,256 
105,366 
48,098 
51,748 


100,916 
153,281 
57,665 


85,012 
358,375 
106,305 
170,739 


69,400 
51,688 
92,427 
163,845 
115,113 
37,513 
33,283 
329,196 
172,858 


2,089 
60,090 





COMPARATIVE 
1932. 
Quantity. | Value. 
£P 
13,257 | 71,913 
12,813 | 150,797 
21,445 | 182,656 
20,058 | 190,330 
99,067 | 162,514 
2,275 71,382 
805 47,862 
12,860 | 132,710 
7,780 | 44,857 
54,678 64,247 
46,025 | 176,731 
74,743 | 183,554 
13,201 66,558 
6,419 | 118,977 
2,615 | 382,449 
252 | 152,807 
279 | 174,877 
— 80,691 
42,711 
37,492,817 | 79,499 
20,240,125 | 183,324 
760 | 164,347 
295 | 58,022 
6,028 | 52,431 
aed 335,925 
= 213,480 
= 671,155 
ae 67,998 


= 


ON Ls Se eee 


OME RE pt Pres 


163 


VALUE OF IMPORTS BY COUNTRIES. 





Country consigned from. 





Turkey 
United States of Arierica.. 
Other countries 


Total ... ide £P 





1931. 





176,187 
101,355 
518,619 

99,020 

77,157 

36,566 
813,218 
201,875 
520,446 
193,052 


7,768,920 


COMPARATIVE TABLE, 1931-1932. 


Percentage 1932. 


19-98 
2-80 
1-21 


: pu 
(Jt) 
jeu 


S| SSSS5S5SNSSNASSSSSESR 


pm 


— 
S| wow 


164 


68F'FI “0-08 ory sod 20°89 696962 80/1] ses soqny pue said Joqqny 





ZOL'88 walojoa po *yu80 Jed 9% Lve‘vel O9L ‘ou i ee SS S180 10,0] 
or‘ COS 66 O-Il 66 kG ZEE81 CZ1 ‘OFS 0Z 66 eos een ees see eee eulzueg 
e1¥*‘ 29 “6 CLT o1qT] Jod 667'6L LIS‘Z6F‘LE 90.191] oe eee one eve eee eues010 
TS8‘0g - “  _ 03 LLS‘FLI PIT‘6LZ o "77 sess" pexTtd pure senssl, FIG 
€98°LT wasopDa po “quad Jod Z| LO8‘Za1 968°19 s0[Ty ‘7 st PeXTU PUB SONSSTZ TE[[OOM 
909°TT “0-082 gut sod IGL‘OLT GZ0'9F gui aes SHMLF SMIZID IO} persdaid poo, 
009°69 ogtoeds snore A 6FF'S8E SLLF19'S soy eed spoos-soe1d 07407) 
S31 'SS “0-008 gar sod yoo‘esl SPL PL gui ste" BUYpying Jo; Jaquiry pus poo 
LOS'FI ogweds snowe A SPF'IS 81E‘6E8 a4] oe SS egfoutwa oy paw 100 Uy Abed 
E61'L3 “ 0-000'T 1¥¥F'9I 902'LZ see tes * gaqqere8ty 
LOZ‘08 “0-007 ao OST‘LI SI9‘oL - ae | Be AMB | OR0ed OL 
ZS0'SZI ‘ 0-OL. <6 46 OLL‘ZEl OG '698‘ZI1 ‘6 nee acm eee eee dae resng 
£66 TT * 0-91 se 66 298 LP 909‘F08 66 Sox eos eee ose eayog 
169‘°9S es 0°% sé tS LOL‘OSI 98¢‘ZI8‘ZI ‘6 cas was eee woe see sony 
GOZ‘F6 ia 0°§ af 0O-L fs, 66 0ge ‘061 08289002 rT ace eee eee “es Nog 480T AA 
ItL‘Qt STU g-[ IO g-g O[TH J0g 999°Z8T COL FFF'IZ a07Ty ax an a eee + ABO 
d3 d3 
“pazseqqoo 
Ainq ‘fang fo omy ‘ango A ‘Ayyumn® ‘up ar 


‘G6E61 NI HOVE WOU GHAIGOUUN SULLOG LUOdW] fO INOONY FHL INV 
SHILO(d LAaOdW] WOU ZONTADY FHL JO Wing WAL HSINYOA HOI ‘SALLIGONWOD TIVdIONIUG #0 WIV], 


165 


EXPoRTS BY COUNTRIES OF DESTINATION. 





Exports. 
Countries of Destination. 
1931. 1932. Percentage 1932. 
£P 

United Kingdom... _—... 708,228 1,342,031 56-35 
British Possessions a 41,005 80,129 3-36 
ria... ‘ed 13,524 991 0-05 
Belgium 11,351 4,574 0-20 
Denmark 24,208 27,333 1-15 
Egypt 177,945 128,734 5-4] 
France 41,181 35,333 1-48 
Germany 201,710 332,723 13-97 
Holland 9,944 31,320 1-32 
I 16,262 13,217 0-55 
Poland 17,538 16,499 0-70 
Roumania 16,748 54,069 2-27 
Sweden a ee 12,291 13,874 0-58 
Sa 222,527 229,903 9-65 
United States of America 19,781 18,632 0-78 
Other Countries es 37,818 52,129 2-18 
Total ak. ate 1,572,061 2,381,491 100-00 

es 





6. The principal increases in import dues were in respect of 
benzine (£P51,478), motor cars (£P21,831), tyres and tubes 
(EP 2,608), wheat flour (£P39,245), sugar (£P17,559), rice 
peopel cotton piece-goods (£P6,272), woollens (£P5,624), silks 
(€P10,267), timber (£P5,029), wood for orange boxes (£P5,817), 
“gatettes (€P3,733), kerosene (£P4,443). 


epige bores of Palestine manufacture amounted in value to 

lor cco Compared with £P346,391 in 1931 : the foreign markets 

a ahaa oils, biscuits and cakes, fruit juices and syrup, brandy 

~gnac, mirrors, bedsteads, and stationery are steadily im- 

ee There has also been a marked increase in the local 
‘umption of many local products. 


ee tons of cement were produced by the Haifa factory, of 
rea tons were exported and the rest was consumed in 
6. 3,598 tons of laundry soap, valued at £P104,830, were 


) 
worted, compared with 3,856 tons, valued at £P117,393 in the 
Previous year, 


166 


8. The following table shows the value of locally-manufactured 
goods exported during the years 1928 to 1932. 


—- 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
£P £P £P £P £P 
Cakes of all sorts for ae 
animals 9,709 25,905 1,660 22 8,980 
Biscuits and cakes 561 1,534 2,138 2,505 2,728 
Bread ome) 5,186 5,452 3,902 2,386 3,430 
Cheese .. 3,344 7,684 3,255 2,438 4,401 — 
Chocolates 1,119 639 074 1,084 1,653 — 
Confectionery 2,843 2,146 1,636 1,513 1,813 | 
Fruit juices and syrups 255 189 2,651 3,318 4,508 
Brandy and i aa 2,478 1,552 1,142 2,703 2,740 
Wines ... eh 31,189 27,304 31,41] 30,592 30,737 
Olive oil cee 12,530 7,736 19,394 18,945 19,639 
Sunflower oil 10,928 23,211 3,211 3,447 29,353 
Cement : hi es 31,775 19,026 28,702 20,450 22,151 | 
Mirrors i 90 223 389 2,222 3,551 
Bedsteads and parta thereof 95 469 1,708 2,817 4,343 
Tin manufactures ee 1,063 2,285 2,553 §23 LUT 
Olive wood manufactures... 3,230 3,742 3,319 2,320 1,567 
Cotton yarn thread ... ma — 24 2,517 840 2,039 
Cotton manufactures.. sad 10 4,280 5,450 2,536 2,338 
Stockings - 17,532 18,919 19,722 16,075 12,538 
Wearing apparel of all kinds 7,706 13,398 19,059 17,081 16,508 
Essences of all kinds ae 4,201 | 4,901 158 703 2,285 
Soap ... .. | 224,496 ; 215,203 | 206,259 | 119,941 | 108,101 
Paper and cardboard ‘goods see 612 930 2,475 3,787 2,544 
Curios and articles of piety ... 10,443 3,307 6,604 4,078 2,819 | 
Beads and mother-of-pearl ... 8,358 12,869 11,532 10,662 9,569 
Leather handbags bi 856 3,883 6,274 6,023 5,290 
Stationery... noe a — — 2,727 3,834 6,770 
Artificial teeth ae ade 4,372 9,261 10,325 16,152 13,429 
Other manufactured goods ... 39,654 41,069 35,577 50,394 | 95,433 
Total £P| 434,635 | 457,141 | 436,724 | 349,724 | 422,376 


9. Oranges and grape-fruit account for £P1,780,565 out of a 
total export figure of £P2,381,491. Prior to 1932, the values of 
citrus fruits for export were taken at a set figure per case. The 
value shown in 1932 represents the ‘actual f.o.b. cost and in sub- 
sequent years statistics will give actual comparisons in number of 
cases and domestic value. In number of cases, citrus exports this 
year exceed those in 1931 by nearly a million. Sales of oranges 
on the continent and particularly in Germany and Poland are 
encouraging, and the market in Canada is expected to develop 
favourably. 





167 
EXPORT OF ORANGES AND GRAPE-FRUIT DURING 1931 AND 1932 





(IN CASES). 
Oranges. | Grape- Fruit. 
Destination. ——$ $< — _—  — ————_ ccm 

1931. 1932. 1931. 1932. 
‘United Kingdom... .-- | 1,837,339 2,493,685 61,608 119,686 
Trish Free State ... eu — 11,813 — 32 
Belgium ... ue ane 1,271 ' §,928 85 1,239 
Bulgaria ... ead or 6,410 9,851 — 277 

Czechoslovakia ... bes — 4,477 — — 
Denmark ... nee Se 61,097 52,875 1,511 905 
France... ake athe 3,863 17,659 958 3,974 
Germany ae sex wee 541,807 661,981 9,255 15,033 

Greece... sag sue 1,258 4,564 5 — 
Holland ... be aes 16,003 49,574 478 1,567 
latvia... ae a 2,399 9,510 — 93 
Norway ... an es 10,226 16,860 315 1,047 
Poland... Gag si 10,407 13,125 290 478 
Roumania wae ee 49,362 99,926 275 267 
Sweden... ee se 31,612 29,978 670 752 
Switzerland ae ae 4,945 4,396 1,841 2,115 

Yugoslavia hs ar 7,095 4,906 70 — 
Aden eas bs be 7,766 6,265 50 23 
India ds ont a 2,268 9,512 606 954 
Canada... a eae 275 7,913 — 58 
Other countries ... eee 21,048 9,801 2,490 1,401 


Total... --- | 2,616,451 3,524,599 80,507 149,901 


10. Having regard to lack of cereals for export, the increased 
value of total exports over 1931 is very satisfactory in all the 
circumstances. If local exporters, using a currency based on 
sterling, benefit from exchange rates, on the other hand, world 
conditions militate against the sale of articles such as mother-of- 
pearl, olive wood, and articles of piety, and tend to diminish the 
invisible exports supplied by the tourist traffic. 


ll. The principal unmanufactured articles exported in 1931 and 
1932 were as follows :— 











Articles. Unit. 

Chick peas tons 
Lentils... ” 
Durra ue 9 
Sesame wing ” 

Oranges in cases cases 
Grape fruits one 99 

Watermelons... tons 
Hides and skins, raw and | 
dried ... a6 $3 


168 


12. Excise duty is charged on tobacco, intoxicating liquors, salt, | 
matches, and methylated spirits. The revenue from excise and . 


licence fees for manufacture and sale during the last five years is - 


given below :— 


1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. : 
£P £P £P £P £P 

Tobacco— ; 

Duties us oie 148,754 162,984 150,541 153,720 | 201,722 

Licence fees nee 6,276 6,290 6,076 5,872 |- 6,281 
Intoxicating Liquors— | 

Duties aa sate 22,967 28,220 31,941 33,262 37,632 

Licence fees bas 3,347 3,461 6,223 6,725 4,290 
Salt— 

Duties ote pits 9,440 11,118 11,341 11,410 12,000 
Matches— 

Duties ie ote 6,643 6,674 10,447 11,895 16,382 

Licence fees ates 10 10 100 100 50 
Methylated Spirits— 

Duties aaa she 3,175 


——— Pe 
EE ee) ne pee . 


Total ... £P| 197,437 218,757 216,668 | 222,984 281,532 





The excise duty on tobacco was raised from 250 mils to 350 mls 
per kilogram in January ; fixed licence fees of £P50 for the manu- 
facture of wine and beer and of £P100 for the manufacture of 
spirits was introduced; and the excise duty on matches was 10- 


creased from 75 mils to 125 mils per gross of boxes (10,000 - 


matches). 
An excise duty of 15 mils per kilogram on methylated spirits was 


imposed for the first time in March, in conjunction with a higher = 


import duty which has enabled the local factories to capture the .. 
local market to the almost entire exclusion of imported methylated . 


spirits. 


Prices of locally grown tobacco continue to fall owing © =: 
accumulation of large stocks and the lack of competition in buying ° 
by local factories. There is still a considerable traffic in contraband . 
tobacco, nearly 15,000 kilograms and 80,000 booklets of cigarette ~ 


papers being seized by preventive officers. The Courts inflicted 


fines amounting to £P18,000, but most offenders elect to go © -- 


prison instead of paying fines. 


13. The Levant Fair held in 1932 covered an area of 54,00 < 


square metres, compared with 7,000 square metres on the previous — 


occasion in 1929; there were 1,226 exhibitors and 280,000 yisitors: 


14. There was considerable building activity, and large sums We 


invested in house property in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Tel-Aviv, and Hava. 
The demand for houses still exceeds the supply, and as a result the 
price of building plots in the four principal towns rose considera ly 
during the year. - 4 


cyt 


169 


The building of bodies for omnibuses and commercial motor 
vehicles has developed into a fair-sized industry. 

Several new factories were started in 1932, for silk, hosiery, 
citrus fruit juice, candles, wire nails, iron fencing, aluminium ware, 
cans, and paper. Existing factories have extended the range of 
their products to include paints, oil colours, and woollen knitted 
goods. | 


15. Monthly index numbers of wholesale prices and of the cost 
of living are given below :— 


Wholesale Prices Cost of Living 
(Basis 1931 (Basis January, 1922 
= 100 per cent.) = 100 per cent.) 
January... 108.2 59.8 
February ... 110.6 58.9 
March a 115.5 56.9 
April of 114.7 56.5 
May aaa 111.2 55.2 
June ee 109.8 55.6 
July his 107.4 54.1 
August... 110.8 54.8 
September ... 111.5 55.1 
October... 106.9 57.1 
November ... 102.6 59.7 
December ... 100.6 56.1 
Annual A verage 109.2 56.6 





The index number of wholesale prices is compiled from 58 com- 
modities, and that of the cost of lhving from 20 commodities, six- 
teen being articles of food, and the others kerosene, charcoal, soap, 
and tobacco. The price of nearly all commodities was slightly 
higher in 1932. 

The statement made in last year’s Report (page 8, paragraph 23) 
that there had been no untoward sign of inflation of local prices as 
a result of the departure of sterling from the gold standard was 
true only of the first part of the year. Prices rose subsequently, 
bringing about the situation described on page 146, paragraph 12, 
of the 1931 Report. 

16. Preparations for the construction of its pipe-line from ‘Iraq 
to the Mediterranean were completed by the ‘Iraq Petroleum Com- 
pany towards the end of summer. Headquarters were established 
at Haifa, with railhead depots at Mafrak (Trans-Jordan), Baiji 
(Iraq), and Homs (Syria). 

The southern route of the pipe-line, which is 621 miles long, 
diverges from the northern route some seven miles west of Haditha 
and continues thence across the desert passing a few miles north 
of Rutbah Wells, through Mafrak and Jisr el Majamie to Haifa. 


170 


There will be eight pumping stations between Kirkuk and Haifa; 
from the last station, 140 miles east to Haifa, the oil will flow down 
to the terminal site by gravity. 


By the end of the year, approximately 100 miles of pipe had 
been strung along the southern route from Jisr el Majamie to 4 
point approximately 60 miles east of Mafrak, and 14 miles of line 
were completed. 


Direct telephone and telegraph communication on the Con- 
pany’s private system already exists between Haifa and Mafrak, 
and an auxiliary line, in connection with water supplies, connects 
Mafrak and Azraq. 

Seven wireless installations are to be put up at various depots 
and camps, and the company: use aeroplane as well as motor 
transport. 


Drilling for water was carried out along the southern route with 
successful results. 

25,000 tons of material were imported by the company into 
Palestine and Trans-Jordan through Haifa. 


171 





b28°E9E'S | LLOI | L8E‘SCL‘T | O0zg‘T 20S‘0Z Tg9 oLO‘LT LOL 6IE‘EFEs | 9Z0T | 9TO*BELT | $I8 bad / 


€08‘61'T | 88 L6Z°EL8 99L 619°OL CEs 616 O9€ PSTEst‘t | gig 6F1‘998 90F ~“*  -peteely 


IZO‘OLI'T | 628 069088 PSL 9886 91€ €Z8°8 LYE CEl‘O9TT | eIg L98‘TL8 LOF “* perez ay 
"8U0,T, "979899 4 "Suo, J, "879889 4 "SU0,, "979882 A "suo, ‘syassa4 | ‘suo "912889 4 ‘suo, | *sjassa4 


7 ee eee eee 





‘ZEGBL PUB TEBT saved oy 
IO} OUT}SO[BG JO Opel], FUTSBOD OY} UI poivs]d pUB polejUS S[OSseA SUT[IVG pues MIve}g Jo esBUUOT, pus JaquUINN 


‘AVG, ONLLSVOO 








6IT‘'Z60'F | Los‘g | Te6‘ezL‘e | g68'o | LOZ‘6OI : cle | Lég66 | 18% coe'ca0'e | sre'l | HOFFO'S | SIOT | MOL 
ris‘eeoz | #16 | cur'ros't | Fe's | exo'se | ore't | Leo'er | set's | ree‘eze't| soo | oz¥vIs't| 908 | pare 
G0E‘890% | EF6'S | GLL‘6SS'T | GFE'S | FEISS | 696T | OLS | PI'S | IIT‘EOO'S | FL6 | 6z6608T | 908 |“ Paroqay 
sug; | ewveg | ou, | -opeeog | owns, | -eporog| uo, | opovog| vouoz | -eowrog | -euo, | mpmwog | 
“BE61 “TE61 “BE6I “TE61 “BE61 ‘TE61 
mor |g | tng 


GEE PUS TEGT siv0d OT 
10} OUT}Se[¥q JO epel], UsIe10,7 OY} UI palee[o pus porejUO sjosseA Sul[leg pus m¥e}g jo eseuuoy, pue zequinN 


HAVA], NOIMWOT 
"ONIddIAQ 


172 


XXIV.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


1. The business of the Department showed a satisfactory recovery 
from the effects of the general economic depression recorded in the 
Report for 1931, noticeably in respect of the two items of revenue 
in which the principal reductions occurred in that year, namely, 
sale of stamps and telephones. 

2. Revenue amounted to £P.219,955 compared with £P.210,123 
in 1931, an increase of £P.9,832. Stamp sales showed an increase 
of £P.4,725 and telephone revenue an increase of £P.4,187. Part 
of the increase in the sale of stamps in 1932 was due to an increase 
in certain foreign postage rates which came into force on the 
Ist June. 

3. Expenditure amounted to £P.154,194 compared with 
£P.148,524 in 1931: the increase is almost entirely accounted for 
by annual increments of salary and by the enhanced cost of con- 
veyance of mails outside Palestine. 


4. The net excess of revenue over expenditure was £P.65,761 
compared with £P.61,599 in 1931. Taking into account the value 
of free services rendered to and by other Departments, revenue 
exceeded expenditure by £P.73,845. 

5. Posts.—There were substantial increases in the number of 
letters, postcards, prints, and in cash-on-delivery parcels dealt with, 
but, while there was a small increase in the number of inland 
parcels, there was a considerable decrease in the number of foreign 
parcels forwarded and received. This decrease is very largely 
explained by the use made by the public of the higher weight 
limit of 10 kilogrammes, instead of 5 kilogrammes per parcel, 
which has now been adopted by many Postal Administrations. 


6. Mail services by road, rail, and sea were regularly maintained 
throughout the year, with the exception that the service by road 
to Trans-Jordan was interrupted for a few days in February, when 
a high flood of the River Jordan rendered the approaches to the 
Allenby Bridge impassable. During this interruption the mails 
were forwarded by rail. 

7. The use of the Peninsular and Oriental homeward-bound 
steamers, which had ceaséd when certain Mediterranean Steamship 
Lines afforded accelerated service, was resumed in June, following 
modifications in the itineraries of the Mediterranean Lines. 


8. An overland mail service betwéen Jerusalem and Baghdad via 
Trans-Jordan was inaugurated in June and has been operated 
twice a week. It affords an acceleration of approximately 24 hours 
over the Damascus-Baghdad overland route for all mails which 
reach Palestine from abroad otherwise than by air. 

9. During the year the Dutch (K.L.M.) Air Mail service to 
Burma, Siam, Straits Settleménts, and Dutch East Indies, an 
additional weekly service to ‘Iraq, and an extension of the 
England—India and England—South Africa Air Mail services were 


173 


introduced. The advantages offered by air mail services generally 
have been constantly kept before the public, with the result that 
the number of items of correspondence despatched and received 
during the year amounted to 143,000, or more than double the 
quantity dealt with in 1931. 

10. 185,419 items of undelivered correspondence were handled 
in the Returned Letter Office, comprising 56,576 letters and post- 
cards and 128,843 other articles. Of these, 2,821 letters and cards 
and 278 other articles were registered. The total value of the con- 
tents of undelivered correspondence was £P.782, of which all but 
£P.43 was returned to the senders. 

11. In order to meet the increased cost of the carriage of foreign 
mails, due to the depreciation of sterling, an increase was made in 
the foreign postage rates on the lst June. The introduction of 
revised rates made it necessary to issue @ new stamp of 15 mils 
denomination and to change the colour and, in some cases, the 
design of several others. 

12. A new foreign postcard bearing an 8 mils impressed stamp 
was placed on sale on the Ist June in substitution for the 7 mils 
postcard. 

13. The number of licensed postage stamp vendors at the close 
of the year was 128; the rate of commission payable to them was 
reduced from 2 per cent. to 1 per cent. and the licence fee from 
200 mils to 100 mils. 

14. The money order service with Syria remained in suspense 
owing to currency fluctuations. 

15. There was some decrease in the number and value of money 
orders and postal orders, particularly in the case of money orders 
issued for payment abroad. 

16. Telephones.—Telephone development advanced much more 
rapidly than in the previous year. The percentage increases in 
the principal Exchange areas were as follows :— 


Subscribers’ Telephones 

Exchange Lines. (Stations). 

Per cent. Per cent. 
Haifa or seit oe ee 14 20 
Jaffa—Tel-Aviv... ee oh 18 24 
Jerusalem ... : wae 9 8 


17. Development was hampered in the Jaffa—Tel-Aviv Exchange 
area by delay on the part of contractors in delivering extension 
apparatus ; and in the Jerusalem area in consequence of the limit 
of capacity of the switchboard having been reached. The situation 
has been relieved to some extent by the installation of an improved 
extension switchboard. 

_ 18. In the statistical table appended to this Section, the increase 
in trunk calls, compared with 1931, is shown as 19 per cent. The 
actual increase, however, was only 3 per cent. The difference is 


174 


due to a revised method of calculation for statistical purposes. 
Formerly, every call, of whatever duration, was reckoned as one, 
whereas, for the year under review, the total number of calls has 
been based on the number of unit calls charged for—that is to say, 
the number of 3-minute calls made between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. 
and 6-minute calls made between 6 p.m. and 7 a.m. The actual 
increase of 3 per cent. compares very satisfactorily with the increase 
of 6 per cent. in 1931. 

19. There was a inarked increase in the number of trunk calls to 
Egypt and Trans-Jordan, the totals being as shown below :— 


1931. 1932. Increase. 


Per cent. 
Egypt... ee _ me 9,116 12 227 34 
Trans-Jordan ... — is 7,331 9,751 33 


20. The system whereby an unlimited number of local calls may 
be made on payment of a “* flat ’’ rate imposes a severe strain on 
the operating staff of the larger exchanges and it 1s intended to 
introduce the ‘‘ message ’’ rate system during 1933. 

21. Engineering.—The telegraph and telephone lines were main- 
tained in an efficient condition throughout the year. In addition 
to the ordinary maintenance work a considerable amount of over- 
hauling and reconstruction of routes was carried out. 


22. Additional trunk and junction circuits were brought into use 

between the following places :— 
Haifa—Nablus. 
Jaffa—Tiberias. 
J erusalem—Bethlehem. 
Jisr el Majamie—Tiberias. 
Lydda—Rehovot. 
Nablus—Tulkarm. 
Zikhron Ya’aqov—Binyamina. 

23. The first rural automatic exchange in Palestine was installed 
at ‘Ain Harod post office towards the end of the year and a night 
service switchboard of automatic type designed to afford continuous 
service to subscribers without the intervention of an exchange tele- 
phonist was installed at Hedera. 


24. Preliminary tests were conducted with a view to the establish- 
ment of telephonic communication with the United Kingdom and 
other countries via the Egyptian wireless station at Cairo. Although 
the quality of speech transmission fell somewhat short of the 
standard required for commercial purposes there is a reasonable 
prospect of the service being introduced during the ensuing year. 


25. General.—During the year, parcel post agreements were 
concluded with the Postal Administrations of Cyprus and Italy: 
and a mail contract was entered into with the American Export 
Lines for the direct conveyance of parcel mails to and from the 
United States. 


175 


26. A temporary post office was established in the grounds of 
the Levant Fair, Tel-Aviv, during the month of April and appeared 
to be much appreciated by both exhibitors and visitors. 


27. Notwithstanding that a broadcasting service has not yet been 
established in Palestine or in any of the contiguous countries and 
that listeners have to rely entirely on programmes supplied by 
the various European stations, there has been a considerable in- 
crease in the demand for receiving hcences. The number issued 
in 1932 was 900, compared with 486 in 1931, and there are indica- 
tions that the recentiy introduced Empire Broadcasting Service will 
result in a further increase in the demand. 


REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE. 





Increase or Decrease 





Public Service. 1932. 
1931. 1932. Increase. | Decrease. 
7 £P £P £P £P 
REVENUE— 
Sale of stamps ... ... | 87,143 | 91,868 4,725 — 
Commission on money orders . 1,057 950 — 107 
Postal orders poundage... ss 866 853 — 13 
Foreign parcel oe oe wis 7,768 7,960 192 — 
Telegrams ; ae cok 23,671 24,070 399 — 
Telephones ae Bais Jake 81,290 85,477 4,187 — 
Rent of letter-boxes ... re 2,507 2,653 146 — 
Maintenance of lines in Sinai ... 2,839 2,446 — 393 
Miscellaneous... Seis tee 2,982 3,678 696 — 
Totals ... ae ses £P| 210,123 219,955 10,345 513 
EXPENDITURE— 
All services except conveyance | 142,416 | 146,949 3,533 — 
of mails outside Palestine. 
Conveyance of mails outside 6,108 8,245 2,137 — 
Palestine. 


Totals ... bes we £P| 148,524 154,194 5,670 —_ 


ESTIMATED VALUE OF SERVICES RENDERED TO AND BY OTHER 
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS DURING THE PERIOD 18ST DECEMBER 
1931, To 30TH NovEMBER, 1932. 





£P. 

Rendered to other Departments. 
Official i eae us a ee ... 6,381 
Telegrams 3 ees 11 
Customs Services (5 per cent. of £P33 644) ... 1,692 
£P.8,084 
Rendered by other ss adie , Nil. 


Credit Balance... oe bas £P.8,084 





176 
TRAFFIC STATISTICS. 


Item. 1931. 1932, | “norease or 
cent. 
Letters 10,787,750 | 12,389,400 | + 14-8 
Post cards 819,559 918,700 | + 12 
Printed matter and samples 5,839,902 6,446,700 + 10-4 
Parcels, inland _... 31,772 32,200 | + 1-3 
Parcels, foreign, despatched 36,026 28,500 — 20:8 
Parcels, foreign, received 77,780 72,600 — 6:6 
Cash-on-delivery parcels, despatched . 40 24); — 40 
Cash-on-delivery parcels, received se 1,430 2,000 | + 39-8 
Cash-on-delivery parcels, inland, i — 167 — 
Telegrams .. 256,350 252,600 | — 1-5 
Telephone subscribers’ exchange lines’: 2,977 3,300 + 10 
Telephones (stations) ee ae 4,602 5,248 + 14 
Telephone, local calls... oe3 14,500,000 | 17,500,000 + 2] 
Telephone, trunk calls... - 685,475 819,000 | + 19* 
Telegraph and telephone, local lines km. 14,557 16,881 + 15-9 
Telegraph and telephone, trunk lines km. 13,229 13,556 + 2-5 





* In 1931 a call of whatever duration was counted as one; in 1932 every unit call 
of 3 minutes. 


MoNEY ORDER AND PostTaL ORDER STATISTICS. 


1931. 1932, | ‘nerease or 
per cent. 
Postal orders (Palestine) 
Number issued % 96,558 95,364; — 1-2 
Value... ee £P72,330 £P72,550 | + 0-3 
Postal orders (Imperial) 
Number issued .. i 23,298 22,518 — 3-3 
Value... ee £P14,370 £P14,493 + 0-9 
Postal orders ( Palestine) 
Number paid : 96,272 95,251 — Jl] 
Value... ee £P72,200 £P71,783 — 0-6 
Postal orders (Imperial) 
Number paid - 6,338 6,263 — ]-2 
Value... ses £P3,985 £P3,791 — 49 
Postal orders (Egyptian) 
Number paid je 5,734 5,519 — 3-8 
Value... £P5,088 £P4,895 — 3:8 
Money orders (inland) 
Number issued 12,259 11,236 | — 8:3 
Value... ee £P138,848 | £P120,300 | — 13-4 
Money orders (foreign) 
Number issued 3,317 2,046 | — 38-3 
Value £P16,034 £P11,717 | — 26-9 
Money orders (foreign) 
Number paid 20,359 19,126 — 6:1] 
Value £P64,485 £P61,050 | — 5:3 





177 


XXV.—AGRICULTURE, FORESTS, AND FISHERIES. 


Agricultural Service.—During 1931, a low rainfall had resulted in 
a diminished production of field crops. Weather conditions during 
_ 19382 proved still more unfavourable and the records of thirty-four 
stations show that the rainfall was considerably below the average 
at each, with the single exception of Beersheba. The shortage was 
particularly felt during March and April. Winter crops were 
generally poor in consequence, while summer crops were indifferent 
in the north and almost entirely failed in the southern areas. 
Poor harvests during two successive years had reduced many 
cultivators, dependent on rain cultivation, to the direst straits. 
In March, the Government undertook the first measure of relief 
by issuing £P.6,000 in seed loans in the Jerusalem and Southern 
Districts. As the year progressed and it was possible to appreciate 
the full extent of crop failures, it became evident that more com- 
prehensive measures of assistance would be required. In October, 
4 further sum of £P.35,000 was distributed as loans to cultivators 
for the purchase of seed, forage, and plough oxen; and tithes were 

remitted to the extent of £P.173,000, divided as follows :— 


£P. 
Northern District ... €3is aes: ee ..- 102,000 
Southern District ... ee safe oh ... 49,000 
Jerusalem District ... sate weg — ... 22,000 


Towards the end of the summer, pasture ran short and a sub- 
stantial rise in the prices of fodder ensued causing grave anxiety 
as to the condition of livestock. The position was only relieved 
by exceptionally early rains in the middle of September and early 
October. From the middle of November to the end of December, 
the rains failed generally in the south and large areas of winter 
crops dried or the sowings failed to germinate. 

It became necessary, therefore, in January, 1933, to set aside 
an additional amount of £P.30,000 for issue in loans to the dis- 
tressed cultivators, so that they might resow their land. The 
owners of flocks in the Beersheba district, which were starving 
from lack of grazing, were also granted advances, aggregating 
£P.6,000, to buy fodder. 


2. Happily, the agricultural community was spared serious de- 
predations from pests and diseases in field crops. Locusts, reported 
in neighbouring territories during March, returned southwards 
Without invading Palestine. Field mice, which had reappeared in 
the autumn of 1931, were eliminated by the spring of 1932 after 
2 campaign during which villagers and colonists furnished labour 


Voluntarily and the Government Service supplied materials at a 
Cost of £P.2 295. 


; 8. Efforts to improve agriculture through the medium of official 
sticultural stations and village demonstration plots have been 
*veloped and intensified in accordance with a progressive policy 


178 


announced by the High Commissioner in an address delivered to 
some 200 Palestinian farmers at the Acre Stud Farm and Agri- 
cultural Station on the 2nd May, 1932. The following is the text 
of this address :— 


It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to the Government 
Farm at Acre. 
My objects in doing so were threefold :— 

(1) To have the pleasure of meeting a number of farmers from 
all parts of Palestine. 

(2) To give you an opportunity of meeting each other, and 
seeing the work that is actually being done at the Acre Stud 
Farm and Agricultural Station. 

(3) To tell you something of our plans for the future and 
how farmers can benefit from Acre and similar Government 
Farms. 


First, as regards cereals, past experimental work has now proved 
that certain varieties are especially suited to Palestine and with 
good seed the cultivator can double his crop both of wheat and 
barley, and also of forage crops. Eight tons of wheat seed and 
19 tons of barley were issued from Government Farms last year 
and 18 tons of leguminous and other seeds. 

We are now increasing the area of Acre Farm from 1,500 to 3,00 
dunums and we hope next year to issue 80 tons of selected seeds. 
This I hope will help many cultivators to increase the yield of their 
crops even in years of drought such as this. 

I am sure that one of the first needs of the poorer cultivator is to 
be able to get a good quality seed at a low rate. 

Secondly, as regards the stud farm we shall carry on the work 
of past years and, in addition, purchase a number of good Palestine 
and Syrian bred bulls, and take further steps to try to improve 
the standard of bulls, rams, goats, and donkeys in Palestine. 

Thirdly, as regards fruit trees, experimental work has now 
proved the superior merits of a number of varieties. From the 
Jerusalem Horticultural Station wood for 20,000 trees was issued 
last year. With the extension of the Acre Farm, we shal! in future 
be able to grow fruit trees both here, at Baisan, and in the 
Jerusalem Station, and we hope to have large numbers of budded 
trees ready for issue in two or three years’ time. 

For this and other reasons we shall arrange an extension of 
the Horticultural Station at Jerusalem. 

Fourthly, as to poultry and vegetables, I believe the cultivators’ 
position can be improved not only by adding olives and fruit 
trees to cereal crops but also by helping him to keep good classes 
of poultry and to grow vegetables. 

The demand for fowls and hatching eggs now exceeds the supply: 
we hope to increase our supply next year to 2,500 hatching eggs 
and 3,000 young pedigree fowls and also to issue larger quantities 
of vegetable seeds. 

Until now there has been no Agricultural Farm in the south. I 
have decided to open a station at Gaza this autumn. 

Its main functions will be:— 

(1) The production and issue of tested seed. 


179 


(2) To show by demonstration the varieties best suited to the 
south of leguminous and forage crops, vegetables, and fruit 
trees. 

(3) To test improved methods of dry farming. 

We all know that this is a year of financial difficulties, but the 
increased developments as outlined above at small cost to the 
taxpayer will, I hope, prove of definite benefit to the cultivator, 
and show that the Government is anxious to assist both agriculture 
and horticulture in Palestine. 

I trust also that this visit to Acre wil] encourage farmers to visit 
Government Agricultural Stations, where they will be welcomed 
by the Staff and shown the results of recent trials and experiments. 


4. Offictal Agricultural Stations.—(a) The Acre Stud Farm and 
- Agricultural Station has been considerably enlarged and now covers 
some 3,200 dunums. 800 dunums were leased in connexion with 
the improvement of the quality of cereals by field crop selection, 
the acclimatization of varieties, and the production of selected 
seed for distribution to cultivators gratis or at moderate charges. 
_ (b) At Farradieh in the hill district of Safad, a new agricul- 
tural station comprising 150 dunums has been organised with a 
similar objective. 

(c) At Majdal, a new station has been established on 600 dunums 
of plain land in the Gaza sub-district, where dry farming practices 
are to be demonstrated and drought-resistant seeds are to be ratsed 
for distribution. 

(d) The Baisan Station is concerned in the growing of irrigated 
forage crops, the improvement of maize, and the production of 
_ Seed for wheat, barley, and linseed for distribution. 

During the year, 35 tons of selected seed were issued from Acre 
and Baisan, the demand being much greater than the supply. 
The enlargement of the Acre Station and the establishment of the 
new stations at Farradieh and Majdal should lead to a substantially 
increased production of selected seed in future. 


9. Village Demonstration Plots.—In 1931 there were 57 village 
demonstration plots, which proved a popular means of broadcasting 
the results attained at official stations and of conducing to their 
practical adoption by the farming community. During 19382, the 
number of these plots was multiplied, and there are now 269, 
distributed as under. 

Northern Southern 
District. District. Total. 


Demonstration plots _... 15 8 23 
Village nurseries ... oe 14 8 22 
Vegetable plots... oo 47 14 61 
Potato plots ae - 20 11 31 
Reed plots ... aby sd 90 36 126 
Forage plots au bx 6 — 6 


Total... - 192 17 269 


180 | 


6. General Activities.—The agricultural Field Staff were engaged 
throughout the year in inspecting village lands and crops for the 
estimation and reinission of tithes in co-operation with the officers 
of the District Administration, in advising and assisting villagers 
in the control of fungoid and insect pests and diseases, in the super- 
vision of work at the various demonstration plots, in distributing 
selected seed and fertilizers, in demonstrating the advantages of 
improved types of agricultural machinery, in demonstrating the 
value of cleaning grain with portable grain cleaning machines in 
order to eliminate weeds and broken or damaged seed and improve 
its quality for sowing purposes, and in collecting village statistics 
of every agricultural activity. 

Attempts to improve the condition of local livestock by the feeding 
of green forage were considered and areas and experimental plots 
were sown with maize, oats, vetch, and berseem for this purpose. 


7. General Agricultural Council.—The Council held 3ix meetings 
during the year. At a meeting held in June at Government House, 
the High Commissioner informed the members that they would be 
consulted in future on legislation affecting the agricultural com- 
munity and advised them that despite financial stringency a number 
of their proposals had been carried out with encouraging results. 
Members expressed their satisfaction with the measures under- 
taken to promote the agricultural industry and their readiness to 
co-operate with the Government In carrying out its programme 
in the interest of agriculture as a whole, in co-ordinating the 
research activities of the various agricultural institutions and 
agencies, to eliminate duplication and overlapping, and in formu- 
lating a scheme to improve the lot of the Palestinian farmer. 


During the year the Council submitted a detailed report to the 
Government setting out its views upon the proposals to replace 
the tithe and werko by a single tax on land (see 1931 Report, 
page 7, paragraph 17*); and made recommendations for the amend- 
ment of the Village Roads and Works Ordinance, 1925, with a view 
to facilitating the connexion of villages and colonies with main or 
arterial roads in the citrus belt, and thus to improving the arrange- 
ments for marketing of the fruit. 


Four important banks in Paléstine had applied for amending 
legislation to permit the granting of seasonal credits to agricul: 
turists by means of a charge on crops. The Council advised 
against the change, as being unlikely to bring any benefit to agri- 
culturists at a time when co-operative organization is strongly 
recommended, and on the grounds that over-borrowing should not 
be encouraged and that existing legislation affords ample opportunity 
both for individuals to borrow and for the banks to obtain the 
necessary security on current crops. This advice was accepted by 
Government. 


ee 


* Colonial No. 75. 


181 


On the proposal of the Council, the Department of Agriculture 

1s to give special attention to the importance of increasing the local 

cultivation of potatoes and onions, of which the annual imports 
amount to £P.90,000. 


Also, on the recommendation of the Council, a Committee has 

been set up by the High Commissioner to examine the question of 
improving the Palestine exhibit at the Imperial Institute Galleries 
in London, as a means of affording publicity to agricultural progress 
in Palestine and of attracting buyers for Palestinian products. 


Several Committees of the General Agricultural Council were 
active during the year. The Committee on Agronomy is formulating 
proposals for the compulsory cleaning of grain. On the recommend- 
ation of the Committee on Agricultural Education, a representative 
of Palestine attended the Fourth International Congress of Agri- 
cultural Instruction at Rome during October/November, 1932, and 
presented an informative report on its proceedings. This Com- 
mittee has under consideration the question of co-ordinating the 
curricula in Government and private agricultural schools. The 
Irrigation Committee has been invited by Government to examine 
a draft Irrigation Law, which is a legislative measure of far-reaching 
importance for Palestine. 


The Committee on Agricultural Economics and Marketing met 
at frequent intervals and its deliberations are proving of very great 
value in indicating directions in which the profitable éxport of the 
agricultural and dairy produce of Palestine may be developed. 
Among the proposals of the Committee which the Government 
has carried or intends to carry into effect, may be cited the follow- 
ing: consignments abroad of dried raisins, spring chicks, and eggs; 
reduction of the licence duties for wine manufacture and the excise 
duties on wine; increase of Import Duty on milk cream; an inquiry 
Into the possibilities of a canning (fruit and vegetable) industry 
In Palestine ; promotion of co-operative societies of Arab banana- 
stowers ; the setting up of a delegation to discuss with Egyptian 
representatives the possibility of arriving at a mutually advantageous 
Customs Tariff modus vivendi; the increased cultivation of crops 
as fodder ; the direction of afforestation with a view to the require- 
ments of the citrus industry for citrus cases. 


8. The Kadoorie (Arab) Agricultural School at Tulkarm has 
Completed its second year of instruction. Forty students were 
in residence during the year, including two from Trans-Jordan. 

he expenditure amounted to £P.5,360, including a Government 
ant-in-aid of £P.2,271, and the revenue to £P.3,089, of which 
£P 1,678 was interest on the Endowment Fund, £P.968 was de- 
"ved from students’ fees, and £P.443 from the sale of produce 
own on the school lands. The health of the students has been 
Hood, they display keenness, perseverance, and appreciation of the 
“ucational facilities provided, and athletic games have been 
_ “neouraged with good results. 
18938 


‘ul 
5 


Gq 


182 


The syllabus has been revised in the light of experience and 
now consists of a two-year course, fifteen students being admitted 
each year. After completion of the two-year course, which 
has been devised to secure a sound knowledge of elementary 
agriculture and subsidiary subjects such as farm forestry, poultry, 
bee-keeping, sericulture, and dairying, ten selected students are 
to receive a third year’s course in pedagogy by arrangement with 
the Department of Education in order to fit them to become village 
schoolmasters and so to give a rural bias to education at village 
schools. 

Instruction is now given in the management of local sheep and 
goats, a shed for the animals having been built by the school 
carpenter with the assistance of student labour. 


9. At the Kadoorie (Jewish) Agricultural School at Mount Tabor 
the farm buildings and water installation have been completed and 
fittings have been ordered. The residential buildings and class- 
rooms are expected to be completed by the Ist January, 1934. 

Mr. S. Zemach, Head of the Extension Division of the Jewish 
Agency’s Agricultural Experimental Station in Palestine, has been 
appointed Principal of the School and will assume responsibility for 
planning the lay-out of the school lands, for working out the curr- 
culum and detailed organization and for selecting the teaching staff. 
It will thus be possible to open the school immediately upon con- 
pletion of the school buildings. 


10. Veterinary Service.—According to the census taken during 
the year, the livestock of the country numbers 159,600 cattle, 
247,700 sheep, 380,600 goats, 7,400 buffaloes, 14,100 horses 5,6 
mules, 74,200 donkeys, 32,300 camels, and 1,172,000 head of 
poultry. The value of this stock, based on average market prices, 
is £P.4,150,000. 


11. Owing to drought and to lack of grazing and fodder the 
general condition of stock throughout the country was not satis- 
factory. 


12. There were imported through quarantine stations 179,839 
animals, of which 10,359 were cattle, 99,982 sheep, and 60,204 
goats, valued at approximately £P.457,500. Quarantine receipts 
amounted to £P.5,800. 


13. Rules were made governing the importation and exportation 
of animal products and prescribing the conditions under which 
different kinds of animals may be imported from Great Britain, 
Roumania, Turkey, Bulgaria, and Switzerland. 


14. There was no outbreak of serious epizootic cattle disease, 
such as cattle plague and contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia. 
Foot-and-mouth disease was prevalent, but, as the type in Pales- 
tine is mild, causing only slight lesions and no mortality, it 1s 
not considered a serious plague. Measures of control consist of 
local quarantine and emergency inoculation. 


183 


15. Good progress has been made in the prevention and eradica- 
tion of bovine contagious abortion among herds of which the owners 
adopt the Government plans of control. There are now 35 herds, 
comprising 2,883 head of cattle, which are regularly tested and 
under the supervision of Veterinary Officers. Of these, 24 herds 
are now entirely free of the disease while in the remaining herds 
the incidence has fallen considerably. 


16. Tick-borne diseases still cause emaciation and debility among 
native cattle, sheer, and goats, and serious fevers and mortality in 
crade stock. ° 

Dipping of sheep and goats has been demonstrated in certain 
localities to the satisfaction of fellahin who are now beginning to 
appreciate the benefits to be derived from this process, if regularly 
applied, in destroying ticks and other external parasites. 


l7, Anthrax assumed epidemic proportions in several places 
during the late autumn, favourable conditions for the multiplication 
of anthrax bacilli having been created by the exceptionally early 
tain and high temperature. Serious mortality was, however, pre- 
vented by the timely vaccination of all stock exposed to infection. 


18. Annual vaccination of young stock in black-quarter areas was 
continued. 


19. A few sporadic cases of sheep and goat pox occurred but the 
spread of the disease was checked by suitable segregation measures. 


20. Several animals affected with epizootic lymphangitis and 
glanders were destroyed and their carcasses buried. 


21. The Veterinary Laboratory is now equipped to conduct the 
complement fixation test in control of dourine and 436 such tests 
Were carried out. All mares and stallions in certain areas are now 
tested before being licensed for breeding purposes and several posi- 
live cases have in consequence been detected and steps taken to pre- 
vent the further use of the infected animals for breeding. 


22. As rabies threatened to assume very serious proportions 
during the year, special steps were successfully taken to bring the 
disease under measurable control, over 30,000 dogs being destroyed 
in towns and villages. 

There were 176 cases of rabies in animals, of which 126 were con- 
trmed by the Central Laboratories. 666 suspectedly rabid animals 
were placed under observation and 23 of them developed rabies. 


23. Fowl pox was again the cause of serious losses to poultry 
Taisers, the more progressive of whom are endeavouring to im- 
munize their flocks by vaccination. The method of vaccination by 
Mgeon pox virus vaccine was employed by the Government 
Veterinary Service with encouraging results in a number of out- 
breaks of the disease. 

Losses due to coccidiosis and external and internal parasites were 
Comparatively heavy. Young chicks are now reared by modern 
armers on wire netting floors with very good results. 

18938 G 2 


184 


A few outbreaks occurred of fowl typhoid and fowl] cholera. Vac- 
cine and serum respectively were employed in combating these two 
diseases. 

24. Veterinary Laboratory.—The number of dairy herds tested 
under plans for control of contagious bovine abortion has greatly in- 
creased and nearly 20,000 agglutination tests were prepared by the 
Veterinary Laboratory during the year. 1,219 other specimens 
were microscopically or bacteriologically examined. 

94,135 doses of various vaccines have been prepared. 


25. Stock Farm, Acre.—The lands of this farm have been in- 
creased by 410 dunums and arrangements made to bring 140 — 
dunums under irrigation for production of green fodder. 

The half-bred Devon bulls and cows have been sold. Twenty- 
three young bulls and 12 heifers of Lebanese breed, 4 Damascus — 
jackasses, and 3 fillies, 66 selected native ewes and rams and 40 
Syrian goats, were purchased. 

The middle white breed of pigs introduced last year 1s very popv- 
lar amongst pig breeders and 11 young boars have been sold to 
farmers. 

The Arab stallions and jackasses have been released for breeding 
to mares which pass the dourine complement fixation test. 


26. The Poultry Section has been considerably enlarged and it 
is now possible to conduct poultry feeding experiments and to pro- 
duce 25,000 hatching eggs and 3,000 pullets and cockerels annually 
for distribution to farmers. The turkey, duck, and rabbit sections 
have also been increased and beehives have been added, so that 300 
swarms and 500 improved queens are distributed to bee-keepers 
annually. 

Six poultry and bee-keeping distribution and demonstration 
stations have been established (at Gaza, Beersheba, Hebron, 
Nablus, Safad, and Farradieh), enabling villagers and small poultry 
raisers to obtain more easily hatching eggs and birds of various 
breeds for the improvement of their stock and serving to bnng 
home to fellahin the value of adopting improved methods of poultry 
management. 

Trial shipments of fresh eggs to the United Kingdom were under- 
taken to ascertain the possibilities of marketing. The eggs arrived 
in excellent condition, the grading and packing were satisfactory. 
and reports received indicate that there is a good market. 

Appreciable progress has been made in suppressing foul-brood 
disease of bees. All modern hives have been inspected, infected 
swarms destroyed, and beehives disinfected. 

The Cyano gas method for the control and suppression of hornets, 
which each year attuck and destroy hundreds of bee colonies, was 
demonstrated to bee-keepers successfully and resulted in the com- 
plete destruction of numerous hornet nests. 


27. Forestry Service.—957,465 plants were raised at 12 Forest 
Nurseries, and 100,000 plants were purchased from Girls’ Nurseries 


185 


operated by the General Federation of Jewish labour. 744,188 
plants were used 1n afforestation schemes departmentally. 103,099 
were distributed gratis for amenity purposes, and 9,204 were sold. 

122,086 olives were planted by the public, of which 11,537 were 
extracted from forest reserves under licence. 

Departmental plantations have made favourable development, a 
sum of £P.4,000 being devoted to this purpose. 

Ninety-three plantations, comprising an area of 1,311 dunums, 
were formed by private agency during the 1931-32 raimy season. 

Imports of forest produce, including manufactures, amounted in 
value to £P.422,897, and exports to £P.9,669. 

Forest revenues totalled £P.6,228, 21,508 licences being issued, 
including 4,963 to right-holders. Regulations were issued empower- 
ing District Officers to remit licence fees in cases of poverty and 
to reduce grazing fees by half for strangers’ cattle grazing in forest 
reserves temporarily during the fodder shortage. 

106 persons were convicted for forest contraventions. 

Kleven forest reserves, with a total area of 4,902 dunums, were 
proclaimed, bringing the number of reserves to 215, covering 685 ,895 
dunums; survey and demarcation were applied to 45 existing and 
proposed reserves. 

A modest programme of forest research was further developed by 
the Government Service. 


28. Sericulture.—11,000 mulberry plants were distributed free 
to agriculturists, institutions, and Government private schools. 
_ Experiments were carried out with chemical fertilizers and the 

possibility of utilizing the mulberry leaves twice yearly was studied 
(a) in the spring as food for silkworms and (b) in autumn as forage 
for domestic animals. 

The Government mulberry plantations at Acre and Tulkarm 
furnished sufficient leaves for demonstrational and instructive silk- 
worm rearing to be carried out at these stations. 

Silkworm rearings on a small scale were carried out at different 
places in the country. 

The Sericultural Service distributed various implements and 
breeding equipment to private individuals and schools to enable 
them to produce cocoons. Thirty students and 14 teachers studying 
at the Kadocrie Arab Agricultural School, Tulkarm, have passed 
their examinations in sericulture. 

A revised edition of an instructional leaflet entitled ‘‘ The Pro- 
pagation and Tending of the Mulberry for Sericulture ’’ has been 
issued in the three official languages. 


29. Horticultural Service.—The scope of this Service was in- 
creased by twelve new appointments, viz., two Horticultural 
Assistants, two Station Superintendents, and eight Assistant Fruit 
Inspectors. The Horticultural Assistants were occupied in furnish- 
Ing peripatetic instruction and advice to growers generally, while 

18938 G3 


186 


the Station Superintendents have been mainly engaged in carry- 
ing out demonstrational and experimental work at official Horti- 
cultural Stations and in orchards and vineyards. The Assistant 
Fruit Inspectors were employed on work in connexion with the 
fumigation of citrus groves during the summer and during the 
winter on the inspection of citrus fruit for export. 


3). In addition to the Horticultural Stations at Jerusalem, 
Jericho, and Baisan, where the experimental work of the last two 
years has been continued, two new Stations were opened during the 
latter part of the year at Farradieh (Safad) and Majdal (Gaza), 
while a small citrus nursery has been begun at the Acre Stock 
Farm in anticipation of the opening of a horticultural section at 
that Station next year. Experiments and demonstrations in CO 
operation with owners of orange, olive, and banana groves and 
vineyards were successfully continued in thirty centres. 


31. During the early summer a Fruit Show was organised by 
the Government Department at Jaffa, at which a great many of 
the different varieties of fruit grown in Palestine were exhibited, 
and which drew a large number of interested horticulturists from 
all parts of the country. In the spring exhibits of fresh, dried, 
and canned fruit were shown in 4 departmental exhibit at the 
Levant Fair in Tel-Aviv : this exhibit was awarded a Gold Metal. 


32. During the summer work was carried out in ten orange 
groves between Rehovoth and Petah-Tiqva on some 2,000 trees to 
demonstrate better methods of pruning, spraying, and tree attet- 
tion than are usually practised, and to impress upon growers the 
necessity for arranging these services in a proper and systematic 
manner. Considerable interest was taken in this work by growers 
in the neighbourhood of each demonstration grove. 


33. Fruit inspection was carried out with increased vigour at 
Jaffa, Haifa, and at many railway stations, while permanent staffs 
were kept busv at Rehovot, Petah-Tiqva, and Hedera. A record 
crop of over three and a-half. million boxes of citrus fruit wa 
exported overseas during the 1931-32 season, and, although large 
quantities were rejected for various reasons, it may be said that 
on the whole there has been a definite improvement in the selection. 
grading, and packing of the fruit. 


34. Regulations under the Fruit Export Ordinance, 1927, wert 
amended to provide for the registration of all citrus exporters 4!° 
their respective brands. 238 exporters, including co-operative 
societies and companies, and 654 brand marks were so registered. 


35. Mycological investigations into the control of fruit transp" 
rots and inquiries concerning problems of fruit storage were co” 
tinued by the Experimental Station of the Jewish Agency in & 
operation with the Horticultural Service, a grant-in-aid of £P.iH! 
having been made available by Government for these purposes. 








187 


36. Despite the growth of a considerable horticultural nursery 
industry, numbers of intending planters are unable to obtain fruit 
trees, vines, and olives of improved types in adequate quantities 
at reasonable prices. Steps have consequently been taken to pro- 
pagate stocks at official Horticultural Stations for issue at moderate 
charges. 


37. Entomological Service.—During the period under review, 
the Service was almost entirely occupied with the Black Scale 
situation. The proposal to recover the costs of fumigation from the 
citrus industry as a whole by a levy of 7 mils on every box of 
citrus fruits exported has not been pursued. 93,000 trees were 
fumigated in the north and in the Jaffa area by the Government 
‘Service on terms of repayment and 20,000 were treated under 
private contracts between grove owners and a fumigation company 
operating in Palestine. This was the first instance of direct 
arrangements for fumigation made by the growers themselves. The 
future policy and intentions of Government were announced in an 
oficial communiqué as follows :— 


Government has been seriously concerned on account of the 
persistence of Black Scale infection in the citrus groves of Northern 
Palestine and its spread into the Jaffa areas of cultivation. A 
special survey of the situation has therefore been carried out by the 
Entomological Service, and it is evident that the degree of infesta- 
tion is such as to demand comprehensive and drastic measures 
of treatment if the future of the most important industry in the 
country is not to be jeopardized. 

It has therefore been decided to carry out a complete scheme of 
fumigation during 1933 and thereafter vigorously to enforce, under 
the Plant Protection Ordinance, 1924, a continuous programme of 
Scale control from year to year. The following steps will be taken 
In 1933 :— 

(a) Eradication in the Northern area of approximately 90,000 
unproductive trees which are not worth the cost of fumigation. 

(5) Fumigation of approximately 180,000 productive trees in 
the north and 60,000 in the south. 

(c) Gratis issue of citrus seedlings to replace eradicated trees 
provided the growers concerned undertake to plant these seed- 
lings at a maximum distance of 5 by 4 metres or not more than 
40 to the dunum. 

(d) In cases of gratis issue of seedlings, provision of technical 
advice and assistance in budding without charge for the 
replanting of groves. 


Notices will be served on individual grove-owners or occupiers 
under the Plant Protection Ordinance, 1924, by the 1st January, 
1933, specifying the measures required to be taken in their groves. 
It will be open to grove-owners or occupiers, as they prefer— 

(a) themselves to eradicate the trees ordered to be cut down, 
and 
(6) to make their own arrangements for fumigation of the 
remaining trees directly with companies authorized in that behalf 
by the Director of Agriculture and Forests, or 
18938 G 4 


188 


(c) if authorized by the Director of Agriculture and Forest: 
in that behalf to carry out the fumigation of the remainin; 
trees themselves, individually, or by forming co-operative 
groups. 

Grove-owners or occupiers who wish to make their own arrange 
ments for fumigation individually or co-operatively must satisf 
the Director of Agriculture and Forests, not later than the 
15th February, 1933, that the arrangements made by them wil 
ensure the effective fumigation of the trees which they have beer 
ordered to fumigate. 

If, in any instance, a grove-owner or occupier is unable to satisfy 
the Director of Agriculture and Forests that he has made effective 
arrangements for fumigation in accordance with the Notice serve¢ 
upon him, or fails to eradicate the trees ordered to be cut down, 
the Department of Agriculture and Forests will proceed to arrange 
for fumigation and/or cutting down to be carried out and wil 
recover the full costs thereof from the grove-owner, as provided 
under the Plant Protection Ordinance, 1924. 

Government desires it to be clearly understood by all citrus 
cultivators that it regards the contro! of Scale as a routine operation 
in the production of citrus fruit and that the expenditure on this 
control is accordingly a norma] item in the cost of production 
which must be met by the cultivators. In no circumstances, there- 
fore, can Government agree to any part of that expenditure being 
a charge upon the general taxpayer of Palestine. 


388. Experiments for the control of Black Scale by spraying were 
begun towards the end of the year, but the original programme 
could not be carried out owing to unfavourable weather. Arrange- 
ments are being made for a complete study of the bionomics of 
the Black Scale, particularly with reference to its behaviour in the 
Tiberias area where exceptional conditions exists. 


39. A successful experiment and demonstration controlling the 
Pomegranate Butterfly was concluded during the summer and 
demonstration on a large scale is projected for next season. Pre- 
liminary trials with traps for the control of Mediterranean Fruit 
Fly were begun in the autumn. 


40. In previous years, grape fruit was permitted to be shipped 
by rail in sealed and fumigated trucks from groves in the north te 
Fort Said for export to Europe. This permission has been extended 
to cover lemons and oranges from fumigated groves.. 


41. A new Plant Inspection Post and Barriers were erected at 
Zikhron Ya'aqov to prevent the transport of infected fruit and 
plants from north to south; a post was established at Samakh for 
the inspection and fumigation of all citrus exported from the noth 
to Trans-Jordan so as to make that market available to northem 
growers, and a third new post was set up at Ras el Naqura2 for the 
inspection of plants-and fruit imported fom Svria. ’ 


42. 8,129 certificates were issued in respect of plant importation: 
1,301 consignments were confiscated or refused entry by Plunt 
\ 


| 


‘ 


189 


Inspectors and twenty-six trucks on rail were fumigated. A parcel 
of banana stems from America, intercepted at Jerusalem, was found 
to contain numbers of the living Weevil Cosmopolites Sordius, a 
most destructive pest of bananas at present unknown in Palestine. 


43, Fisheries.—Attention has been directed to the enforcement of 
the Fisheries Ordinance in order to minimize destructive practices, 
as far as possible, with the co-operation cf the Departments of 
Customs and Police. 

A local committee has been appointed to investigate the fishing 


industry of Lake Tiberias and to advise on the issue of licences 


and the establishment of close seasons. 


44. Meteorological Service.—Eight official Meteorological Stations 


¥e maintained where readings of air pressure, air temperature, 
- humidity, vapour pressure, wind velocity, and rainfall are recorded 


ty observers. The records are scrutinized by the Meteorological 
Service, Cairo, and summaries are published annually. 


In addition, rainfall records are obtained from 30 different places, 


and a monthly statement of rainfall, compared with averages of 


Previous years over periods ranging from 8 to 85 years, is compiled 
az publication and distribution to institutions and individuals in- 
erested., 


 Atthe beginning of the rainy season 1932-33, four new rain-gauges 


Were installed in places typical of areas for which no rainfall data 


have hitherto been available. 


oa 


XXVI.—PUBLIC WORKS, GEOLOGY, AND MINING. 


Public Works. 
The total expenditure by the Department of Public Works was 


. about £P383,000 compared with £P413,000 in 1931. Owing to 


¢ change of the financial year, the quarter ended 3lst March, 1932, 
"as treated as a separate period and no funds were provided for new 


Works during that period. Further, for the rest of 1932, the expendi- 


te was relatively small, as the heaviest charges are not incurred 


- Works till the last quarter of the financial year. 


: ‘ Recurrent Works.—Recurrent services were carried out 
S actorily, A considerable part of provision for maintenance and 
ulding, minor works, rent of offices and quarters, and water supply 


4 : : baie I 
aoe Conservancy was necessarily devoted to Police buildings, owing 


‘the large increase in the number of Police posts and the introduc- 


a) . 
_ “of general structural improvements. 


3 


a oo Maintenance of roads and bridges amounted to approximately 
“cost cre? compared with £P80,000 for 1931. This excludes the 
a tO maintaining Municipal arterial roads, which is borne jointly 


» : rovernment and Municipalities: the Government contribution 
- UW 1939 was £P2 6792. 


190 


Revised rates of contribution by Government and Municipalities, 
drawn up by the Road Board on the basis of a traffic census, came — 
into force on 1st April. 


4. Government offices in various towns were wired, fitted and 
connected to public electricity supply-mains. 


5. Building Projects.—Detailed plans for the construction of a_ 
General Post Office in Jerusalem were further advanced and the 
project for the construction of a Police Training School was com- 
pleted. The site for the School has been acquired and fenced in. 


6. A design was prepared for a standard rural station for the 
Palestine Police. 


7. Plans in detail are being prepared of a Port Office and of 
Customs and departmental offices in the Harbour Area at Haifa, - 
costing £P12,000, to be met from Loan Funds. ) 


8. Major Works—Buildings.—A District and Magistrate’s Court 
was begun at Nablus and almost completed by the end of the year. 
The cost will be about £P12,400. 

The similar building at Haifa was taken into use in April. 


9. New Customs offices were erected at Jaffa, for £P2,400, to 
replace the unsafe structure hitherto occupied. 


10. At Kantara, the work of constructing quarters for the 
Immigration staff at a cost of £P3,220 is nearly complete. 


11. Sites were acquired and work was begun on the construction 
of standard police posts at Yajur, Sarona and Shatta, each to cost 
£P2,200 and to be ready for occupation during the first quarter 
of 1933. 


12. Expenditure of £P3,200 was involved in increasing the 
accommodation for patients at the Mental Hospital in Bethlehem. 


13. Superintendent’s quarters, stables, stores and water supply 
were finished at the new agricultural stations at Farradiya and 
Majdal, at a cost of £P1,350. 


14. The shell of the Palestine Archaeological Museum, com- 
menced in 1931, 1s under progressive construction. Most of the 
roofs have now been built, with the stone vaulting portions in the 
local tradition. The main approach roadway is being formed and 
floor finishes, wall treatments, joinery, metal windows, and lifts 
are being put in hand. 


15. Except for the installation of machinery in the fruit-drying 
building, the farm and subsidiary buildings of the Jewish Agricul- 
tural School at Mount Tabor are ready, and the detailed plans for 
the School building and the power house were completed. The 
entire work is expected to be finished by the end of 1933. In the 
first stages, foundations and drainage, farm road, dipping tank, 
barn, reservoirs, and water-supply, most of the work was given out 
in small jobs to Jewish contractors or labour groups. The super- 
structure of the farm buildings was constructed by a Jewish fim, 


191 


which employed nearly 80 per cent. of Jewish labour, and the 
schoo] building and power-house are to be built by a Jewish con- 
tractor, who has engaged himself to employ at least 80 per cent. 
of Jewish labour. 

16. Conservation and restoration of the ancient fabric supporting 
the Dome of the Katholikon at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre 
were practically concluded, as well as the building of the inner 
dome. £P1,000 was spent on repaving the parvis of the Church of 
Nativity, Bethlehem, from funds provided in equal shares by the 
Armenian Patriarchate, the Custodia di Terra Santa and the 
Orthodox Patriarchate. 

17. The Trans-Jordan Frontier Force camps at Beisan, Jisr el 
Majamie and Rosh Pina were enlarged and improved, and the 
Samakh Camp was wired and connected to the mains of the 
Palestine Electric Corporation. All four camps are now suitable 
for semi-permanent occupation. 


18. The Government Department carried out works services, 
including billeting, for the Military and Royal Air Force Authorities 
except at the permanent barracks at Haifa, Sarafand, and 
Jerusalem 

19. The following is a list of other major works carried out during 
the year. 

Begun prior to 1932 and completed in 1932 :— 

Erection of isolation hut at British Police Camp, Mount 
Scopus, Jerusalem ; alterations and special repairs to Ezrath 
Nashim Asylum, Jerusalem; alterations, Police Barracks, 
Nablus. 

Begun and completed in 1932 :— 

Additions to Municipal Hospital, Gaza; lock-up for female 
prisoners in Police Barracks, Jaffa; improvements to Govern- 
ment Hospital, Jerusalem; additions to Hospital, Nablus; 
additional accommodation at Boys’ School, Qalqilya; construc- 
tion of additional rooms at Boys’ School, Ramle; conversion 
of former District Officer’s quarters into British Police Post, 
Ramle ; additional accommodation, stables and forage room for 
Police, Safad; reconditioning and improvements to Municipal 
Hospital, Jaffa ; special repairs to State Domain buildings. 

Works begun in 1932 and not yet completed :— 

Improvements to Central Prison, Acre, and additions to 
workshops; improvements to water supply, Agricultural 
Station amd Stud Farm, Acre; new Police Station, Acre; 
additional accommodation to Boys’ School, El Bira; addition 
to Boys’ School, Gaza; alterations to Quarantine Lazarette, 
Haifa; alterations and repairs to St. Luke’s Hospital, Haifa; 
additions and improvements to Central Prison, Jerusalem. 

20. Port Works.—Detailed plans and estimates were prepared 
and work was started on the construction of roads in the reclaimed 

area and access roads to the port, at an estimated cost of £P20,000. 


192 


The elimination of sewage from storm water drains entering the 
harbour was also put in hand, at a cost of £P6,500, by 
the Municipal Engineer, under the instructions of the Government 
Department. 

The temporary drainage system built in 1931 for a part of Haifa 
(see Annual Report for 1931,* page 163, paragraph 17) was main- 
tained, and minor additions and improvements were effected. 


21. Further progress was made on the scheme for providing 
better facilities for passengers and for the handling of goods at 
Jaffa port. 

The new sea wall and wharf extension begun last year was 
completed, giving an additional wharf area of 1,500 m? finished 
with a reinforced concrete surface and a minimum depth of approach 
water of 3 metres. Fourteen bollards were provided for mooring. 
Dredging operations were continued to control the silting so that 
the larger lighters may have easy access to the wharf. The port 
area was enclosed in a concrete wall, with gates and a control kiosk 
providing accommodation for the Police and port officers. 


22. A reinforced concrete pile jetty, with a deck that can be 
removed during stormy weather, was constructed at Gaza at 4 
cost of £P1,200. It extends about 50 metres into the sea, reaching 
a water depth of 2.5 metres. 


23. Major Works—Roads.—The north road from Petah Tiqva 
was extended by 600 metres to facilitate access to the orange- 
packing sheds of the area. The total length constructed from Jaffa 
is now 22.2 kilometres. 


24. The section of the Rehovot-Gaza road between kilometres 14 
and 24 was earth-formed and soled at a cost of £P4,200 to provide 
a hard all-weather surface; and at kilometre 40 a dilapidated 
wooden trestle bridge was replaced by a reinforced concrete 
structure with an overall length of 31 metres, at a cost of £P1,200. 


25. During the last quarter of the year, major improvements, 
estimated to cost £P4,000, were put in hand on the ’Affula-Mes’ha 
road to render the road passable in all weathers. 


26. The metalled road between Haifa and Acre was opened for 
traffic at the end of December. The new road will considerably 
improve communications with Syria. 


27. The Jenin-Megiddo-E] Harithiya road is making headway 
with jail labour. 


28. The western end of the Haifa arterial road up to Carmel 
Point is being converted to join up with the existing metalled road 
to Et Tira and a diversion is being made near Safad for the through 
Acre-Safad-Rosh Pinna road, replacing the old narrow and steep 
exit on the west side of Safad. 





* Colonial No. 75. 


193 


29. An exceptionally severe storm in October damaged the 
Jerusalem-Jericho road between kilometre 26 and kilometre 32, 80 
that part of the road had to be closed for downward traffic, and the 
old Roman road used instead. 


30. In Bethlehem and Bait Jala the Government Department 
improved internal municipal roads with funds provided by the 
Municipalities. 


381. Water Supply, Irrigation, and Drainage.—Various problems 
affecting the project for the water supply of Jerusalem have been 
engaging attention. The proposed pipe line from Ras el Ain was 
surveyed and pumping tests, water gauging, etc., were taken at the 
source; and a hydraulic survey of the area was started. 

To prolong the pumping period from the intermittent spring of 
Ain Fawar, the shaft was further deepened and two near sites were 
tested tto investigate the direction and position of the flow. 
Geological work on the structure of the basin indicates an under- 
ground drainage at some distance and the possibility of reaching 
the thalweg by tunnelling was so remote that further excavation 
was abandoned at a depth of 21 metres. Owing to the small and 
distributed character of the rainfall Ain Fawar gave out at an early 
date and the Kelt spring was connected up. This spring also gave 
signs of exhausting its source. 


32. Investigations and tests were also carried out in connexion 
with the Haifa and Hebron supplies. The springs on the south 
of the Plain of Jezreel and on the east of Acre were investigated 
and accurately measured. The flow of the Kabri and Wadi Kurn 
springs at Acre continued steady. Geological investigation showed 
600 feet of water-bearing dolomites overlying argillaceous lime- 
stones which are faulted into or plunge beneath the Acre-Kabri 
plain, indicating the presence of large sources of excellent water. 


33. A project, estimated to cost £P20,000, was prepared for the 
Nablus scheme. The money is being advanced to the Municipality 
by a Bank, and the work will be done for the Municipality by the 
Government Department. A loan of £P4,000 is being made by the 
same Bank to the Gaza Town Council for a similar purpose. 


34. The deep well-boring plant was first tried at kilometre 27 on 
the Beersheba-Gaza road, and a depth of 337 metres was reached. 
The results were not conclusive. The water-table was encountered 
at 90 feet from: the surface in chalk rocks, the salinity of which at 
270 feet was 320 parts of chlorine per 100,000. Thence followed u 
decrease to 180 parts of chlorine per 100,000 at 600 feet and an 
increase again at 1,100 feet to 245 parts of chlorine per 100,000. 
At 337 metres, there being no indication of change in the type of 
deposit and structural features precluding any possibility of con- 
necting with the fresh water of the hills, the trial was abandoned. 


_ 85. £P1,000 was provided from public funds for assisting villages 
In installing or improving water-supplies, and useful services were 


194 


rendered thereby to thirteen villages. The opportunity was taken 
of re-opening, cleaning out and enlarging many of the old tunnel 
systems of the ancients in the hill country and so greatly improving 
supplies. 

36. The springs at Ain Dirweh near Hebron were improved to 
supplement the supplies of Hebron and of Halhul village; and 
part of the Jericho pipe-line supply was renewed. 


37. Further investigations were made of the Ain Hejeri springs 
which serve Hebron. Ain Dilb was opened up and revealed ancient 
channels which had fallen in. These were traced back to the 
source where the quantity of the water was found to be the largest 
of the wells in this area. 


38. The irrigation and drainage systems at Jericho, Baisan, and 
at the mouth of the River Kishon were maintained. 


39. Good results have been obtained by a boring machine owned 
jointly by the Palestine Jewish Colonization Association and the 
Falestine Mortgage and Credit Bank which uses a new system 
of well sinking in sandy areas by introducing a filter of broken 
stone or gravel around the perforated pipe. 

In the Wadi Hawareth the first well gave 200 cubic metres of 
water an hour; a second well of ordinary type in the basaltic beds 
of Yavniel gave an abundant supply in a small structural basin. 
Larger quantities were given by wells sunk by local contractors at 
Naaneh and Kerkur. 

40. Motor Transport.—The ever growing motor traffic on main 
roads and the introduction of larger vehicles, not always suitable 
for narrow and mountainous roads, demanded special attention. At 
the beginning of 1931, 3,843 vehicles were registered, a tenfold 
increase in ten years. 

41. A weighbridge was erected at Bait Dajan, junction of the 
Jerusalem-Jaffa and Jaffa-Rishon-Rehovct-Gaza roads and_ three 
additional pairs of portable loadometers were taken into use by 
the Police for traffic control. 

42. 150 standards complete with 300 direction plates, lettered 
in the three official languages, are in process of erection. 524 signs 
of different symbols fitted with red reflecting lenses so as to be 
visible have been set up at dangerous points on public roads in 
accordance with the Convention of the 24th April, 1926, relating 
to the International Circulation of Motor Vehicles. 


43. Miscellaneous.—Portable pumping sets, a granulator, con- 
crete mixers, and a well-sinking plant were acquired Ly the Govern- 
ment Department during the year. 

44. Reinforced concrete abutments for the steel bridge to be 
erected at Jisr Banat Ya’qub by the Lake Huleh Concessionnaires 
were completed and road approaches are being constructed on both 
sides of the river. 


195 


45. The damage caused by flocd last year to the hydro-electric 
station of the Palestine Electric Corporation at Jisr el Majamie 
was repaired. In March the generators were tested and the 66,000 
volts high tension transmission line to Haifa and Jaffa was put 
under pressure. The whole installation was found to be in thorough 
working order. The official opening took place in June, in the 
presence of the High Commissioner and His Highness the Amir 
of Trans-Jordan. 


The maximum rates for energy supplied by the Palestine 
Electric Corporation were reduced at the beginning of the year from 
00 mils to 30 mils per kw. for ight, from 20 mils to 15 mils for 
power, and from 25 mils to 15 mils for street lighting. The rates 
for large industrial consumers are from 3 to 4 mils. The rates 
for irrigation vary in accordance with load and period of use during 
the year from 9 mils as a maximum to about 4 mils. The con- 
sumption of energy in kw. in ‘1931 and 1932 was as follows :— 





1931. 1932. 
Lighting ... soa bat 1,569,196 2,219 ,982 
Power San ane ae 4,062 973 4,977 ,972 
Irrigation ... = ee 3,075,748 4 379,814 
Total se _ 8,707,917 11,577,768 


——a 





The number of consumers was 12,029 in 1931 and 15,113 in 1932. 

The power stations of the Corporation at Tel-Aviv, Haifa, and 
Tiberias were maintained satisfactorily and operated until con- 
nection to the high tension transmission lines from the Jordan. 
127 plans for extensions from the mains of the Corporation were 
approved by the Government Department. 


46. The power station of the Jerusalem Electric and Public 
Service Corporation has also been operated satisfactorily; 25 
extensions were approved during the year. The Corporation obtained 
nearly a thousand new consumers in 1932, and sold 1,035,501 kw., 
an increase of 23 per cent. over the previous year. 


47. There were seven cases of electrocution during the year, five 
ending fatally. 


48. 35 boilers and 3 prime movers were examined and licensed 
under the Steam Boilers Ordinance, 1926, and inspections were 
made ty District Engineers under the Fencing of Machinery 


Ordinance, 1928, and of cil-storage installations under the Petroleum 
Regulations. 


49. Seventeen claims for compensation by Fublic Works Depart- 
ment labourers or their dependants were paid under the Workmen’s 


Compensation Ordinance, 1927; two were in respect of fatal 
accidents. 


196 


50. Road Board.—Four meetings of the Road Board were held, 
for discussion, tnter alia, of the questions of road and railway com- 
petition, construction of roads from supplementary provision in the 
financial year, the selection of sites for weighbridges, the construc- 
tion of feeder roads from the orange-growing area north of Jaffa 
to the Railway, municipal arterial roads, maintenance of by-pass 
roads, and the programme of road construction for 1933-34. 


Geology. 


51. Detailed geological mapping was continued west of Ramallah 
and Jerusalem particularly in respect of the clay beds underlying 
the Lower Cenomanian limestones. Among fossils found was a 
large Knemiceras species of ammonite. The British Museum 
authorities report that similar undescribed species have been 
collected in Persia and are of Vraccnian age, that is, Albian age. 
There seems therefore to be little doubt that these correspond with 
the clay beds reported in the Wadi Farah area in which Knemiceras 
(= Buchiceras) syriacum was found. 

To define the Lower Cretaceous strata of the Ramallah area, the 
Wadi Farah and elsewhere, and to correlate them with the Lebanon 
strata which have been better worked out, the Geological Adviser 
visited the important areas in the Lebanon on the invitation of his 
French colleague. The ferruginous sandstones which underlie the 
clay beds of the Wadi Farah (placed in the Jurassic) and Lake 
Huleh, resemble lithologically the Neocomian beds of Lebanon 
which are non-fossiliferous. The main volcanic activity also 
occurred in the Lower Neocomian of Lebanon and would correspond 
with the extensive ash beds containing bombs of basalt of the 
Farah-Tubas area. Similar ash beds have also been found directly 
below the mar] beds south of Er Rameh and east of Sakhnin. The 
unconformity at Ain Ktanieh would correspond with the transgres- 
sion and regression of the sea during Lower Cretaceous times and 
would account for the absence of certain beds in Palestine and 
Trans-Jordan. 


52. A certain amount of geological mapping was done in 
connexion with the phosphate deposits of the Judean Wilderness 
where, except for Turonian-Cenomanian limestones in the wadis 
and a small area east of the Jebel Fureides, the strata are entirely 
of Senonian chalk overlain by chert beds. Only in the area of 
Rujm El Hajar are the phosphate series, bituminous limestones and 
mottled beds preserved. 

In the southern part of the Shephela south of Beit Jibrin the 
age of the extensive chalk area has not been entirely defined. 
Several shafts recently sunk at Ed Daweima showed 20 to 30 metres 
entirely of bituminous hmestone, resembling sections in the north, 
for example, Beit Nuba and Har Tuv. These beds, of Danian age, 
occur as a belt bordering the great monoclinal fold of the Judean 
hills and are overlain on the west by limestone of Tertiary age. 


197 


d3. A comparison of the Pecten from the Miocene quarry at 
Ramle with that of Syria proved that it belongs to the Burdigalien, 
the important fossil being Pecten, cf., Zitteli Fuches. The exten- 
sion of these beds northward appears to be confirmed by wells sunk 
between Wilhelma and Deir Turaif where grey marls were dis- 
covered underlain by fossiliferous hard grey limestones. 


d4. The test bore hole at kilometre 27 on the Beersheba-Gaza 
road, after penetrating 65 feet of Pliocene sandstone, showed a series 
of foraminiferal limestones, often flinty marls and clays with 
_ globigerina sands which were not penetrated at a depth of 337 metres 
when the bore was abandoned. Specimens indicate, instead of a 
connexion with Pliocene-Miocene deposits of the Palestine central 
coastal plain, a new series of foraminiferal beds belonging probably 
to Lower Eocene age passing into Upper Cretaceous. The 
geological results of the bore hole suggest a wide area underlain by 
_ these globigerina beds, leading to important structural and strati- 
graphical inferences. 


oo. At the request of the Air Ministry the Geological Adviser 
examined the new cantonment area of Dhibban in ‘Iraq to deter- 
mine building material obtainable within easy transport distance. 


06. The use of stone in building shows an increased popularity 
all over the country ; and 183 licences were issued for limestone, 
sandstone, and basalt and 120 for sand and clay. 


Mining. 

o7. No further work was done on the manganese and copper ore 
deposits of the Wadi Meneiaieh area in the Akaba district owing 
to the low price of the ore and the consequent difficulty in raising 
capital. 

58. The development of the sulphur deposits south of Gaza 
remained in abeyance owing to litigation. A further lease of over 
24 hectares which is stated to be underlain with sulphur was granted 
and a company was formed, under the name of Sulphur Quarries, 
Limited, to work the ore. 


09. The Geological Adviser has reported, after a further study of 
the Judean wilderness east of Bethlehem district, that no phosphate 
nor bituminous limestone of economic value occurs in the arca. 


60. A consignment of phosphate from the superior Nabi Musa 
area is undergoing test as to the possibility of separating the pure 
phosphate from the gangue by the oil flotation method, with a view 
to using the enriched sand concentrate for the manufacture of 
super-phosphate. 


61. Exploration permits were granted in respect of petroleum over 
four areas comprising 2,000 square kilometres around the Dead Sea; 
and over 2,000 square kilometres in the Gaza area. 


62. Dead Sead Concession.—The area of evaporating pans, now 
about 250 hectares, is to be increased by 200 hectares on the 


198 


Palestine side and 100 hectares on the Trans-Jordan side. The 
question of utilizing some 62 square kilometres of the extensive 
mud flats at the south end of the Dead Sea is also under considera- 
tion and an application has been submitted. 

There is now a regular export of high grade potash to the Far 
Eastern markets ; and the export of bromine to the United Kingdom 
is developing. 

In 1932, the third year of operation, the production of Palestine 
Potash Limited on which royalties were paid was equal to the 
minimum quantity fixed under the Concession for production 
between the seventh and tenth years. 


Haifa Harbour Works. 


63. Good progress on all séctions of the work was maintained 
throughout the year. The end of the main breakwater was reached 
by December, 1931, when the pillar crane used in construction 
automatically commenced its return journey, thickening the break- 
water on its seaward side and finishing it off to its ultimate level 
of 4 m. above mean sea level. 

The shore end was reached by December, 1932, and the crane 
was thereupon put out of commission and dismantled. Ten 200 ton 
bollards and ten 150 ton bollards have been built into the break- 
water to enable ships to moor thereto stern-on. The total quantity 
of stone deposited in the breakwater is 760,000 m’°. 

Some 14,000 m* of the concrete parapet have been placed to date 
and a concrete proménade about half a mile long has been provided 
for the use of the public. 


64. The lee breakwater was completed by November, 1932, some 
149,000 m* of stone measured in situ having been used. Four 
200 ton and eleven 150 ton bollards were built in and spaced at 
intervals of 35 metres. 

The main wharf wall proper was ready by November amd the 
lighter wharves were ready by December, some 9,905 concrete 
blocks of 5 to 7 tons being used in the construction. 

The walls are finished off in mass concrete and pre-cast coping 
with bollards placed at intervals of 15 metres. 


65. By December, a portion of the hghter wharves was brought 
into use for the loading of oranges, amd a considerable amount of 
shipping already avails itself of the shelter of the harbour. 

The east and west rubble dykes were also completed during the 

ear. 

A total of 1,273,000 m? has been dredged in the harbour and 
deposited over the reclaimed area. 

Two transit sheds measuring 116 metres by 36 metres in size, 
6 metres to eaves and 12 metres to ridge are being built on the 
reclaimed area. ‘The foundations are reinforced concrete piles 
and horizontal beams throughout their length and width to carry 
the walls. The roof principals and purlins are of steel and are 


199 


carried on steel stanchions, the walls themselves being built of 
concrete blocks. The whole of the piling and erection of the steel 
work for the first shed was completed by the end of the year, and 
considerable advance was made with the piling of the second. 


66. On the completion of the main and lee breakwaters and east 
and west rubble dykes, the quarries were gradually closed down 
and by the end of the year only a small gang was retained for 
taking up railway tracks, forming a plant ‘‘ yard,’’ etc. 

A gross total of 1,300,000 m® of stone had been quarried since 
the commencement of operations. 

The gross expenditure including all charges, from the com- 
mencement of the works to the end of 1932, was approximately 
£P950,000. 

125 merchant vessels entered the harbour in 1932. 


XXVIT.—_ RAILWAYS. 


1. The system known ‘as the Palestine Railways and Operated 
Lines is divided as follows :— 


Kilometres. 
Standard 105 cm. 
Gauge Hejaz 


Railway. Railway. 
(a2) In Palestine (Mandated Territory). 


Rafa—Haifa nae sie Sus 238 — 
Jaffa—Jerusalem ... oun ae 87 — 
Haifa—Samakh’* ... ois al — 88 
Haifa (4.50 kilo.)\—Acre ... ee — 18 
Affula—Nablus—Tulkarm sos — 98 

325 204. 


(6) In Sinai (Egyptian Territory 
owned by His Mayjesty’s 
Government). 
Kantara (Suez Canal)—Rafa ... 203 — 


(c) In Trans-Jordan (Mandated Terri- 
tory). 
Nassib via Amman to Ma’an* ... — 323 


Total (Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan) a 2 oy 528 527 


j * The connecti ng link between Samakh in Palestine and Nassib in Trans- 
ordan runs through the French Mandated Territory of Syria and is adminis- 

abi and operated by the French authorities. The line formerly continued 
‘ oe to Medawara (113 kilometres) on the border of Trans-Jordan and 
: ® tiejaz and thence to Medina but this section of the line has not been fully 
®conditioned since the damage done during and after the War. 


200 


2. The Railway system which serves Palestine comprises three 
lines of separate and distinct origin :— 
(a) The sections of the Hejaz Railway in Palestine. 
(b) The Jaffa—Jerusalem Railway. 
(c) The Palestine Railway. 


(a) The Hejaz Railway in Palestine was built by the Turkish 
Government as a feeder line from the port of Haifa to the main 
line of the Hejaz Railway which was constructed to carry pilgrim 
trafic from Damascus to Medina and Mecca. Its origin was a 
length of standard gauge line starting from Haifa which an English 
company had built, but not completed, under an Ottoman con- 
cession. The original concessionnaires were bought out by the 
Hejaz Railway Administration and the 105 centimetre gauge Hejaz 
Railway system was laid out at Haifa on the formation completed 
or partly completed by the English company. 

(b) The Jaffa-Jerusalem Railway was laid originally as a metre 
gauge line by a French company, also under an Ottoman conces- 
sion. At the outbreak of war it was taken over by the Turkish 
army and converted to 105 centimetre gauge to serve as part of 
the projected extension southwards of the Hejaz Railway as a 
military track. Subsequently the line was converted by the 
British army to standard gauge and incorporated in the line built 
during the war from the Suez Canal to Palestine. 

(c) The Palestine Railway comprises the standard gauge system 
in Palestine which was completed to Haifa by the British army in 
1918 as the northern extension of the line which fed the troops 
during the advance from Egypt. 

At Haifa and at Tulkarm the standard and 105 centimetre gauge 
lines come together and at Haifa in order to use the space available 
for shunting to the best advantage, it was necessary to make use 
of many dual gauge tracks. 


3. Maintenance of Permanent Way, Buildings, and Rolling 
Stock.—The permanent way, buildings, locomotives, and rolling 
stock were kept in the best possible condition with the funds avail- 
able. 

4. Operating Results —A summary of the principal operating 
and statistical results compared with 1931 is given below :— 


Gross Revenue. Working Expenses. 
1931. 1932. 1931. 1932. 
£P £P £P £P 
Palestine Railway... a 357,524 347,057 407,329 395,322 
Sinai Railway ... oo ee 100,445 99,738 100,457 94,625 
Hejaz Railway he ses 88,079 94,928 87,542 87,995 





5. The working expenditure of the Palestine Railway proper 
includes £P152,962 for interest and amortization charges on the 
capital value of the line. 


201 


1931. 
Passengers carried... ... ... 1,319,000 
Freight handled (tons) ... 1,211,022 
Trains run ; bo 16,297 
Engine mileage (miles) ... 1,161,452 
Total staff at 31st December ... 3,424 
Salaries and wages ied ... £P294,855 


1932. 
1,125 439 
1,098,723 

16,077 
1,167,319 
3,229 
£P278 127 


6. Passenger Traffic.—Passenger traffic receipts in 1932 showed 
a decrease of £P19,988 mainly in the third class and tourist traffic. 
The decrease is largely due to the general economic conditions and 


to road motor competition. 


7. Goods Traffic.—There was an increase of £P12,341 in goods 
trafic receipts notwithstanding the fact that there was a decrease 
of 210,000 tons of stone traffic from Athlit quarries for the Haifa 


harbour works. 
The principal increases were :— 


Stone 

Sand 

Cement 

Cereals 

Coal 

Groceries and. provisions 
Manure 

Oranges 


Tons. 
27,155 
4,603 
16,201 
9,198 
6,399 
9,257 
11,417 
4 827 


The increase is mainly due to weaic secured from the road by 


means of reduced rates. 


8. Principal Commodities carried.—The principal traffics carried 


by the railway during the year were as follows :— 
Commodity. 

Barley aha Ais 
Stone 
Sand 
Lime 
Cement - 
Other building materials 
Cereals ba 
Coal 
Groceries and provisions 
Flour 
Kerosene and fuel oils 
Manure 
Melons 
Oranges 
Petrol 
Salt 
Soap 
Miscellaneous 


Tonnage. 
6,304 

569 ,845* 
22 ,046 
3,089 
101,408 
18,410 
51,184 
48,193 
22,150 
14,882 
44 ,202 
25 ,635 
13,919 
40,754 
7,070 
8,493 
4,684 
129 ,3899 


* Of this quantity 488,012 tons was for the Haifa Harbour Works and the 


balance of 81,833 tons was ordinary public traffic. 


202 


9. Trans-Jordan Traffic.—The requirements in Trans-Jordan, 
which are still very limited, are met by three mixed trains each 
way weekly between Nassib and Amman, and one train a week 
between Amman and Ma’an. 

10. Railway Afforestation.—The Railway has maintained a 
nursery of seedlings and has continued its programme of tree plant- 
ing at stations and along the track during the year. 

11. Trans-Desert Railway from Hatfa to Bajyhdad.—A survey 
of the route for a railway between Haifa and Baghdad was made 
in 1930 and 1931, but no decision has yet been reached as to the 
construction of the Railway. 


203 


TRANS-JORDAN. 


I.—_ INTRODUCTORY. 


The Government formed in February, 1931, with Sheikh 
Abdullah Siraj as Chief Minister, has remained in office, and the 
composition of the Legislative Council elected in June of that year 
is unaltered. 


2. The Council concluded its Ordinary Session on the 15th 
March, and re-assembled in Extraordinary Session from the 9th 
May till the 15th June; it met again in Extraordinary Session from 
the 29th August till the 19th September, and the Ordinary Session 
which began on the lst November, 1932, was adjourned on the 
26th December at the beginning of Ramadan. 


3. Of the Laws and Regulations brought into force during the 
year the most important are the Land Registry Fees Law and 
the Law for the Distribution of Taxes in the District of Kerak 
and in the Beni Hassan Tribe. The former Law provides for a 
considerable reduction in the rate of fees payable, and the second 
for the re-distribution of the existing tax between the owners of 
Jand in the Kerak District in proportion to the land held, as set 
forth in the schedules prepared by the Survey Department, and in 
the Beni Hassan area in accordance with the entries in the Land 
Registry which were made last year when the tribal holdings were 
partitioned by the Department of Lands. 


It was in the Kerak District that the distribution of the burden 
of the existing tax was most uneven, whilst 1t was necessary in 
the Beni Hassan area to complete the benefits of the partition carried 
out last year, by distributing the tax according to that partition. 


4. The presence in the Northern Hejaz of a body of persons in 
opposition to the authority of King Ibn Sand necessitated the adop- 
tion of special measures by the Trans-Jordan Government from the 
middle of June till early in September. The export of foodstuffs 
to Saudi Arabia was prohibited and, to prevent unauthorized per- 
sons entering or leaving the Hejaz, a Special Zone was declared 
to a depth of some 30 miles from the Hejaz frontier, to enter which 
a permit was required. 


5. The Desert Patrol of the Arab Legion has continued to main- 
tain satisfactory control of the area to the east of the line drawn 
northwards from Aqaba through Amman. The six armed cars are 
based on small posts at Azraq, Bair, and Mudawwara, equipped with 
wireless. The responsibilities of the patrol are considerably in- 
creased by the operations of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, and it 


204 


has therefore been reinforced by 80 rank and file who will garrison 
the three pumping stations and furnish mobile patrols and escorts as 
necessary. 


6. The hitherto inaccessible Arabs of the Jebel Druze, who in 
winter move to the lava belt in Northern Trans-Jordan to the east 
and north-east of Azraq, have been brought under control by con- 
struction of motor tracks in the belt. 


7. The survey of the area on either side of the ‘Iraq-Trans-Jordan 
Frontier was completed by a party provided by the ‘Iraq Govern- 
ment at the joint expense of the two territories. The triangulation 
of the area from Jebel Tenf to the Jebel Druze was effected by a 
party of French and British surveyors working in conjunction, and 
the demarcation of the frontier between Syria and Trans-Jordan 
was carried out by a Commission composed of representatives of 
the Mandatory Powers and of the mandated territories concerned. 
The control of the frontier, both from the Syrian side and the 
Trans-Jordan side, will become operative on the conclusion of a 
Bon Voisinage Agreement. 


8. In July and August notes were exchanged between the 
Chief Minister of Trans-Jordan and the Prime Minister of ‘Iraq 
defining more precisely the existing frontier between Trans-Jordan 
and ‘Iraq. 

Copies of these notes and of letters exchanged between the Chief 
Minister of Trans-Jordan and the British Resident are printed as 
Appendix IIL. 


9. Labour is being recruited by the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company 
to construct a metalled road through the lava belt. This road 
will very materially improve communications between Amman and 
Baghdad. 


10. For the second year in succession, poor winter rains delayed 
ploughing and flocks suffered badly from lack of grazing. 
£26,500 was spent m relief works; the Agricultural Bank made 
what loans were possible to people who could offer reasonable 
security, and authority was obtained to remit £P8,500 of taxes. 
The ‘Iraq Petroleum Company helped to relieve the situation by 
giving employment to large numbers. During the year, the com- 
pany spent about £P47,000 in Trans-Jordan in wages, in contrac- 
tors’ payments, local purchases, and general charges. 


II1.—FINANCE. 


The figure of the Public Debt at the 3lst December was 
£P12,000, due to His Majesty’s Government, representing the 
balance of a sum of £P20,000 advanced in 1927 for Earthquake 
Rehef Loans. 

Repayments are made at the rate of £P2,000 per annum. 


205 


2. Revenue (including Grants-in-Aid from British Exchequer) 
and Expenditure since 1924-25. 


Surplus 
Balance. Period. Revenue. Expenditure. 
£P £P £P 
1/4/1924 23,958 1924-25 280,673 274,868 
1/4/1925 29,763 1925-26 282,459 274,573 
1/4/1926 37,649 1926-27 302,520 274,920 
1/4/1927 65,249 1927-28 282,073 318,260 
1/4/1928 29,061 1928-29 307,555 318,950 
1/4/1929 17,666 1929-30 316,147 338,461 
1/4/1930 4,647 1930-31 367,516 350,530 
1/4/1931 12,337 1931-32 338,046 344,984 
1/4/1932 5,400 1932-33 353,227 355,700 
(Estimate). 


3.—(1) The forecast of actual expenditure of the Trans-Jordan 
Government for 1932-33 shows that there will be an increase of 
£P10,854 under Ordinary Expenditure and a decrease of £P6,175 
under Extraordinary Expenditure, as compared with the actual 
Kxpenditure for 1931-32. 


(2) Of the £P10,854 increase under Ordinary Expenditure, 
approximately £P3,000 is on account of increments in salaries and 
the insertion of a full year’s provision for posts which were filled 
for a part of 1931-32 only. The Civil List shows an increase of 
£P410 on account of His Highness the Amir Talal for whom pro- 
vision was made for six months only in 1931-32; Pensions show an 
increase of £P750, and Public Works Recurrent £P800. 

The remainder is due to the fact that in 1931-32 it was necessary 
to effect temporary economies to meet the deficit on revenue arising 
out of the remission of £P12,178 of the taxes for that year. The 
result of these temporary economies was that the actual Ordinary 
Expenditure for 1931-82 was £P5,557 below the approved 
Estimates. 


(3) The decrease under Extraordinary Expenditure is under the 
following Heads :— 





£P 

Public Works Extraordinary _... — 168 

Posts and Telegraphs __... ve va 159 

British Resident... aa: Se Sse 315 
His Highness the Amir ... co =i 8,000 (Special 
Grant). 

Police and Prisons v7 Sas be 3,685 

£P7 927 


Against this, there is an increase of £P1,752 for the Trans- 
Jordan Syria Boundary Settlement for which £P1,800 is provided 
a 1932-33 as compared with an actual expenditure of £P48 in 
931-32. 





206 
4. The forecast of Local Revenue for 1932-33 shows an increase 
of £P22,918 as compared with the actual receipts for 1931-32. 


This increase is made up as follows :— 
Increase Decrease 





£P £P 
Head I—Customs and Excise 2,461 
Head IJII—Licences and Taxes 11,616 
Head JIII—Fees of Court or Office ... 4,627 
Head IV—Posts, Telegraphs, and 
Telephones 4,123 
Head V—Revenue from  Govern- 
ment Property 483 
Head VI—Interest... ba bees 65 
Head VII—Miscellaneous ; sey 270 
Head VIII—Sale of State Domain ... 727 
£P23,645 £P727 








Of the increase under Head III, £P3,890 is on account of pension 
contributions from the personnel of the Arab Legion and £P4,000 
under Head IV is on account of a new issue of Postage Stamps. 

The remaining increase of £P15,000 may be taken to indicate 
a genuine improvement in the revenues of Trans-Jordan which is 
the more satisfactory in view of the failure or poverty of the 1932 
harvest in many localities. 


5. Financial Position of the Trans-Jordan Government at 
31st March, 1932. 





Tnabilities. Assets. 
£P Mils. £P Mil. 
Deposits... oa -» 11,299,227 Advances ... . 18,692.399 
Loans (His Majesty’s 12,000.000  Imprests 2,941.309 
Government). 
Remittances (Palestine 200 Remittances in Transit ... 15.900 
Government). 
Excess of Assets over Lia- 65,400.191 Cash and Bank Balances... _7,050.010 
bilities. 
£P28,699.618 £P28,699.618 





6. A survey of all arrears of taxes up to and including 1930-31 
was undertaken by the Treasurer, and recommendations were oF 
will be made for remissions in Irbid, Jerash, Jebel Ajlun, Madaba, 


and Ma’an. 


Arrears in Amman were also subjected to survey, as 


well as the arrears of the 1931-32 assessments in all districts. 
These measures have brought about a considerable improvement 

in collections, which, from April to December, amounted to 

£P4,817, compared with £P2,583 for the corresponding period 0 


1931-32. 


207 


7. Collections in the Qada of Kerak during 1932 were much 
better under the new distribution (see Introductory Chapter, para- 
graph 3). Receipts from the new tax from April to December 
were £P6,712, compared with receipts of £P3,740 from the former 
tithe, house and land tax, and road tax for the same period in 1931. 

An unfavourable harvest, and migration of tribesmen in search 
of fresh grazing, militated against any improvement in collections 
from the Beni Hassan tribe. 


8. £P8 339 of the 1932 taxes are to be remitted owing to im- 
poverishment following crop failures. 
In the previous year, £P12,178 was remitted. 


9. Summaries of Revenue and Expenditure, under Heads, are 
given in the following tables. 


Explanations to the figures of past years are given below the 
summaries published in this Section of the Report for 1931. 





LZZ‘E9Gds| VST OPO'SEEdS | OIS*LOEdS) LEI‘OIEdS| SSS*LOEdS| ELO‘SSTAF| OZ9°COEdT| 69F'SLZd3| SLO‘O8ZdS| °° “81707, 


‘ronbeyqoxy 
Whig Woy ‘doONnVIysarUIpy 
000°SL 000°00L‘F8 000‘F8 000‘0F 000‘0F 000‘St 00099 L96‘E0I SLO*LL Uvpior - suviy, jo pry-Ul-juBIf) 





= = = 009‘¢ = = aa oulysa[eq Woy qUBIL 
‘ronboyoxy, 
Ysntig Wo ‘eoloq  s9yuoIT 
L99°0€ 089°EFF‘0E ooP'Se GLP‘TE FPO'LS = — — — UBplOf -sUBIy, jo  pry-ul-yuEID 
099'09% | ez¥'z08'%ez =| HOO. «=| SLI‘eEs =| Ile‘6es | ELO‘LEs | Ozs‘9es | ZO9'FLT | TOT‘E0% 
000‘T BEE LLO‘T SIFT O9L OFF Z8E 863'EI — | 09F ‘*  * BUT BUIO(T 9787g JO OBE 
088‘¢ Esl-91Z‘g 901‘ 926 Q18 €6> €98 LI9S 8Z6'81 ss tts gydiaooy snooueypoosryy 
060‘T 9F6'FE8 L96 T10‘T 69L GLS‘T SIFT eh Q3L settee ee see ggazaquy 
ost’ T88°91€‘E 91'S OZL‘F 8ho's rel ‘Fb 920°F PHOS £63'E Aqiodoig YWOUTWIGAOY) WOT] onUeAeY 
OFS'ST 909°9Z0°TT LLL‘SI STOEL 5936 00F'8 £99'F ggg‘g SLPF quouyiedeq syduisajoy, pus s80g 
00z‘sz | e6r'sos'se | est‘9z | eee | corse | coe'ze | zoc‘et | sog‘et | ezo‘eT | “* ~ sydrooayy oougQ pus sag 4.m0p 
ooe‘cel | Ize'rse‘IIT | Ise‘eet | 289°6ZI | |eso’stT | Let‘set | sso‘sel | soe‘IOL | Zre‘OIT | "= ‘** sexe], pus soousory 
009°Z9 Tet 660°¢9 996'F9 891 ‘FO 06€°8 LES‘T9 ES ‘FO $96'8F a SS eee asIoxy pus sul0jsNy 
ds TTA ds ds ds ds d3 dF ds d3 
eal ‘Ze-1e6l | “Is-0eel | ‘Os-ezel | “6Z-8z6T | “8Z-LZ6I | “LZ-9Z6T | “9Z-9zAI | “93-¥Z6I -qunovop fo aT 


‘TONAATY 





209 








908SEEdF | LOI-689‘OZEdS| FES‘OIEdF | SLE‘OTEAS | OZS'1OEdF | LOE‘EGSHF | OLE‘ORTAF | SLO‘PLZdAF | SOS‘FLZdAF | °° e4npipusdxzy havurpsc pmo], 
9186S OES - 8E0'6S 008‘6Z 18363 €99'SZ — —- = = ** GOOF JOUOLY WepIOP-SUeTT, “9% 
992'T IL3°S6I'T SOFT OFT — = = = = re preog [01}U0D [Bq], “cz 
ESP‘e 999-1ZP‘E ILZ‘€ S61‘ £29'S 9LZ = _ — quounredeg yIpny "FZ 
z9c‘9 €L1-L0S‘9 £00‘L L68°9 089‘9 GZP'L 029'6 C866 ¥8'8 quapisey Ysiyuig "EZ 
896'8 691-9086 Log‘OI 890‘ZI1 66‘IT GFZ‘ IE 6LI'9 ZO8‘L za8‘19 SNOSUB|SOTPYT “ZZ 
_ LGS-GOT‘9T PLO‘ = = = a ae — ore wosaq *q] 
— —_ PLS‘T — — — — — — preny s.ssouqarH st -d 
_— — 698 186 = = aa == _ eouasi|]a}Uy °*¢ 
ZGL‘ZI 990-ZOL‘OI 1€Z‘TI L261 096‘0I ae = — — - sucslig “_ 
916‘00I O8L:- 1L8‘I8 SZ1I8 C08 ‘F8 ZOL‘L8 996'Z0I 880‘901 662 OFI S8F‘60I eo0d “V 
—nounsdog SUOSLIY PUB SDTIOG “[Z 
OFI ‘FI 810: F98‘ZI 9£9‘ZI TOL‘OT 9EL‘g GLE‘T Ig¢ — — ee quaujredeg puey "QZ 
_ = — = = = = — 76a "* UOIZBIzSIUTUIpY [equy, 6] 
‘quow 
26S 9Z0-ZoI ‘ZI ISFIT 9F0‘0I LIT6 HE'S O6F‘L 166‘9 78h saree, sydeisajoy, pus sye0g ‘gT 
— == _ aa = — £08 LOe‘T G6 "* pealg BuyULIg ‘LT 
00¢‘LT G9Z-EL8‘9I 069‘9T £0L‘6I 6£0‘0Z L69‘LT 21691 — —_ qUaLMooy SYIOM Qn “VOT 
Orc F ¥6P-6EE‘F OStF 166° 1z9‘¢ sce‘e 996‘ 119‘2% 9FL‘S yaounzedo] SHIOM ONQN ‘9T 
— — — _— 806‘ 09¢°S LI0'S OIZ'I Z£0'T ANsisay puwy “CT 
OOL‘S 0L0-019'S 9Les S68'T 1861 8ZE'S 798‘ Ist ats yuouryredaq rae FI 
Bul 
€¥G'9 0€9-0Z1‘9 963'9 sire 060‘8 see's 609‘S 66F'T L6e‘T =22)9A PUS S10at0n ‘amymousy “ET 
6ZF‘ET GOS EFL‘1Z ISL‘1Z COF'IZ ¥60'1Z SEL‘6I 2E2 81 ILO‘FT FEL‘SI queunjiedeag uoreonpy “ZT 
96 = = 6 a G0€ 69% = = eujUBIENg Ue. BW “VII 
GEl‘ZI 2€9- 16211 006‘0T $2801 L96‘0I 60¢‘0I Lo6‘8 ZII‘L OZI‘e yuoujzredeg WIVeH oqng ° 
CEL‘L 16€-666 L L68‘9 Z00‘L €1Z'9 919‘G COLE ISL‘ SSI F ostox"y PUB SUIOZEND 
916 FI LOL-Z19'FI O18‘FI 9GL‘CT £06 ‘CI LOS‘LI 6EL‘FI ILE‘6 LEP‘ quouljiedog] souvulg °6 
QI‘ OIF-ZL9°E 1¥9' 6ES‘E 160° ¥Z0'S SIl‘e 6L8'S Z18‘S S}MOD ,wUBYg °g 
LI8‘e1 L¥S-$OE‘CT €Z0‘ST SF0'CT Gh6‘ST 6IT‘9T She FI ore‘ IT 9CF'6 quoujiedeg [esay *z 
OLO‘'L ZL0-988'9 F60'L 008‘L O6L‘L ecg‘! ZLE‘L SL‘L 0¢8‘9 _TonensmrUpy PIS “9 
LES8‘E 86Z-989‘E SIL‘E 689‘F +00‘ e6a'e 006‘9 ocs‘s F8'F IOASTUTY Jory *g 
009°¢ 6LI- 89L‘F GgT‘g GOL‘E 609‘E 108‘F POLE Gor | 80¢‘S Sony ety). pus euorted  “y. 
S8L‘e 1G9- OGL‘ 869‘E (Gams Fol — —_ — — = - < aNyVsisayT “gE 
169 260° 06S O&L 2c9 069 — — — — sofioyp UBOT PUY 4qQeq oTqng ‘2 
POPPI ZLL-966'ST 9co‘el LEec‘el CIF'9l 9€8‘9I 9€9‘9T eee‘eI €19°0S on TT [AID TT 
_dF SW dF d3 dF dF d3 dF d3 dF 
ici | “ae=F807 | ‘18-0861 | ‘08-6261 | "62-8G61 | 88-L26I | 48-9861 | ‘98-G26I | ‘98-FB6I | ‘qunoooy fo 281 











Le CAA ae th PEROT ET * . . 
af i} | BUT Owe wate a | tory enna erinraal wo conten | Vilar’ wear. slo Cpe weve: v\ WIT HET. a Webware may : 77+ wypuepee.y 
= ame he th a ye Ps 


210 


T86T-O86T 
O086T-636T 
6361-8261 


8361-2261 


OOL'SSEdF | 960-E86'FrEd3| ZE9‘09EdF 


STOTT 
QOT'TT 
803'TT 


319° Of 





“ROUDUTT 219NT 





198'093 
SLI‘683 
116'682 


820° Les 


"(cM OOO‘OF) Se[tm erenbs PHP'GT : Bo1y 
‘NOILVMUOAIN] ‘IVOILSILVLG 40 AUVWWOG 


“eAPDLT 


I9P'SEEds | OS6'SIEdF | 09Z‘SIEdF | OZO'SLEdF | GLSFLZdF | 898°FLZd3 


dz 
“SO-GE6T 


616: F8E'9 


OST - SOFT 
209: 896'T 


€8L-Z81'°S1 
000 -STE 


TIN ds 


sequins y | 6f-TE61 


| “T2-0861 | "08-666T | "66-866T | “86-£L66T | “L6-966T | 


ds 


6F9'ST 
£16 
£23 ° 
O21 
L80°8 
696 
SLPS 
ds 


£66 €S0°T 
9¢g Tk 
626'TT SLE’sT 
960°6 €1Z 
ds dF 


"panutzuog— AUN LIGNGIX 


Al lrrirtri ddd 


"96-S66T 


| a ee 


| ‘S6-FO6T | 


*soduy |. svaf 90174) 


000'093 | 000‘O8s | 1861-086 . 
000'0%8 | ooo‘ory | oget—ezet 
000'003 | 000'0FF | 6z6T-RzeEr 


002603 | O00‘sst | 8z6I-zz61 ee 
— 008'008 | 4261-9261 | Fe9'sos 


— 9261-SZ6T 
= 936I-F26T my 





*(paywusijso) “400 


ruubuay |woRendod | sepusqey 


aunppuadxy 10,7 puns 


“ORSTUIMIOD Arepunog 
uvpl0r - suvly,-ousg sesuedxqy 
*(queul 


‘dojeasq puwy]) nary 943 “HH 


uoneizigqry play ° 


SUOSIIG pus so1jog 

"* usreduey ysn00T-WUV 

Be + tae qyeoH qn 

"** NOT JOQUOIY UBpIOP-sUBIT, 

ae a sydeizojoL pus 890g 

ses © QoUvOLy 

SHIOM OGD 

qUopIsey Ysatig 

soyMbiyuy Jo WoryBAresU0D) 
*AUVNICHOVELXY 


‘punoooy fo att] 


211 


III.—_CUSTOMS, EXCISE, AND TRADE. 


~ Revenue for the calendar years from 1927 to 1932 (exclusive of 
_ the payment made by Palestine on account of re-exported foreign 
goods) is given below :— 


1932 and 1931 


Customs Revenue—Calendar Years. Compared. 

1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. Increase. Decrease. 
£P £P £P £P £P £P £P £P 
wal =. 10,108 »=-:12,899 =-:12,991 +=s-«:15,377 15943) «18,278 ~—S 2,335 es 
huors 819 763 ~=—s«i1,050—Ss«éid88~=Ss«i2z4O74@~—séid2, 196 122 = 
bacco... 9,962 17,112 12,238 3,976 3,787 5,369 1,582 
We: 
urs... 734 931 1,004 824 953 853 a 100 
tbacco 20 3,072 3,500 6,934 7,413 10,313 2,900 a 
MES: 
huors 159 61 205 262 268 301 33 _ 
tbaceo 312 476 48] 521 553 532 = 21 
allaneous 660 681 916 1,831 3,332 4,242 910 a 
" 594 542 572 418 316 405 89 — 


—_—_—_—_—_—_—_——_——F— EE oe 


Wal -_,,,£P 23,369 £P36,537 £P32,957 £P31,331 £P33,639 £P41,489 £P7,971  £P121 


_ The item Miscellaneous includes the banderolle tax on matches 
and cigarette paper and the examination fee of 34 per cent. on all 
goods entering Trans-Jordan. 

It is anticipated that the revenue for the financial year will be 
£P2,500 in excess of the Estimate, mainly by reason of failure 
of the heisheh crop, which is untaxed, and the consequent addi- 
tional use of taxable tobacco, increased receipts from tobacco and 
liquors imported by the canteens of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company, 
Payment of £P260 by the Navy, Army, and Air Force Institutes 
lor alcohol and tobacco imported for the consumption of Imperial 


Forces, and the purchase of benzine in Amman by the Baghdad 
maul cars. 


2. 8,087 kilograms of foreign and 46,648 kilograms of local 
tobacco leaf were brought into the two factories, and 25,906 kilo- 
stams of tobacco and 20,699 of cigarettes were manufactured and 
paid duty. 
rh It is not possible to give accurate trade statistics because 

re 18 no Customs barrier between Palestine and Trans-Jordan, 
©xcept for tobacco and alcohol. 


The following are approximate figures :— 


1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932. 
fiasaces £P £P £P £P £P 
Trentiny i—ss+ 440,000 410,000 380,000 365,000 350,000 

ae 58,000 90,000 140,000 165,000 200,000 
rts. .. 200,000 320,000 250,000 250,000 200,000 


212 


4. 11,889 litres of wine and 19,773 of arak and ‘‘ cognac ’’’ were 
carried forward in stock from last year and manufactured: of this 
nearly 5,302 litres of wine and 13,701 of arak and ‘‘ cognac ’’ have 
been delivered on payment of excise. 

Rather more wine but much less arak has been manufacturec 
and sold this year than last. 

The Manufacture of Intoxicating Liquors Amendment Law 
enacted during the year, provides for payment of excise duty o1 
the date on which the liquor is removed from the premises ot 
manufacture. 

5. The volume of goods exported from or brought in transit 
through Syria to Trans-Jordan continues steadily to decline, as the 
following table of values shows :— 

Comparison of values of Syrian Exports to Trans-Jordan—1926--1932. 
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.* 


£P £P £P £P £P £P £P 
Local ..» 105,000 231,000 173,000 133,000 115,000 99,200 73.272 
Foreign ... 98,000 99,500 64,000 49,000 46,000 30,000 9,040 


* Approximate, based on averages. 


Since the payment by Palestine to Trans-Jordan on account of 
foreign goods subsequently exported from Palestine to Trans-Jordaun 
was fixed in July, 1928, at £P25,500, the export trade from Syria 
and the transit trade through Syria to Trans-Jordan have dwindled 
to a total £P82,312. The question of revising the amount of the 
payment by Palestine is therefore under review. 


6. The Department of Customs and Excise has taken over the 
collection of municipal dues on benzine, kerosene, and alcohol for 
distribution to the various Municipalities. The rate is now uniform 
in all municipal areas and it has also been possible to increase the 
Government duty on benzine from 32.5 mils to 37.5 mils per gallon. 

An addendum to the Customs and Excise Law, 1926, provides 
that the transit of goods through Trans-Jordan is permitted on pay- 
ment of a fee of 1 per cent. ad valorem but subject to the terms of 
any agreement existing between Trans-Jordan and other countries. 


IV.—LEGAL AND JUDICIAL. 


Judicial Inspectorate Regulations have been drawn up whereby 
all Courts in Trans-Jordan will be subject to a thorough inspection 
once every three months. 

Robes of special design for judges and advocates have been 
brought into use. Court rooms and furnishings have been appreci- 
ably improved, and the Law Library is being replenished. 

The Judicial Adviser organized a 6 months’ course of training 
in law for six selected Police officers to enable them to perform 
the duties of Public Prosecutors. A course of lectures was also 
given by the President of the Court of Appeal with such encourag- 
ing results that a Police School has been established to which 41 


213 


students, comprising officers, non-commissioner officers, and men, 
have been admitted. The course of instruction covers almost every 
subject hkely to be of any value to the Police. 


The Judicial Adviser, in collaboration with the President of the 
Court of Appeal, is arranging for the printing and supply of a 
pocket-edition of the principal laws of Trans-Jordan with which the 
Police are likely to be concerned. 


With a view to formulation of a new Penal Code and Code of 
Criminal Procedure, the Judicial] Adviser has translated the 
Ottoman Code of Criminal Procedure into English and is engaged 
in the translation of the Criminal Code. He has also completed 
the work of translating the Ottoman Civil Code (Mejelle) and is 
now translating the available Ottoman Land Law, also with the 
object of preparing a new Code. 


738 criminal] cases were dealt with by Courts of First Instance, 
including 217 crimes. 


8 ,537 penal cases were dealt with by Magistrates’ Courts, the 
most common type being assault, of which there were 2,400 cases. 
Next is theft and robbery with violence with 1,728 cases. The 
frequency of the other principal offences is as follows :— 


Public Health Contraventions bee oa ... 1,338 
Road Transport Contraventions és at Mes 755 
Defamation e or nee re _ ue 423 
Destruction of Crops ... a es ai ae 327 
Forest Offences an Sad eae eh sas 304 
Murder and Manslaughter... ae a — 123 
Drunkenness ... ae a Sed eh se 64 
Adultery and Rape _... is sis ses Sd 63 
Extradition —_..... hs ou sie sea er 48 
Forgery Sn sis = ou sft Si 13 


909 criminal cases were decided in appeal. 


The Courts of First Instance in 1932 dealt with 217 civil cases 
and the Magistrates’ Courts with 14,346. 


Of these civil cases, 11,846 were for debt; others were claims 
for specific objects: 259 were actions for trespass and 80 were 
land cases. 


665 civil cases were dealt with in appeal. 


18938 H 


~ 
N 


“worssospesant 
fo yovT 


Smal 





“pepuooegn | “pasopossp 


991 GVS SSL o6I 
06 £&6 ¥99 PLT 
vol Lol 619 ovl 
L6 o&I Trg cél 





pesnoop | aouaffo ony| guasoffneuys | -psquog 
‘Pen seDH 


‘popsoep seenQ fo ssnpnowsng 


‘slojNoesOIg Wang ey} Aq speul suOTEsTseauT TeuTMpIO 


*anuapisa "SUOTIUAR | * 











120% 


‘| 696°T 


LZ9‘T 
¥9‘T 


“popwop 


sa8DO 


£60°% col 


898'T S8T 
SPL‘T L9 
GT9°T £6 
‘svah fo 
"poasaves | buswusiag 
8980p 1D 
MIA bustpued 


seen) 


oe6l 
1s6I 
Of6I 
6661 


"LD9 X 


215 





FolFS | LEE LEL‘FI |€99°TZ I¥O‘L &00°FI SI9‘sT 612°9 6621 | 8L0°6I PIT‘L POBIL | °° SMOL 


etree | cee | NS | AR | energy | yt | ren SGD Sheen | Rees a ———— 


SIL 99% 4 AD 492 SOF 80g 991 SHE 6LP 661 08%  reyepy 
O19 OST oer — {aoe 002 908 169 L¥G PPE gas 162 L9g “  YOpeL, 
oFO'T | 8oF LIZ‘T  |T#8'T 86h erel | Zezt | gee L96 o9z'T | sie L¥6 “  equpeyy 
9c9'T | ¢€99 666 |#09'T 8Lg 980'T | €2z'T | ge IL8 oZE'T | OF9 O81 *  Yperer 
790% =| 869 997'T |668'T ecg ore'l | I8hT | 22 690'T | 80ZT | ZeF OLL “-unily jeqer 
Love | zee‘t | oLt's [6062 106 800% | 6s | EsOT | IFOT | PLs‘E | OST | PI's | °° 3 WeS-ea 
orcs | 66ZI | LPs‘ |PBL‘Z LOS LLO'T =| ‘3I¥'% | SEL LLO'T | He'% «| 9g8 BOLT | = yeroy 
goz'p | ator | ezo's lFas‘s WET ores | soos | Fert | eoe's | ogee | exect | z98°T PIqq] 
gor'9 | 186° | SLI‘e |osr‘a 969'S ess's | HLYe | GeL'T | 6eL‘'s | ces | oxe'T | 6I6% usUIUTY 
10,7 | ‘pousueg | “nary | mor | pus | “at | ‘MOL | pourmED | “mato | “pOZ | ‘pour | “parp Pigs’ 
——|!—— | |! A$] et _ |__| fo om 
e6I [E61 “O&6I 6861 


"SEBl ANY ‘1E6I ‘O6I ‘6Z6I SAVAA BNO] AHL NI GHARINA SUSVH 40 SAVIOOLLAVG 


"SLINOD ,soyVI ISSEY 








TL6 PST £ol 8& I | 6I€ GLI GL GL | 86F GIG cOl aa ame “" 6S61 
8¥8 9¢I 6L GP ST | $96 erl L9 9g | Ltr 926 08 chr | °* " T86T 
6LL Tél IL LE £6 |. 333 88 ¥9 OL | 93F I8T 08 cor |; °" “" O&6T 
VES ELI 86 8g LT | 986 esi g¢ SF | SLE 9LI 9L €or | °* 6661 
LE "SLNOUDOUM saUtss) 70,7, S4NOUVDOUL SOUS) OL SLNOUDOUL souls 
“synog is “Opes W 1H30 “OPW 180) “Ope G 1 1480 
If? ts | “400 X 
190.5, pouswuss/) fOUsUs4’) POUND ! 





“SE6I AGNV ‘TEE ‘OSGI ‘6Z6I SAVAA WOOT ABL NI aauwaIna SHSVO 40 SUVINoOIMAVd 
*OOMBqSUT WII JO sqino0pH 


18938 


216 


CouRT OF APPEAL. 


PARTICULARS OF APPEALS ENTERED IN THE FOUR YEARS 1929, 1930, 1931, anp 1932. 

















Civil Appeals. Criminal Appeals. 
From From 
Year. Courts i From aaeds From Total 
: agrstrates ; agustrates 
of First Court of First Court 
Instance ; Instance ° 
1929 53 681 204 806 1,744 
1930 51 592 149 680 1,372 
1931 6] 579 189 667 1,496 
1932 33 667 209 735 1,644 
CiviL Actions, 1932. 
Perdina | Now Cane | Came | Zending 
1932. ; . 1932. 
Appeals from Courts of 6 33 36 3 
First Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ — 667 629 38 
Courts. ——_— |] 

Totals ... “sts 6 700 665 41 
Amman 27 144 137 34 
Irbid 9 72 67 14 
Kerak 3 13 13 3 

Totals ... ee 39 229 217 51 
Amman ... aig ies 95 3,034 2,981 148 
Irbid sé or sae 21 2,651 2,533 39 
Kerak __.... wah “ee 30 2,234 2,238 26 
Es-Salt ... ere 67 2,125 2,084. 108 
Jebel Ajlun | 2 1,466 1,468 a= 
Jerash.... ae 2 993 986 9 
Madaba ... Sai 72 1,217 1,194 95 
Ma‘an and Akaba 18 458 436 40 
Tafileh ... a 4 430 426 8 

Totals ... 








217 


Tota, NUMBER OF ACTIONS IN CiviIL CourTSs INCLUDING 
CouRT oF APPEAL. 


Pending at 
Year. beginning § New Actions Actions Pending.at 
of year. entered. decided. end of year. 
1929. 841 21,656 21,921 576 
1930... 576 20,772 20,838 510 
1931... 510 24,007 23,902 615 
1992 0... 615 25,768 25,412 971 


CRIMINAL CASES, 19382. 











erst New cases | Cases reigned 

an: entered decided. " 
1932. 1932. 
Appeals from Courts of 2 209 202 9 

Instance. 
Appeals from Magistrates’ — 735 707 28 
Courts. 

Totals... .. 2 944 | 909 37 








Amman ame sis see | 9 354 351 12 
Ibid 7 see | 9 247 247 9 
Kerak : | l 141 140 2 
Sa ere ee ee 








MAGISTRATES’ COURTS. 

; 69 2,633 2,588 114 
Irbid 22 1,398 1,397 23 
Kerak 14 1,158 1,156 16 
Ke-Salt ! 49 1,332 1,291 90 
Jebel Ajlun | 1 598 599 — 
Jerash fe fe 10 663 659 14 
Madaba ...  ... oe 56 428 434 50 
Tafileh ... ae 5 180 175 10 
Ma‘an and Akaba a 12 255 238 29 

Totals . 238 | 8,645 | 8,537 | 346 
te eeeneneeees 

18938 H 3 


218 























6P8'SF0'S OIo' lee 998'999'T 81840], 
GFZ 10Z OFZ'60I wqeyy pus uv, spy 
999° LFI OIL'S6 qorssL 
086'°9E9 069°942 equpeyy 
228999 QL8°06Z yssot 
oer ser GLL'SIg “only jeqer 
L8Z°891‘T SI6°LET GLI'669 LLO'ZSI “QT eg-egT 
— SLH009 SELVALSIOV 
L06°L6¥'9 SLO'SSL 
L¥Q°ZL8 96F' TEI VIO y] 
OEP 29'T 000° III ‘*piqiy 
G26 S01 E O&F ZFE eo0e eee eee Usury 
— CHNIGHOO LHNOD ,SELVALSIOV]T 

GNV MONVISN] Lsaly 40 Lano0p 

alge "IvaddY 40 La009 
"POL "y4n0p fo swoy 


"SET ‘SHINOD TAIN Jo enuescy 


219 


ToTaL REVENUE OF THE CIVIL COURTS FOR THE FOUR YEARS 1929, 
1930, 1931, AND 1932. 





Year. 


Criminal. 


Fines. Costs. 


Notary 
Publie Total. 


Fees. 


| mm femme ee CN ed 


1929 
1930 
1931 
1932 


£P Mils. | £P Mils 
2,128.069 806.465 


1,702.224 | 1,138.127 
1,428.149 777.909 
1,188.196 774.559 


Civil. 

Fees on Fees on 
Actions. | Execution. 
£P Mils. | £P Mils. 
4,972.793 483.739 
4,720.359 879.085 
4,496.741 813.920 

916.535 


4,590.623 


£P Mils. | £P Mils. 
1,640.148 | 10,031.214 


1,642.849 | 10,082.644 
1,312.257 | 8,828.976 
1,216.423 | 8,686.336 





18938 


H 4 


220 





a | | | eee | ns | ee | ee | on | ee | | ES | ee | Ee | RE | SS | ee | eG | | ee | ee 








ae Oe LII — |@¢ I GI gol — | POI II Il 10Z — | 66 — |b *8 — |OoOI U8. 8 
I € 88 £2 — — — | ZI | StI | 69 — |g SFI | 291 | 69 I — | 19 91 = qogeL 
rd P FE _ — |¢ ¢ Qtr | L c6 ¢ gq agg | ¢ 16 z rd Ggl | F P se unity. 
g ¥ ZSS — |F g L Zag — | oF |Z L 168 — | 68T | 9 F €1Z — |@g qsvior 
og — | Lg¢E — | 8% 91 — | 66m | — | II | 98 — | 09 — | FIT | OI — | 93% — | 63 eqepely 
LOI | 9 679 | SFI | 103 | 6F ZI LOL | OOT | 49 | SIL JL oss | L6G | OLG | Tél | IT OLF | 9 £02 89-8 
€ 9 206 — | 1% 8 4 696 — | 1% |9 g LIZ‘T| — | 6% | 9 g aa!) — | #1 Bley 
re «6 LI9 | GE SLI | SI L FIs | TE 6hE | GF 9 Its | #9 Zep | FS 7 o6e | 2 68 Piqay 
96 | LE ool; — | eI | #9 62 FOL'T| — | 29%‘T| 99 +P g6ec‘I| — | 9L2‘T| ¢8 rac szo'l] — | O11 |’ usumy 
Pe) SE/S2/ $8) 52] oF) SE) $2) $2) Se Ps S2/S2) $F) $2) 28) $2) $2) $F | 4: 
ee) gh ie | else] ee] ee “EISE/se/SF (8 [El Sel se]sF)e |e] es 
eels 12 | e/S8ley/ 12 | ELSe Esl 2 [E | e/ Se] es] [2 | ela 

S. bs Py Rt ° . S s bs yy Ps : & e 7 S . 6 S. e s S - "*41N0D 

= = = 3 roe ! S 5" & 

"PEG 01 pspnsof parss0g | “SE6I us fo pasodsip saeng "CEG Ut pasaqua sasvp "TE6l wosf pannsof parsing 








“HLIM LIVAd SASV/-) dO AITEV], GANIGNO() 


221 
V.—EDUCATION. 


The Government maintains 62 schools, of which 4 are secondary 
and 46 are primary boys’ schools. Ten are for girls, one is a 
kindergarten, and one an Arts and Crafts School. 


2. The intention of providing 15 additional village schoolmasters 
could not be realized owing to lack of funds. (See 1931 Report, 
page 185, paragraph 6). 


38. Of the 127 boys who passed through the four-class secondary 
schools since 1925, 27 have obtained further professional qualifica- 
tions and 66 were appointed to Government posts. 


4. In future, save on a certificate of poverty, boys will pay an 
annual fee of £P6 whilst studying in a Government secondary 
school. 


». The 5,452 students receiving instruction in Government 
schools are distributed as follows :— 





primary on ze beg ae ... 4,154 
reve secondary om oak oes seh ee 173 
Girls... =e oe ies va es .. 922 
Kindergarten ... so - 5am sat .. 161 
Arts and Crafts Schoo ‘ ais re i 42 

5 ,452 





_ 6. In the Arts and Crafts School, where the pupils are boarders, 
in addition to carpentry and iron work, instructors, taught at 
Government expense, now give lessons in chair making and 
Weaving, 

7. The Government maintains five boys at Beirut University 
and two girls in the Women’s Elementary Training College in 
Jerusalem, all under contract to teach in Government schools on 
the completion of their training. 


8. Of two graduates of the Irbid secondary school who entered 
for the Palestine Matriculation Examination, one qualified and the 
other obtained the Secondary Certificate. 


VI.—_HEALTH. 


1. Administration.—A new post of Medical Officer of Health has 
been created for Ajlun Sub-District, making a total of twelve 
Medical Officers. 


222 


Four Sanitary Sub-Inspectors went through a course in First 
Aid and Sanitation at the training centres of the Palestine Depart- 
ment of Health at Jerusalem and Haifa. 


2. Vital Statistics.—The total number of births notified during 
the year was 10,867, and of deaths 6,151. 


Comparative Table. 


Increase in | Birth-rate Death-rate 
Total Births | Total Deaths| the number | per 1,000 per 1,000 
Year. Nottfied. Notified. of Births of the of the 
over Deaths. | inhabitants. | inhabitants. 


1926 sti 3,483 2,939 544 11-4 9-6 
1927 ee 5,800 3,968 1,832 19-0 13-0 
1928 mae 8,400 5,009 3,391 27°4 16:3 
1929 se 9,845 6,573 3,272 32°2 21-5 
1930 ve 10,340 6,661 3,679 33-8 21-7 
1931 ait 10,697 5,648 5,049 35-0 18-5 
1932 sisi 10,867 6,151 4,716 35-5 20-0 





The total natural increase of the population in the last four years 
was 16,716. 


The birth and death-rates are rather low, and as they have been 
nearly the same during the last four years, this lowness may be 
attributable to over-estimation of the population. 

The infantile mortality-rate per 1,000 births was 210, compared 
with 200 in 1931 and 222 in 1930. 


3. Infectious Diseases.—Nineteen cases of typhus fever, with 
three deaths, were notified, compared with 30 cases and 3 deaths 
in 1931. All cases were isolated at epidemic posts and temporary 
infectious hospitals, and the routine measures of control and dis- 
infection were carried out. 

Nine cases of smallpox, with three deaths, occurred in two 
villages in the Irbid Sub-District. The source of infection is 
believed to be Syria, whence three of the victims originally came. 
A general vaccination campaign was at once started and within 
six weeks nearly 55,000 vaccinations and revaccinations were made 
by the staff of the Department of Health. The isolation of patients 
in temporary infectious hospitals and other precautionary measures 
prevented the disease from spreading beyond the immediate 
contacts. 

The total number of vaccinations and revaccinations carried out 
by the Department during the year was 70,000. 

The following are the figures for the previous six years :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
12,680 16,674 41,080 64,410 23,228 30,996 





223 


Incidence of infectious diseases during the year :— 


1932. 1931. 
Disease. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. 
Typhoid sie sti sas ae 94 9 100 12 
Measles Bas nas re w. 425 48 69 12 
Mumps ‘as ar aia stars 47 — 9 — 
Paratyphoid .... wee ais ee 52 4 39 2 
Pneumonia — ses ia .. 143 30 112 24 
Dysentery “ne bac cet . 152 5 106 6 
Influenza a on .» 615 23 73 12 
Whooping Cough az gk -. 165 7 74 14 
Chicken Pox... we nae dis 55 ] 67 — 
Erysipelas Bai oe av wt 20 — 11 2 
Puerperal Fever ee 8 2 1] l 
Relapsing Fever Sas sive 3 — i — 
Typhus ... ‘ee a8 wa ae 19 3 30 3 
Diphtheria ‘ aot seis ae 3 1 7 2 
Anthrax aes ss ee sat 4 — 2 — 
Acute Poliomyelitis " ve 1 — — — 
Encephalitis i ce ] l ] —_ 
Smallpox 9 3 — — 
Scarlet Fever l — — — 


4. Maluria and Anti-Malaria Measures.—The incidence of 
malaria is decreasing from year to year. Only 1,283 new cases 
were reported from Government and voluntary clinics, compared 
with 1,454 in 1931, 1,476 in 1930, 2,601 in 1929, 5,296 in 1928, 
and 8,972 in 1927. 


Continuing the previous practice, Medical Officers examined 
6,114 children from different parts of the country, obtaining a 
spleen rate of 4.5 per cent. 


The rate in the last six years was :— 


1926. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 
25:3 19-0 14-9 9-5 6-6 5-8 


In certain parts where the rate was between 40 per cent. and 
00 per cent., anti-malaria measures have brought it down to nil. 
Even in the Jordan Valley, despite numerous marshes and streams, 
the Department has succeeded in reducing the rate from 100 per 
cent. to about 30 per cent. and even 15 per cent. 


5. Medical Services.—There are the Italian Hospital of 40 
beds at Amman, a Church Mission Society Hospital of 30 beds at 
Ks-Salt, to the expenses of which the Government contributes, and 
the English (Women’s) Hospital of 21 beds at Amman. The 
Government provides also 20 beds for general cases. 


There were 508 admissions to Government Hospital, Amman, 
and the Detention and Epidemic Posts, with 29 deaths; and 1,031 
to voluntary hospitals, with 55 deaths. 


Attendances at Government Clinics numbered 135,426 ; and at the 
voluntary clinics 20,510. 


224 


Five doctors and a midwife were licensed to practise. 

Twenty-two persons, bitten by animals suspected of rabies, were 
treated at Government Antirabic Centres. 1,031 stray dogs were 
destroyed by the Department of Health. 

There is no hospital accommodation for mental disease and 
dangerous cases are accommodated in prison. There are small and 
scantily equipped epidemic units of 4 to 8 beds at seven centres in 
which infectious cases and other cases are dealt with pending 
transfer to hospital. 

The staff of Sub-Inspectors and District nurses for Infant Welfare 
and Schools is not yet adequate. 


6. School Medical and Sanitary Services.—The routine inspection 
of Government and voluntary schools was continued by the Medical 
Officers in towns and villages ; 3,292 school children were examined 
during the year and the number of attendances at School Ophthalmic 
Clinics was 290,289. 

3,170 pupils were vaccinated against smallpox. 

There was a considerable improvement in the general cleanliness 
of schools and scholars. 


7. Municipal Public Health Services.—The Municipalities of 
Irbid, Jerash, Es-Salt, Madaba, Kerak, and Ma’an continued to 
employ each a Sanitary and Anti-Malaria Sub-Inspector working 
under the direct control of the Medical Officers. Amman employs 
two Sub-Inspectors. 


8. Dangerous Drugs.—Seventeen permits for the import of dan- 
gerous drugs were issued by the Department of Health: fourteen 
were for importation from Falestine and three from England. 


The following were the imports :— 


Grammes. 
Morphine, its salts and preparations ... ses 67.50 
Cocaine... . a wa sae ea 213.00 
Medicinal Opium. ug ‘ Ae ve 1,001.00 


1,098 grammes of hashish and 5 grammes of cocaine were con- 
fiscated during the year and five persons were prosecuted for 
contraventions “against the Dangerous Drugs Law. The offence in 
each of these five cases was possession of narcotics; one of the 
offenders was acquitted, and the others were sentenced to terms of 
imprisonment ranging from a week to two months, and fined in 
addition. 


9. Infant Welfare.—The registrations at Amman Centre during 
the year were 119, attendances 9,715 and home visits by the Nurse 
2,763. At the Es-Salt Centre, there were 77 registrations and 
463 attendances. 


10. Government Laboratory.—The number of examinations made 
during the year was 3,595. Nearly the whole work has keen con- 
nected with the diagnosis of infectious disease. 


225 
VII.—POSTS, TELEGRAPHS, AND TELEPHONES. 


The general economic depression continues to react unfavourably 
on the business of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs, as the 
figures in the table below reveal. 

2. Posts.—The mail services were maintained with regularity, 
and the following services were introduced :— 

(1) Inland Cash-on-Delivery Packets.—This service has not 
yet appealed to the public. 

(2) EHapress Service.—This provides for the delivery of 
correspondence and parcels to the addressees immediately after 
the arrival of the mails at the Post Office. 

(3) Air Matls.—This service has been used extensively. 

(4) Inland Parcels up to 20 kilogrammes. 


As from lst July, 1932, the trans-desert mail service, which 
formerly used the route via Syria and ‘Iraq carrying the European 
mails to ‘Iraq, Persia, and India, changed over to the route through 
Palestine and ‘Iraq via Trans-Jordan. An appreciable amount of 
revenue will thus accrue in Trans-Jordan from the transit rates 
under the Universal Postal Convention. 

A Post Office was opened at Mafrak for the use of the ‘Iraq 
Petroleum Company, which supplies the rooms and pays £P5 a 
month for the service. 


3. Telegraphs.—Telegraph traffic, especially foreign, is still 
falling, because of the depreciation of sterling and the need to 
settle the accounts of the various Administrations on a gold basis, 
necessitating an increase of 50 per cent. on the previous rates for 
foreign telegrams. 

The agreement concluded with the Inspector-General of Posts 
and Telegraphs, Beirut, for the exchange of telegraph traffic by 
the land line now established between Amman and Damascus was 
put in force as from the lst April, and telegrams to Syria and the 
Lebanon, previously signalled via Palestine land lines, are now 
transmitted by this route. The rates to Syria and the Lebanon 
have consequently been reduced by the amount of the transit fee 
to Palestine. 


4. Telephones.—The increase in the number of telephones and 
trunk calls is mainly due to Government business. 

On the Ist September, the trunk call rates between Palestine 
and Trans-Jordan were decreased, with a resulting increase of 
business. 


5. Engineering.—All lines and exchanges have been maintained. 
The Engineering Section carried out the following works :— 
(1) Complete overhaul of the lines from Tafileh to Jerouf 
Darawish and from Ma’an to Petra. 
(2) Transfer of the Ma’an Post Office io a new building. 
(3) Laying of a line from Amman to Deban to connect 
Kerak directly with Amman. 


226 


6. General.—Sixteen cases of damage to telegraph and telephone 
routes were reported, and action was instituted in the Courts 
against the offenders. 

TRaFFIC STATISTICS. 


Increase or 
Item. 1931. 1932. Decrease per 
cent. 
Correspondence (Letters, Postcards, Printed 330,778 299,347 — 9 
Papers, etc.). 
Parcels, Inland ... 2,479 2,622 + 6 
Parcels, Foreign— 
Despatched 289 323 + 12 
~ Received 2,520 2,451 — 3 
Telegrams, Inland 6,778 6,803 — 
Telegrams, Foreign— 
Despatched 4,009 3,522 — 12 
Received aoe 4,117 3,339 — 19 
Telephone Subscribers— 
Number : bak 345 371 + 8 
Kilometres ae — 290 303 + 4 
Telephone Call Offices, Nober sof a 39 40 + 3 
Telephone Trunk Lines, Kilometres ... ae 1,235 1,235 — 
Telephone Trunk Calls, Number bee ee 72,205 83,026 + 15 
Money Orders, Inland— 
Number baa is es 3,833 4,422 + 16 
Value és ae . £P12,580 15,046 + 20 
Money Orders, Foreign— 
Number issued a diss 2,945 2,738 — 7 
Value Hee as . £P10,838 8,419 — 22 
Money Orders, a 
Number received : 149 218 + 46 
Value ... ee £P1,353 1,544 + 14 
British Postal Orders— ee tas 
Number issued - 167 1,304 re ace 
Value £P123 857 i: 
put on sale 
on Ist Aug 
British Postal Orders— 
Number received 338 127 — 62 
Value ie £P294 81 — 174 
Palestine Postal Orders— 
Number paid . 1,535 1,692 + 10 
Value ea £P1,370 1,497 + 9 


VIII.—_AGRICULTURE. 


Crops.—In Ajlun, the winter crop yield was normal, except for 
the Beni Hassan area and the western slopes of the Jordan Valley. 
In Belqa, it was below normal, and in the Madaba sub-district and 


the western slopes of the Jordan Valley a failure. 


In Kerak also 


it was below normal and in Tafileh sub-district, the area to the 
west of Kerak, the slopes of the Wadis Hasa and Mojib and the 


227 


areas adjoining the desert, there was no yield. In Ma’an, the 
yield was generally below normal and in low lying areas it failed. 


Of the summer crops, large areas of millet were sown in the 
north, in place of wheat destroyed by worm (saturus temperatella), 
and gave a very good yield. 4,000 dunums were sown with Turkish 
tobacco. The 3,200 dunums cultivated with heisheh tobacco only 
yielded 10 tons, in comparison with 90 tons last year. Vegetables 
grown in the Ajlun district and the Jordan Valley gave a satis- 
factory yield, but in the Belgqa failed to a large extent. 


Potatoes grown experimentally in Ajlun District gave a satis- 
factory yield. 


During the year, the Government Department managed nine 
experimental stations, with a total area of 45 dunums divided into 
72 plots, in which were grown varieties of wheat, barley and maize. 
The yield of these plots was distributed gratis among the people, 
enough being retained for the next season’s sowing. 


In the lectures given by Agricultural Officers, emphasis has been 
laid on the urgent need for following a proper rotation : 17 villages 
in Irbid sub-district are now following a three-years’ rotation. 


Apart from trees distributed from the four Government nurseries, 
some 420,000 fruit trees and 27,000 forest and ornamental trees 
have been planted by private agency, whilst 9,700 dunums of new 
vineyard have been opened. To encourage fruit cultivation, Agri- 
cultural Officers have grafted 11,000 of these trees free of charge 
from stock of the best imported varieties. 


During the year, 6,100 grafted and 56,000 ungrafted fruit trees, 
as well as 70,000 forest trees were distributed gratis from Govern- 
ment nurseries; at the end of the year, 116,000 fruit and 86,000 
forest trees remained on hand. In previous years, the trees dis- 
tributed have almost all been ungrafted ; this policy has been found 
to be unsuitable and in future only trees already grafted will be 
issued. 


2. Agricultural Education.—The conclusion has been reached 
that the best means of disseminating knowledge of better methods 
of agriculture in a country as poor as Trans-Jordan, 1s to train all 
village schoolmasters as rapidly as circumstances permit and to 
provide every school with a plot of land where practical work can 
be carried out. To this end, it has been arranged that three boys 
shall enter the Kadoorie Agricultural School at Tulkarm in 
Palestine every year and shall there take a three-years’ course 
which combines agricultural with a certain amount of secondary 
education and with instruction in teaching. It is hoped to arrange 
for other boys to obtain this training at Beirut University. 

In 31 of the 46 village schools, the Agricultural Department has 


already selected the land and established gardens varying in area 
from two to eleven dunums. 


228 


These school gardens are intended also to serve as experimental 
plots for testing or acclimatizing newly introduced seeds or plants, 
for the propagation of seed for distribution, and as centres for the 


distribution of grafts of good variety and as demonstration plots to 
the surrounding farmers. 


Fifteen varieties of wheat, ten varieties of barley, and thirteen 
varieties of leguminous crops, together with fertilizers, have been 
issued and by the end of December eight of the gardens had been 
divided into plots and 80 per cent. of the winter sowing (760 kilos 
of wheat, 740 of barley, and 720 of leguminous seeds) was finished. 


A special Agricultural Assistant for supervising these school 
gardens will be appointed next year. 


3. Forests.—The conservation of all forest areas has been satis- 
factorily maintained and the local consumption of fuel wood, char- 
coal, and agricultural implements has been catered for by the grant 
of permits to prune trees in a number of these areas. 


The Government Department has pruned an area of 350 dunums 
near Sweileh and afforested 110 dunums in the vicinity of the 
Amur’s Palace. 


282 forest offences were dealt with by the Courts, many being 
connected with unlicensed grazing. 


4. Veterinary.—Foot-and-mouth disease broke out in the Jordan 
Valley in the Ajlun District in May and spread to the Belga 
District, 6,695 cattle being infected and a further 3,000 head in- 
oculated. Otherwise there was no significant outbreak of animal 
disease and the country was declared free of foot-and-mouth disease 
on the 1st July. 


The scanty rains and intense cold last winter and the lateness 
of the rains this year have seriously reduced the livestock of the 
country, already depleted by export to Palestine for sale as the 
only means of raising money for farming needs 


The serious fall in prices for camels in Egypt has adversely 
affected the Trans-Jordan Beduin and, by interrupting the trade in 
camels from Nejd and the Hejaz to Egypt via Trans-Jordan, has 
caused a drop in Government revenue. 


5. Pests.—Field mice appeared in the north towards the end of 
the year, but in smaller numbers than in 1931 and were quickly 
destroyed. 


Locusts entered Trans-Jordan in the south towards the end of 
January, and small invasions reaching as far north as Meshra 
Aqua were reported for the followmg two months. The swarms 
were dispersed by adverse weather and fortunately no damage 
was done. 


229 
IX.—LANDS. 


Survey.—The demarcation, survey, and valuation of Kerak, 
Tafileh, and Ma’an districts were completed. 

The output since the conmmencement of work in 1928 is shown 
below :— 





Year. No. of Villages. Area (dunums). Marks erected. 
1928 ee 29 239,940 1,326 
1929 bas 79 773,590 5,304 
1930 se 93 1,675,458 6,238 
1931 Ses 119 2,129,860 . 8,620 
1932 as 88 2,950,660 6,946 
Totals... 408 7,769,508 28,434 





The cost per dunum is 3 mils, which includes Headquarters 
expenses, iron marks, area extraction, and reproduction of maps. 
The daily output of a surveyor is 1,045 dunums. 

The following statement has been compiled from the results of 
survey and valuation. 

Cultivable land _— Percentage of 


District. Area tn Dunums. (Dunums). Cultivable land. 
{rbid ... ne wets wee 1,414,608 1,025,069 72 per cent. 
Jerash “ee bee ‘ss 881,736 534,855 66 SC*»",, re 
Madaba sae — sie 499,706 179,756 36 SCS, ” 
Kerak Seis bee xe 1,214,794 570,321 47 


2. A jolnt survey party accompanied the Commission for the 
delumitation of the Trans-Jordan-Syna boundary; the boundary 
marks in the sector west of the Hejaz Railway were plotted on the 
Trans-Jordan 1/10,000 maps, and for the sector east of the Railway 
the 1/200,000 Syrian maps were utilized. 

3. Expropriation.—Owing to the complicated system of land 
tenure in Trans-Jordan, the expropriation of land required for the 
undertaking of the ‘Iraq Petroleum Company is being carried out 
in the name of the Government and the land leased to the Company 
at a nominal rent, the price of the land being paid by the Company. 

The Company also bears the cost of demarcation and survey 
lequired. 


4. Land Regtstry.—The Land Registry Fees Law, providing for 
a reduction in the rate of fees, and the amendment of Regulations 
to facilitate the procedure of registration have produced beneficial 
results. Although the fees were reduced on an average by 30 per 
cent., £P3.837 was collected in fees and 854 transactions passed 
through the Registry, compared with £P2,936 and 714 respectively 
mm the previous year. | 


5. State Domain.—Various holdings of State Domain, mostly un- 
cultivated, comprising a total area of 683 dunums, were sold to 
encourage cultivation or faciJitate building. The proceeds of the 
sales amounted to £P511. whereas the annual revenue from these 
properties from 1926-1931 was only £P22. 


230 


6. 46,016 dunums of Government land in the Jordam Valley 
occupied by the Ghazawiek tribe are being sold to the cultivators 
for £P14,085, an average rate of 300 mils per dunum, payable in 
ten annual instalments. The land has been partitioned and the sale 
is conditional on strict adherence to the partition by the cultivators 
until all instalments are paid and title deeds issued. 


7. Maps.—A 1/50,000 scale series, covering the inhabited area 
of Trans-Jordan, in 20 sheets, is in course of publication. The 
four northern sheets have already appeared. 

Sales of the 1/50,000 and 1/10,000 series to the public realized 
£P100. 


X.—PUBLIC WORKS. 


595 kilometres of road were maintained continuously and, in 
addition, 410 kilometres were overhauled once after the rains. 

Five kilometres of the main road from Amman to Jerusalem 
were re-aligned and some bad and dangerous curves have been 
eliminated, and preparations made for widening and tarring a length 
of four kilometres through the gardens below Es-Salt. Various 
road works over 68 kilometres between Kerak and the Dead Sea, | 
Tafileh and Wadi Hasa, Tafileh and Shobek, Shobek and Ma’an, 
Ma‘an and Aqaba were carried out as relief measures. 

Included in the 56 kilometres of road opened by voluntary village ~ 
labour under departmental supervision, are 18 kilometres of the 
stretch connecting Madaba with the thermal baths of Zerqa May’in. 
The completion of this road should increase the already large 
attendances at the baths. 


2. Government buildings have been maintained to the extent 
of the funds available. The old Governorate at Ma’an was con- 
verted into a satisfactory prison and a new Governorate built with 
accommodation for the Administrative Staff and for Public Works 
and Agricultural Offices. 

The programme of improvements to the Central Frison and 
Reserve Barracks in Amman has been continued. 

Posts were completed for the Desert Police at Asraq and Bair, and © 
a dam 100 metres long built in stone and cement mortar to protect 
Aqaba from the flood water descending the Wadi Shallala. 


3. Apart from relief works, the Department of Public Works has 
directly employed 4,534 labourers during the year, and has given 
employment on relief works to 1,500 men for three months and to 
1,080 more for one month. 


XI.— ANTIQUITIES. 


Wadi Rum in Southern Trans-Jordan has keen more thoroughly 
explored ; this interesting site has produced twenty-five new in- — 
scriptions, which will be published in detail. 





231 


Kast of the Hejaz Railway Line, valuable information has been 
collected and a site of particular interest has been found at Kilweh 
in the Jebel Tubaik; namely a Christian settlement attributed to 
the 5th or 6th century A.D. 

Part of a mosaic flooring in fair condition was recently uncovered 
in Madaba. 

Excavations. 

2. Jerash.—Owing to lack of funds, the Joint Yale University- 
American School Expedition could not continue work, but sent a 
surveyor to make a detailed survey of the antiquity area. 

Amman.—A permit was granted to the Italian Archaeological 

Expedition to continue work on the Citadel Hill, Amman. 
- Teletlat Ghassul.—Excavation was continued by the Pontifical 
. Biblical Institute. It is now considered by archaeologists that the 
- lowest of the four levels dates from 3,500 B.C., and that the site 
was occupied for a period of about 400 years. 

3. Laws.—A new law was brought into operation governing the 
_ admittance of tourists to the antiquities of Jerash and Fetra; free 
permits have been akolished and separate fees are now payable for 
_ visits. There were nearly 1,000 visitors to Jerash in the year, 
and 330 to Petra. 

4. Museums.—The mosaics removed from the Church of St. John 
at Jerash are now on view in the local Gallery. 

An official Guide Book for Jerash is shortly to be issued. 


XII.—ARAB LEGION. 


The Arab Legion is responsible for public security in Trans- 
Jordan. 

2. There has been a slight increase of crime during the year, 
but imprisonment for debt accounts for the greater part of the prison 
population. 

3. Raiding from Trans-Jordan has practically ceased, only one 
serious raid being reported in 1932. 

4. The installation of wireless and the opening up of tracks for 
motor cars in the Eastern Desert have been instrumental in the 
maintenance of order in the Desert Areas. 

5. Suspicions arose during the last month of the year that Trans- 
Jordan was being used as a link in the drug smuggling chain from 
Syria to Egypt. The Police were warned, and 98 kilograms of 
hashish were seized in Irbid, being conveyed in specially-constructed 
water and petrol tanks in a car coming from Syria. 

6. Improvements in the Central Prison and smaller prisons have 
been made during the year, though some of the smaller prisons are 
still overcrowded. 

7. A Police Post has been established at Jebel Rum near the 
South Frontier and it is hoped next year to Luild a fort, in which 
to house the personnel. 


232 


XTI.—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, CONVENTIONS, 


AND TREATIES. 


(A) Agreements concluded in the name of Trans-Jordan. 


Country. 


Palestine 


Great Britain... 


Nejd ... 


Palestine 
Palestine 
Palestine 


Palestine 


United States of 
America. 


Syria and Lebanon ... 


(1) COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS. 


Name. 


Transit Agreement ... 


(ii) OTHER AGREEMENTS. 
Agreement 


Hadda Agreement 


Agreement for the Taking of Evidence on 
Commission for the purpose of any 
Criminal or Civil Matter. 


Agreement as to the Circulation of Motor 
Vehicles. 

Agreement regarding the Interchange of 
Judicial Documents. - 

Agreement regarding the Conveyance of 
Corpses from Palestine for Burial in 
Trans-Jordan and from Trans-Jordan 
for Burial in Palestine. 

Convention regarding the Rights of the 
Government and Nationals of the United 
States in Trans-Jordan. 


Agreement concluded in 1932. 


Agreement for the Reciprocal Grant of 
Gratis Visas. 


Date of 

Signature. 
26.9.28, 
Jerusalem. 

Amended 
18.12.28, 
Jerusalem. 
27.12.28, 
Amman. 


20.2.28, 
Jerusalem. 
Ratified 
31.10.29, 
Amman. 


2.11.25, 
Bahra Camp. 
25.2.29, 
Jerusalem. | 
6.3.29, 
Amman. 
14.11.29, 
Jerusalem. 
6.3.29, 
Amman. 
1.10.29. 


3.11.24. 


20.8.32, 
Jerusalem. 
5.9.32, 
Beirut. 


(B) Multilateral Agreements and Conventions. 


Name. 


Date of 
Signature. 


International Convention relative to the Protection of 13.11.08, 
Literary and Artistic Works. Berlin. 


International Opium Convention and 


relative papers. 


subsequent 23.1.12, 
The H 


Additional Protocol to the International Copyright 20.3.14, 


Convention signed at Berlin on the 13.11.08. 


re. 


Date of 
Accesston. 


21.3.24. 
21.8.24. 


" 91.3.24. 


938 
Name. 


Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit 


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable 
Waterways of International Concern. 


Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime 
of Navigable Waterways of International Concern. 


Declaration recognizing the Right to a Flag of States 
having no Sea Coast. 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 
Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications. 


Protocol on Arbitration Clauses (in commercial 
matters). 


International Convention relating to the Simplification 
of Customs Formalities. 


Convention relating to the Development of Hydraulic 
Power affecting more than one State, and Protocol 
of Signature. 


Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Railways, and Protocol of Signature. 


Convention and Statute of the International Regime 
of Maritime Ports, and Protocol of Signature. 


Convention relating to the Transmission in Transit of 
Electrical Power, and Protocol of Signature. 


International Locust Bureau 
International Sanitary Convention 


International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs 


International Convention with the object of securing 
the Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade. 


International Convention for the Unification of certain 
Rules relating to Bills of Lading. 


International Radio-telegraph Convention 

Universal Postal Convention 

Agreement concerning Insured Letters and Boxes 

International Convention relating to International 
Exhibitions. 

International Convention relative to the Protection of 


Literary and Artistic Works. 


International Convention for the Amelioration of the 


Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armies in 
the Field. 


Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession.. 
20.4.21, 28.1.24. 

Barcelona. 

20.4.21, 28.1.24. 

Barcelona. 

20.4.21, 28.1.24. 

Barcelona. 

20.4.21, 9.10.22 

Barcelona. (Ratification).. 
12.9.23, 23.5.27. 

Geneva. 
24.9.23, 12.3.26. 

Geneva. 

3.11.23, 29.8.24 

Geneva. (Ratification).. 
9.12.23, 22.9.25. 

Geneva. 

9.12.23, 22.9.25. 

Geneva. 

9.12.23, 22.9.25. 

Geneva. 

9.12.23, 22.9.25. 

Geneva. 

20.5.26, 18.8.27. 

Damascus. 

21.6.26, 9.10.28. 

Paris. 

19.2.25, 25.9.28 

Geneva. (Effective 

date).. 
25.9.26, 18.6.27 

Geneva. (Ratification). 
25.8.24, 2.6.31 

Brussels. (Effective 

date).. 
25.11.27, 15.8.30. 
Washington. 
28.6.29, 3.12.30. 

London. 

28.6.29, 3.12.30. 

London. 

22.11.28, 17.12.30.. 

Paris. 

2.6.28, 1.10.31. 

Rome. 

27.7.29, 23.6.31 

Geneva. (Ratification). 

(Effective 
date- 


23.12.31). 


234 


Name Date of Date of 
Signature. Accession. 
International Agreement for the Suppression of the 18.5.04, 
White Slave Traffic. Paris. 6.5.32 


International Convention for the Suppression of the 4.5.10, (Effective 
White Slave Traffic. Paris. date). 
International Convention for the Suppression of the 30.9.21- 2.11.31. 
Traffic in Women and Children. 31.3.22, 
Geneva. 


(C) Extradition Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Date of Signature. Date of Application. 
Between United Kingdom 
and 
Albania 22.420 sus : 29.1.27 (Ratification). 
Colombia ... 27.10.88/2.12. 29° 5.12.30 (Effective date). 
Cuba 3.10.04/17.4.30 . 12.12.31 (Effective date). 
Czechoslovakia 11.11.24, sid 15.7.27. 
Protocol 4.6. 26. 
Estonia 18.11.25 .- 10.83.27. 
Finland 30.5.24 .. 25.11.26. 
Latvia 16.7.24 .. 7.6.26. 
Lithuania ... . 18.5.26 ... ... 29.3.27 (Ratification). 
Novacs ee. + | 57.31 (Effective date) 
"* ( 27.11.30 a Py ia : 
Austria 3.12.73/26.6.01 ... 18.3.32. 
Belgium . 29.10.01 ... 
: ( 5.3.07 
Belgian Congo 133.11 1.4.32. 
Ruanda Urundi - ery 
Bolivia 22.2.92 3.3.32. 
Chile 26.1.97 18.3.32. 
Denmark ... 31.3.73 29.3.32. 
Greece 24.9.10 22.4.32. 
Guatemala... 4.7.85/30. 5. 14 30.3.32. 
Hayti 7.12.74 sie 24.2.32. 
Hungary 3.12.73/26.6.01 ... 30.6.32. 
Luxemburg 24.11.80 ... 29.1.32. 
Netherlands 26.9.98 5.4.32. 
Nicaragua ... 19.4.05 ad 6.4.32. 
Norway 26.6.73/18.2.07 ... 20.9.32. 
Panama 25.8.06 4.6.32. 
Peru 26.1.04 ... 2.3.32. 
Roumania ... 9/21.3.93... 3.3.32. 
Salvador 23.6.81 18.10.32. 
Siam 4.3.11... 7.4.32. 
Spain 4.6.78/19.2.89  .. 23.3.32. 
Switzerland 26.11.80/29.6.04.. 9.5.32. 
Yugoslavia... 23.11.00/6.12.00.. 30.8.32. 


In addition is the countries set ait in the foregoing list the 
Trans-Jordan Extradition Law has been applied to the following 


countries :— 


Argentine. 
Ecuador. 
France. 
Germany. 
Italy. 


Liberia. 
Paraguay. 
Portugal. 
San Marino. 
Tunis. 


United States of 
America. 
Uruguay. 


235 
(D) Commercial Treaties between the United Kingdom and 
Foreign Countries which have been applied to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Name. Date of 
A pplication. 
Between Great Britain 
and 
Austria oe ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 5.6.26. 
22nd May, 1924, London. 
Notes on Trade Marks ete ea ww. 2.12.27- 
13.4.28. 
Czechoslovakia ... Treaty of Commerce, 14.7.23 a --- 5.6.25. 
Finland — ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 13.2.26. 
14.12.23. 
Germany out ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2.12.26. 
2.12.24, London. 
Latvia sie ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 25.56.24. 
22.6.23, London. 
Lithuania... ... Agreement respecting Commercial Relations, 24.4.23.. 
6.5.22, Riga and Kovno. 
Poland ae ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 19.6.24. 
26.11.23. 
Spain aa ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.12.28. 
31.10.22, Revised 5.4.27 and 31.5.28. 
Bulgaria dies ... Notes on Commerce and Navigation, 25.2.29. 
12.11.25. 
Greece sink ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 23.3.27. 
16.7.26. 
Greece es ... Notes on Consular Fees on Certificates of 21.6.29. 
Origin, 21.6.29. 9.7.29 
(Effective 
7 date)._ 
Yugoslavia... ... Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 4.4.28. 
12.5.27. 
Egypt sus ... Commercial Modus Vivendi, 5/7.6.30, Cairo 21.8.30. 
Prolongation, 14/22.2.31, Cairo... 14/22.2.31. 
Prolongation, 22.1.32. 
Japan aed -.. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 1.6.30. 
3.4.11, and Supplementary Convention 
of 30.7.25. 
Spain sae ... Agreement regulating the Treatment of 6.8.31. 
Companies, 27.6.24, Madrid. 
Treaty applied in 1932. 
Panama Ses -.- Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, 2/19.9.32. 


25.9.28. 


(E) Other Treaties between the United Kingdom and Foreign. 
Countries which apply to Trans-Jordan. 


Country. Name. Date of 
A pplication. 
Netherlands ... ... Extension to Overseas Territories of the 1.12.29 
Agreement for the Abolition of Visas, (Applicable 
1.12.29. to British 
subjects 
only). 
Poland sig .«. Convention regarding Legal Proceedings in 17.10.32 


Civi] and Commercial Matters, 26.8.31,. (Effective 
Warsaw. date)... 


236 


APPENDIX I. 
Education Ordinance, No. 1 of 1933. 


An Ordinance relating to Education. 


Be it enacted by the High Commissioner for Palestine with the advice of 
the Advisory Council thereof :— 
Short title. 
1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Education Ordinance, 1933. 
Definitions. 
2. In this Ordinance and any Regulations thereunder :— 

‘‘ School ”? means any institution in which more than ten persons are 
taught systematically, and in which any person imparts education. 

‘* Government School '’ means any school established and controlled by 
the Government of Palestine. . 

‘* Public School ’’ means any school maintained wholly or in part either 
by the Revenue of the Government of Palestine or by the revenue of any 
local authority, and registered in accordance with the provisions hereof 
as a public school. 

‘‘ Assisted School’’ means a school, other than a public school. to 
which, under the provisions of this Ordinance, a grant is made by the 
central or any local authority, or any share of a grant so made is 
allotted. 

‘¢ Non-assisted School’? means any c¢chool other than a public or 
assisted school. 

‘* Community School ’’ means any school of which the proprietor is a 
Community or local committee of a Community organised under the 
Religious Communities Organisation Ordinance, 1926, or exercising juris- 
diction in accordance with Article 51 of the Palestine Order in Council, 
1922, 

‘‘ Private School ’’ means a school other than a public school, an 
assisted school, or a community school. 

‘* Director ’’ means the Director of the Department of Education. 

“‘ Manager ’’, in the case of a school which is conducted by the pro- 
prietor, means the proprietor, and in the case of every other school, 
means the person for the time being appointed to be the responsible 
representative of the proprietor. 

‘¢ Proprietor ’’, in relation to a school, means any person, association, 
community or corporation by whom or which a school is established or 
conducted. 

‘* Village ”? includes any village in which there is not a Municipality 
or a Local Council. 

‘Village Authority’? means a village council, if such existe, and 
otherwise the mukhtar or mukhtars of the village. 


PART I. 


GENERAL. 
Public Schools, 


3.—(1) Public schools shall be classified according to the principal language 
of instruction. Arabic schools established by the Government and _ such 
Hebrew schools as are included in the schedule to thig Ordinance shall be 
deemed to be public schools; and the Director may, subject to Regulations 
hereunder, at any time register any school as a public school. 

(2) In the discharge of his functions in regard to any group of public 
schools established or maintained in part by a Local Authority or an Associa- 
tion, the Director shall consult with such authority or Association. 


237 


Registration of Schools. 


4. Every school, other than a Government school, which at the date ot 
this Ordinance has not been registered with the Department of Education, 
shall within three months of the coming into force of this Ordinance be so 
registered. Every school which is opened after the date of this Ordinance 
shall be registered within a month of the opening of the school. Application 
for registration shall be made by the Manager to the Director, and such 


particulars shall be given as may be prescribed from time to time by Regula- 
tion under the Ordinance. 


Appointment of Manager. 


do. The proprietor of every school, other than a Government school, which 
is not conducted by the proprietor shall notify to the Director the appoint- 
ment of some person connected with the school and resident in Palestine to 
be the responsible representative of the proprietor to whom any communi- 
cation from the Government relating to the school may be addressed; and he 
shall at all times thereafter have a representative and shall notify the 
Director of any change either in the person or the address of his representa- 
tive within 14 days after any such change is made. In default, the pro- 
prietor shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding £P10. 


Sanitary Conditions of Schools. 


6.—(1) The Director of the Department of Health and any Medical Officer 
of Health or Sanitary Officer authorised in writing by him may at all reason- 
able times enter any school and inspect the sanitary and hygienic conditions 
in the school premises, and may require the Manager or the person for the 
time being in charge of the school to furnish returns showing the number 
of the teachers and pupils and the accommodation provided. 

(2) The Director may serve written notice on the Manager or the Pro- 
prietor of the school to carry out within three months of the date of the 
notice any requirement of a Medical or Sanitary Authority. 

(3) If it is shown to the satisfaction of the High Commissioner that after 
the term of such notice has expired the requirements have not been executed 
and the school is being conducted in sanitary conditions detrimental to the 
health of the teachers or pupils, the High Commissioner may by notice to be 
served on the Proprietor or Manager order the school to be closed as from 
the date specified in the notice. 


Inspection and Visit of Schools. 


7.—(1) The Director or Deputy Director, a District Commissioner, an 
Inspector of the Department of Education, and any other officer authorised 
in writing by the Director, may at all reasonable times enter and inspect 
any school other than a non-assisted school established or maintained by a 
Religious Association. The Manager or the person for the time being in 
char ge of the school shall during the inspection and at other times furnish, 
in such form as may be prescribed by Regulation hereunder, any information 
which the Director or the Inspecting Officer may require with regard to the 
care, tuition and attendance of pupils, the general management of the school, 
and the names and qualifications of the teachers. 

(2) The Director or the Deputy Director may, at any time after reason- 
able notice has been given to the Manager, visit any non-assisted school 
established or maintained by a Religious Association, and the Manager or 
the person for the time being in charge of the school shall furnish at the 
visit or at other times any information which the Director or the Deputy 

rector may require with regard to the care and tuition of pupils, the 
General management of the school, and the names and qualifications of the 
teachers, The Director shall not be entitled to demand any change in the 
Curriculum or the internal administration of the school; 


238 


provided that nothing in this sub-section shall prevent the High Commis- 
sioner from exercising such supervision over any school as may be required 
for the maintenance of public order and good government. 


Registration and Licensing of Teachers. 


8.—(1) No person shall act as a teacher in any school unless he has regis- 
tered with the Director within three months of the date of the Ordinance or 
within one month of his appointment as a teacher, whichever shall be the 
later date, the particulars prescribed by Regulation under this Ordinance. 

(2) No person may teach in a public or assisted school who does not possess 
a licence to teach issued to him by the Director in accordance with Regula- 
tions under this Ordinance. 

(3) The Director may require the dismissal of any teacher, whether in 8 
public or assisted school or in a non-assisted school, who has been convicted 
of a criminal offence involving moral turpitude, or who is shown to the 
satisfaction of the High Commissioner, after judicial enquiry by a Judge or 
Magistrate appointed for the purpose, to have imparted teaching of a 
seditious, disloyal, immoral, or otherwise harmful character. 


Closing of Schools. 


9. If it is shown to the satisfaction of the High Commissioner that :— 

(a) a school is being conducted which is not duly registered ; 

(b) a school is being conducted in a manner contrary to good order 
and morals; 

(c) education is being imparted in a school by a teacher whose dis- 
missal has been required by the Director in accordance with the pro- 
visions of section 8 hereof ; 

the High Commissioner may, by notice to be served on the Proprietor or 
Manager, order the school to be closed as from the date specified in the 
notice. 

Offences and Penalties. 

10.—(1) The Proprietor or Manager of a school who:— 

(a) fails to register the school in accordance with the provisions 
hereof ; 

(b) knowingly allows education to be imparted by a person who has 
not been registered as a teacher or whose dismissal has been required 
by the Director under section 8 (3) of this Ordinance; 

shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding £P50. 

(2) The Manager or person in charge of a school who refuses to admit an 
officer duly authorised to enter and inspect the school or to visit the school, 
or refuses or neglects to give such officer any information which he is re 
quired to give under sections 6 and 7 hereof, or gives information which he 
knows to be false, shall be lable on conviction to the same penalty. 

(3) The Manager of a school which has been ordered to be closed who 

(a) fails to close the school within the time specified in the notice; or 

(b) without the sanction of the High Commissioner reopens the school, 
or opens or conducts any other school; | 

shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding £P100; and if the offence 
continues after conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three 
months. 


PART II. 


LocaL EpucaTion AUTHORITIES. 


Local Education Authorities in Municipal, etc., Areas. 
11.—(1) Every Municipal Council and any such Local Council as the High 
Commissioner shall appoint shall be a Local Education Authority, and shall 
form a Committee or Committees for the purpose of education in the area 


239 e 


of the Council. A Committee shall be composed of members of the Council 
forming it, such Government officers, headmasters and other persons as may 
be prescribed by Regulation hereunder, and such other persons as the 
Council, with the approval of the District Commissioner, may think fit. 

(2) In a village where there is no Local Council, but where at the date of 
this Ordinance a school other than a community or private schoo] exists, or 
where at any time the Director is of opinion that a school should be estab- 
lished, the village authority shall be the Local Education Authority and shall 
establish a committee for the purpose of education in accordance with 
Regulations hereunder. 

(3) Any Local Education Authority may enter into an agreement with any 
Committee of a Community for the purpose of maintaining a community 
school. 


Local Education Authority may Impose Rate. 


12.—(1) A Local Education Authority shall, when required by the Director, 
be responsible for opening a new school and for maintaining wholly or in part 
existing schools in its area other than community schoolg or private schools. 

(2) A Local Education Authority may impose a rate on the inhabitants 
of its area for the purposes of education according to Regulations to be 
prescribed by the High Commissioner in Council. 

(3) If a Local Education Authority fails to collect a rate adequate to main- 
tain the school or schools within its area, the High Commissioner in Execu- 
tive Council shall have power to impose and to enforce payment of the 
necessary rate as if it were a Government tax. 

(4) Where a separate community school exists within the area of a Local 
Education Authority and no agreement has been made by such authority 
with the Committee of the Community with regard to the maintenance of the 
community school, the District Commissioner may, subject to the approval 
of the High Commissioner, allocate to such community school a part of the 
rate collected by the Local Education Authority, not being greater than the 
total amount of the rate paid by the rate-payers belonging to the com- 
munity. 

Vesting of Property in Local Education Authority. 


13. Any school building which may, after this Ordinance comes into force, 
be established or maintained by a Local Education Authority shall be vested 
in that authority; and, if the school building is owned by the authority, shall 
be registered without payment of registration fees in the Land Registers in 
its name, subject to a trust for the purpose of education. 


PART III. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Regulations. 


14. The High Commissioner in Council may make Regulations for the pur- 
pose of giving effect to this Ordinance, and in particular, with regard to:— 
(a) The form of registration of schools and the conditions under which 
a school shall be registered as a public school. 
(b) The form of attendance registers and attendance returns. 
(c) The form of notification to be given of the opening of a school. 
(d) The application for and the allowance of grants to assisted 
schools. 
(e) The inspection of schools. 
(f) The instruction to be given at public and assisted schools other 
than religious instruction at assisted schools. 
(9) The examination of persons to be employed as teachers other than 
persons imparting religious instruction exclusively at an assisted school 
or non-assisted school. 


. 240 


Power of High Commissioner to exempt certain Institutions from the whole 
or part of the Ordinance. 


15.—(1) The High Commissioner may by order exempt from all or any of 
the provisions of this Ordinance an institution for the higher education or 
the technical or other education of adult persons. 

(2) The High Commissioner shall exempt from the provisions of sections 7 
(2) and 8 (1) hereof any non-assisted school at which religious instruction 
exclusively is given; provided that application 1s made for such exemption, 
and the High Commissioner is satisfied that no instruction other than re- 
ligious instruction is given, and that nothing herein shall prevent the High 
Commissioner from exercising such supervision over the school as may be 
required for the maintenance of public order and good government. 


Ottoman Law not to have effect. 
16. The Ottoman Law of Primary Education, dated 1332 A.H. and any 


Ottoman Regulations concerning primary education, and Articles 140 and 
141 of the Ottoman Penal Cude shall no longer have effect in Palestine. 


A. G. Wavcuope, 


High Commissioner. 
2nd January, 1933. 


Education Ordinance, 1933. 
Hegulations by the High Commissioner under Section 14. 


In exercise of the powers vested in him by section 14 of the Education 
Urdinance, 1933, the High Commissioner has made the following regula- 
tions :— 

I. REGISTRATION OF SCHOOLS. 
Application for registration. 

1. Application for registration of a school] shall be made on Form Ed. /29 
attached hereto. 

Validity of registration. 

2. The registration of a school, when complete, shall be valid only in 
respect of the premises specified in the form of application. It shall no 
longer be valid if substantial alterations are made in those premises affect- 
ing the amount and suitability of the accommodation for pupils and 
teachers or the hygienic conditions. 


Alterations in school premises. 
3. If the proprietor of a registered school intends :— 
(a) to transfer the school or a part thereof to another building; or 
(b) to make structural alterations in the premises substantially affect- 
ing the amount or the condition of the accommodation, or the hygienic 
conditions of the premises; 
he shall submit a fresh application for registration in respect of the premises 
concerned on Form Ed./29 attached hereto. 


Completion of registration. 
4. The registration of a school shall be completed by notice from the 
Director to the applicant. 


Il. REGISTRATION OF Pustic SCHOOLS. 


School of which a local authority is proprietor to be a public school. 

5. Subject to the provisions of regulation 7 the Director of Education 
shall register as a public school any school of which the proprictor 1s 4 
Loca] Education Authority. 


94] 


Other schools which may be public schools. 


6. At the request of the proprietor, and subject to the provisions of regu- 
lation 7, the Director may register as a public school 
(a) any community school; 
(b) any school of which the proprietor is a registered association or 
public body, other than a Loca] Education Authority, recognized by 
the Government. 


Conditions of registration as public school. 


7. No school shall be registered or continue to he registered as a public 
school unless 

(a) the Director considers that the number of places provided in 
other public schools is insufficient for the needs of the area; 

(b) the medium of instruction is either one or more of the official 
languages or Greek or Armenian; 

(c) if the school is within the area of a municipality or township, 
satisfactory provision is made for instruction in an official language 
other than the principal medium of instruction; 

(d) the general courses followed have been approved by the Director 
as appropriate to the grade and tyre of school, provided always that 
in a community school the character of the religious instruction given 
to children of the community shall be approved by the proprictor ; 

(e) if the schoo] is situated in a municipal area or township, adequate 
provision is male for physical training; 

(f) the salaries of the teachers are paid on a scale not lower than the 
minimum scale for public schools approved by the Director ; 

(g) in respect of each teacher who is not employed in a pensionable 
Government cadre the proprietor, when required by the Director, after 
consideration of the financial resources of the proprietor, pays monthly 
to the Treasurer such pension contribution on behalf of that teacher 
as may be fixed by the Director; 

(h) no person shall be appointed as a teacher who is unacceptable 
to the Director, and the proprietor shall, if required by the Director, 
appoint as teacher any person nominated by the Director; provided 
always that no Arab shall be nominated in a Hebrew school and no 
Jew in an Arabic school without the written consent of the proprietor. 
In a school registered under regulation 6 it shall be deemed sufficient 
if the proprietor notifies to the Director the name, and such particulars 
as the Director may require, of any person appointed as teacher, under- 
taking, if so required by the Director, to cancel such appointment; and 
in such a school no person shall be nominated as teacher by the Director 
who is unacceptable to the proprietor; 

(1) no teacher may be dismissed and no teacher may be punished, 
except by reprimand, without the prior approval of the Director; 

(j) the scale of fees, if any, is approved by the Director; 

(k) if fees are charged, free places are provided and distributed as 
required by the Director, subject in a community school to such agree- 
ment as may be made between the Director and the proprietor to 
safeguard the religious character of the school. 


III. RecirstRATION AND LICENSING OF TEACHERS. 


Method of application for registration as a teacher or for a licence to teach. 


8. Save as provided in regulations 22 and 23 hereof an application for 
Tegistration as a teacher or for a licence to teach in public and assisted 
Schools shall be made upon Form Ed./30 attached hereto, and shall contain 
all particulars of the applicant required by the Director. The issue of a 
licence to teach shall imply that the teacher is registered. 


242 


Categories of Incence. 


9. A licence to teach in public and assisted schools shall be specified as 
either— 

(a) a certificated teacher’s licence; or 
(6) an uncertificated teacher’s licence. 
10. Licences issued under regulation 9 may be further specified as valid 
either— 
(a) without restriction of subject; or 
(b) for the teaching of special subjects, as provided in regulations 12, 
28, 29 and the Schedule hereto. 

11. A licence issued under regulation 9 may be specified as tenable in 

either— 

(a) higher; or 

(6) secondary; or 

(c) elementary; or 

(d) kindergarten schools or classes; 
and shall then be valid for all schools or classes of a lower grade than that 
for which the licence is issued, unless a specific exception is made in the 
licence. 

12. A special licence shall not be valid for the teaching of subjects other 
than those specified in the licence, and a special licence to give religious 
instruction in a community school according to any but the Government 
syllabus shall not be valid unless countersigned by the Head of the 
Community in Palestine or by a delegate authorised by him in writing to 
the Director. 

13. The Director may restrict any licence to those schools in which a 
particular medium of instruction is used. 


Cancellation of registration and licences. 

14. If a teacher is dismissed under the Ordinance, section 8 (3), his 
registration or licence shall be cancelled as from a date specified by the 
Director. 

15. The Director, if at any time he is satisfied that any substantial 
misrepresentation has been made in the particulars registered on the form 
of application for registration or for a licence, may cancel such registration 
or licence as from any date specified by him. 

16. The Director may cancel any licence as from the end of the summer 
term of the scholastic year in which the teacher concerned attains the aze 
of sixty. 


Method of cancellation. 


17. The cancellation of registration or of a licence shall be effected br 
written notification from the Director to the teacher concerned, which 
shall be published in the Palestine Gazette. 


Eligibility for certificated teacher’s licence. 


18. A certificated teacher’s licence shall be issued only to a person regis 
tered under regulation 26, 27 or 28. 


Period of validity of leences. 
19. A certificated teacher’s licence shall be permanent unless cancelled by 
the Director in accordance with the Ordinance and these regulations. , 
90. An uncertificated teacher’s licence issued under regulation 9 shall 
be temporary and shall be specified to be for such period, not exceeding 
three years, as may be stated on the licence. 


243 


21. A temporary licence, unless cancelled under regulation 14, 15 or 16 
hereof, shall remain valid for not less than the period specified in the 
licence, and notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in regulation 20 
shall then or thereafter be terminable only on a date of which not less 
than three months notice has been given in writing by the Director to the 
holder, and, in the case of a licence granted under regulation 12, to the 
countersignatory, if any. 


Emergency licences. 


22. An emergency licence, valid only for a specified public or assisted 
school, may be issued to the manager of the school permitting him to 
employ a specified person for a period not exceeding three months. 


23. Application for such a licence may be addressed by letter to any 
Senior Officer of the Education Department or of the District Administra- 
tion, and the licence may be issued on behalf of the Director by such 
Officer. 


Cancellation or expiry of emergency licences. 


24. An emergency licence shall expire and shall cease, without further 
notice, to be valid on the date specified therein, unless previously can- 
celled under regulation 14. 


Renewal of emergency licences. 


25. An emergency licence may not be renewed without the written per- 
mission of the Director to the issuing authority, until twelve months have 
elapsed from the date of its expiry. 


Registration and licensing of certificated teachers. 


26. The Director may register and license as a certificated teacher for a 
specified grade of school or class any person who both— 

(a) either holds an approved certificate of training and has taught 
in a school or class of the specified grade for not less than one scholastic 
year, or has passed an approved examination in the theory and prac- 
tice of education and fas taught to the satisfaction of the Director 
in a school or class of the specified grade for not less than three 
scholastic years; and 

(b) etther produces satisfactory evidence that he has completed a 
minimum approved course of general education as follows: — 

(i) for a kindergarten teacher, a six years elementary course 
(excluding kindergarten or infant classes); 

(11) for an elementary teacher, a four years secondary course; 

(111) for a higher or secondary teacher, the courses for the degree 
of B.A., or equivalent or higher degree, of an approved University; 

or has passed an examination in school subjects approved by the 
Director and has taught to the satisfaction of the Director in a 
school or class of the specified grade for not less than three 
scholastic years. 


27. Notwithstanding anything in regulation 26 to the contrary, the 
Director may, in exceptional circumstances, register as a certificated higher 
or secondary teacher without examination any person who has taught 
exclusively or mainly in secondary classes for a period of not less than 
three scholastic years previous to the 3lst August, 1932, or has obtained a 
degree in Honours at a University of high standing. 


28. The Director may register any person as a certificated teacher of a 


et subject under regulation 10 (b) after examination of his qualifica- 
ions. 


Temporary and special licences issued to certificated teachers. 


29. A temporary and special licence issued or renewed to the holder of 
& permanent licence shall be endorsed upon his licence. 


244 


IV. Loca, EpvcaTion AUTHORITY. 
Composition in Municipalities and Local Council and Village areas. 

30. Except as provided in regulations 40 and 48 an Education Com- 
mittee of a Local Education Authority shall be composed of not more than 
thirteen members in a Municipality or the area of a Local Council, and of 
not more than seven members in the area of a village. 


Elected Members. 
31. Not more than five members of the Municipality or Local Council 
and not more than three members of the village authority shall be members 
of the Committee, and shall be elected by the Local Education Authority. 


Official Members. 

32. The District Commissioner may appoint not more than five of the 
following persons as official members of the Committee of a Municipality or 
Local Council, and not more than three such persons as members of the 
Committee of a village authority :— 

(a) A Senior Officer of the General Administration ; 

(6) The Arab District Inspector of Education; 

(c) The Jewish District Inspector of Education; 

(d) The Headmaster of an Arabic public school in the area, who 
shall be nominated by the Director; 

(e) The Headmaster of a Hebrew public school in the area, who 
shall be nominated by the Director. 


Co-opted Members. 
33. An Education Committee may, subject to the approval of the District 
Commissioner and of the Local Education Authority, co-opt not more than 
three additional persons who are not members of the local authority. 


Bi-lingual Areas, 
34. In such areas as the High Commissioner may determine there shall — 
be two such Education Committees of the Local Education Authority; of 
these Committees one shall be the Arab Committee of the Local Education 
Authority and shall administer Arabic schools only, the other shall be the 
Jewish Committee of the Local Education Authority and shall administer 
Hebrew schools only. 
Arab and Jewish Committees. 
3). An Arab or Jewish Committee formed under regulation 34 shall con- 
sist of not more than nine members. 


Elected Members. 
36. Not more than four members of the Local Education Authority shall 
be members of the Committee, and these shall be Arabs or Jews respectively 
and shall be elected by the Local Education Authority. 


Official Members. 
37. The District Commissioner may appoint to an Arab Committee formed 
under regulation 34— 
(7) a Senior Officer of the General Administration; 
(b) the Arab District Inspector of Education; 
(c) the Headmaster of an Arabic public school in the area, who shall 
be nominated by the Director. 


38. The District Commissioner may appoint to a Jewish Committee formed 
under regulation 34— 
(2) a Senior Officer of the General Administration : 
(b) the Jewish District Inspector of Education; 
(c) the Headmaster of a Hebrew public school in the area, who shall 
he nominated by the Director. 


245 


Co-opted Members. 


39. An Arab or Jewish Committtee may, subject to the approval of the 
District Commissioner and the Local Authority, co-opt not more than two 
additional persons who are not members of the Local Authority to an Arab 
cr Jewish Committee. 


Additional Member. 


40. If in the area of a Local Education Authority a public school or 
group of public schools is established or maintained in part by an associa- 
tion which conducts a system of inspection of its schools approved by the 
Director, such association, subject to the approval of the Director and the 
District Commissioner, may nominate an inspector or other officer as a 
member of the appropriate committce of the Local Education Authority. 
The member so nominated shall be additional to the members elected, 
nominated or co-opted in accordance with regulations 30 to 39. 


Joint Committees. 

41. For the discussion and administration of matters concerning both 
Arabic and Hebrew schools in an area where there are two Committees 
the Local Education Authority and the District Commissioner shall appoint 
irom the members of the two Committees a Joint Committee formed as 
provided in regulations 30, 31 and 32, and the Joint Committee subject to 
the approval of the District Commissioner and the Local Education Authority 
may co-opt three additional members from the co-opted members, if any, of 
the Arab and Jewish Committees. 


Sub-Committers. 


42. Subject to regulation 43 hereof, and with the approval of the District 
Commissioner, the Local Education Authority may elect a Sub-Committee 
of the Education Committee or of the Arab or Jewish Committee, as may 
he appropriate, to control any public school or group of public schools which 
is supported by a religious endowment or by a rate levied under the Religious 
Communities Organisation Ordinance, 1926. 


43. Members appointed to a Sub-Committee formed to control Arabic 
publie schools shall be Arabs: and members appointed to a Sub-Committee 
formed to control Hebrew public schools shall be Jews. 


44. A Sub-Committee may co-opt not more than two additional members 
who shall not thereby become members of the Local Education Committee. 


45. The Headmaster of an Arabic or of a Hebrew school who is a member 
of a Local Education Committee may be a member of an appropriate 
Sub-Committee, and, if so appointed, shall be entitled to vote. The other 
official members of the Local Education Committee or their deputies may 
attend any meeting of a Sub-Committee, but, 1f not members, shall not 
be entitled to vote. 

Deputies of official members. 


46. Subject to the provisions of regulation 55, any official member of the 
Local Education Committee may depute an officer of his Department to 
represent him for such period as the official member may designate, pro- 
vided nevertheless that the official member also may be present at all 
meetings of the Committee or Sub-Committee. 


47. If an official member is present at a meeting of a Committee his 
deputy may not vote at that meeting. 


Official non-voting members. 

48. The District Commissioner, the Assistant District Commissioner, the 
Director of Education, the Deputy Director of Education, the Senior Medical 
Officer and the District Engineer or their deputies may attend any meeting 
of a Committee or Sub-Committee but shall not vote except as provided 
in regulation 52. 


18938 I 


246 


Term of office. 


49. The elected members of a Committee or Sub-Committee shall hold 
office during the term of the electing authority, official members during 
the tenure of their posts, and, subject to the approval of the District Com- 
missioner and the Local Education Authority, co-opted members at the will 
of the co-opting authority. 


Chairman of a Committee or Sub-Committee. 


50.—(1) If a Senior Officer of the General Administration be appointed 
a member of a Committee or Sub-Committee, he shall be ez officio 
Chairman, 


(2) Failing a Senior Officer of the General Administration, the Mayor 
or other president of the Local Education Authority if a member of a 
Committee or Sub-Committee shall be ex officio Chairman, 


(3) If there be no ex officio Chairman, the Committee or Sub-Committee 
shall clect from its members a Chairman who shall ordinarily preside at 
all meetings. The Headmaster of a school shall not be eligihle for election 
as Chairman. 

Provided always that the most senior officer of the General Administration 
present at a meeting shall preside at that meeting. 


Vice-Chairman, Acting Chairman. 


51. A Vice-Chairman shall be elected by the Committee or by a Sub- 
Committee from among its memhers, provided that a Headmaster of a school 
shall not be eligible. In the ahsence of the Chairman or a Senior Officer 
of the General Administration the Vice-Chairman shall preside at a meeting 
of the Committee. If the Chairman and Vice-Chairman are absent, an 
acting Chairman shall be elected for the meeting. 


Power of Chairman to vote. 


52. At anv meeting of a Committee or Sub-Committee the Chairman 
for that meeting, if a voting member, shall have hoth an ordinary vote 
and a casting vote but, if not a voting member, shall have a casting 
vote only. 


Quorum. 


53. In a Committee formed under regulation 30 or 41 five members 
entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum in a Municipality or Township, 
and three members shall constitute a quorum in the area of a village. Ina 
Committee formed under regulation 34 four members entitled to vote 
shall constitute a quorum. 


Deputy in case of prolonged absence. 


54. If it appears to the Local Education Authority that any member of 
a Committee or Sub-Committee is likely, for a proper reason such as sickness 
or absence from Palestine, to be unable to attend meetings for a considerable 
period, a deputy may be elected, nominated or co-opted for the period 
of the member’s absence in the same manner as the member whom he 
replaces. 


Assistant teacher may not be member. 


55. No assistant teacher in any school within the area of the Local 
Education Authority shall he elected, appointed or co-opted as a member 
or deputy-member of a Committee or any Sub-Committee; provided that 
the Headmaster of a public school who is an official member may, if ur- 
avoidably absent, appoint an assistant teacher in that school as a deputy 
under regulation 46. 


247 


Notice of meetings. 
56. The Chairman of a Committee or Sub-Committee shall have power 


to summon a meeting at any time provided that he issue to each voting 
member not less than twenty-four hours notice in writing of each meeting. 


~V. Functions or a Locan Epucation AUTHORITY. 

57. At the request of the Director and subject to the provisions of regula- 
tion 61 the Local Education Authority shall in respect of each public school 
in its area— 

(a) provide by purchase, rent or otherwise land for school buildings 
and playgrounds; 

(b) rent, construct, repair and alter school buildings; 

(¢) lay out playgrounds; 

(d) effect water supply; 

(e) provide sanitary and hygienic conveniences and apparatus; 

(f) provide such number of free places for the education of poor 
students as the Director may consider sufficient; 

(g) provide gratis to poor students the books, materials and apparatus 
prescribed by the Director; 

(hk) provide school equipment and furniture according to specifica- 
tions approved by the Director in each locality; 

(i) provide a teaching staff which in the opinion of the Director is 
adequate in numbers and qualifications; 

(j) pay the salaries of all teachers who are not pensionable officers of 
the Government ; 

(k) pay to the Treasurer in respect of every teacher who is not a 


pensionable officer of the Government such pension contribution as may 
be fixed by the Director. 


Education rates levied by Local Authority. 

58. A- Local Education Authority may levy an education rate, subject to 
the approval of the District Commissioner, which shall be a surcharge 
upon any rate, tax, tithe or due assessed and collected by the Government 
or the Local Authority under the terms of any law in force from time to 
time. 

59. All education rates shall be voted by the Local Authority and collected 
in its name by the authority which collects the rate, tax, tithe or due, 
upon which the rate is a surcharge. 


Disposal of fees. 
60, The school fees collected by any Sub-Committee shall be paid into 
a bank approved by the Local Education Authority, and shall be expended 
only upon the schools controlled by that Sub-Committee. 


Maintenance of Community Schools. 

61. In accordance with section 11 (3) of the Ordinance, a Local Educa- 
tion Authority may make an agreement for the maintenance of a Com- 
munity school upon the following conditions : — 

(a) a Committee of management of the school shall be appointed, 
consisting of four members of whom three shall be nominated by the 
proprietor and one by the Local Education Authority. The person 
nominated by the Local Education Authority shall be a member of the 
Community on the appropriate Education Committee if one is available; 

(b) the Committee of management shall elect a Chairman, who shall 
be the manager of the school; 

(c) the school shall be registered as a public school by the Director; 


248 


(d) the school building and grounds shall be maintained at the 
expense of the proprietor, and the other expenses of the school shall 
be provided as may be arranged between the Local Education Authority 
and the Director, subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (hk); 

(e) if vacant places exist in the school which are not filled by 
children of the Community, children of other Communities shall be 
accepted up to a number which shall not exceed 25 per cent. of the 
total number of pupils except with the consent of the Committee 
of management; 

(f) no pupil shall be required to attend religious instruction contrary 
to the expressed desire of his father or guardian; 

(g) pupils of other Communities shall be allowed to receive instruction 
in their own religion during the periods allotted to religious instruction: 

(A) the salaries of teachers who give instruction in religion only shall 
be paid by their respective Communities; 

(1) if the children of another Community or other Communities, not 
less than fifteen in number, wish to attend religious instruction accord- 
ing to the Government syllabus or other approved syllabus, and if a 
suitable teacher is available on the school staff, such instruction shall be 
given by him on the school premises. 


Definitions. 

62.—(a) ‘* Arabic School” means a school in which Arabic is the sole or 
principal medium of instruction. 

(b) ‘* Hebrew School’? means a school in which Hebrew is the sole or 
principal medium of instruction. 

(c) ‘‘ Scholastic Year ’’ means the period from the end of the summer 
holidays in one calendar year to the end of the summer holidays in the 
following calendar year. 

(d\ ** Approved ’’ means approved by the Director of Education. 


Citation. 
63. These regulations may be cited as the Education Regulations, 1933. 
64. Notwithstanding anything in Part III. of these regulations, the 
following provisions shall have effect :— 

(a) Every person who is engaged as teacher in a public or assisted 
school on the date of these regulations, shall apply to the Director for 
a licence not later than three months after that date. 

(b) Every manager of a school is required to submit to the Director 
not later than three months after the date of these regulations a 
nominal roll of all teachers employed in the school or schools under his 
charge on the date of the return. 

(c) Every such teacher if employed in a public or assisted school 
shall be considered to hold a temporary licence. 

(d) If such a teacher fails to apply for a licence according to the 
requirements of regulation 8 and paragraph (a) of this regulation his 
temporary licence shall lapse and become invalid, without notice from 
the Director, as from three months after the date of these regulations. 


SCHEDULE 
Special subjects for which Licences to teach may be issued :— 
(a) Religious instruction in the doctrines of any sect. 
(b) Any language. 
(c) Any art, craft or vocational subject. 
(d) Needlework. 
(e€) Domestic Science. 
(f) Physical Training. 
(g) Agriculture. 


249 


Form Ed/29. 
GOVERNMENT OF PALESTINE 


DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 


EDUCATION ORDINANCE, 1933 


Form oF APPLICATION 
for (a) registration of a school; or 
(b) permission to transfer a school; or 


(c) permission to effect additions or altcrations to a school. 
(Gnderline the relevant application.) 


Notg :—Applicants, before completing this form, should read carefully the 
Regulations for the Registration of Schools. 
Part A.—To be completed by the Applicant. 


1. Name and full address of 
Applicant. 





2. Name and full address of 
Proprietor (1). 





3. Name and full address of Oe _- = 
Manager (2). 


4. Name of School. | 

d. Location of School (3). . | 

6. Grade of School (4) 
(underline relevant 
grade or grades). 


Infant, Elementary, Secondary, Hiyher. 





7. Type of School (4) | (a) Modern Infant School (Kindergarten), 
(underline relevant Preparatory, Kuttab, ‘Ilmiya, Talmud- 
words), Tora, Yeshiva, Seminary, Technical, 

Needlework, Agricultural, Commercial, 

Night School, Continuation School, 

Teachers Training College (for Kinder- 

garten, Elementary or Secondary School 

Teachers), Special School (Music, etc.). 
(b) Boys’, Girls’, Mixed. ote Ne 
(c) Day, Boarding, Evening. 





(1) * Proprietor”, in relation to a school, means any person, association, community, or 
corpvration by whom or by which a school is established and conducted. 

(2) “ Manager ”, in the case of a school conducted by the proprietor, means the proprictor 5 
and in the case of every other school, means the person for the time beiug appointed to 
be the responsible representative of the proprietor. 

(3) Sub-district, town or village, quarter, street, and house number of school to be stated. 

(4) For definitions of the various gradcs and types, see Form Ed/20 (instructious, explana- 

tions and definitions) obtainable from tue Department of Kducation. 


250 


A. (Continued) To be completed by the applicant. 





8. Is the building owned If not, state (a) name of 
by the Proprietor of the landlord, (6) annual rent, 
School ? and (c) date of expiry of 





Infant classes| Elementary | Secondary 


9. Fees charged per pupil. |Boarders 
(State whether monthly, |—————— |__| ———_______|—___ ___ 
annual or by term). Day pupils 


eS | NS | | 





10. Number of free places |Boarders 




















Day pupils 
Evening 
11. Language(s) of 
Instruction. 
12. Other languages and 
principal subjects taught. 
13. Proposed number of 
teachers, including 
principal. 
eae 
No. of room* 
14. (a) Classrooms? Me et 9 ee 
No. No | No, | Wo 
Proposed maximum No. of pupils 
in each classroom. | 
No. of Dormsuory 
(6) Dormitories.? s/s | 
. No No. No No. 
Proposed maximum No. of beds 





(c) Other rooms® (state use) | 





(1) A serial number must be assigned to each room in the school in a single series from 
1 upwards. This number will serve permanently to identify the room in subsequent 
correspondence. 

(2?) State whether Infant, Elementary or Secondary. 

(3) Used for the purpose of the school, e.g. library, teachers common room. 


251 


Part B.—Observations by the Sentor Medical Officer. 


gS | A Re i 


li. (a) Classrooms 
No. | No No. No 
Maximum No. of pupils permissible 
Ventilation, lighting, and other 
hygienic requirements. 
No. of Dormitory 
(b) Dormitories 
No No | No | No 


a EE Ty eee eee 


Maximum No. of beds permissible 


Ventilation, lighting, and other 
hygienic requirements. 





| gp A I 











(c) Other rooms. 
(a) Latrines. Number. | Latrines. | Latrines. 


——— 


Infants Conditions to be fufilled before registration 





——, 


Boys 








252 


(b) Urinals. 





Length of space in metres. 














No. of compartments. 
17. Playground. aa “i 

Area in square metres. 

Sienatureiof Applicant isis .2csseticataetscvsaissubel acai gatessasublugaeainaanan 

Place and Date wii esioedeeSonccrcenn enhanced are tencncuae te eaaeaoseateney aarcatwac te 

Signature of Medical Officer.................. ccc ccececee eee eeceeeeneeeens 

Place and: Date sgcc ta scent aiiaxe vars seenksGanecuacsaeasieseuerene: 

IROL s. INOvuistwsknessananase dea deaeesecugsuaiteuasiptasaoeuneaetwcenmumeceeenanes: 

Signature of Public Works Officer................... ccc ee eee eeeeeenees . 

Place and DAG races catia ondoswcnaticeesaneeeasm ces teen Siete 

ROE, INOnat cow ausi bcos wetaniuatavawanansendtcadaenuaheudacansersstoreesaee 


D. Observations by District Inspector of Education. 


Place and Gate: scecissievseavecstasapeeienses Signature 


SOSH THEHOHSHEFT ASE Ee Eee HEHEHE EHOF 





EK. Observations by District Commissioner or District Officer. 


Place and date .............ccecsecesceeeneee Signature 





293 
Form Ed/30 
GOVERNMENT OF PALESTINE. 


DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION. 


EDUCATION ORDINANCE, 1933. 


Registration and Licensing of Teachers. 


Form of Application for Registration as a teacher and/or for a Licence to teach 
in public and assisted schools. 


Nore: Applicants before completing this form, should read carefully the 
Regulations governing the registration and licensing of Teachers. 


(1) *State whether you apply for (a) registration only or (b) both registration and 
& licence to teach in public and assisted schools. 


(2) Write names in block capitals. 


Personal names of applicant Title (if any)T fe.g. 
S|] | Shaikh, 
Rabbi, 
—_ Hajj. 
Personal names of Father Father’s title (if any)f 


Family name (if any) 














Sex of applicant 
(3) 
Age on last birthday tGive year, and if 
—_—_—_—___-——___——| possible, day also 
Date of birth (day and year)t according to _ the 
—__—_——__—_—_____——_| Gregorian calendar. 
Place of birth 





(4) 





Nationality of applicant by birth 


Nationality of Father 





Present nationality of applicant § State sect. 


Religion of applicant§ 








Married or single 





* If (a) only is applied for strike out (0). 
18938 K 


(5) Permanent Address. 


ee Town or 
Sub- District | Village | Quarter | Street 


ee ee 


(6) School or Schools in which you are now employed (if you are not employed, 
write “‘ unemployed ”’ across the blanks). 


Monthly rate of | Monthly value of other emoluments, 
Town | Name of School | substantive pay | e.g. allowances, board and lodging. 











SS ————— 


*(7) Where were you educated ? 





No. of 
Name of Grade Date classes Highest | Language of 
Town | Institution of ——| (years) in class nstruction 


Institution | From | To | Institution | completedt 





(+) Ihe class must be stated as numbered in ascending order from olags one, the lowest in 
the school. 


(8) State what certificates and diplomas you have obtained. 
Issuing authority | Date of Certificate 


Trained Infant Teacher’s Diploma 


Trained Elementary Teacher’s 
Diploma 


Professional 


Trained Secondary Teacher’s 
Diploma 





General 
| 








ao be completed only if application is made for a licence to teach in public and assisted 
schools. 


255 


_ 9) State any other qualifications which you may possess, whether certified or 
not, and any details of your career not included elsewhere (e.g. military 








service). 

_ (10) State here the schools in which you have taught. 

, | Date 

‘' Town | Name of School No. of Grade of Type of 
= From| To years School School 
_ | [| | | 
ef 
5) 

i af ee 








Sey recy Fg rence cemetery es cre CS | ers 


Mes serabadcabssedusesUoaeaeiunssedacoseuees Ooccccscct anit se eGawcavcssd seestenledieseas 
a re ee ere Tease cateuiet icetns a ayeeiene oases 
Dresiuesvreuesnens civevces vans masnceeies BiiinisGescnsnesbievanvs cus caeeeseawese tenis 
ss Wiss cewauviet aves saiecdversnoinassawebieues Odes csevestacasresasovauseanasseuletenes 
ere. en rerer eon creer ee eeernerre 
(12) Languages through which you can teach, 
” Disease cta catia eet 
Decdcoundengedaecs va cacsaueeie dee eosn eh eeees 
Ds cabevciesdcaidptage canedepadasanctieasinavaat 
; a ne ee ree renee 
_ Sihua tains of Ay lean bie cisssarae seas sts ese ncoe tastes ustedes caja deep aiertosdiaisinnataieeen 
MURS AAA COT ci seiuced once aa ectusnatee naweetu dco tict cmeewe Se Sxsnicd ducal Aaa ata 


Certificate to be signed by a Senior Officer of the Government, the Head 
: of a Religious Community, or other responsible person. 
(13) I certify that the above particulars are, to the best of my knowledge, correct. 


IDR Glin segs wiceres Dace sects seksac aa wtedaean uw ease shen euecenius voeecuaateiecuatanae ae Sasetecsaoe 








Flnoe anid da bodice 32s 2c dacianssnoesecsaieatenseivariceaee ean adalah ele eee 
OM COs scicesusccstrncvecesasunesesecs 
t No. in Teachers Register...........::ccss0+- 
TNo. of Licence..........seeeesceees Date of Registration..............2.s006 
By His Excellency’s Command, 
«Ez , 
10th April, 1933. Acting Chief Secretary. 
(E/31/33) 
meee be completed only if application is made for a licence to teach in public and assisted 
a. 


+ To be completed by the Department of Education. 
18938 K 2 


256 


000098‘ FT 


043'°699°96S 


LOV'ShL‘6ST'T 


sya dz 





000°093's 
000°009'6 


283'02T'88z 
692'091'S 
S088 
000°T 


P26'SE1'SS 
882 '68L°L 
092399981 


G13°918'396 


000°T 


a dz 


ese ees ese ses ese Uo; VoOerdop 

JO] VAIGAOI 889] 9SOO 4U ‘SMOWWeAU] 19430 

was 3809 4B ‘sojuvdmlog Alvi pysqng uj} soIvYg 
——. SRUGUSOGUT 


"79 “MHEWSAS UOPNGNS[p ‘syusid Busyywroue8 
‘SBD “pusy ¢ 7900 98 WORN ALY IAL 
“OC Of1}0917 = f a4} Jo sosusdxe AlvupW{jald 
*' gqo0foud ‘dojaaap snopIBA UO GINZ[pusdxg 
wie at iw Ae aes ie uoys 
-900009 94} UO sasuadxd I04}O PUB [BB] ‘890,7 
es ay *** WoOssszIoU0D O44 JO WO;ZSTNbo 
—: wowsn—U[D viny 


***WOTssI0U0D oY} YFP WOUND Uy soBUed 
-x9 yelaues Buypnpouy sesuedxe A1vupU[ad 


"12 ‘SABA 
[FBI Jo UOPVOBPD9F9 ‘Wo;wBpLNy 10} Byafo1d 
QOL'LOL‘OT “+ SUHOQLL 
POC PHF'OST 88H 


—! 4900 44 ‘049 ‘TI94SAS TOs} 
NQ}98{p ‘syuBd Suyyeisues ‘asujpyng ‘pury 
—? SBploq]L pus syvH 
eee eee eee eee eee (spoop 
0} enp sHIOM UBplor Of BIBdal jO 4809 
jo yred) 000‘9Td3 YO 1947J1M sBa] “801078 
pozysooT]wuN pus ‘970 ‘sasuedxo [w19UI3 pus 
Woy} BIzS;UsUIpY ‘Bujiaeu[suU9 ‘soUy[ Toyssyu 
081) ‘AIOUTYORU “SHIOM O[[NBIPAY ‘BHIOAA 
Jo} guy ‘sBupprNng ‘puyy ‘sx10M AlvUyuarg 
—: (U0;Q0aI9 JapuUn) 
esnoH JaMOg I1~IG-OIpAH uUEplor AIT 
— iis *** WO;sBI0T07) 943 JO UO; ISEINboy 
—: app 07 asngr q mndvg 
—: uoss—IU0D UDpPLor 


“SLASSY 


689°166'08 


000°930‘9TT 


040°893 ‘SIT 


¥Z8°800‘1Z 
000°000‘88T. 


000°000‘0Sz 
00F°220°908 


000°000‘000'T 


000°000‘0¢ 
000°000‘0¢6 


su dz 


196'°838'03 
O85 '933'S 
SSL SOl'ST 





000°00T‘92 


000°S26'0F 


0679496 
089°IZ2 ‘SOT 


009°820°8 
000°TST‘808 


000°062‘0T 
000°T98°262 


sya dz 


eon ese een Iwot oO 4 
""" OS6T ““90q, 381g UO prea} quanoag Honey 
—: JUNODIDW s20'7 pun JYo4 
es Ujo104} SBu POY 8,doj~BVI0d10/) 944 Jo ¢ 
4800 943 J9AO0 Py] ‘AuvdWO) df1}Q00;7 UpEL 
ey} JO TOMVpNby, uo powey[ver snjding a 
— aessy poweds 


see ees eee aee eee eee Uorw 
-OYSUT aay -79.L 93 fo uormoesday s0f sa49804 
een eee eee eee eee s0U]] uoyssyul 
-suer) AQ[VA UOIvyg pus uBplor pus ‘94a 
‘m1a48h8 UO;NGLyASIp ‘eBuypiyaq ‘syuBtd But} 
-vlgUad SELIG), pus vpyV_ jo uofyejoeidep 104g 
—. UOLESsZOUND UDPLOL YPN sIUDPLOOOW Ut aa128IYy 


°° Ss0UBle_ PAD 
ae B10;;pal) AIpung 
— seounpg npesD puv ssonposy 
a “** saunT suopsny) passofoy 
a < ponss} - 000 00E3 PesfAouY 
2 (eje8ue 9,"d10Q ey} UO aBIvYyo w Aq pomnoas) 
yong ssnzuagaq buysng odvdjsopy puosgy %9 
eee eee eee eve (830888 8,°d109 943 uo 


“** TBOLIE Uf S[[B)—: sT 
YBa [TF JO SaIVYYH sousdlajald 063‘0I 


"yous TF JO salvyg ATBUIpPIO T98 L6L 
——: pons] 


yous TF JO saIvyg soueIIjald 0000S 
“*"yoee [FZ JO SaIBYS AIBUIPIO 000 096 
—* pesyzoyyny 


*SALLITIAVIT 





[S61 “1oquece”] 481g C4} 78 SB YooYS souV[e_ 
“CULINI'] ‘NOLLVHOdHOD OIBLOAIG BNILSHTIVG (!) 


“soruBdi0g AIvUOIsse0U0D JO syooyg eoutleg 
‘ll XIGN3ddV 


257 


“‘ssonPnW ‘srunzunosoy pesasvyD "SS61 ‘ounr Y16 ‘Ufo 
00 B TIassAy 


“Aueduicg 94} Jo sHooq 94} Aq UWMOYS SB PUB BN OF UOAIB sUOMVUTIdxs 94} PUB UO; JBULIOJU] MO Jo 489q 9Y} 0} Burpsioooe snvye s,Auvdu0g sy} Jo 97878 
94} JO MOA 4931109 pus onI} B MOS 0} SB OS dn UMBIP A[Jodold gf JadYS JOUB[VG VAOGE 94} IVY TO[U[dO oY} JO B1vV BA 32OU ,B1OJDIIIGT BY} OF PUB HIVUNII BupoBai0} 9y} 
0} ~oIqng ‘aingjpuedxa Jo sBuypeay snopyIva JopuN pouo;odde szUN0II" saoqe ay} Ul popnjaujy useq eAvy JUNODDe UO AJoquayNyY “gq ‘J]_ 0} PoouvApe szuNoUIe UyjezII0 
Ysnoyys ‘palspual sod[Alos OJ pouyuLlojap 9q 0} 4aA Bisquoyny “gq ‘I 0} AI [qui] Zuypusjysjno ay suywsulss sloyy, ‘“paljnbar savy om YOYM suofewuyydxa puew uo;zwUO;UT 
94} MB pouyeyqo oavy OM “YPOJ 498 DAOQe SB “TEGT ‘AIQUIIDaq 4ST§ 94} Po}VP “PIT WoOPQVsod1o|D dj1Q09/q oUsJsa[vVq oY} JO Jooyg UBB oY} PaypNS savy OM 


“"SHACTOHAUVHS AHL OL LHOdHY ,SUOLIGAY 


"s0peluy Ourboun py ‘ OWaGNALNY SVANIG 
"UDULLIDY) “ONICVAY 
‘s]UNODDY oseq} Uy 


peywiodioouy u29q eAvY safUEduIOD ArETpPjEqng Jo Baes0T JO s{YOIg OU ‘6Z61 ‘B0UvUTPIO sefUVdUIOD ay} JO LOT ‘99g 07 JUBNaMgG—‘saundwoD Aumpieqng Oye eee 
"s]UNO0DIV 98943 


JoJaIIy} OpvUl U9Eq Sey UOfsAcId ou pus saIzPOYINY oy} YM WOpssNos~p JapuN s XV], OULOOU] YR 0} AI[qQVPT 8,u0pZBIOdI0H 94} Jo UOFsenb ayT—‘aoN 84070117 


‘hopes buriioun jy ‘oWa ANALY SVANIG 
‘unusivy) ‘ONIGVAY 


—siopes fo pavog 9y7 fo frvyeq uo 


‘yumjunony fryp ‘NXNOENZIANAOVY ‘“f 











—. SA0UDIDY Pige(] pun 840}Qa(7 





FEE'669 ORC I ttF669 OSC T 
£62 ORO'RE | se = he hei puny Ut pun syung jp ysvy 
GEO LEE OT ot > 1809 9B “QMy-)a,L puv vf ur puvT 
LEP IZ OF SS 
FL6°CRL ‘ST | SIOYIOM 8,AULAdIION O13 JO] sasnoy UO PsoUBA | 
| -PY 698°T90'SdF Bulpnpur syunoo.y Arpung 1 
FEA’OTO TE on eee eee ‘“* gjunoooy ,slsuInsu0) 
699'RE6 ree ore vee “* goruvdm0g Arerprsqng 











E16 TORS . eee : “** saaAOTCuIs 07 SOOURAD 
LLE'LOUSaz Burpnpour ‘aounapy us asnppuadxg || | 
LOF'SSL'SS speIoyo s,Aundurog oy9 Aq peyryeo sv ‘ropun 
. Jo 3yso00 78 ‘ama -72.Z pun DlwH 7D puny uo gaL0]19 | 
6LL'S6a 3 ae SJUNODOR SNOLIVA O93 PeTrVyO uoTQneamdop | [96828 'F (er 
000°000'91 


“ ads spooy 07 onp syJOM uBpPIOLs 


#80] “4800 9U ‘aler-7a pun vin yp sdoysyso 
POL 40D Ue-Y40 AA | | of sareder yo 4900 Jo yred yo UeqIs ssa7 


o°co'’sEes ‘Ss / I@9puUNn JO 4#OO 4U ‘“auowdindy pup ganpieiny efO || 


258 


(ii) JERUSALEM Exscrric & Pusiic Service Corporation, LIMITED. 
(Incorporated under the Palestine Companies Ordinances 1921 to 1925.) 


Report of the Directors to be submitted to the Members at the Ordinary 
General Meeting to be held at the Registered Office of the Company, 
St. Julian’s Way, Jerusalem, on Tuesday, 30th August, 1932, at 


12 o’clock noon. 


The Directors submit herewith the Accounts of the Company as at 


3lst March, 1932. 


The profit for the year, including the 
balance (£P3,568.388) brought forward from 
the previous year ... 
out of which the following payments and 
appropriations have been made :— 


Loan Interest 

General Reserve pe 

Interim Dividend on 192,000 7 per cent. 
Cumulative Preference ‘Ghares for half- 
year to 30th September, 1931 (paid 
lst October), less tax 

Final Dividend on Preference Shares to 
31st March, 1932 ee Ist a less 
tax 


leaving a balance of ... 


£P. 


1,429.629 
5,000.000 


4,952.834 


5,040.000 


£P. 


90,724.571 


16,422.463 


..  £P4,302.108 


which the Directors propose to carry forward to next year’s accounts. 
During the year extensions to the Generating Plant were authorized and 


have been put into commission. 


Additions have also been made to the Company’s Mains and Transmission 
Lines, and the number of Consumers connected continues to increase at 4 


satisf actory rate. 


In accordance with the Articles of Assocation Mr. John G. B. Stone and 
Sir Archibald Boyd Boyd-Carpenter retire, but being eligible offer themselves 


for re-election. 


The Auditors, Messrs. Russell & Co., Jerusalem, retire and offer them- 


selves for re-election. 


By Order of the Board, 


20th August, 1932. 


8. O. RioHarpDson, 


Secretary. 


259 





ILS°F3L‘0GdF 





SST'OST'ZT 
88s"809'S 





¥98°069'6T dF 

















TL9°$3L‘0ZdF 
ZF6' F6S FL pee see eos ase eos 40048 eouRleg oO} eouseg 
AOD 4y3n01q eouulVg ¢é 000°000'S ese eas eee eee eee eee CAIZS94T TereusA 
gUNOdoB 4SBI Wols sOULlE_ AG 629°62F'T ar aa oe a atts suBoOT HUV_ Uo 4sa19},U] 

¥98'069 61 ds 
SST OIT'LZE ses eos ees eee eae eee mMOp PopLeo uve 
000°006 ya isis ee — “+ gaaq ,M1OJDI(E JO} UOPCTAOIG 

sydjooag Arpung pus Suy}eredQ uo snjdimg 4g TL9°FE9'T ree ee nee 709M SOWO pave “aoperysruyar 
“py wopuoy 103 UossaoId Buypnjou; ‘sasuedxg [visuex) 
“sya dF 


(‘Buyj193g TF spenbo TqZ) 


"SS6T “YUVAL ISTE 0} I8AX JO] FUNODY ssOT puY JYOIT 


‘CHLINI'] ‘NOLLVAOdUOD HOIANAG OVIdAg F oraLoxI WHIVEONRLe 


6é 


OL 


OL 
Oth 


260 


"87UDJUNGIO Des s 
is eG) - Tass y 


ayeye s,AdvduMoy olf} JO 03898 Of} JO MIA 4901100 
Gl “poundal savq om sUO;ywUE[dxa pue UOsQwULIOJUY 





"SEGL “endny we 
‘Wo[UEnIVES 


Auvdmop ay} Jo syoog oy} Aq uMOYUS 8 pus BN UdAls suowUUTdXo OYA pu UO; WULIOJUT INO JO WWOq 914 0) Buyp1090"8 
pus ond} 8 FqIyxa OF sv os dn UMUIpP AjJadoId av yUNOVY ssOT puT qOIlg puv jooys vouyug yons neue ino 
84} [18 Pouyezqo savy pUv Y7I0J 4vs VAOQE BB YUNODIY sHOT PU BYOIG puY yvaYyg sdUTTLY 943 Pdypuv aavy om 


“CELINTT ‘NOILVUOdUOD AOLAWAS OTTGOd M OMLoaATY Nalvsousf¢ AHL 40 SuUHM#NAW AHL OL SHOLIGAY AHL dO LYOdaAyY 

















*84OPOLUT { 

999° FZF‘L9SdF 

032° R492 

S6L'189‘ST 
LSP'SOF 
0¢9°686'ST 
000°009 
0S9°688‘ST 
F86'Z19'F 
¥86'319'F 

$46°299'9 

040°6S2'F 

S6L'OST'T 

SIP S6L‘TLS : 
OIE 6lF FL 
960°E28'L9¢ 
OF8°RL0'32 
9G2°F6G ‘SES 

000°000‘09 

a d3 "ST IF 


NOLS ‘@ ‘) NHOG 
UHUVARG NVITTIM 


sIayUt_ 4v Yysup 
BIZUOD Jad BO U9}zIM 8897 


eee ave eee 


°° Ivad HuLMp poppy 
**"qUNoOdOY 4sR] Jod sy 
—B01BYS JO oss] UO UOIss!TWUIOD 


eee woe ene 


813000 Jdd YO Us}zLIM 88907 
“"JUNOIIV 4sul Jod sy 
—sostodxg A1vupWyyalg 
"**"949 “9OUVA PL UY SUITLABA ‘sIO4qoqy AIpung 
sais aa swe ae qisuuy Uy pue 
‘JaBeuLPL 9y3 AQ poyi7s90 sv puey uo 801039 
a8 ene sae UOlZVIVIIdIP ssez ‘800 
38 “Ha ‘oIMyUING ‘sepa, 1OJOW ‘Blooy, 


eve aco ee 


“* O/¥ yeu] rad 
8B ‘UOsyoNIGsU0D FuyInp samvys soua 
ajolgd uo whuuL Jud %¢ 4B 4so10qU] 


Ivaé ay} ButNp suonippy 
oe oes “— qUNODDY sv] Jod sy 
—I0,J 
8,1J9IUISUq Su[Nsuoy) puv s1azap_ ‘saaparag 
‘SUIvy ‘ATAUIYOUTY pues quryq ‘ssulpring 


ce 


“ce 
66 


“‘spuB’y SU] pNouUy ‘9809 4u ong puodxy [eyidey 


UO]s88IDUO) Jo 4809 AG 


999° 3h‘ L98dF . 


SOT'ShE'6 ‘ . eon eee eas eee 
FESS b xUy, 

8841 ‘IS6T ‘Jaquiaydag yg 04 Ivo« 

“ley ‘puappajq sualajaig way ssa7 
ZG E63 FL aee eon eco eee een dIULl EG 

—jUNOdOYV s80T put yyorg “ 

$CE'CCL'T ‘s eee ene eee one VALIBIY SUV cr} 
000°000‘S eee eee eee ove VA1080 4 [Viauvs) 66 


TIFF 126'F a "** quod Jad Yo u9q}IIM Seay 
Ith 136'F a oe " qunooey 4Rey Jed By 
—NOY salosvy peyidey ‘ 


000°000‘'9% eos eno eee eee qUNO.Y uvo'_T 66 
FON L36'S "** °O99 ‘sazIBYyo pansoo" ‘sIOj por AIpung “ 
000°000'028 SS 
000°000 82 eee een eae eee pred Alyny 
Yovd TdF JO SAVYS AIVUIPIO OOO'RST 
000°000‘%6T °"" “eo pred AT[ny yous TF Jo 
SAVY BUIVJol 9AlZV[UMN) % 2 000'Z6T 
—penssyl jujidvg oF 
000°000‘00¢ 
000°000'003**" YoRd [dF JO Salvyg A1vUlpig 000‘00S 
OUO'OVO'00S et Yous TdF JO 
BAIVYS Bua oayywnung %4% 000'O0E 
——_—_—— —! OWL poprald 
000°000‘00¢ mr ns ss" paaoymy pondvy avyg 
“SITU d3 “BIW dF ‘Id 


(‘Buy[14g LF sfenba 1q3) 
"SS6L ‘YOIVPT 481g 490qg vouVlTeg 


261 


(iii) PatestinE PotasH Limitep. 


(a) Report of Directors to be presented to the Second Ordinary General 
Meeting of the Members on the 15th day of July, 1932. 


The Directors herewith submit their Report, together with the duly audited 
Balance Sheet of the Company dated the 3let December, 1931. 

It was pointed out in the last Report that the Company’s activities up to 
the end of 1930 had been exclusively confined to preliminary development 
work, 

In February, 1931, the Company began producing Bromine and in Novem- 
ber of the same year Potassium Chloride. The whole of the Bromine pro- 
duced during the year was sold under contract in the British Market at a 
satisfactory price. This was also the case in the first half of 1932, and it 1s 
_ expected that no difficulties will be experienced in disposing of the output 

during the second half of this year. 

: The first proceeds from the sales of Potash were not available until January 
of this year and are therefore not shown in the Balance Sheet. 

In view of the fact that in the period under review the preliminary work 
had not been completed, the whole of the expenditure has been treated as of 
a development nature in the preparation of the accounts and no Profit and 
Loss Account is submitted. 


Directorate.—In accordance with Article 108 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Colonel D. Lyell, Mr. M. A. Novomeysky and Major T. G. 
Tulloch retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


The Chairman has, on the invitation of the Foreign Office, proceeded to 
Manchuria as Chairman of the League of Nations Commission of Enquiry 
and is expected to return at the end of this year. 


Auditors.—The Auditors, Messrs. Maurice Jenks, Percival & Co., retire 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 


Davip LYELL 
E. W. D. Tennant 
Directors. 


13th June, 1932. 


262 


: SRUDHUNODIY pes9zsOUO 

ssonpny } 00 @ IVAIOUHd ‘HENUE HOTEAVAL -guet ‘Wel suny 
“Auvda10g eq} jo sqoog oq} Aq uMoys ‘ pasecme! 

oT} 0} Suyprccoe arpepe 8,Auvdai0) oy} JO 03038 047 JO ALOpA 4981100 pus Ons} & IqIGxXe 07 s¥ O8 an weap Ayedord pe Geaun us hha Sail ote ranean bt geal fo eed qeoq 
SUOMVUYdXSe pus WOPVULIOsUY 943 [Te PouTeyqO OAVY PUY ‘eAogsE Y7I0; 408 SE ‘TEGI JoquIs0eq 481g pezep “py YRUIOg oUTWseIVq Jo yoaNg eouered ou ' mbes UY Oak 




















‘SUAGNAW MHL OL SHOLIGAY HHL £0 Lu0any Porc sa 
2 9 I9L‘8I8F 2 9 ToL‘STss 
8 ZI FOr'T sas sas aNVH{ NI GNV UNV LV HSYD “ 
0 LI Ctl L eee sen eee eas ees FONVACY ‘ 
NI SINEWAVG NV SLISOdaqQ ANaNOg ‘ 
Py SI 6L8°6T Ss 
If Sf 8268 aa ni te FOOT, Pus S[LIo}CV AL 
G¢ ¢ 9060T es one e, *“** S3[8H puv s[VIOU A - P a Pe oY 
— CHLILaAD SV ONVH NO SHOOLS | “ssopoaaa { INVNNGD ‘C 'M ‘D 
009 ZF : TIBAT GIAVG 
St ‘6Z6I ‘40y sofuRduIOg oY} }0 SZI UO 
U34 eougpi000e Ul pees eq 0} pera 
01 slozyeNq jo uUoPeloUNUIsI oy —'9j0N 
€ LI L¥¥‘L0G Leg CR 
8 8 8199 es 
T 9T S80‘rs ** puvy do 849038 
JO onfeA puBe pos 
sjonpoid jo spoe0id 
sso ‘1v0A 93 BSurtmp 
eingjripaedxs soy 
L SI Sb4‘Zss 90948 patrg: Hy Fete = ie 
—-* AT9001 4 ¢ sae oes tee eas “é 
sso] ‘sosusd xn sOTJO pue Aves 8,10;90I]C ST ve ar SRETENURAD SAVE. 
Bulpnpour ‘uopuoy, puv oupyseeqg ut ‘ ses eee wes as “ 
sosuodx ge ap re ULM J9730704 0 9 ¥0e'sT POMC) AECKOY 
‘vog pBaqy 943 48 sesuodx@ Jeo puv ‘ oss eas oes oes se *545 
: eouvuojuepy ‘sfoaing ‘yIOA, [e}UoUIodxy “* 0 0 82188 pene 
L 8 099 0ST 0 0 000‘00T3 é ip ve “** posouny 2 
Or: eeott. 3 sajipung puy emu gy AN SVEA-L SEED) AES D 
; ‘quomdmby AvaTey yysryT ‘seyti0'T 10}0H 0 0 000‘09% 
T I 9gc's0T =“ snyuivddy puv Aroupyouyy “uel 0 0 ooofoss ** youa [F Jo sarvyg eusseyarg 000‘08% 
OL G 390 %2 +e eds < as “*  ssurprmg 0 0 000'02 =o yowa “ST JO BareYyg AIVUIPIO 000‘O0F 
OT ST L20F — ne BVH Fe puvy ployeei7 —: df pind fqmng pun panse] 
—uo 9y0q7 0} aanpipuedry “* ee 
0 eF0'ZS eee eee eee ese eee 6261 ‘req 0 0 000‘00#F 
-UINAON UZ Pozep JUOWIIeIDY UV Jo SsUIIE} 
uy savy pred Afjny Jo yuoMQOITe 943 0 0 000‘0ST te youd TF JO sarvysg 000‘OST 
Aq poysijes ‘siopue, oy} Aq OprU ong 0 0 000‘08Z ove [TF JO Salvyg soUeIVJoIg 000‘OEZ 
-jpuedxe Arvuyonyjord 049 [Te JO yyaueq oy 0 0 00002 * ova “ST JO servyg AIVUIPIO 000‘O0F 
pue veg pro oy} Ul syeg puv sTRIEnTY —! pasizoymp 
JO UOPMBIZXe O43 OJ worss—U0D fo jog Aq se nae 
‘Pp ‘8 3 E 3 ‘Dp ‘8 5 ‘oa |S 
"up “I86L “Jequreoeq 481g Yooyg souvfEeg "ad 


‘daLINIT HSVLOG FNILSTIVG 


263 


Pa.estTIneE PotasH LIMITED. 


(b) Report by the Managing Director to be submitted to the First Annual 
General Meeting on 21st April, 1931. 


The scheme for extraction of Potash, Bromine and other Salts from the 
waters of the Dead Sea applied by our Company is based on chemical facts 
established by experiments carried out first in laboratories and subsequently 
on a small scale on the shores of the Dead Sea for a number of years 
since 1921. 

These experiments proved that the effect of the natural rapid evaporation 
of the Dead Sea water, which represents a concentrated solution of five 
different salts, i.e., Common Salt, Potassium, Magnesium and Calcium 
Chlorides and Magnesium Bromide, is always to precipitate these salts in the 
same strictly defined order, namely, Common Salt, then Crude Potassium Salt 
(Carnallite) and finally Magnesium Salt, while the greater part of the 
Bromine contents of the water remains in the final liquor. 

The technical scheme worked out by this method for the production of 
Potash and other salts provides for the following items of plant :— 

(1) Large, Open, Shallow Pans erected on the land bordering the sea, in 
which the water from the sea is rapidly evaporated through exposure to 
the influence of hot sun rays and winds. 

(2) Pumps for Pumping the Water from the sea into the various pans.” 

(3) Plant for Collecttng or Harvesting the Precipitated Salts and 
transporting them to the Refinery. 

(4) Pumps and Pipe Innes for Fresh Water Supply from the Jordan 
for the needs of the Refinery, cooling the engines and general purposes 
of the undertaking. 

(5) Potash Factory or Refinery for working up the crude Potash Salts 
into the final product for marketing. 

(6) Bromine Plant for extracting the Bromine concentrated in the 
final brine and preparing it for marketing. 

(7) Power Station for driving the various pumps and apparatus in 
the factory and outside. 

To these main items of plant must be added Workshops, Dwellings for 
workmen and staff, Canteens, etc. 

The main part of orders for machinery and apparatus was placed in 
England in January, 1930, immediately following the execution of the Con- 
cession Agreement by the Governments of Palestine and Trans-Jordan on 
the lst January, 1930, while the excavation work and construction of the 
evaporating pans and the erection of houses were simultaneously begun at 
the Dead Sea. On the lst of April the pumping operations of the water 
from the Dead Sea into the pans started with the completion of the pumping 
station and installation of one large pump, these operations being consider- 
ably increased two months later by the installation of two more pumps. 
With the arrival of engines, pipes and other machinery at the Dead Sea 
the erection of other items of plant, i.e., fresh water supply, power house, 
workshops, etc., were started and the greater part completed by the end of 
July. By that time a pan area of about 120 acres was filled with rapidly 
evaporating sea water and the precipitation of large quantities of Common 
Salt forming layers of a few inches thick in the pans was already in progress. 
The soil forming the floor of the pans has proved satisfactory from the point 
of view of impermeability. 

Soon after the greater part of the Common Salt had separated out, the 
precipitation of crude Potash Salt (Carnallite) began, and by the end of 
August a few thousand tons formed loose layers in the lower evaporating 
pans designated for this purpose. The collection and harvesting of this salt 
into piles was in progress at the beginning of October and proceeded up to 
the end of December. A certain amount of Common Salt of good quality 
was also collected into piles. 


264 


The operation of the first working season was thus completed, having fully 
confirmed the results obtained by the experimental work of the preceding 
years and proved the possibility of manufacturing the potash from the waters 
of the Dead Sea by applying the sun’s rays as fuel for evaporating and 
precipitating the chemical salts. Both quality and quantity of the crude 
Potash Salts produced, as well as the cost of production, fulfilled the 
Company’s expectations. 


The orders for the refining machinery and apparatus for working up the 
crude Potash Salts were executed by the end of the year. 


In view of the satisfactory results of the first year’s operations, the Board 
decided to increase the plant, so as to create a unit capable of producing 
up to the limits of the existing means of transportation from the Dead Sea 
to one of the Palestine seaports, Jaffa or Haifa. It was estimated that for 
the erection of additional pans, ditches, roads, etc., about three months 
would be required, so that the pumping operations of the second season (1931) 
and the filling of the pans might be started by the middle of March. 


The refinery will be ready in the course of 1931 in time for treating the 
crude salts produced in 1930 and 1931, so that by the end of the latter year 
the products of our undertaking, Potash, as well as Bromine, and some 
Common Salt, may be on sale on the markets. 


The world prices of the commodities to be produced by our Company have 
remained comparatively steady, notwithstanding the great world depression 
and fall in prices of the main industrial products. 


Should the coming season’s operations of the increased plant prove as 
satisfactory as those of the previous one. under review, the question of a 
further increase of production and the construction of new means of com- 
munication with the Mediterranean port, Haifa, will have to be considered. 

t is believed that a narrow gauge railway from the Dead Sea to Beisan, 
the junction of the existing railway, Haifa-Damascus, will best serve the 
purpose. A reconnaissance survey of the line and estimate has been pre- 
pared by the Company’s Engineers. 


Labour.—There was no difficulty in finding sufficient skilled and unskilled 
local labour from the Jewish and Arab communities of Palestine and Trans- 
Jordan. Over 350 workmen were employed by this Company at the end of 
the year. The relations between the two races in the workmen’s camp 
remained all the time friendly and no incidents occurred. 


Housing accommodation and full board for the workmen and staff at the 
Dead Sea are being provided by the Company at a fixed charge. 


Health Condittions.—With the collaboration of the Health Department of 
the Palestine Government, measures were taken to make our works and camp 
at the Dead Sea free of malaria. As a result of the construction of dams 
which prevent the water from the Jordan from reaching our camp, the 
cleansing of swamps and springs in the vicinity, and constantly keeping the 
matter under observation, our works have now become not only free of 
malaria but of mosquitoes generally. Not a single case of malaria has 
occurred in the year under review and the health conditions generally have 
been very satisfactory all the year round. The supply of good drinking 
water and food, bathing in the sea, and fresh water bathing accommodation 
for the workmen and staff, has made life at the Dead Sea altogether possible, 
and during the greater part of the year even comfortable, notwithstanding 
the great heat in the summer months. The camp is under the permanent 
supervision of a doctor living on the spot and the General Health Organisa- 
tion of Palestine. 


M. A. NovoMeyskY. 


February, 1931. 





265 


(iv) THe Syro-Ortoman AGricuLTuRAL Company, LiMITED. 
Balance Sheet, 1931. 


Assets, Syrian Pts. Liabilities. Syrian Pts. 
Cash and deposits 3,478,574 10 Capital—value__ of 
Goods say iat 643,463 60 1,600 shares... 13,657,560 
Building, drainage, Current debts and 

4 oa .. 1,842,544 66 general accounts 32,846,265 98 
Debts a .. 1,089,926 08 


Sundry Expenses 
and Profits and 


Loss ~ ... 28,881,081 34 
Shareholders’ ac- 
count on ... 10,418,951 
46,503,825 98 46,503,825 98 


I certify that the foregoing statement is a correct abstract of the income 
and expenditure of the above-mentioned Company for the period ending 3lst 
December, 1931, as shown by the books audited by me. 


(Sgd.) Monp Omar at Barnir, 
Auditor. 
2nd March, 1932. 
(Sgd.) S. A. Sata, 
Chairman, Syro-Ottoman Agricultural Co. 


APPENDIX III. 


Correspondence relative to the Frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan. 


(1) 
Translation of Letter of 31st July, 1932, from the Prime Minister of ‘Iraq 
to the Chief Minister of the Government of Trans-Jordan., 


Your EXceELiency, 


In view of the close and friendly relations existing between the two 
countries which have recently been confirmed in a special treaty, the ‘Iraqi 
Government consider that the time is now opportune to define more precisely 
the existing frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan in mutual agreement 
by means of an exchange of notes. I am accordingly authorized to suggest 
that the frontier should be defined as follows :— 

‘The frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan starts in the south 
at the point of junction of the ‘Iraq-Nejd frontier and the Trans-Jordan- 
Nejd frontier and ends in the north at that point on the ‘Iraq-Syria 
frontier and the Trans-Jordan-Syria frontier, as ultimately delimited, 
which is nearest to the summit of the Jebel Tenf. Between these two 
terminal points the frontier follows where possible prominent physical 
features, provided that it shall not diverge more than 5 kilom. from a 
straight line between these two terminal points.” 


The ‘Iraqi Government will be glad to know whether the Trans-Jordan 
Government approve of this definition of the frontier between ‘Iraq and 
Trans-Jordan. 

(Usual ending.) 

NovRI-EL-SAID, 
Prime Minister. 


266 


(2) 
Translation of Letter of 9th August, 1932, from the Chief Minister of the 
Trans-Jordan Government to the British Resident, Amman. 


Reference your Excellency’s letter of the 15th June, 1932, since the ‘Iraqi 
Government asked that some amendment be made in their preceding proposal 
regarding the defining of the frontiers between both countries by exchange 
of letters, I forward to your Excellency herewith copy of the last letter 
received from the Prime Minister of the said Government for favour of your 
Excellency’s views regarding its contents. 

(Usual ending.) 

ABDULLAH-AL-SARBRAJ, 
Chief Minister, Trans-Jordan Government. 


(3) 
Letter of 13th August, 1932, from the British Resident, Amman, to the 
Chief Minister of the Trans-Jordan Government. 


Your EXcE tency, 


I have the honour to refer to your letter of the 9th August, 1932, in which 
you ask for the views of His Majesty’s Government on the proposal contained 
in letter of the 3lst July, 1932, to your Excellency from his Excellency the 
Prime Minister of the ‘Iraqi Government that :— 

‘‘ In view of the firm and friendly relations existing between the two 
countries which have recently been confirmed in a special treaty, the 
‘Iraqi Government consider that the time is now opportune to define 
more precisely the existing frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan in 
mutual agreement by means of an exchange of notes. I am accordingly 
authorized to suggest that the frontier should be defined as follows :— 

‘“‘The frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan starts in the 
south at the point of junction of the ‘Iraq-Nejd frontier with the 
Trans-Jordan-Nejd frontier and ends in the north at the point on 
the ‘Iraq-Syria frontier and the Syrio-Trans-Jordan frontier as 
utimately delimited which is nearest to the summit of the Jebel Tenf. 
Between these two terminal] points the frontier shall as far as possible 
follow prominent physical features, provided that it shall not 
diverge more than 5 kilom. from a straight line drawn between 
these two terminal points.’’ 


I am directed to convey to your Excellency the approval of the Mandatory 
Power that your Excellency should accept the Prime Minister’s proposal. 


I have, &c., 


’ C. H. F. Cox, 
British Resident. 


(4) 
Translation of Letter of 16th August, 1932, from the Chief Minister of the 
Trans-Jordan Government to the Prime Minister of ‘Iraq. 


Your EXcElLenoy, 

Reference your letter dated the 31st July, 1932. 

I have the honour to inform your Excellency that the Trans-Jordan 
Government, after seeing the request made by the ‘Iraqi Government to 
define more precisely the existing frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordaa 


267 


mutual agreement by means of an exchange of notes, have authorized 
to reply to your Excellency that they agree to the definition of the 





re Sie 
i ater as follows :— 
Fai “The frontier between ‘Iraq and Trans-Jordan starts in the south 
ioe at the point of junction of the ‘Iraq-Nejd frontier and the Trans-Jordan- 
«zac Ned frontier and ends in the north at that point on the ‘Iraq-Syria 
the fe frontier and the Trans-Jordan-Syria frontier, as ultimately delimited, 
srzv| "ich ig nearest to the summit of the Jebel Tenf. Between these two 
“| terminal points the frontier follows where possible prominent physical 
features, provided that it shall not diverge more than 5 kilom. from a 
| straight line between these two terminal points.’’ 
Le Usual ending.) 
ABDULLAH-AL-SARRBAJ, 
Chief Minister, Trans-Jordan Government. 
meay, 
, 
13 28 
sa or | 
ate 
treed 
al a 
tune 4 
rans | 
tah * 
sae 
canon" 
ater 







the 
yn Te 
the Je ° 
fg 
is 
draw 7 


se We . 


rsp 


pC | 
gh BE 


(1808828) Ww, 836-3011 1250 6/83 P.St G.7/8 


Digitized by Google 


Digitized by Google 





” 


eves 








ii) 


| 
| 


wii 


1 DOO 63k 








